The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Uh today what we're going to do is uh first introduce this idea of oscillations, why it might be useful. A fair amount of uh the day will be spent discussing this paper by Michael Ellawitz and Stan Ller uh that you read over the last few days which was the first kind of experimental uh demonstration that you could take these random components put them together and generate an oscilly gene network and uh and then and finally it's likely we're going to run out of time around here. Um but if we if we have time we'll talk about uh other oscillator designs in particular these relaxation oscillators that uh are both uh kind of robust and tunable. if we um it's likely we're going to uh discuss this on on Tuesday. Okay. All right. So, I I I want to start by just thinking about uh other oscillator designs. U but before we get into that, it's worth just asking a question. You know, why is it that we might want to design an oscillator? You know, what what what do we like about oscillations? Any uh well, does anybody like oscillations? And if so, why? Yes, you can make clocks. Clocks are really perfect. Yes. All right. So, right the the two-part answer, right? You can make clocks and clocks are useful. All right. Okay. So, this is a fine a fine statement. Uh, right. So, so oscillators are kind of the basis for timekeeping. And indeed, uh, you know, classic, uh, classic ideas of clocks like a pendulum clock, right? The idea is that you have this thing. It's kind of going back and forth and each time that it goes it allows some winding mechanism to move and that that's what the clock is based on right and even modern clocks based on some sort of oscillator dynamic. It might be at very high frequency but uh in any case the basic idea of oscillations as a mechanism for timekeeping is uh is is why we really care about it. Of course just from a dynamical systems perspective we also like oscillations because it's uh well because they're interesting from a dynamical standpoint. And therefore we'd like to know how we might be able to to make them. Right? Does anybody uh can anybody offer an example of an oscillator in a gene network in real life? Yes. The circadian oscillator. That's right. So uh the idea there is that there's a gene network within many organisms that actually keeps track of the daily cycle and indeed is entrained by the daily cycle. Right? So of course uh the dayight cycle that's an oscillator. It's on its own and it goes without us as well. But it's often useful for organisms to be able to keep track of where in the course of the day it might be, right? Even in Yeah. And and and the amount of light that the organism is getting at this particular moment might not be a faithful indicator of how much light there will be available in an hour, right? Because it could just be that there's a cloud crossing in front of the sun, right? And you don't want as an organism to think that it's night and then you shut down all that machinery because after that cloud passes, you want to be able to get going again, right? So it's often useful for an organism to to know that uh you know kind of where in the morning night evening cycle one is uh and uh we will not be talking too much about the circadian oscillators in this class although I would say that if to degree which you're interested in oscillations I I strongly encourage you to look up that literature because it's really uh it's really beautiful in particular in some of these some of these oscillators it's been demonstrated you can get the oscillations uh in vitro i.e E outside of the cell even in the absence of any gene expression. In some cases, you can still get oscillations of just those protein components in a test tube. This was uh this was quite a shocking discovery when it was uh when it was first published. But we want to we want to start out with some some simpler ones, right? In particular, I I want to start by thinking about um just auto u auto repression, right? So if you have an auto regulatory loop where uh some gene is repressing itself okay uh the question is uh you know does this thing oscillate right and indeed it's reasonable that it might right because we can construct a verbal argument right starts out high then it should repress itself so you get less new x being made so the concentration falls okay maybe I'm gonna I'll I'll give you a plot to add to it, right? A concentration of X is a function of time. You can imagine just starting somewhere high, right? That means it's repressing expression. So, it's going to fall, but then well, once it falls too much, then all of a sudden, okay, well, we're not repressing ourselves anymore. So, maybe then we get more expression. More of this X is being made, so it should come back up. All right. And then, oh, okay, now we're back where we started. Okay. So, this is totally reasonable. Totally reasonable statement. Yes. Well, I I don't know. I mean, I didn't introduce any damping and here, you know, the amplitude is the same everywhere. Well, I I'm what I I guess what I'm really trying to say is that just because you can construct a verbal argument that something happens does not mean that a particular equation is going to do that, right? The part of the value of equations is that they force you to be explicit about all the assumptions that you're making, right? And then then what you can do is you can ask well you know a given equation is a man is a mathematical manif manifestation of the assumptions you're making right and then you can ask does that oscillate right? Yes. No. And then say, okay, well, what would we need to change in order to introduce oscillations, right? And um I'll just Okay, so this is this is you know this is definitely an oscillation. The question is, you know, should you find this argument that I just gave you convincing and and and what I'm I guess about to say is that um you shouldn't. But then we we need to be kind of clear about what's going on and why. All right. And uh and and just because yeah, just because you can make a verbal argument for something doesn't mean that it actually exists. I mean that that's a guide to how you might want to formalize your thinking, right? And in particular, the the simplest way to think about oscillations or that might be induced in this situation would be to just say all right well the simplest model that we have for uh auto an auto regulatory loop that's negative is we say okay well there's some we have some say some alpha 1 + protein n minus p. Okay, so this is kind of the simplest equation you can write that captures this idea that this protein P is negatively regulating itself. All right, in a cooperative fashion maybe. Okay, now it's already in a non-dimensionalized version, right? And what you can see is that in this within this realm, there are only two things that can possibly be changing, right? there's kind of the uh how how cooperative that repression is n and then the strength of uh of the expression in the absence of of repression. Okay. And and as we discussed uh on Tuesday, alpha is capturing all these dynamics of the the uh the a the actual strength of expression together with the um the the lifetime of the protein together with the binding you know the the binding affinity k right so all those things get wrapped up in this a or alpha rather. Okay. All right. So this is this is indeed the simplest uh the simplest model you can write down to describe such a a negative autoregulatory loop. Right? Now the question is now that we've done this you know we want to know all right does this does this thing oscillate right and uh even without analyzing this equation there's something that's very strong which you can say right is yeah and so in priv we can ask is it possible for this thing to oscillate right right possible okay oscillations we'll say oscillations possible right and I And this I'm referring to mathematically possible, right? So I'm not, you know, maybe this thing does oscillate, maybe it doesn't. But in particular, even without analyzing, is there is there anything that you can say without analyzing it? All right, we're just going to say is it possible yes or no? You're if you say if you say no, you have to be prepared to give an argument for why this thing can is not allowed to oscillate. I'm talking about this equation. All right. Do you do you understand the question that I'm trying to ask? Right? We haven't analyzed this thing yet, but the question is can even before analyzing it, can we say anything about whether it's kind of mathematically allowed to oscillate? I'll give you 10 seconds to think about it and then All right. If you say no, you get you get to tell me why. All right. Ready? Uh three, two, one. All right. So we, you know, we got a smattering of things. All right. Can some, you know, so this is this is actually I think this is sort of not obviously a priority. Um, but it turns out that it's not actually it's just mathematically impossible for this thing to oscillate. And can somebody say why why that might be one of dot perfect okay so for a given value of P there's only some value of P dot that you can have, right? And in particular, so P here is like conservation of X, right? So I'm going to pick some value randomly here of P. And what you're pointing out is all right, this is a differential equation in which if you give me or I give you the P, you can give me P dot, right? There's a single value P dot for each P. Right? And in this sort of ocillatory scheme, is that statement true? No. Right? But what you can see is that over here, so this is X slash, you know, P. Okay, concentration of X, you know, we're we're using P here because we're about to start talking about mRNA. So I want to keep the notation consistent. All right, what you see is that the derivative here is negative. The derivative here is positive, negative, positive. Right? So any any oscillation that you're going to be able to imagine is going to have multial multiple values for the derivative as a function of u of that value just because you have to come back and forth you have to cross that point multiple times. Okay. So what this is saying is that since this is a differential equation and it's actually important that it's a differential equation rather than a difference equation where you have discrete values but given that this is a differential equation where time is taking little little little steps. All right. And you have a single variable, it just can't oscillate. Right? So for example, if you're talking about the oscillations of a harmonic oscillator, the important thing there is that you have both the position and the velocity. So you have these two dynamical variables that are interacting in some way, right? Because you have case say momentum in that case, right? That allows for that o the oscillations in in the case of a mass on a spring for example. Okay, question right. So what we're saying is that right P simply cannot oscillate in this in this situation where we have a differential equation describing P with u just if we just have P dot as function of P and we don't have like the second order a P double dot for example right so if it's just linear differential or sorry if it's just uh if we just have a single derivative respect to time and some function of P over here what that means is that if uh if P is specified then P dot is specified Right? And that means that and that's inconsistent with any sort of oscillation. Right? Because any oscillation is going to require that at this given value of P this concentration of P in this case the concentration is going down here it's going up. Right? So here this is from that standpoint a multivalued a multivalued function. Okay. Um any other questions about this statement? Right. because and it doesn't even if I just written down some other function of P over here that the statement would still be true. Okay. All right. So that's um and it's valuable to be able to have some intuition about you know what are the essential ingredients to get this sort of oscillation. Right. So in the for simple harmonic motion right there we have this second derivative first derivative you know and that that's what allows uh that's what allows oscillations there. Right? But so so okay so okay so okay so okay so okay so okay so we can we can maybe write down a more complicated model of negative autoregulation and then and then try to ask the same thing might this new model oscillate okay and this this looks a little bit more complicated but we just have to be a little bit careful right all right so okay so this is again negative autoregulation but what we're going to do is we're going to explicitly think about the the concentration of the MR mRNA. Okay? Right? And that's just because when when a gene is initially trans uh transcribed, it first makes mRNA and then the mRNA is translated into protein. Right? So uh so what we're what we can do is we can write down something looks like this. All right. M dot d of m respect to time is going to be All right. So M is uh this is the concentration of mRNA and P is the concentration of protein. Okay. Right? What you can see is that the protein is now repressing expression of the mRNA. Right? mRNA is being degraded. But then down here, this is a little bit funny, but what you can see is that if you have more mRNA, then that's going to lead to the production of protein. Yet we also have a degradation term for the protein. Yes. Question. Why are we multiplying the well the degradation rate of the protein times some beta as well? It's a good question. Okay. You're you're wondering why why we've pulled out this beta. You know, in particular it almost right. Okay. Perfect. Okay. Yeah. This this is very important and actually this gets in once again to this question of the non you know these these these non-dimensional versions of the equations um mathematically simple biologically very complicated. Well, first of all, what is it that we've used as our unit of time in this in these equation in these equations? Right? So, it's based on the lifetime of um of the mRNA, right? Because we can see that there's nothing sitting in front of this M. And if we want to then allow for a difference in the lifetime of mRNA and protein, then we have to introduce some other thing which we're calling beta, right? And so beta is that that's the ratio of well which one's more stable mRNA or protein? Often typically proteins are typically more stable, right? So does that mean that beta should be larger or smaller than one? Okay, I'm going to let you guys think about this just to make sure we're all okay. So um the question is is beta is it a greater than one typically much greater or is it b much less than one given what we just said. All right. You think about it for 10 seconds and then um All right. Are you ready? Right. Three, two, one. All right. So most people are saying B. All right. So indeed, so beta should be much less than one, right? And that's because beta is the ratio of the lifetime. All right. All right. So you can see if beta gets larger that increases the u degradation rate of the protein. Right? And what do I want to say? Right. So so so beta is is is the ratio of the lifetime of the mRNA to the lifetime of the protein. Yes. So I get why we have to Yeah. No, I understand. Yeah. No, I understand. I'm getting to your question. Just first we have to first we have to make sure sense of this and then Yeah. Because the next thing is actually even weirder and more Yeah. Um but I just want to be clear that beta is um here is it's defined as the the lifetime of mRNA over the lifetime of the protein. Um what's interesting is actually this is um there's a there's a typo or mistake in um in the elements paper actually. So if you look at figure one B or so or yeah so figure 1B actually it says that beta is the protein lifetime divided by the mRNA lifetime. So you can correct that if you'd like. All right. Uh so bet yeah beta is that the lifetime of the mRNA divided by the lifetime of the protein. All right. Okay. So so I think that we understand why that term is there. The the the weird thing is that we're able we're doing P minus M over here, right? And and and and it feels somehow that that that can't be possible that you that you know that it shouldn't be beta* M over here, right? Because that that it feels like it's underdetermined, right? Okay. So does somebody So I mean it's possible I just you know I just screwed up, right? But uh can some you know does anybody want to defend my um my my equation here? How how might it be possible that it that this makes any sense that you can just have the one beta here that you pull out and both it's just P minus M over here? I think it's an assumption of the model where they choose the time of the well to be similar. No because actually we're we have this term beta which is the lifetime of mRNA divided by lifetime of proteins. So we haven't assumed anything about this. Beta could be in principle larger than one smaller actually. So I mean it's true that given typical facts about life in the cell it's true that you expect beta to be much less than one but we haven't made any assumption you know beta is just there it can be anything right so uh yeah it's possible we've made some other assumption but u but what's going on yes the messengers scaled by the amount necessary yes that's right because remember okay you can only choose one unit for time okay and we've I've already chosen that to get this to be just minus m here, right? But you get to choose what's the unit of concentration for both mRNA and for protein. Okay, can somebody remind us what the unit of concentration is for protein? Dissociation of the protein. That's right. So it's this dissociation constant, you know, and more generally it's this it's the protein concentration which you get half maximal repression, right? Um and depending on the detailed models it could be more complicated but but in this kind of phenomenological realm yeah if you if P is equal to one you get half repression that you know that's our definition for what P equal to 1 means right so we've rescaled out that K right and so so so what we've really done is that there's some unit for the concentration of mRNA that we were we were free to choose and it was chosen so that you could just say P minus M right but what that means is that um you know it requires requires, you know, a genius to figure out what the what m equal to one means, right? Um, okay. It's not doesn't quite require a genius, but but what do you guys think it's going to depend on? Yes. Yes. Right. So, beta is going to appear in there. So, I'll give you a hint. There are three things that determine it. So transcription or the speed of transcription translation yes so the translation efficiency so each mRNA uh you know it's going to it's going to lead to some rate of protein synthesis so yeah the translation rate or efficiency is going to enter there aren't that many other things it could be but yeah I mean this this is tricky u and it's okay if you can't just figure it out here because this I think is is pretty subtle. All right, it turns out that it also depends on that K parameter, right? Because there's some sense that M equal to one what it's what it's saying is that that's the amount of mRNA that you need so that if the protein concentration were one, you would not get any change in the protein concentration. Right? And it's given that it depend that now I' I had to invoke P in there and P is scaled by K. So then K also ends up being relevant for this mRNA. Right? So you can if you'd like go ahead and start with a original reasonable set of equations and then and then get back to this. Right? But I think once again this just highlights that um these these non-dimensional versions of the equations are great but um but it's just but you have to be careful. Right? That you don't know what means what. All right. Are there any questions about what we've said so far? Okay. Now, what we've done is we've um we have now a protein concentration. We have mRNA concentration. And what I ask for now is for these sets of equations, is it maybe mathematically possible that they could maybe oscillate? Yes. I mean I I you know I mean um we're going to find that the answer is that these actually don't oscillate but um but you have to actually do the calculation if you if you want to determine that you can't just say that it's it's impossible based on the same argument here and that's because uh if you if you think about this in the case of there's some mRNA concentration some protein concentration right what we want to know is does do things oscillate in this space and the answer and they could right I mean I'm I can certainly draw a curve. All right. It ends up not being true for these particular sets of equations, but you you can't a priority kind of dismiss the possibility. Yes, that's like a differential equation, but if you write down Okay. Right. This is a this is a very good question. All right. So, right. So this is the differential equation uh format of this and that we're not we're assuming that there's no there are no stochastic fluctuations and indeed there's um a large area of excitement recently is uh trying to understand uh cases in which you can have so-called noise induced oscillations right so you can have cases that the deterministic equations do not oscillate but the um but the the if you if you do the full stochastic treatment then that could oscillate in particular the if you do a master equation type formalism and actually I don't know for this particular equations uh yeah I don't I don't know I don't know for this one but in um towards the end of the semester we will be talking about explicit models in which uh predator prey systems in which the the differential equation format doesn't oscillate but then if you do the master equation stoastic treatment then it does oscillate so um yes so we will be talking about this in other context but I don't know the answer for this model Um, all right. So, uh, or let's go ahead and and maybe try to analyze this a little bit. Uh, and this is useful to do, uh, partly because it's going to be, um, some of the calculations are going to be very similar to what we're about to do next, which is, uh, look at, uh, stability analysis of of a repressator kind of system. All right, I should first. All right, so this this thing here uh we is is some function f of m and p and this guy here is indeed again some other function g of m and p. And we're going to be taking derivatives of these functions around um around the fixed point. Okay. Um all right. And maybe I will also say all right there's going to be some stable point and we should just calculate what it is. I'm sorry I'm making this go up and down. You know you don't get dizzy. Um all right. Okay. So first of all let's just um it's always good to know whether there are fixed points in any sort of equations that you ever look at. Um so let's go ahead and and see that. First of all, is is um is m equal to zero, p equal to z is that a is that a fixed point of the system? No. Right? So, uh if m and p are zero then this is a fixed point. But that one's not because we get we get expression of the mRNA in the absence of the protein. Right? So the origin is not a fixed point. Okay? Now to figure out the fixed points, we just set these things equal to zero. Right? So um if if m dot is equal to zero we have zero that's alpha 1 + p to the n minus m again zero is okay. All right. So what you can see is that um at equilibrium we have a condition here where um m is equal to p right so from this we get m um m equilibrium is equal to p equilibrium right u and so m equilibrium over here it has to be equal to p equilibrium we just said and that's equal to this guy here it's alpha 1 + p equilibrium to the n. Right? Indeed, the uh the condition for this equilibrium is then something that looks like this. All right. Now, this is um maybe not so intuitive, but alpha is this non-dimensional version of the strength of expression, right? And what this is saying is that um broadly I mean this is some uh you know it's not obvious how how to how to solve this explicitly but as the strength of expression goes up the equilibrium here and and and I'm I'm I'm saying equilibrium and that's maybe a little bit dangerous. We might even want to just call it it's it's it's the it's a fixed point concentration so it doesn't have to be stable. So you know if we want to be a little if we don't want to bias our thinking different people argue about whether equilibrium should be a stable or require stable we could just call it some P not if that if that makes you less likely to think you know to bias our our thinking in terms of whether this thing this concentration should be a stable or unstable fixed point. Okay. But for example, if if we have that in this in these units, if alpha is, you know, around 10, you know, n might be two, then, you know, this thing gives us something. It's it's a, you know, it's a kind of a, you know, in the range of a of a couple uh, you know, well, two, three, you can calculate what what it should be, right? Two, four, maybe even exactly two. Does that Yeah. All right. So, yes. So for examp I'm just giving example if alpha over 10 then this equilibrium concentration or this this fixed point concentration would be two if if if n were equal to two to give you kind of some sense of the numbers right and this this is this is two in units of that uh that binding affinity k right okay now the question is well what does this mean I mean why did we do this why do we care at all about the properties of that fixed point well remember okay so this this might be some at some p and this is again m is equal to p in these units. Uh right so there there's some fixed point somewhere in the middle there. Right? Now it turns out that the stability of that fixed point is very important in determining whether there are oscillations or not. Okay. Now the question of uh the generality or you know what can you say that's universally true about when you get oscillations when you don't. This is uh in general a very hard mathematical problem particularly in higher numbers of dimensions. But for two dimensions there is a very nice statement that you can make based on the uh point Benixen criterion. All right I cannot remember how to spell that so I'm just going to I'm probably mispronouncing it as well but you know. All right so so point and bendixen what they showed is that if in two dimensions you can draw some box here such that all of the trajectories are kind of coming in. Okay. And indeed this in this case they they do come in because you know the trajectories aren't going to cross zero. If you have u if you have some mRNA then you're going to start making protein right uh if you have just protein no mrna you're going to start making some mRNA and we know that trajectories have to come in from out here because if if the concentration of mRNA and concentration of protein are very large then eventually the degradation is going to kind of start pulling things in. So if you come out far enough eventually you're going to get trajectories coming in. All right. So now we have there's some domain where all the trajectories are going to come in. Now you can imagine that somehow the stability of this thing is very important because in two dimensions here when you have a differential equation trajectories cannot cross each other okay so I'm not allowed in any sort of space like this to to do something that looks like this right because this would require that at some concentration of m and p I have different values for m dot and p dot okay so it's similar to this argument that we made for one dimension but it's just generalized to two dimensions okay So we're not allowed to cross trajectories in you know in well if you have differential equation in any dimensions that's true but the thing is that that this constraint is very is a very strong constraint in two dimensions whereas in three dimensions everything kind of goes out the window right because you because in three dimensions you have another axis here and then these lines can do all sorts of crazy things and that's actually basically why you need three dimensions in order to get chaos in these in differential equations right because uh because this thing about the absence of crossing is just such a strong constraint in two dimensions. Okay. Are there questions about what I'm saying right now? I'm a little bit worried that I'm okay. All right. So, the tra trajectories are not allowed to cross, right? What that and that that's really saying something very strong. Okay. Because we know that here trajectories are going to kind of come um come out of the axis and mRNA. Okay, we don't know which direction they're going to come, right? Well, let's let's figure out if it were to oscillate, would it would things would the trajectories be going clockwise or counterclockwise? And actually, there's going to be some sense of the trajectories even in even in the absence of oscillations. But broadly, is is there kind of a uh counterclockwise or clockwise kind of motion to the trajectories? Counterclockwise, right? And that's because mRNA leads to protein, right? Right. So things are going to be kind of going like this. The question is um is it going to oscillate and that in two dimensions actually ponar and dixon what they say is that actually if there's just this stable fixed point here or sorry if there's just one fixed point here then um the question of whether it oscillates is the same as the question of whether this is fix is is stable right so if that um if that's if it's stable then uh then there's no oscillations where if it's unstable then there are All right. Well, we'll just say no oscillations and oscillations. Okay. And that's because if it's a stable point and all the trajectories are coming in, then it just looks like this, right? So, it spirals maybe into a state of coexistence or sorry to well stable to the it spirals to this point of m and p whereas if it's unstable then those trajectories they're somehow being pushed out. Then if it's unstable then the trajectories are coming out of that fixed point in which case then that that's actually precisely the situation which you get limit cycle oscillations right so if if the fixed point were unstable it looks like this right so we have some box the trajectories are all kind of coming in somehow in here but if we have one fixed point here and the trajectories are coming out that means we have something that looks like this it kind of comes out right and given that these trajectory can't cross. The question is well what can happen in between and the answer is that it has to be um basically you have to basically get a limit cycle oscillation there there are these strange situations where you can get um you can get a path that is an oscillation that's kind of stable from one direction and unstable from another. Um we're not going to worry about that here but broadly if if this thing is coming out then you end up uh in both directions converging to a stable limit cycle oscillation. Okay. So if it's unstable fixed point then this is the exact situation which you get uh you get a limit cycle oscillation. All right. So that means that what we really want to do if we want to ask let's okay try to back up again. All right. We have this this pair of differential equations. We want to know will this negative autoreulate regulatory loop will this thing oscillate? Right now what I'm telling you is that that question for two dimensions is analogous to the question of figuring out whether this fixed point that I whether this fixed point is stable or not. Okay, if it's stable then we don't get oscillations. If it's unstable and we do okay any questions about this so let's uh let's see what it is. All right. So on on Tuesday, what we did is we talked about stability analysis for linear systems. All right. We got what I hope is some intuition about that. And uh of course what we need to do here is uh is try to understand how to apply linear stability analysis to this nonlinear pair of differential equations. Um and to do that uh what we need to do is we need to kind of linearize around around that fixed point. All right. So what we have is we have these two functions um f and g. All right. And what we want to know is around that fixed point. So we can define some m tilda which is m minus this m kn and some p tilda which is p minus p kn. Okay. Right. So when m tilda and p tilda are around zero, that's telling us that we're we're close to that uh to that fixed point. And we want to know uh if we just go a little bit away from the fixed point, do we kind of do we get pushed away or do we come back to where we started? Okay, well we know that m tilda dot which is actually equal to m dot as well because m and p are the same. P tilda dot. All right, we can linearize by taking derivatives around um around the fixed points. Okay. Right. And in particular, what we want to do is we want to take the derivative of f with respect to m evaluated at the fixed point. Right? That derivative is indeed just minus one. Right? So in general in the in these situations what we have is we have derivatives m dotp dot and we we have partial of this first function f with respect to m partial of g with or no so this is still f to um with respect to p and down here is dative of g with respect to m derivative of g with respect to p and this is all evaluated around the fixed point m Okay. Okay. So we want to take these derivatives and and evaluate at the fixed point. All right. And if we do that we we get a minus one here. D of m with respect to m times m tilda. This other guy when you take the derivative you end up getting a you you get a minus sign. Taking d of this with respect to p. So we get a minus sign because this is in the denominator and then we have to take the of the inside. So we get n alpha p to the n minus one and down here we get a 1 + p kn squared. Right? So that we took the derivative of this term with respect to p and we evaluated at the fixable point p. Right? Did I do that right? Uh but we still have to add a p tilda. All right? because this is saying how sensitive is the function to changes in where you are times how far you've gone away from the fixed point. All right. And then uh again over here we take the derivatives down below. So d of g with respect to m that gives us a beta m tilda and then we have a minus beta p tilda. Okay. All right. So this is this is just uh an example of linearizing those equations around around that fixed point. All right. And so we we can ultimately what we care about is really this this uh this matrix that's specifying uh deviations around the equilibrium. Right? So it's useful to just write it in matrix format because we get rid of some of the M's and P's. Indeed. So this matrix that we often either call a or the Jacobian depending on Right. So we what we have is a minus one uh and this thing what we're going to do we're going to call this thing uh this this thing X because it's going to it's going to pop up a lot is is this minus N alpha P Okay. Right. So that's an x beta and minus beta. Okay. All right. And then we have our simple rules for determining whether this thing is going to be stable or not. Right? It depends on the trace and it depends on the determinant. Right? So the trace should be negative. And is this trace negative? Yes. Yes. Because beta does anybody remember what beta was again ratio of lifetimes. Lifetimes are positive. So beta is positive. All right. So the trace of a um it is equal to minus one minus beta. This is indeed less than zero. Right? So this is consistent for stability. Does it prove that it's stable? No. All right. But we also need to know about the determinant of a right which is going to be beta this times this minus this times this. So that's um minus and this is a beta times what x was. So this gives us you know we could write this all down just so that it's clear that it has to be positive. Okay. All right. So, beta's positive, positive, positive, positive, positive, positive. Everything's positive. Okay. So, this thing has to be uh this thing has to be greater than zero. So, what does this mean about the stability of that fixed point? Stable, right? Fixed point stable. And what does that mean about oscillations? Means there are no oscillations. Fixed point stable. Therefore, no oscillations. Right. So what this is saying is that the original kind of simple equation that we wrote down for negative autoregulation that thing was not allowed to oscillate kind of mathematically that but that doesn't mean that if you explicitly model the mRNA doesn't it could go either way but still that's insufficient to generate oscillations. Okay. However, maybe if you included more steps, maybe it would oscillate. Yeah. Question. That's okay. Yeah. So, sorry. When I see when I mean no oscillations, what I mean are indeed no limit cycle oscillations. No. Yeah. Okay. Well, we Yeah. So, we actually have not um we have not solved exactly what what it looks like. And it may not I I've drawn this as a pretty ocilliatory thing but it might just look like this depending on the parameters and so forth. Yeah. And indeed we haven't even proven that this thing has complex values. So, but certainly there are no limit cycle oscillations and though and I'd say it's really limit cycle oscillations that you know people find most most exciting uh because that that just means that uh because limit cycle oscillations u they have car a characteristic amplitude right so it doesn't matter where you start the oscillations go to some amplitude and they have a characteristic period again independent of uh of your starting condition so those those things are um so a limit cycle oscillation is has a feeling similar to like a stable fix point in the sense that doesn't matter where you start you always end up there you know and so they're the ones that are really like what you would call you know mathematically nice oscillations okay and incidentally when I say this I'm I'm in particular comparing them to neutrally stable orbits right so there are cases in which uh in which in two variables you you have a fixed point here and at least In the in the case of of of linear stability, if the re if you have purely imaginary igen values, what that means is that you you have orbits that that go around your your fixed point. Okay. Um and we we'll see some cases that look like this later on. And this is indeed the nature of the oscillations in the LKA volta model for predator prey oscillations. They're not actually limit cycle oscillations. of this kind that is are considered uh less interesting because they're they're less um robust. Small changes in the model can cause these things to either uh either go away to turn into uh this kind of stable spiral or to turn into limit cycle oscillations. Right? So we'll we'll talk about this more uh in a couple months. These are neutrally stable orbits. All right. Okay. So I but what I wanted to what I wanted to highlight though is that just because the original simple protein only model didn't oscillate and just and this protein mRNA together doesn't oscillate does not mean that it's impossible to get oscillations using negative autoregulation. um either experimentally or uh or computationally, right? And uh the question is what what might you need to do to get oscillations? Okay. All right. Okay. So the in the paper they talk about various things including things such as leakage. It turns out that leakage in expression only inhibits oscillations though, right? So there in some sense they um the leakage is if you're trying to get oscillations, leakage is a problem actually, right? And that's why they they they use this especially tight well we we're going to talk about that in a few minutes. They're they use apecially tight version of these promoters to to have low rates of of leakage in the synthesis. Right? But what might you need in order to get oscillations of a in negative auto regulation? Did you have delay? Delay. Yes, indeed. And that's something that they mention in in the Eloits paper is that you know if you add explicit delay right so for example if instead of having the repression depend on okay I already erased everything but instead of having you know the protein for example being a function of the mRNA now maybe if you said oh it's a function of the mRNA you know five minutes ago and that's just because maybe oh it takes time to make the protein or it takes time for this or that you can introduce an explicit a delay like that or you could even instead have a model where you just have more steps. Okay. So what you do is you say oh well yeah sure what happens is that first the mRNA is made but then after the mRNA is then you have to make the um the peptide chain but then the you know then that that that peptide chain has to fold and then maybe those proteins have to multimeize. Um indeed if you include if you write down such a model then for some reasonable parameters you can get oscillations just with negative autoregulation. And indeed I would say that over the last 10 years probably the um the reigning king of oscillations in uh the field of of systems synthetic biology is Jeff Hasty at San Diego and he's written a whole train of beautiful papers uh exploring how you can uh how you can make these oscillators in uh in simple gene networks. So he's been focusing uh in E.coli. There's also been great work in kind of higher organisms in this regard. But uh but I'd say Hasty's work kind of stands out in terms of really being able to take these models and then implement them in in cells and kind of going back and forth. And he's shown that that you can generate oscillations uh just using negative auto regulation if you have significant you know enough delays in that negative uh feedback loop. Okay. All right. Are there any questions about kind of where we are right now? All right. All right. I know that we're supposed to be talking about the repress later, but uh we first have to make sure we understand the negative model regulation. All right. So, um okay. So, this is I'd say I mean everything that we've said right so far in terms of the models is is you know this was all known, right? But what Michael wanted to do is ask whether he could really construct an oscillator, right? And uh and he did this using these three uh mutual repressors. Uh X, we'll say X, Y, and Z just for for now. X represses Y represses Z presses X. And uh and he has a nice model of of this of this system that helped him guide the design of his circuits. Right? So experiments as most of us who have done them know, you know, experiments are hard. Okay? So if you can uh if you can do you know a week of thinking before you do a year of experimental biology then you should you know you should do that right. And what what were the um what were the lessons that he he learned from the modeling that kind of guided his construction of um of this circuit. Yeah. MRNA. Right. So you want to have similar lifetime of the mRNA and the protein. Right. And this is somehow similar to this idea that you need more delay elements because if you have very different lifetimes than the the more rapid process somehow doesn't count. Okay, it's very hard to increase the lifetime of the mRNA that much in in bacteria. So instead what he did is he he decreased the lifetime of of the proteins of the transcription factors in this case X, Y, and Z. Okay. Um can someone else say yeah and you you mentioned what the other thing that he maybe did? introduced the leakage but you just mentioned that that was actually that's right so so he he and no but I guess he he knew that leakage was going to be a problem i.e that you want tight repression. And so he he had um he he made he used these synthetic promoters that both had high level of expression when on but then very low level of expression when being repressed. Right. Um and and right so he he um he made this thing and in particular he uh he looked at it in a test tube right he was able to use in this case IPG to synchronize them and he looked at the fluoresence in the test tube uh so the fluoresence is reporting on um on one of the proteins you know we can call it X if we'd like right but fluorescent is kind of telling us about the state and what and if it starts out so here he saw kind of a single cycle damped oscillations maybe. Okay. So the question is um why why did this happen? So why is it that in the test tube he didn't see something that looked very nice? Oscillations. Noise. And in particular what what what kind of noise or what's going on? Desynchronization. Exactly. Right. So the idea is that even if you start out with them all synchronized, you know, you give an IPDG pulse and they're synchronized in some in some way. Right. It may be that at the beginning all of them are oscillating in phase with each other but over time random noise you know phase drift in the different oscillators leads to some of them uh some of them come down and come back up and then others are slower. You start averaging all these things together and it leads to to damped uh to damped oscillations within uh within at the test tube level within the bulk. Okay. Yes. So what do you mean in the test tube like you just take all these components and put it right? So sorry when I when I say tested what I mean is that you have um all the cells so they still are intact cells but um but it's just many cells right so then the signal that you get the fluoresence is some average overall you know or sum over all the fluoresence you get from all those cells all right so there's a sense that this is really what you expect given the fact that they're going to desynchronize of course the better the oscillator in the sense that the better the lower the phase drift then you maybe you can see more you know a slower of of this kind of desynchronization. But uh but this is really what you what you kind of expect. All right. So that's what maybe led him to go and look do look at the single cell level, right? Where he put down single cells on this aggger pad and just imaged as that cell oscill as the cells oscillated and divided. Okay. Now there there are a few features that are you know important to note from the data, right? The first is that they do oscillate. Okay. That's um you know they're um that's that's a big deal, right? Because this this was indeed the first demonstration of being able to put these random components together like that and generate an oscillation. But they didn't oscillate very well, right? So he they said, "Oh, maybe 40% of the cells oscillated, right? I have no idea what the rest of the cells were doing, right? But um but also even the cells that were oscillating, there was a fair amount of noise to the oscillation. And u the latter half of this paper has a fair amount of discussion of why that might be. And uh and they allude to the these recent the ideas that had been kind of bouncing around that uh in the from the theoretical computational side uh demonstrating that it may be that the low numbers of proteins genes involved here could introduce stochastic or noise kind of into the system and thus lead to this kind of phase drift that was observed experimentally. And I think that this basic observation that Michael had that there was that he got oscillations but they were noisy. That is part of what led him to start thinking more and more about the role of noise in in gene networks and so forth. And led later to another uh hugely influential paper. Uh that um is not going to be a required reading in this class but is listed under the you know you know optional reading if if you're if you're interested. But we'll really get into this question of noise more uh a couple weeks from now. Okay. Um, were there any other questions about the the experimental side of this paper before um I wanted to to analyze uh maybe a little bit of a simple model of the repressator, but okay. Right. So, the model that they used to help them design this experiment involved all three proteins, all three mRNAs, right? And what that means is that when you go and you do a model, you're going to end up with a 6x6 matrix. And that um I don't have boards that are big enough. All right. So what I'm going to do instead is I'm going to um uh analyze just the the kind of the protein only version model of the repressator. All right. All right. So what we have here is three proteins P1 2 3 P1 dot and we have uh all right degradation of this protein and we're and we're going to analyze the symmetric version just like what Michael did right so that means we're assuming that all the proteins are um are equivalent I'm sure you know that's not true because these are um they're different promoters different everything but you know this gives us the intuition right so it's minus P1 and this protein one is is repressed by uh protein three. All right. Protein two is going to be repressed by protein one. All right. And then uh protein 3 is going to be repressed by protein 2. Okay. Right. So this is this is what you would call the proteinon model of the repressor. Right? Now just as before the fixed points are when the um the pi all for the pi dots are equal to zero and we get the uh the the same uh the same equation that we basically had before where this uh the equilibria or the fixed point again is going to be given by something that looks like this. Right? So it's the same it's the same require requirement that we had uh that we had before. Now uh the question is uh how can um how can we get at the stability of that internal fixed point? It's it's worth mentioning here that now we have three protein. So this is uh the trajectories are in in this threedimensional space. So from a mathematical standpoint, uh determining the stability of that internal fixed point is actually not sufficient to tell you that there has to be oscillations or there cannot be oscillations because these trajectories are in principle allowed to do all sorts of crazy things in three dimensions. Um but it turns out that it it still ends up being true here that when this when this internal fixed point is stable, you don't get oscillations and when it's unstable, you do. Okay, but that that sort of didn't have to be true from a mathematical statement or mathematical kind of standpoint. All right. Now, uh since this is uh well, this is now going to be a 3x3 matrix. So, we're going to have to calculate those uh those igen values. Now, u how many igen values are there going to be? Three. Okay. Um right. All right. So, this thing I've kind of written in the form of uh a matrix to help us out a little bit, right? But in particular, we're going to get the same the same thing that we had before, which is that the P1 tilda. So, these are these are deviations again from the fixed point. There's right and we get this matrix that's going to look like this minus one again zero. It's the same x that we had before. conveniently still on the board. All right. So this is just uh after we take these derivatives and then we have P1 tilda, P2 tilda and P3 tilda. Okay. Now what we need to know is for this uh this jacobian what is going to be the uh what are going to be the igen values if this for this thing to be stable it requires what what's yeah what's the requirement for stability of this of that fixed point at p 0 okay all right so right okay so for two dimensions this trace and determinant condition actually that works It's important to say that that only works for two dimensions actually the the the rule about traces and determinants, right? Um so that's um so so be careful in like there. Yeah. So what's the more general statement? Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So in in order for that fixed point to be stable requires that all the igen values have real parts less than zero. Okay. So uh in order to determine the stability of the fixed point we need to ask you what are the igen values of this matrix right and determine to get the uh the igen values what we do is we calculate this characteristic equation that this thing that we learned about in uh in linear algebra and so forth right what we do is we take the this is some this is the matrix A we'll say this matrix A and what we uh what we want to do is we want to ask all do you need any all right we can probably cover. We need to ask whether the determinant of the matrix A minus some value times the identity matrix what you know we want this thing to be equal to zero. All right. So this is how uh we determine uh what the igen values are. Okay. And this is not as bad as it could be for general 3x3 matrices because a lot of these things are zero. Right? So the this thing is just this is the determinant of the following matrix. Um right so we have minus1 minus lambda 0. this thing x that's in principle bad - 1 - lambda 0 get 0 x - 1 - lambda okay now to take the determinant 3x3 matrix remember you can say all right well this determinant is going to be equal to we have this term so this is a minus 1 + lambda okay times the determinant of this matrix right and then we just have that's this the product of these minus product of these. So this just gives us this thing again. So this is actually just minus 1 plus lambda cubed. All right, next term this is zero. That's great. We don't need to worry about that. The next one we get plus we have an x determinant here. We get again x squared. So this is just an x cubed. Okay, we want this thing to be equal to zero. So we actually get a very simple requirement uh for the igen values which is that um that 1 + the igen values cubed is equal to this thing x cubed. Now be careful because remember x is actually a negative number. All right so watch out. Um, okay. So, I think that the the the best way to get a sense of what this thing is is to is to plot it. Of course, it's a little bit tempting here to just say, all right, well, can we just say that 1 plus lambda is equal to x? No. All right. So, what's the matter with that? I mean, it's sort of true, maybe, possibly. Right. So the the problem here is that um we're supposed to be getting three different igen values or at least it's possible to get three different igen values, right? And um and so this is really specifying the solution for 1 plus lambda on the complex plane. All right. So what the way to Okay. So the solution for 1 plus lambda we can get by thinking about this is the this is the real part of of 1 plus lambda and this is the uh imaginary part of 1 plus lambda. And we know that one solution is going to be out here at um x, you know. So the this is at well this distance here is the magnitude of x right. Now the others however are going to be um around around the complex plane similar distances where we get something looks like this. Okay. So these are like 30 60 90 triang you know so this is 30° here right because what you see is that for each of these three solutions for 1 plus lambda if you cube them you end up with um x cubed right so this guy you square it cube you end up back here this one again if you cube it you know you go you start out here squared and then cubed comes back out here same thing and Okay, this goes around somehow. All right, so there are three solutions to this 1 plus lambda and they're at these kind of these points here. Right now, of course, it's not 1 plus lambda that we actually wanted to know about. It was lambda, right? But we can get if we know what 1 plus lambda is, then we can get we can get what lambda is, right? What do we have to do? Right? We have to slide it to the left, right? So this is, you know, this is the real axis. This is the imaginary axis. you know one right so what we have to move everything over one okay now remember the requirement for stability was that all of the igen values would be have have real parts that were negative that means that the requirement for stability that fixed point is that all three of these fixed points are in the left half of the plane okay so what you can see is that in this problem the whole question of stability and whether we get oscillations boils down to the how big this thing is what's this distance if this distance is more than one then when we subtract one we don't get uh we don't get it into the you know into the left part of the plane if it's okay I can't remember what which which which case I just gave but yeah so we need to we need to know whether this thing is um is larger or smaller than one okay and and that has to do with the magnitude of x right so if the magnitude of X. Well, do you guys remember your geometry for a 30 60 90 triangle? All right. So, if the magnitude of X and this is indeed the magnitude of X. Okay. If this thing this this short edge on a 3690 is half the long edge, right? Okay. So, what we can say is that that this thing uh this fixed point stable, right? Stable fixed point. is you know if and only if the magnitude of x is what less than two okay so that's nice and you know we could if we want we could plug in with just to write ourselves okay this is n alpha p n minus one Okay. Right. So it's useful to to once you get to something like this to try to just ask okay well for various kind of values you know how does this play out? you know what what does the what does the requirement end up being right and uh and a useful limit is to think about what happens in the limit of very strong expression so strong expression corresponds to what big alpha big alpha yes perfect uh and it turns out right so you have to is a little bit okay and remember we had to figure out what remember what P was p was this P * 1 + P right so the this is the requirement and actually if if you kind of if you play with these equations just a little bit what you'll find is that if alpha is much if alpha is much larger than one then um This requirement is that n is less than two or less than around two. Right. This is saying on the flip side, right? If the fixed point is it's stable if you don't have very strong uh uh cooperivity and repression, right? And that the flip side is that if you have strong cooperative repression then you get um then you can get oscillations because this fixed point becomes this interior fixed point becomes unstable. Okay. similar. All right. So this is also saying that that you know n greater than around two it leads to oscillations And this maybe makes sense because when you have strong cooperivity in the repression there, what that's telling you is that it's a switch-like response. And in in that regime, it maybe becomes more uh more like a simple boolean kind of network where you can if you just kind of write down the ones and zeros, you can convince yourself that this thing may be principally or in principle could oscillate. Right? Now, if you if you look at the uh the Eloits repress paper, you'll see that he gives some expression for uh for what this thing should be like. And it looks um it looks vague it looks vaguely similar right uh of course there he's including the mRNAs uh as well right but if you think that this was too pain this was painful to do in class then including the mRNAs is more painful okay right are there any any questions about about this idea yeah the paper did they also do the stability analysis like to determine um well I think they did they did simulations as well and you know and so the nature of simulations is that you can convince yourself that there exist places that do oscillate or don't oscillate although you'll notice that they have a very kind of enigmatic uh sentence in here which is that it is possible that in addition to simple oscillations this and more realistic models may exhibit other complex types of dynamic behavior right um and this is you know, a way of saying, well, you know, I don't know, may maybe something, right? Um because I mean, once you're talking about a sixdimensional system, you know, you never know if you've explored all of parameter space. You don't know if I even for fixed parameters, you don't know if you started at all the right locations, you can kind of develop some sense that, oh, this thing seems to oscillate or seems to not oscillate. and it does correspond to these conditions but you you don't know whether I it could be that in some regions you get chaos or other things right uh yeah so it's it was funny because I I you know I've read this paper many times but it was only last night when I was rereading that I kind of thought about that sentence like yeah you know I'm not I'm not sure either you know what you know what this model could possibly do right yes in this linear analysis are the same that's right because the non. All right. So, the reason that the three X's are the same is because we've assumed that this is um that this really is the symmetric version of uh of the repressator, right? That u that all of the because we're assuming that all of the alphas, all the ns, all the ks, everything is the same across all three of them, right? So given that symmetry, then you're always going to end up end up with a symmetric kind of version of this. Um, so I think that even um, so if it were if it were asymmetric and then you made the non-dimensional versions of things, I think you still won't end up getting the same x's just because if it's asymmetric, then something has to be asymmetric, right? You know, uh, yeah. Yes. So large alpha. Yes. Okay. We can go ahead and and and kind of do this. I I Yeah, right. So for um for large alpha this fixed point is going to be um you know then then p is going to be much larger than one right so this is about p to the n plus one right we can neglect the one for large alpha right and then and then what we can say is that over here well first for example if we multiply both sides by you know do put up a p^ squ p^ squ so multiply by one. Then okay, this down here is definitely alpha squared, right? And then up here, what we have is P to the n + one, which we decided was around alpha for strong alpha, right? So that that that gives us alpha* alpha / alpha squared. So that all this actually all goes away for for uh large alpha. So then you you're just left with n less than two. Did that sorry where did that top right equation? Okay. So, all right. So, this equation here is just this is the solution for where that fixed point is because so in this space of uh the pts if you just set the equations for P1 P2 P3 if set that equal zero this is this is the um the expression always you know for large alpha small so this is indeed the location of um of that fixed point and it's just that as alpha is large then we get that p the n + one is approximately equal to alpha And this is for alpha much greater than one, right? And in that case, all of these things just go away and you're just left with n less than two. Okay? So for example, and and um as alpha goes down in magnitude, then you end up getting requiring that oscillations require a larger n. Okay. So for example, well, we might as well we'll give you practice on this. All right. All right. So, I think I I wrote another if I can find my I think it's for alpha you can ask for alpha equal to two you know what n required for oscillations. I'll let you start playing with that and I will make sure that I've given you the right alpha to use. right and so in this case what we're asking is if instead of having really strong maximal expression if instead expression is just not quite as strong then what we'll find is that you actually need to have a more cooperative repression in order to get oscillations right and And that's just because if alpha is equal to two, then we can kind of figure out what p is equal to one, right? Great. So if you know, so the fixed point is at one, right? And this is that's great because this this we can then figure out, right? So this is 1 + 1 squar that's a four one um two, right? And so this tells us that in this case we need to have very uh very cooperative repression. We have to have an n greater than around four in order to get oscillations uh in in in this protein only model. Okay. Yes. It's kind of strange for alpha. Yeah. Right. All right. So this is an interesting question that you might think that for uh for very long very large expression that you wouldn't need to have cooperative repression at all. Right? And I can't say that I have any wonderful intuition about this. um yeah because it somehow has to do with just the slopes of those curves around that fixed points and then and it's in three dimensions and um right but I think that this highlights that because a priority you know if you go and you want say oh I want to I want to construct this repress later you know it's maybe not even obvious that you want it to be more or le I mean you might not even think about this idea of cooperative repression right you might just think oh well I mean you might be tempted to think that any chain of three proteins repressing each other that it just kind of has to oscillate, right? I mean, there's a little bit of a sense and and that's that's the logic that you get at from a kind of a you know, if you just do zeros and ones, right? If you say, "Oh, here's X, here's Y, here's Z, right?" And they're repressing each other, right? You say, "Okay, well, if you know, if I start out at you know, say 0 1 0, you say, okay, that's all fine, right? But, okay, so this is repressing and okay, but this guy wasn't repressing this one. So now we get a 1 one zero maybe you know then you say okay well now this guy starts repressing this one so now it gives us a one 0 0 what you see is that over these two steps the kind of on protein kind of has shifted and indeed that's going to continue going all the way around right so just from this kind of like you know you know boolean logic kind of perspective you might think that any three proteins mutually repressing each other just has to oscillate right and it's only by looking at things a little bit more carefully that you say, "Oh, well, we have to actually worry about worry about this that that you really have to think about, oh, you want to have, you know, you want to choose some uh some transcription factors that are say multimmorizing and cooperatively repressing the next protein uh just to have some reasonable shot at at having this thing really actually oscillate, right?" Yeah. So, in this we might still be able I mean oscillations like this might still be guaranteed, but just not some stable fix point or something like just not limit cycle oscillation. Uh do you think that in there probably still be some kind of oscillation somewhere just not this beautiful cycle? Yeah, I my understanding is that in for example this three this protein only model the repress later that if you uh if you do not have cooperative repression then it really is just it just goes to that stable fixed point. All right. Of course you have to worry about maybe these noise induced oscillation kind of ideas but um but at least within the realm of of the deterministic differential equations then um it it you know then the system just goes to that internal fixed point that's specified by this. Okay. Question. Can we think like the um cooperation sort of introduce delay? Uh that's an interesting question whether um the cooperivity maybe is introducing a delay right um and that's because oh a after the proteins are made maybe it takes some extra time to to dri so forth right so that statement may be true but it's not relevant. Okay. No and I think but I think this is very important right this model has certainly not taken that into account right so that the mechanism that's here is not what you're saying and but it may be true that for any experimental system such driation such delay from the drizzation is is relevant and helps you get oscillations right but at least within the realm of this model we have very much not included any sort of delay associated with drizzation or anything right so that is very much not the explanation for why we you know why drizzation leads to oscillations here right and know I think this is a wider point that it's it's very important always to keep track of which effects you've included in any given analysis and which ones are not and I see and it's very very common to for there are many things that are true but they may not actually be relevant for the discussion at hand you know and I and I think it's it's in those situations that it's easy to get kind of mixed up because um because you know it still is true right I mean even even if it's not even if it doesn't even if it's not what's driving the effect that is being you know in this case analyzed right I we're out of time so we should quit on On Tuesday, we'll start by wrapping up the oscillation discussion by talking about other oscillator designs that allow for um robustness and tunability. Okay.