Welcome back to recitation. In this video, I'd like us to do the following two problems, both related to the same uh position vector. So, we're starting off with a position vector defined uh as r of t is equal to 1 - 2t ^2 i + t ^2 j + -2 + 2t ^2 k. So that's our position vector. And I'd like us to do the following two things. And you'll notice this problem is pretty much just a computational problem. We want to make sure that we know what these these things I'm about to to talk about are, how you define them, and how you get from the position vector to each of these things. So we want to compute the velocity, the speed, the acceleration, and find the unit tangent vector for r oft. And then the second part, we want to compute the arc length of the trajectory from tals 0 to t= 2. So I'll give you a moment to do that problem. Why don't you pause the video, work on the problem. When you're ready to check your work, bring the video back up and I'll show you how I do it. Okay, welcome back. Well, hopefully you felt comfortable with with answering these questions. So now I will answer them and you can you can compare your answers with mine. So let me start off with part A. Part A, the first thing we're going to do is find the velocity. So velocity is really all we need to do is take the derivative of the position vector with respect to t. So I'm just going to take r prime of t. And now I'm going to write it in the the shorter shorthand notation that you've seen uh with the with the brackets to denote that it's not a point but it's a vector. So the this is what you've seen to denote uh a vector rather than a point. So the derivative with respect to t of the first component is just -4 t. The derivative with respect to t of the second component is just 2t because we had t ^2. So when we take its derivative we just get 2 t. And the third component uh was -2 + 2t ^2. So when I take its derivative, I get a 4t. So that is actually v of t. Okay. And then the next thing I asked you to do is is determine the speed. And the speed of course is just the length of the velocity vector. Right? So we just need to find the length of v. Now to do that to remind ourselves what we do for that we actually take the inner product of v with itself. the dotproduct of v with itself and then we uh we take the square root of that. So let's look at what the dotproduct will be. Let me let me find the squared thing first and then I will take the square root. So v dotted with v the first component I'm going to have -4t^2. So that's going to be 16 t ^2. And then the second component is going to be 2 tant^ 2. So I'm going to have plus 4 t ^2 and the third component is going to be another it's going to be 4t quantity^ squar. So I get another 16 t ^2. So when I add those up I believe I get 36 t ^2. Yes. Good. And so then I just have to take the square root of both sides to get what the speed actually is instead of the square of the speed. So I get 6 t. Okay. So that's the velocity, that's the speed. Now I need to find the acceleration and I need to find the unit tangent vector. Okay. So let me see. I will come over here. Let me step off here and I will find the acceleration and the unit tangent vector. So the acceleration if you remember the acceleration is actually just the derivative of the velocity with respect to t. So the acceleration is going to be the derivative of -4t is just -4. The derivative of 2t is just 2. And the derivative of 4t is just 4 all with respect to t. Okay. So the acceleration vector is equal to -4 comma 2a 4. So you see this actually has constant acceleration. So at any point your acceleration is always this value. So it's not surprising that our velocity is increasing. And actually it's increasing. You'll notice each of these components is constant. The velocity, each of the components is linear. And if we went back, we look at the position vector, each of those components is quadratic. And this is exactly what you expect from just your understanding of derivatives of in single variable calculus. If you start off with a constant and you find an anti-derivative, it's going to be linear. And you find another anti-derivative, you're going to have a a quadratic. So, we shouldn't be surprised by any of that. Now, we have one more thing to do with part A, and that is to find the unit tangent vector. And that's fairly easy because all we have to do is, if you notice, we have the the velocity vector and we have its length. And so to find the unit tangent vector, all we have to do is take the velocity and divide it by its length. And that will normalize it. That means that it's its length will be one at that point because you're taking you're taking a vector dividing by its length. So, the new leng the length of the new vector will have to be length one. So let me uh write that down. And actually I guess the point to remember here is that the velocity vector is tangent uh to the path you're you're carving out to the trajectory. Okay. So this is a vector. This is a scalar. So, I'm going to take 1 over 6t and I'm going to multiply it by -4t 2 t 4t and this gives me when I do my division looks like it gives me a -23 right uh 1/3 uh 2/3 so that is the unit that is the unit tangent vector. Okay. Okay. And now we have one more point we want to make and that is having to do with the uh the arc length of the trajectory. That was the second part of this problem was to find the arc length of the tra trajectory from t= 0 to t equals 2. So let me just draw another line here. And what we want to do there then is really what we want to do is we want to integrate the speed right we want to integrate the speed from 0 to two. So this let me come over here. This absolute v you might have also seen it written as uh dsdt right and so we want to integrate this in dt in c tt t sorry from 0 to two. And so if we come over here we're going to integrate from 0 to 2 6t dt. That's fairly easy. That's going to be 6 t ^2 / 2 evaluated from 0 to 2. And so when I when I write that down, I'm going to get 6 * 4 / 2, 24 / 2, I just get 12. And the other term is zero. So the arc length uh is from of the trajectory from 0 to two is just 12 units. So this really was a purely computational type of problem. All we were doing, if you come back over here and you recall what we were trying to do is we started off with a position vector. We just did a a lot of computation. We found the velocity, the speed, the acceleration, the unit tangent vector, and then we we just wanted to find the arc length of the trajectory. So this was all very computational, but just to make sure we understood what all the terms meant and how to how they were related to one another. So I'll stop there.