Hi, welcome back to recitation. We've been talking in class a little bit about parametric equations and arc length. So, let's do an example of a of a problem where you compute an arclength of a curve given by some parametric equations. So in particular um I have here the parametric equations y = t minus1 overt and x = t + 1 / t for one less than or equal to t less than or equal to 2. So those parametric equations trace out some some piece of a curve in the plane. And what I'd like you to do is write down an integral whose value is equal to the arc length of of that curve. So I the the integral you're going to get is going to be pretty hard to evaluate. Um, so, so I'm not I don't I wouldn't recommend you you spend a whole lot of time trying to trying to evaluate it, but but just just so we we uh see that we you know we can do this and then um and and so we have we have the integral whose whose value is the arc length. So take a few minutes uh work on that, pause the video, come back and we can work on it together. All right. So, I hope you've had some some luck working this problem. Um, let's uh let's let's get started on it together. So, in order to compute the arc length the the by by an integral we need to to figure out what the element of arc length is that that little piece ds. Uh so this was true when we had our curve given in rectangular coordinates and it's also true when our curve is given in parametric coordinates. So in general the the little element of arclength is given as ds = the square root of dx^2 + d y^2. Now when our curve is given in rectangular coordinates usually what we do here is we factor out a dx^2 and then we have dx by dy the the derivative of y with respect to x. But here we don't have x or or y given in terms of the other one. We have them both given in terms of this this parameter t. So the parameter t is the thing is our sort of independent variable. It's the thing we're going to want to end up with end up integrating with respect to. Um so what we actually want to do in this case is we want to factor out a dt from from everywhere. So if you factor out a dt, what this becomes or a dt squ I guess I should say is that you get dx dt 2 plus dy dt^ squar whole thing square root dt. Okay, so this is just a little algebraic manipulation involving differentials. And what this gives me is an expression that was you know x is a function of t. x is given as a function of t right here. So dxdt is a function of t. And similarly y is given as a function of t. So dydt is a function of t. So this whole expression is a function of t. So we have a function of t dt. So it's all set up to be integrated. Um so in order to to actually you know compute with this formula well we just we take our y and we take our x and and we take their derivatives. So from well I guess we could start with y since it's on top over there. So dy dt well you know you just you just take a derivative right so you have y is equal to t minus 1 / t and you take a derivative of that derivative of t is just 1 derivative of 1 / t is - 1 / t ^2 so this becomes but there's an extra minus sign there so this becomes 1 + 1 / t ^2 and similarly dx by dt is equal to 1 - 1 / t ^2. So you have these two derivatives. So to compute arclength, you plug them into this formula for the for the element of arclength and then you and then you'll integrate. So okay, so so we have to put them into that formula. So what do we get? We have ds is equal to the square root of well so dxdt ^2 + dydt ^2. So that's 1 - 1 / t ^2 + 1 + 1 / t ^2 dt outside. Okay. And so and so now we you know maybe we can simplify this a little. I would probably expand out at this point. Um so if you expand this out this is well let's see the first one is just is one minus 2 over t ^2 + 1 / T4 plus that's the first one we expand it out in the second one we get 1 + 2 over t ^2 + 1 / t 4th all right and if we put all this together say over a common denominator and and simplify it a little bit. We can see that this is equal to these the t over t ^2 terms cancel out and we end up with something like the square of T4 + 1 over t ^2 dt. Okay, so this is this is all this ds that we've been playing with. So the actual arc length is what we get when we integrate ds. So we need appropriate bounds. So where do we get those bounds? Well, we go back to the question and here the question had to have told us, right? If the question didn't tell us, then it didn't actually describe a a piece of curve or or a finite piece of curve really is the is the point. Um, so so the question tells us that we want this from from t = 1 to two. So, so the arc length, we just integrate our little element of arc length over the appropriate interval. So that's t from 1 to 2 of the of T4 + 1 over t ^2 dt. All right. So as I said at the beginning, this is not an integral that's readily susceptible to the to the techniques that we've learned. Um you you know if you were interested, you could try some numerical methods on it. I'm I'm sure you know computer algebra software can can spit out at at worst a good numerical approximation if you're if you're curious. Um, one one more thing I want to say about this question is that we we did all this without ever trying to draw the curve or think about what the curve looks like. Um, so it's not that hard to get some some sort of basic sense of the behavior of this curve. For example, when t gets very very large, we see that what happens is that um x and y well the one over t gets small. So x and y get close to each other but x is just a tiny tiny bit bigger. So for AST gets very very big you see that the point on the curve is getting very close to the line y equals x um but but not actually touching it and you can you know you could try other things AST gets close to zero from the positive side AST gets close to zero from the negative side um so this has some sort of asmtote it seems like um there's some other things you could check you could you could try to show that the x value is always either well when t is positive it's always at least two or when t is negative it's is at least -2 and there's a sort of gap in between. Um you could you could analyze its properties there. The other thing you could do is you could try and solve these equations to eliminate t and get just rectangular equations in terms of x and y. Um so I'm not going to do that for you. I'll give you a hint about how I would go about it which is you could start off so you want to eliminate t. So, um, the I think the nicest way to do that is if you add these two equations, you'll get the that the the 1 / t's cancel out and you get 2t equals x + y or t = x + y over two. And then you can take that you could substitute it back into one of these equations. And when you substitute it back, then you'll have an equation that just involves x and y, which with a little more simplification, uh, takes a form that that you're that you should already be familiar with. Um, okay. And yes, arclength. This is how we do arclength in parametric form. Works out pretty nice. Except in this case, we get an integral we can't evaluate at the very end. Too bad. All right, I'll leave it with with that.