The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Hi, We've sort of arrived at D-Day in our course that in a manner of speaking everything that we've done up to now has been a rehearsal that today we are going to come to grips with what the course is all about namely a real valued function of several real variables and before getting into that what I'd like to do is to review very briefly what we've talked about so far in terms of functions since we've introduced the vector notation. Namely, what we've mentioned is is that our function machine could have either a vector or a scalar as its input and either a vector or a scalar as its output. Part one of our course centered around the idea where both the input and the outputs were scalers. Whereas the previous block of material concerned the case where our input was a scalar and our output was a vector. Today what we're going to discuss is the situation that occurs when our input is a vector and our output is a scalar. And I call today's lecture ndimensional vector spaces. Eventually we'll discuss vector spaces in more detail. For the time being, I simply want to set the mood and hopefully by the time I'm through show you a rather peaceful coexistence between the worlds of the new mathematics and the worlds of traditional mathematics. In fact, in many of our topics that we're going to tackle in this block of material, we will give both points of view. But to set the stage properly to get into the idea of what a vector space is all about and if that word frightens you just don't worry about it for a minute or two worry about it after that but let's just get started here. Let's consider the situation where I have a function machine where my input is a vector and my output is a scalar. As an example, let me just generically let V represent the vector whose form is X I + Y J using X and I and J components. Let me define F of V to be pi time the square of the I component times the J component. And let's not worry right now about why I picked this particular recipe. Let's simply observe that once this recipe is chosen, f is a function which maps a two-dimensional vector here in i and j components into a number pi x^2 y. Just to illustrate this recipe, notice that if our vector were 3 I + 4 J, the output of the f machine, if this were the input, would be what? pi * the square of the first component, the component of I, that's 3^ squ times the component of J, which is four. And that leads to 36 pi. By the way, observe that order does make a difference. Namely, if I reverse the roles of the coefficients and feed the vector fi + 3 j into my f machine, the output would be pi * 4^ 2, the square of the i component, you see times 3 and that would be 48 pi. Notice also that we have allowed already in our course the abbreviation that a comma b would represent AI plus bj or a comma b comma c would represent AI plus bj plus ck k. The idea is that if we now apply this shorthand notation to these two vectors, what we could say is what f of this vector. In other words, f of 3a 4 is 36 pi whereas f of 4a 3 is 48 pi. And that's exactly what we mean when we say that we may treat a two-dimensional vector as an ordered pair. You see it's not only a pair but the order does make a difference both in what the vector is and on what the output of the f machine is. Okay hopefully let's say so far so good and let's tackle now a rather completely different problem. What I'd like to do now is the following. Let's consider the cylinder right circular cylinder. The radius of whose base is x and whose height is y. Notice that the volume of this cylinder is pi x^2 y. And if I use the same f that we used previously, in other words, the same f that we were talking about over here. Notice that another way see how was f defined given that the input was x comma y the output was pix^2 y notice that the volume is f ofxy in particular if I want the volume of the cylinder the radius of whose base is x is three and whose height is four see x is three and y is four what I really want is f of 3a 4 that's * 3^ 2 * 4 f of 3a 4 is 36i. Now I'd like to pause for a second again and return to our earlier remark. Namely, if I look at this and if I look at this, notice that these two expressions are identical. I cannot tell the difference between whether I'm looking at the vector 3 I + 4 J or whether I'm looking at the cylinder the radius of whose base is three and whose height is four whether I look at this equation or whether I look at this equation the difference is that in the first case somehow or other it was quite natural to think of 3a 4 as being either an ordered pair or an arrow. In this case, however, my contention is that when we think of the radius of the base of the cylinder and the height, we do not tend to think in terms of arrows, but rather in terms of ordered pairs. In other words, the ordered pair x comma y for in the expression f ofxy need not be viewed as an arrow but as an ordered pair and an ordered pair is called a twuple. In fact, this leads to a generalization that I think is rather important and I think you'll see in a moment where the idea of this approach comes into functions of several real variables. The topic I have in mind is something called an nuple. And let me lead into that rather gradually as follows without giving you a specific physical example. Meaning I'll give you an illustration but leave the numerical amounts out. Quite possibly if I'm studying temperature in a room the temperature will in in general what it will depend on what position I'm in at the room and also at what time I measure the temperature. In other words, it's fair to assume that in many applications, the temperature is some function of the four independent variables X, Y, Z, and T, where X, Y, and Z are the cartisian coordinates of three-dimensional space, and T represents time. At any rate, what I'm driving at is I can now visualize this in terms of my function machine again. namely to compute t I think of feeding what specific values into the machine for x y z and t. The f machine then performs on xyz and t as indicated by f to compute t. In other words, again the input of my f machine in this case is what I'm going to call a foruple for the time being. Namely, I need four values x, y, z, and t. Order does make a difference. For example, if I interchange the x and the ycoordinate, other words, x and y, what I'm doing is is I'm interchanging the x and the ycoordinate of the point in space, and that in general is going to change the point in space. The point however is that in this particular F machine notice that my output is a scalar namely the temperature is a number but the input is a foruple namely X Y Z and T. Now the trouble with using symbolism like like X Y Z and T well I guess without going into a long philosophic discussion among other things as soon as you have 27 or more independent variables you run out of letters of the alphabet and as a result it is quite common for one to adopt a new notation. Namely, instead of saying let xyz be a foruple, what one usually does is chooses one symbol say x and then uses subscripts namely a general foruple would have the form what x1 comma x2 comma x3 comma x4 where x1 x2 x3 and x4 are numbers and an expression like this is called a foruple. What is this a generalization of? The foruple is a generalization of the one-dimensional, two-dimensional, and threedimensional arrows, so to speak, where we could think of what the vector x1 i as just needing one member, one number to specify it. The vector x1 i + x2 j could have been used to do what? Uh, it could have been abbreviated by the twotpple x1 x2. And the vector x1 i plus x2 j + x3 k could have been abbreviated by the three tupleo x1 x2 x3. It is conventional in 1 2 or three-dimensional space to use xy and z instead of x1 x2 and x3. But that's just a convention. I think that it's because we learned it that way that we do it. In general, I think this this subscript notation is much nicer. But in general, the idea is what? Given an ordered array of n numbers x1 up to xn, we call that an nuple. And my friend and colleague John Fitch mentioned to me that if n is odd like 1, three, five or seven, then it's known as an odd tuple, which isn't a very funny story. I guess that's why I told you John told me that particular story. But the whole idea is look at this is an nuple. And the whole idea again is what? That an nuple makes sense even when n is greater than three. The whole name of the game of functions of several real variables in terms of modern mathematics in terms of the language of nuples is that a real valued function of several where by several you mean more than one real variables is simply a function in which the input is an nuple and the output is a number. Okay, that's what this whole thing is all about. And because of that when we then abbreviate the nuple we use X with a bar under it let's call it Xbar rather than X with the arrow over it since arrows may be inappropriate. Now what do I mean by inappropriate? Well I mean that even in the case of one two or three dimensions you might be thinking of say the radius and the height of a cylinder rather than as an arrow. And in more than three dimensions, for most of us at least, it's difficult to visualize what we would mean by an arrow. So we just use the bar underneath. Now again, the major point is notice this. I keep saying the major point. I guess there's a lot of major points about this. Remember that we did not call arrows vectors. We did not call arrows vectors until we defined a structure on the arrows. Remember what we did? We told what it meant for two arrows to be equal. We told how we added two arrows and we told how we multiplied an arrow by a scala. In a similar way, we will not call nuples a structure until we tell how to equate a pair of nuples, how to add a pair, and how to multiply an nuple by a number. By the way, the structure that we wind up with is then called an n-dimensional vector space or more concisely nspace. And the idea works like this. Let's pick a particular value of n. Let's just call it n. And let s subn be the set of all nuples x1 up to xn. In other words, a set of what? All npples of numbers x1 up to xn. Let's pick two particular members of S subn which we'll call a bar and b bar where a bar is simply an abbreviation for a the nuple a1 up to a n where the a1 a2 up to a n etc are real numbers and b bar is an abbreviation for the nuple b1 etc bn where b1 up to through bn are also real numbers. Now again here's where structure comes into play. We have already defined an nuple arithmetic in terms of arrows for the case that n is either one two or three. Namely based on what happens when n is 1 2 or three. We invent the following definitions. First of all, we invent the definition that a bar equals b bar means that the components meaning what? The individual members of the nuple. The components of a bar are equal to the components of b bar component by component. In other words, a1 is equal to b1. A2 is equal to b2 etc. All the way up to what? A n is equal to bn. Now other words again what we're saying is that for two nuples to be equal by definition they should be equal component by component and this is motivated by the fact that we already know that we've accepted this structural definition for the case of arrows. Similarly given two nuples a bar and b bar to add them let me define that to be the nuple that I get by adding component by component. In other words, to find the first component of A bar plus B bar, I add the first component of A bar to the first component of B bar. Noticing, of course, that this is what? Be careful here. This is one number. A1 plus B1 is one number. A2 plus B2 is a number. A N plus BN is a number. In other words, notice that by this definition, the sum of two NPles is again an NPLE. And finally to multiply a scala by an nuple. I will agree to define that definition to mean that you multiply the nuple component by component by that particular scala or number. Notice again that all I have done here is I have obtained these three structural definitions from the equivalent situations of arrows. And since everything that was true about arrows followed from these three basic definitions, any set of nuples that obeys this particular structure will also behave like the arrows did. And that's why we call it a vector space. They behave like vectors even though they can no longer be viewed as arrows. And again, there are creative people who view these things as arrows. I remember feeling very intimidated one day by my undergraduate professor the first time I learned vector spaces. And I said, "How do you visualize an n-dimensional vector space?" And in full seriousness, without batting an eyelash, she says, "I visualize it like a porcupine with a bunch of quills coming out of it." And I knew that he knew what he was visualizing it like, but it didn't help me one bit. I'm saying if you can visualize these things as arrows, be my guest. Feel free to do so. If you can't, notice that every one of these definitions stands on its own two feet subject to the condition that when n is one, two, or three, we happen to have a very nice geometric interpretation. By the way, I I may have given you the impression that vector spaces were invented because of functions of several variables. Rather the impression I would like to leave you with is that in terms of motivating vector spaces in terms of this course that was the motivation that we elected to use that the mathematician talked about vector spaces in many a different context from what we might even dream possible. In other words I don't have to think of temperature being a function of the four variables xyz and t. Let me give you a different kind of non-trivial example of a force space that doesn't even bring functions into play. Let's suppose I invent the abbreviation of I write the foruple a 0 a1 a2 a3 to denote the cubic polomial a 0 + a1x plus a2x^2 + a3x cubed. In other words, notice that I can use these as a place value system. Namely, the first member tells me my constant term. The second member tells me the coefficient of x. The third member tells me the coefficient of x squ. and the fourth member gives me the coefficient of x cubed. Notice that for two polomials to be identically equal, they must be equal what? Coefficient by coefficient. That means what? Component by component. How do we add two polomials? We add them coefficient by coefficient. We add like terms. In other words, given two polomials, we add them what? Component by component. We add the two constant terms together. the two coefficients of x together, the two coefficients of x squar together, the two coefficients of x cubed together. You see how do we multiply a polomial by a scala? We multiply each term by the scala. That in turn is equivalent to multiplying each coefficient by that scala. And that says in terms of nuple notation that we have multiplied each component by that scala. In other words, the set of polomials of degree n forms a very nice vector space in terms of our definition of a vector space. Now, of course, the danger is that one gets the idea that any set of nuples can be viewed as a vector space, an n-dimensional vector space. But this we have to be careful about. Remember it is not the nuples, it is the structure that they obey. Let me give you sort of a simple example over here. Let me consider the following situations. First of all, let me just emphasize a statement. I just made it. Let me just read it with you. NPles are not automatically n spaces. For example, let me invent the abbreviation the twopple a b to represent the number a + b. For example, if I define the twopple a b to be an abbreviation for a plus b, what would four comma 5 denote? Remember the twopple means what? to get the value of the twotpple is just the sum of the components. If I add a and b in this case 4 + 5 happens to be 9. How about the twopple 6a 3? What value would that have? That would also have the value 9. Therefore numerically the twopple 4a 5 is equal to the twopple 6a 3. Yet notice that the first component here is not equal to the first component here. In other words, four is not equal to six, nor is five equal to three. That if I were to choose this definition of equality, I could not say that these two tpples formed a two-dimensional vector space because it violates the first definition for a vector space, namely the definition of what it means for two vectors to be equal. At any rate, since we're going to let most of our material be covered by the exercises and the supplementary notes, and this is just to be an overview, let's move on. Now, let's assume that we now know what what n-dimensional vector spaces are like. We now know that we can view functions of several variables as functions that map nuples into numbers. And as a result, it now makes sense to talk about things like suppose you were given the nuple x1, x2, x3, x4. And suppose that by under f that nuple was mapped into x1 cub + x2 + x3 2 + 2x4. For example, if I were to replace x1 by 1, x2 by 3, x3 by 1 and x4 by 2, I would uh arrive at the result what? 1 cubed + 3 + 1 2 + 2 * 2 and I can compute that output. Now the question that comes up in calculus is can we talk about limits here? Instead of computing what f of 1 comma 3 comma 1 comma 2 is can I compute the limit of this thing as x1 x2 x3 x4 approaches 1 comma 3 comma 1 comma 2 now I think intuitively it's clear that since equality means that you must have equality component by component to say that this approaches this means that the first component here must approach the first component here the second component here approaches a second component here etc. In other words, this could be replaced by the four separate linear one-dimensional limit problems. X1 approaches one, X2 approaches 3, X3 approaches 1, and X4 approaches two. And we would then be tempted to say what we will replace X1 by one, X2 by 3, X3 by 1, X4 by two. See what happens to this expression. And we would be then be tempted to say that this particular limit was equal to 9. Now the interesting point is this that traditionally this particular problem was tackled long before anyone invented vector spaces or at least long before anybody was serious about vector spaces. Namely, people did say why can't we reduce the study of fourdimensional space to four separate studies of one-dimensional space. In other words, let x1 approach one, x2 approach three. In that case, you're allowing what? Four separate one-dimensional limits to be taking place here. But the insight that modern math gave us was that we can now go back to our traditional definition of limit. Remember what was our old structural definition of limit way back from the first time we had it. The limit of f ofx as x approaches a equals l means given epsilon greater than zero we can find delta greater than zero such that whenever the absolute value of x - a is greater than zero but less than delta the absolute value of f ofx - l is less than epsilon. Now here's what the new math said. The modern approach said look at let's just take our old structural definition the same as before and vectorize everything. Notice in this situation that we're dealing with the input is where we have the several variables. The input is the nuple the vector. Okay? And the output is the scala. So f is a scala, l is a scala, but x and a are vectors. So every place I see an x and an a, I have to put the bar underneath. And now I read this definition and all of a sudden, as so often has happened in our course up to now, I come to something that I've never seen before. Namely, as soon as I look at this, this made very good sense when these were arrows. Namely, we talked about this earlier in our course in one of our lectures that to say that two arrows were near each other was to say that their difference was small and that in turn said if the arrows were placed tailtotail, we could make the distance between their heads as small as we wish. Now the price that we have to pay for higher dimensions is that if we have more dimensions than what we can draw arrows in the problem that we're faced is that we have not defined what you mean by the magnitude of x minus a where x and a happen to be nuples and here again we come back to our structure but now for the first time the structure is not redundant let me tell you what I mean by that in the one-dimensional case we define the magnitude of x - a to be the square roo of x1 - a1^ 2 where the vector x was the oneuple x1 and the vector a was the nuple x a1. In a two-dimensional case we said okay let's define the magnitude of the vector x - a to be x1 - a1 2 plus x2 - a2. And in the three-dimensional case, we said let's define the magnitude of xar minus a bar to be the square root of x1 - a1^ 2 plus x2 - a2 2 + x3 - a3 2. Now at that time I kept saying look it notice that these recipes do not depend on a picture that these are numerical results that we can compute without having to draw a picture at all. What happened, of course, was that in the one-dimensional case, in the two-dimensional case, in the three-dimensional case, it was easier to visualize the picture. Now, here's where the real kicker comes in, and this is the real crucial point structurally. Can't you see what's happening over here? Can't you see how I can now define the absolute value of the vector xar minus a bar even if n is greater than three in such a way that the definition will make sense and still mimic everything that we're doing? In fact, I hope you are a step ahead of me on this except for some new notation that I introduce here. It turns out that in the modern math book, one distinguishes between the absolute value of a number and the magnitude of a vector. And it is frequently traditional to introduce a double bar on each side to represent the magnitude of the difference between two vectors which I claim behaves like a distance. Let me show you what I mean by that. Let me define the magnitude of the nuple xbar minus the nuple a bar written this way to be the positive square root of x1 - a1^ 2 plus etc plus x n minus a n^ 2 the thing that I would like you to notice here is that since each of these numbers are non- negative see they're squares of real numbers the only way this can be zero well the only way that the sum of squares of non- negative numbers can be zero is for each of the numbers to be zero. Consequently, the only way the magnitude of xar minus a bar can equal zero is if x1= a1, x2= a2, etc., and xn equals a n. In this vein, notice that the geometric phrase xbar near a bar still makes sense. It doesn't make sense pictorially because we can't draw the arrows if n is greater than three. But notice that what we're saying is that for x to be near a, all we're saying is that the magnitude the magnitude defined this way. The magnitude of xar minus a bar is small. In other words, when you're adding up positive squares, the only way the sum can be small is if each of the factors is small. But notice what these factors are. except for the square. It's the difference between x1 and a1, x2 and a2, etc. xn and a n. In other words, to say that xbar is near a bar means that x1 is near a1, x2 is near a2, etc., and xn is near a n, which is exactly the traditional approach. And in fact, except for the fact that we can capitalize on structure, notice that once we define the magnitude of the difference between two enduples, do you notice that by the way? The magnitude of the difference of two enduples is a number. Notice now if we replace this fancy phrase which we didn't know the meaning of before but which we now know by its new definition we obtain the traditional definition of limit namely the limit of f ofx1 up to xn as x1 approaches a1 etc and xn approaches a n equals l means that given epsilon greater than zero we can find delta greater than zero such that whenever the square root of x1 - a1^ 2 plus etc xn - a n^ 2 is less than delta but greater than zero then the magnitude you see these are numbers here the magnitude of f of x1 up to xn minus l is less than epsilon in other words this definition here happens to be the traditional definition okay but the point is that the traditional definition has exactly the same structure as the modern definition and as a result to make fun of the traditional math because it's not as pretty as the modern math is the wrong thing to say ultimat it's like the fellow once asked me at a PTA meeting how much is 8 plus 7 in the new mathematics that part hasn't changed the beauty of using the nuple notation was that it allowed us to use the previous structure of limits so that we could get all of our theorems all of our formulas and what have you to go through word for word. Even though the higher the dimension, the more complex our computations are, but structurally it essentially boiled down to after you've seen one-dimensional space, you've seen them all. That was the big innovation with the modern approach to n-dimensional vector spaces. And to help put this in proper perspective, next time I shall introduce the calculus of several real variables in terms of the more traditional approach. But again, until next time, goodbye. Funding for the publication of this video was provided by the Gabriella and Paul Rosenbomb Foundation. Help OCW continue to provide free and open access to MIT courses by making a donation at ocw.mmit.edu/donate.