The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Hi, our lesson today is going to be concerned with looking at some of the ramifications of what it means for a complex valued function to be analytic. And one of the side results, I hope, of today's lesson will be to show why if the complex numbers had never been invented up until this point, they would have been invented most likely to discuss mappings of the XY plane into the UV plane. Well, I hope to make that clearer as we go along. For the time being, let's simply entitle today's lesson conformal mappings. And by way of review and what I want to do here you see is emphasize the real part of complex variable theory. Suppose I have the usual mapping from the xy plane into the uv plane given by u is some function of x and y and v is some function of x and y. And you may recall this is uh back much earlier in our co course in block four block three where we were labeling this as fbar of x comma y equals u comma v. No necessity here of talking about complex variables. We're mapping two space into two space the XY plane into the UV plane by the mapping Fbar defined by U and V being these functions of X and Y. And what we saw was that this particular mapping was at least locally meaning in a neighborhood of a given point invertible provided that the determinant of the Jacobian matrix was not zero. In other words, that u subx v suby minus u sububy v subx was not equal to zero. And again, what I want you to see is that up until this point, there is absolutely no knowledge that we need of complex variables. Now, what is interesting is this. Remember that when we introduced the complex numbers, we said that graphically their domain would be the xy plane and that would be called the argon diagram. Now you see coming back to this little aside that we were making over here. If I now view the XY plane as being the Agon diagram, then what we're saying is that X comma Y names the complex number Z, U, comm, V names the complex number W, namely U + I V. And since we're talking now about mapping complex numbers into complex numbers, Fbar simply becomes some function F. Now the question that's more important is why would one want this particular interpretation? You see what particular interpretation? The particular interpretation that I have in mind is to simply observe that whenever I have a change of variables say two variables in two two equations and two unknowns u equals some function of x and y v equals some function of x and y. What I'm saying is I can always view this pair of equations as the single complex variable equation that f of z equals u plus iv. That mechanically by letting u be the real part and v be the imaginary part, I can invent the complex valued function u plus iv. By the way, this is in much the same spirit that when one talks about curves in the plane, one does not have to know anything about vectors. I can talk about the curve x= x of t y= y of t and then say okay let's introduce the radius vector r and then write that r is equal to x i + yj and this allows me to take two scala equations and write them as one vector equation. So I can certainly take two scala two real functions of two real variables and write them in terms of the language of complex functions. The question of course is why would I want to do this? We have already seen this in our very first lecture on complex variables. For example, we knew how to handle things like cosine m theta without ever having to have heard of complex variables. Yet we found that by such things as the Marav's theorem that there was some very nice enlightenment that the structure of complex numbers brought to real numbers. In other words, then perhaps by taking this pair of equations and writing them in the language of complex variables, I might from the vantage point of the complex number system be able to look down at the real number system and see some things very elegantly from a computational point of view, from a philosophical point of view that I might not have been able to notice otherwise. Now, because this is becoming sort of a herang, let's get on with the specific details and see if this doesn't become clear as we go along. What we've already said is we can view this change of variables as being the real and imaginary parts of the complex function f of z. In other words, let's invent the function f of z to be u plus iv. Now, the point is let's assume for the sake of argument that f of z happens to be an analytic function. What does it mean to say that f of z is analytic? It means that fprime exists. In particular, from our lecture of last time, not only does fprime exist, but if we want to write this quite simply, it turns out to be the partial of u respect to x plus i * the partial of v with respect to x. In particular, the koshi reman conditions hold which means that u subx= v suby and u subyals minus v subx. And by the way, to reinforce what I was just saying before, please observe that this particular relationship does not necessitate my knowing anything about complex numbers. Given two functions u and v, functions of x and y, I can compute the partial of u with respect to x. I can compute the partial of v with respect to y, the partial of u with respect to y, the partial of v with respect to x, and see if these conditions hold. At any rate, if these conditions do hold and notice how nicely the language of complex variables allows me to say that these conditions hold. Namely, all I have to say is that f of z is analytic. Then coming back to what the jacobian meant. Remember what the jacobian meant. It was u subx v suby minus u suby v subx. Coming back to this, I can now compute this very simply. simply by observing that another way of saying v suby is to replace it by u subx and if I do that this term becomes u subx^2. If I now replace u suby by minus v subx, this becomes v subx^2. And so the condition that this this expression becomes u subx^2 + v subx^2. And if we now look here, notice that since the magnitude of a complex number is just the positive square root of the sum of the squares of the real and the imaginary parts, this expression here is precisely the square of the magnitude of frime of z. Now look at the only way that this can be zero then is if this is zero. The only way this can be zero is if frime of z is itself zero. because the only complex number whose magnitude is zero is zero itself. Now what does this tell me? Therefore, this tells me that the system of real equations u = u ofxy v = v ofxy is invertible if when we write the complex function u + iv and call that f if f is analytic and f prime of z is not zero. Again, notice I could have stated that without the language of complex variables at all. I could have said look at suppose the partial of u with respect to x equals the partial of u with respect to y and the partial of u with respect to y is minus the partial of u with respect to x and suppose that u subx^2 + v subx^2 is not zero then this will be invertible now the trouble is notice that there are an awful lot of invertible functions I shouldn't say the trouble is but one of the properties is that there are a lot of invertible functions which do not obey these stringent conditions Consequently, one would like to believe that if we're going to introduce the language of complex variables that we would like to get much more out of this than just the fact that f of z maps the xy plane into the uv plane in an in a onetoone onto ma manner as long as fprime is not zero. Let me point out that some invertible mappings are nicer than others. Now what do I mean by nicer? Well, let's make up a definition here. An invertible mapping is called conformal. And maybe you can guess what this is going to mean. If it preserves angles. Now, what do I mean by preserving angles? What I'm saying is let's suppose two curves meet at a certain angle in the xy plane. When I map the xy plane into the UV plane in a onetoone fashion, the two curves in the xy plane have images in the UV plane. The question that comes up is will the two curves intersect at the same angle in the xy plane that their images intersect in the UV plane? Well, heck, maybe it's easier to do by means of an example. Let's look at the usual linear mappings that we were talking about when we introduced the Jacobian in double integration. Remember, one of the problems that we tackled was looking to see how we map, say, a parallelogram R onto the unit square S by a linear mapping of the form U= AX + B Y, V= CX plus DY. Notice that even though this map was linear, even though it was invertible, it obviously is not conformal. Why isn't it conformal? Well, the image of the line of the vector O A in the XY plane is O prime A prime in the U plane UV plane. The image of OB in the XY plane is given by O prime B prime in the UV plane. Notice that in the XY plane the vectors O A and O B meet at an angle theta which clearly is not 90° whereas their images intersect at a right angle. In other words, this mapping did not preserve angles that the image of an angle in the XY plane did not have to be the angle of the image in the UV plane. Now, why for example would it be important to want to preserve angles? Well, among other things, when we change variables, we sometimes don't want to change the physical significance of a problem. In other words, we may be trying to solve a problem in the XY plane. For convenience, we map the problem into the UV plane. Well, it may happen that certain physical properties are present in the XY plane. We may be talking about potential and force and maybe one family of lines intersects another family of lines at right angles. We'd like to believe that we could have a mapping into the UV plane where if the two lines met at right angles in the XY plane, their images would meet in the X in at right angles in the UV plane. Well, let's not worry about that right now. Let's simply emphasize the mathematics of a situation. A conformal mapping is one which preserves angles. And I now claim the very interesting thing. Namely, if the mapping U is some function of X and Y, V is some function of X and Y. Given that mapping, suppose I form the complex function U plus I V equals F. And suppose that that function turns out to be analytic and the derivative is not zero. We just saw that that guaranteed that the mapping would be invertible. I now claim that in this special case this mapping is also conformal. That's a very beautiful result. In other words, the mapping u= u ofxy v = v ofxy is conformal as soon as we can be sure that the function f given by u + iv is analytic and that fprime is not zero. Now why is this mapping conformal? And again the arithmetic of complex numbers comes in in a very handy way over here. Namely let's look to see what happens under the mapping. All we're going to do now is change the language not from the xy plane and the uv plane but we are now going to look at the xy plane as the argon diagram where the point x0 comma y 0 is represented by the complex number z. What I'm going to assume now is this. Let's take the point z and let's take two nearby points z1 and z2. Now z0 has some image under f. Let's call it w0. Z1 has an image we'll call it W1 in the UV plane and Z2 has some image which we'll call W2. Now what we would like to do is the following. Let's take the straight lines that join Z0 to Z1, Z0 to Z2. Let's take the straight lines that join W0 to W1 and W to W2. This is a vector. We'll call that delta W1. This is a vector. In other words, can be viewed as a complex number. It's w2 minus w0 is delta w2. This we'll call delta z1 for reference. And this vector we'll call delta z2 for reference. Now remember how one divides two complex numbers. We divide the magnitudes and we subtract the arguments. Consequently, if I let theta be the angle in reference here, notice that theta is the angle obtained by dividing delta z2 by delta z1. Namely, if I divide delta z2 by delta z1, I subtract the angles. If I take the angle that delta z2 makes with the positive x-axis, subtract from that the angle that delta z1 makes with the positive x-axis, what's left is is the angle theta. Similarly, notice that fe this angle over here is the argument of delta w2 divided by delta w1. Namely, I simply subtract the angle that delta w2 makes with the positive u axis. I I subtract from that angle the angle that delta w1 makes with the axis. And that result is fe. Okay? Because to divide two complex numbers we divide the magnitudes subtract the arguments. What I want to show is that if the complex valued function f is analytic and fprime is not zero I want to show that theta equals v. Now the way I'm going to do this is I will assume that we're in a very small neighborhood here. So that what I'm saying is what what does it mean to say that fprime exists? Remember fprime was the quotient delta w divided by delta z. So for small values of delta z, delta w divided by delta z must be approximately frime of z0. Okay, we talked about that last time. In particular then delta w2 / delta z2 is one such ratio. Delta w1 divided by delta z1 is another such ratio. So for small changes in Z these two ratios should be approximately equal meaning that the error is negligible when we go to the limit and that that approximate ratio is frime of Z0. Now in not inverting but looking at this ratio the fact that these are approximately equal says that delta Z2 / delta Z1 is approximately equal to delta W2 / delta W1. Noticing by the way that if fprime was zero, delta w1 and delta w2 would both be zero. And that would give me a 0 / zero form which is indeterminant from a geometric point of view. Notice that fprime of z0 is a vector in the uv may be viewed as a vector in the uv plane. It has a magnitude and has a direction. If fprime is zero, that vector is just a point. And a point does not determine a magnitude or a direction. when you're talking about this type of ratios at least it doesn't determine a direction it may determine a magnitude zero but at any rate all we're saying is is that by the analyticness of f we now know this property here but since these two numbers are approximately equal their arguments must be approximately equal and that says that theta is approximately equal to fee where again I want to emphasize when I say approximately equal I mean they are equal up to errors of second order infinite decimals and those are the terms that go to zero so fast that in the limit they don't appear that this does not mean that these are almost equal it means in the limit they are equal the usual way that I'm using uh approximations whenever I've talked about linearity now one application of conformal mappings came up or comes up when we discussed the problem that we introduced in our discussion of green's theorem about boundary valued steadystate temperature remember We were talking about a region R enclosed by some curve C. And I had a temperature distribution on C and inside R. I knew that the temperature satisfied Lelass's equation in R. That was called the steady state condition. Namely, the second partial of T with respect to X plus the second partial of T with respect to Y was zero in R. I knew what T looked like on the boundary of R, namely on C. And now what we said was back in our study of Green's theorem that this determined a unique function T of XY defined in this entire region R. And the problem is how do you determine what T looks like in the entire region R just from this information alone. Notice again at this point I would never have had to have heard of complex variables to understand this problem. How can I prove that? Hopefully in our discussion of Green's theorem in the exercises, you understood this problem. Otherwise, you couldn't have done the exercise. Well, at that stage, we hadn't talked about analytic functions. Consequently, that's all the proof that we need that this problem makes perfectly good sense without complex variables. This is a real problem defined in terms of real variables in a real world situation. The key point and that's what's going to be the rest of this lecture is to prove that key point. The key point is the following. Let's suppose I take a regular mapping. See what happens is I don't like the problem the way it's stated over here. So I say okay let me make a change of variables the same way as I make a change of variables in solving definite integrals in ordinary calculus of a single real variable. I make the change of variables hopefully to arrive at an integrant that is easier for me to handle. There's no guarantee that the new integrant will be any more palatable than the old. But the idea is I say, okay, let me map R from the XY plane into the UV plane by some mapping Fbar that maps E2 into E2. Two space into two space. In terms of the language of complex variables, all I'm saying is I can view that mapping as a complex valued function of a complex variable. I replace Fbar by F. as I mentioned earlier in the lecture. Well, the idea is regardless of how I want to do that, suppose I now map R into some region S in the UV plane with a new boundary, say C prime. That translates my problem from the U the XY plane into the UV plane. If it happens that I can solve that problem in the UV plane, the inverse mapping then comes back to give me the solution in the XY plane. Now the big problem that comes up is that in general invertible transformations do not preserve statements made in terms of a coordinate system. In other words, for example, if u is some function of x and y and v is some function of x and y and that's gives me an invertible mapping that maps the region R into a unit S into a region S. There is no reason to assume that just because this equation is obeyed in R that T subu plus T subV will equal zero in S. In other words, this is a statement that depends on the coordinate system. It's sort of like saying that when you wanted to compute the magnitude of a vector, you just took the square root of the sum of the squares of the components. That was only true if you were using cartisian coordinates. If you use polar coordinates, you had to use a more elaborate computational recipe for a distance fun distance function. See, the trouble is I can map this into the UV plane, but it may happen that lelass's equation is not obeyed on the new region S. But the key amazing point is this. If I now view take the mapping induced by U and V and call that again U plus I V, call that function F. In other words, if f maps the region R in the argon diagram interpretation of the XY plane into the region S in the UV plane where F is U plus IV and F is analytic and F prime is not zero. Then the amazing thing is that this is equal to zero in R if and only if I might as well put this in here because it does go both ways by invertability. This is obeyed in S. In other words, an analytic function, a conformal mapping preserves lelass's equation. See, what does that mean? It means this. Let's suppose that f is a conformal mapping. Namely, it's analytic and its derivative is never zero. I'm given that t equals t sub0 of xy on c and that it satisfies lelass's equation in R. I now make the mapping f. Since f is invertible, it carries the closed curve c into a closed curve c prime. And the interior of c is carried into the interior of c prime, which is s. And that gives me a new problem, namely t is some function of u and v in the uv plane on c prime. And it still satisfies lelass's equation. Suppose it happens that because of the ge geometry here, I can solve this problem in the UV plane. If I can do that, I simply find what t of uv looks like in s remembering that u is u of xy. V is v of xy. I plug this in. This gives me t in terms of x and y. And that will be a solution in the region R because you see Lelass's equation is obeyed. You see the key point is what that conformal mappings preserve the solution of lelass's equation and that is one of the very important applications of conformal mappings in the study of the real world and again notice I could have defined conformal without any reference to complex numbers just in terms of preserving angles and then have invented what I mean by an analytic function by studying the geometry inventing the agon etc but why not take advantage of the structure which already exists. Well, at any rate, what I would like to do for the finale for today's lesson is to prove this particular result. And the reason I would like to prove that is that once and for all, this should review the chain rule for real variables. It should show you how the chain rule is used and what happens with ordinary transformations from an algebraic point of view. And finally, because the proof never makes use of complex numbers directly, but only properties of U and V, where U and V are the real and imaginary parts of a complex function. I think that this should psychologically eliminate the traumatic experience that complex valued functions have no real application. You see, the thing I want to do is this. I want to compute t subxx plus t suby yy given the transformation that u is some function of x and y and v is some function of x and y. No assumptions about the mapping being invertible yet. All I'm going to assume is that u and v are differentiable continuously differentiable functions of x and y. So I can make whatever manipulations I want with these. And what I would like to do is now compute the leloian t subxx plus t sub y y as it would look in terms of u and v. And the first thing I point out quite simply by the chain rule is to take the partial of t with respect to x. I simply do what? Take the partial of t with respect to u * the partial of u with respect to x plus the partial of t with respect to v times the partial of v with respect to x. It's as if the u's and the v's can cancel. This is the contribution of t subx due to u. Contribution of t subx due to v. I add them up because u and v are independent. I hope by now you remember this almost automatically. Then I want the partial of this with respect to x. That means I want the partial of this expression with respect to x. The partial of a sum is a sum of the partials that brings me from here to here. The each of these is a product. The partial of a product I have to use the product rule for that's what the first times the partial of the second with respect to x plus the partial of the first t subu with respect to x times the second similarly this term here becomes this right the first time the partial of the second plus the partial of the first times the second and the key point is that I put these in parenthesis here to emphasize the fact that these are still single functions Consequently, what I can now do is apply the chain rule to each of these expressions. Again, don't be thrown off by the subscripts u and v. Think of the whole thing in parenthesis as being some function of u and v. To take the partial of what's in parentheses with respect to x, I take the partial first with respect to u times the partial of u with respect to x. Then the partial with respect to v times the partial of v with respect to x. In other words, leaving the details again for you to review. This expression here becomes this. This expression is what? The partial of this with respect to u time the partial of u with respect to x. The partial of this with respect to v times the partial of v with respect to x. And now taking these expressions and replacing these by this in our previous expression and again leaving the details to you. I wind up with the fairly complicated result that in terms of the partials with respect to u and v t subxx is this fairly messy expression. Okay. By the way, I do not have to do this whole thing over again to find the second partial of t with respect to y because this derivation is symmetric in x and y. And if you don't believe this, you can do the thing over as an exercise and see what does happen. I claim all I have to do now to get what the second partial of t with respect to y looks like is to go through this result and every place I see an x, I replace it by a y because I'm just taking partials with respect to y rather than respect to x. Everything else stays the same. So I now wind up with this expression here. And now the interesting thing happens. I just add these two expressions and I get well I guess the technical word for it is a mess. I get t subxx plus t sub y y actually involves five different terms. There's a second partial of t with respect to u and the coefficient of that you see would be what? It's u subx^2 here. It's u sub y^2 here. So the coefficient of that is u subx^2 + u sub y^2. Again without going through the details I get a second partial of t with respect to v term and that multiplied by v subx^2 + v suby^ 2. Observing that the mixed partials are equal by continuity, I can combine the t subuv terms and get that the coefficient is twice u subx v subx plus u suby v suby. There's a term involving t subu whose coefficient is u subxx plus u subub yy and a term involving t subv the partial of t with respect to v whose coefficient is v subxx plus v suby y and in general see so far I've imposed no conditions on u and v other than that u and v were continuously differentiable functions of x and y and I hope that what this proves to you conclusively is that when you translate lelass's equation into an arbitrary UV coordinate system, you do not get just a T subuu and T subV term. There are five terms. And if you're lucky, some of them happen to drop out. And by the way, one hint here is is you may remember from our lecture of last time, it happened that if U and V were the real and the imaginary parts of an analytic function or without using the language of analytic functions, if u subx equal v suby and u suby was minus v subx. It turned out that u subxx plus u subub yy was zero and v subxx plus v sub yy is zero. So in that special case, notice that we have the good luck that both of these two terms would vanish. But in general, it's not true that for arbitrary functions u and v that they satisfy the koshi reman conditions. So now we're going to invoke what we know about conformal mappings. Now we say look at let's form the complex valued function u plus iv where u and v are is given over here. If it turns out that the function f defined by u plus iv is analytic. Then what do we already know from before? We know from before that fprime is u subx plus i v subx. That u subx is v suby. That u suby is minus v subx. We know that the square of the magnitude of fprime is u subx^2 + v subx^2. By the way, since v subx is just the negative of u suby, v subx^2 is u suby^2. So this can be written in this equivalent form. Similarly, since u subx is equal to v suby, u subx^2 is equal to v sub y^2. So these are three different forms for expressing the square of the magnitude of fprime. We also knew that if this was analytic that u subxx plus u suby y and v subxx plus v sub yy is zero. By the way, notice that what this does is that this is giving us a hold on all of the coefficients that we had over here. In fact, it seems that the only thing left to worry about is what is u subx v subx plus u suby v suby? Well, look it u subx v subx plus u suby v suby is simply this. Notice that another name for u subx is v suby and another name for u suby is minus v subx. Consequently this expression is just v suby v subx minus v subx v suby. These are numbers so it's commutive here. In other words this is just this. So when you subtract them the result is zero. That means by the way that under the assumption that u plus i v is analytic. Then we can say that u subx v subx plus u suby v suby is zero. So the t subuv term drops out. To make a long story short, all of our terms drop out except for the terms that involve t subu and t subvv where what we showed was that their coefficients were simply the square of the magnitude of frime of z. So in the special case that the mapping U plus IV is conformal, we have the remarkable result that the leloian is changed only by a non- negative factor as we go from the XY plane to the UV plane. In particular, assuming that FP prime of Z is not zero. And notice that that's the condition for the mapping to be conformal. If frime of z is not zero. Notice that if this is not zero, this expression can be zero if and only if this expression is zero. And that's precisely the result that we needed to talk about uh uh when we talked about the fact that the lelass's equation was preserved by a conformal mapping. And that is one of the most important reasons as to why many branches of physics for example use the theory of complex variables. It's that the derivative in terms of complex variables gives us a very nice language and some very nice computational holds that technically speaking we could have done without. We could technically have speaking have done this all in terms of the language of real valued functions and constructed a very artificial language a very unnatural language. But notice that because the calculus of complex variables mimics that of real variables, we wind up with a very natural language from which we can operate. And this gives us a tremendous vantage point over the real world. In other words, the complex numbers are not only real, but they are an advantage point over the so-called real number world. At any rate, hopefully the exercises in today's assignment will help clarify this further. Next time we will look at still another aspect of the value of complex variables in the study of real variable theory. But at any rate, until next time, goodbye. Funding for the publication of this video was provided by the Gabriel Ella and Paul Rosenbomb Foundation. Help OCW continue to provide free and open access to MIT courses by making a donation at ocw.mit.ed. edu/donate.