The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Hi, our unit today concerns something called the dot product. Now, it's very easy to just mechanically give a definition of the dot product. But in keeping with the spirit both of our game and of our correlation between the real and the abstract world, let's keep in mind that when it came time to define vector addition, we chose as our definition a concept already used in the physical world, namely that of a resultant vector. And now what we would like to do is to introduce a further structure in our game of vectors. And by the way, keep in mind that I do not need any more physical interpretations to add more complexities to my game, but that perhaps if we do this, it makes the subject more meaningful both to the applied person and to the theoretical person. The idea that I wanted to keep in mind for motivating today's lesson was the whole the old high school idea of work equals force times distance in the elementary physics course. Well, rather than talk on like this, let's just take a look and see what's going on. As I say, the lecture is called the dotproduct and our physical motivation is the recipe from elementary physics. Work equals force times distance. Now, this is a deceptive little formula. What first of all, what it really meant was when we learned this recipe was that the force was taking place in the same direction as the object was moving. Now, what happened next was the following situation. We have an object say being moved by a force. The object is being moved along a tabletop. Say the force is represented now by a vector an arrow and uh we're assuming enough friction here so that the block moves along the table and doesn't rise and the question is how much work is done on the object as the object moves say from this point to this point. Now without worrying about what motivates this thing physically, the important thing was is that people observed that physically the only thing that went into the work was the component of the force in the direction of the displacement. In other words, this was the force that one found had to be multiplied by the displacement. In other words, to find the work being done, one took not the magnitude of f, but rather the component of f in the direction of s. And in this diagram, that's just what? It's the magnitude of f times cossine theta. And that quantity, which was called the effective force, was then multiplied by the displacement. And to write that in more suggestive form, notice that the work was not the magnitude of the force times the magnitude of the displacement. That was only true in the special case where the force and the displacement were in the same direction. But that rather the work is what? It's the magnitude of the force times the magnitude of the displacement times the cosine of the angle between the force and the displacement. And notice by the way the very special cases that if f and s happen to be parallel and have the same sense then the angle between f and s is zero. The cosine of zero is one in which case that you have the work is the magnitude of the force times the displacement. The other extreme case magnitude-wise is if S and F happen to be perpendicular in which case the angle of course is 90°. The cosine of a 90° angle is zero. In which case what if the force was at right angles to the displacement the work was zero. At any rate then whether we understand this physical motivation or not is irrelevant. The important point is if we want to keep this structure or this particular motivation in a structural form, we now generalize this as follows. We simply say let a and b be any two vectors arrows. And we will define a dob to be the magnitude of a times the magnitude of b times the cosine of the angle between a and b. And I'll write this this way to indicate an ordering. In other words, don't think of A and B as being A and B. Think of A as denoting the first and B as denoting the second vector. And what we're saying is the first dotted with the second is the magnitude of the first times the magnitude of the second times the cosine of the angle as you rotate the first vector in to the second. And the beauty of having a cosine over here is the fact that what if you reverse the angle of rotation. In other words, from B into A. Notice that you change the sign of the angle. But the cosine of theta is the same as cosine minus theta. So no harm is done this particular way. On the other hand, had we been dealing with s of the angle as we will in our next lecture, this will make a difference. But be this as it may, we define a do.b B to be the magnitude of A times the magnitude of B times the cosine of the angle between A and B. All right. The two extreme cases being what? If A and B are perpendicular, the dotproduct is zero. If A and B are parallel, the dotproduct is equal to the magnitude of the product of the two magnitudes. Now the only difficult thing here uh what we sometimes call undesirable and maybe this is what separates the new three-dimensional geometry from the old three-dimensional geometry is that the cosine of an angle is particularly difficult to keep track of especially when the lines are in three-dimensional space. How do you measure an angle this way? You see in in the plane it's simple. You draw the thing to scale but in three space this can be rather difficult. So what we would like to do is to eliminate this particular term. We would like to find an expression for a dobb that doesn't involve the cosine of an angle at least directly. And to do this we simply draw a little diagram. And notice that even if a and b are three-dimensional vectors since a and b are lines if they are not parallel if they emanate at a common point they form a plane of their own. Let's call that the plane of the blackboard. The third side of the triangle is either a minus b or b minus a depending on where you put the arrow head here. But we've already discussed that idea. And the interesting point here is notice that a minus b very subtly includes the angle theta. In other words, imagine the magnitudes of a and b to be fixed. And now fan out a and b. As you fan out a and b, what what you're doing is what? Just changing this angle. As you change this angle, notice that a minus b changes. Namely, as these fan out, the vector that that joins the two arrow heads here becomes a different vector both in magnitude and direction. In other words, whether it looks it or not, one of the beauties of our vector notation is that the cosine of the angle theta is indirectly included in a minus b. But now you see once we have this triangle here, notice that the law of cosiness tells us how to relate the third side of a triangle in terms of two sides and the included angle. Okay? And in fact, when we use the law of cosiness, notice that one of the terms is going to be what? The product of the magnitudes of two sides times the cosine of the included angle. And that roughly speaking is just what we mean by a dob. So without any further ado, what we do now is we just write the law of cosiness down here, which says what? The magnitude of a minus b^ 2 is equal to the magnitude of a^ 2 plus the magnitude of b^ 2 minus twice the magnitude of a time the magnitude of b time the cosine of the angle between a and b. And then you see we simply recognize that this term here is by definition a dobb. We can now take this equation and solve for a dob which by the way this is very very important to notice. I should have pointed this out sooner but a dob is a number. It's the product of two magnitudes times the cosine of an angle which is a number. This is a numerical equation. We can therefore solve for a dobb and we wind up with what that a dobb is the magnitude of a minus b ^ 2 minus the magnitude of a^ 2 minus the magnitude of b^ 2 all divided by two and the beauty now is that we have expressed a dob solely in terms of magnitudes and notice especially in cartisian coordinates and I'll do that next but in terms of cartisian coordinates notice that magnitudes are particularly simple to find we just subtract corresponding components and square etc. But the important point is that even without cartisian coordinates this particular result expresses a dobb in terms of the magnitudes of a b and a minus b and is a result which is independent of any coordinate system. However, and this is done very simply in the text, reinforced in our exercises, if you elect to write a, b, and a minus b in cartisian coordinates and use this particularly straightforward recipe, what we wind up with is a rather elegant result, elegant in terms of simplicity at least. And that is, remember in cartisian coordinates, we would write a as a1 i plus a2 j + a3 k. B would be B1 I + B2 J plus B3 K. And then the beauty is what that A do. B turns out to be very simply and conveniently A1 B1 plus A2 B2 plus A3 B3. In other words that to dot A and B if the vectors are written in cartisian coordinates and this is crucial. If this is not done in cartisian coordinates you can get into a heck of a mess. And I have deliberately made an exercise on this unit get you into that mess if you fall into that particular trap. But if we have cartisian coordinates, it turns out that to dot two vectors, you simply do what? Multiply the two i components together, multiply the two j components together, multiply the two k components together, and add. All right. By the way, to show you why this works from a structural point of view without belaboring this point right now, notice that if you were to multiply in the usual sense of the word multiplication form the dot product here, you would expect to get nine terms. In other words, each of the terms in A multiplies each of the three terms in B. So altogether, you would expect nine terms. The thing that's rather interesting here is that notice that I do I, J.J, J and K do K all happen to be one because after all the magnitudes of these vectors are each one. The angle between I and I is zero. J and J is zero. The angle between K and K is zero. So that I do I J dot J and K dot K are all one. Whereas on the other hand when you take mixed terms notice that because I and J, I and K and J and K are all at right angles I do. J, J.K, I do. K are all going to be zero. And that therefore those other six terms will drop out. In other words, structurally, what's happening here is the fact that the three vectors that we're using here all happen to have unit length and they happen to be mutually perpendicular. If they were not perpendicular, these mixed terms would occur in here. In other words, in general, when you dot two vectors depend in three space, depending on the coordinate system, you can expect up to nine terms in your answer. But the beauty is that as long as we have cartisian coordinates, there happens to be a particularly simple, beautiful recipe to compute a dob. Now, keep in mind the a dob that we're talking about here is the same one that we defined before. It's the magnitude of a time the magnitude of b times the cosine of the angle between a and b. All we're saying is that if we use cartisian coordinates, we can compute it almost as fast as we can read. And let me show you that in terms of some examples. My first example is the following. Let's imagine that we have three points in cartisian 3space. A is the point 1 comma 2a 3. B is the point 2 comma 4 comma 1 and C is the point 3 comma 0 comma 4. We draw the straight lines A B and A C and we would like to find the angle B A. In other words, the angle theta. The first thing that we do and this is one of the beauties of how vectors are used in geometry is that we vectorize the lines A and B. We put arrow heads on them. That immediately makes them vectors. We already know from last time how to read the vectors AB and AC. Namely, AB is the vector I + 2 J. See, just subtract component by component. 2 - 1 is 1, 4 - 2 is 2, 1 - 3 is minus 3, etc. So that the vector AB is the vector I + 2 J minus 2 K. And the vector a c working in a similar way is 2 i minus 2 j + k. Now the beauty is that we can compute these magnitudes very very quickly by recipe. And we've just learned a recipe for finding a b in a hurry. I mean a well in this case I don't mean a b I mean the vector a dotted with the vector a c. And going through the computational details here, we square the components of AB, extract the positive square root, and we find very easily that the magnitude of AB is three. And the hardest part of these problems as for me as a teacher is to find ones where I find the sum of three squares coming out to be a whole number. So I always use the vector 1 22 because that's a nice vector that way. Similarly, the vector AC also happens to have magnitude three. Okay. And to find AB ac, what do we do? Let's just come back here and make sure we know what we're doing now. We simply dot component by component. It's 1 * 2 + 2 * -2 + -2 * 1. In other words, abac is 2 -4 - 2, which is -4. Now using our recipe we see what that cossine theta is abac divided by the product of the magnitudes of ab and ac from which we very quickly conclude that the cosine of theta is minus 4 9th. And if you're still mixed up as to what that minus sign means, just by way of a quick review of the inverse trigonometric functions, you lo locate the point minus4, 9 in the xy plane. And your angle theta is this particular angle here. Which means that in terms of principal values, if you look up the angle in the tables whose cosine is 4 9ths, that will give you this angle here. Subtract that from 180 and that's the angle that you're looking for. But the beauty is what? That you can now find the co. You can now find an angle between two lines in space without having to geometrically worry about what the angle looks like. The algebra in cartisian coordinates takes care of this by itself. The same thing happens when you're looking for projections in three-dimensional space. Suppose you have a force and displacement in three-dimensional space. And you want to project a force onto a line, a direction. And our next example shows how the dotproduct can be used to find projections. Namely, here's a vector A, here's a vector B, and I would like to project the vector A onto the vector B, and I would like to find what the length of that projection is. Well, from elementary trigonometry, I know that the length of this projection is just the magnitude of a time the cosine of theta. And by the way, notice if theta were greater than 90°, cossine theta would be negative and the minus sign would not affect the length. It would simply tell us that the projection was in the opposite sense of b. That's all that would mean. But here's the interesting point. If you look at the magnitude of a times the cosine of theta, it almost looks like a dotproduct. After all, theta is the angle between a and b. And if the magnitude of b were in here, this would just be a dob. But the magnitude of b isn't in here. Of course, if the magnitude of b happened to be one, that would be fine. But the magnitude of b might not be one. And the most honest way to make it one is to divide b by its magnitude. And what will that give you? If you divide any vector by its magnitude, that automatically gives you a unit vector having the same direction and sense as the vector that you started with. In other words, let U subb, which is the magn, which is B divided by its magnitude, be the unit vector in the direction, and by the way, here direction includes sense in a direction of B. And notice that the unit vector in the direction of B has the same direction as B itself. Therefore, to find the angle between U subB and A is the same as finding the angle between B and A. In other words, the kicker now seems to be that I I take this length which is the magnitude of A time cosine theta and rewrite that as follows. It's the magnitude of a. And now remembering that u subb has unit length. I just drew that in as a factor. And theta being the angle between a and b is also the angle between a and u subb. But this by definition is a dot u subb. You see, in other words, to find the projection of A onto B, all you have to do is dot A with the unit vector in the direction of B. In fact, to summarize that without the U subB in there, all I'm saying is given two vectors A and B, if you dot A and B and then divide by the magnitude of B, that will be the projection of A in the direction of B. Okay? The projection of A in the direction of B. And of course, if you want it the other way around, you have to reverse the roles of A and B. The beauty of this unit in cartisian coordinates is how easy it is to compute a dob in cartisian coordinates. Oh, another example that you might be interested in that I think is very interesting. And that's the special case where a and b already happen to be unit vectors. If a and b already happen to be unit vectors, then if we use our recipe of a for the formula for a dob, we observe that in this case by definition of unit vectors, both the magnitudes of a and b are one. And we find that a dob is then the cosine of the angle between a and b. Which means that if A and B happen to be unit vectors, as soon as you dot them, you have automatically found the cosine of the angle between the two vectors, which suggests a rather general type of approach. Given any two vectors, divide each by the magnitude, right? That gives you unit vectors. Dot them and that gives you the cosine of the angle between them. You see, in particular, and here's an interesting thing, you know, I I don't know if it's that funny. It just struck me as funny. Last last night at supper as we were sitting down to eat, my four-year-old looked at me and said, "Dad, did they have baked potatoes when you was a little boy?" And you get the feeling sometimes that people think that the modern world really changed the old in certain basic ways that didn't happen at all. And one of the interesting points is is that long before vector geometry was invented, people were doing three-dimensional geometry using nonvector methods. And one technique that happened to be used were things called directional cosiness. Namely, suppose you were given a line in space. Okay, as a vector, if you wish to look at it that way, or if you didn't want to look at it as a vector, imagine the line parallel to the given line that goes through the origin. As soon as I know what that line looks like, I can compute the angle that it makes with the positive x-axis. I can compute the angle that it makes with the positive yaxis. I can compute the angle that it makes with the positive z-axis. And those three angles uniquely determine the position of the line in space, the direction of the line. Okay? And those were called the co the directional angles. You understand that? That was the three-dimensional analog of slope. In other words, to find the the slope of a line in threedimensional space. Draw the line parallel to that line that goes through the origin and measure each of the three angles that that line makes with the positive x, y, and z axis. And what the beauty was of the dot product was it just gave us a simpler way of doing that. Namely, if a is any vector, I divide a by its magnitude. That gives me the unit vector in the direction of A. If I now dot the unit vector in the direction of A with I, and after all, what is I? I is the unit vector in the direction of the positive X-axis. Since these are both unit vectors, this will be the cosine of the angle between I and A. And that's just what the the cosine of the angle that A makes with the positive X-axis. Traditionally, that a that angle was called alpha. So UA do I is simply cosine alpha. Correspondingly UAJ is the cosine of the angle between A and J. That's the cosine of the angle that A makes with the positive Y ais. That angle was called beta. This is cosine beta. And U sub A K is cosine gamma where gamma is the angle that A makes with the positive K direction. And these being the cosiness of the angles, these were called the directional cosiness and they yielded the slope of lines. But one must not believe that one needed vectors before he could do three-dimensional geometry. What did happen was that vector techniques greatly simplified many of the aspects of three-dimensional geometry. Well, let's leave this part for a moment and close for today by coming back to our game idea. Remember that ultimately all we will ever use once we get started with our game, all we will ever use are the structural properties. Now, I've gone through these in the notes. I've gone through them or you go through them with me in the text or with yourselves in the text. Let me just point out certain properties of the dotproduct that are shared by regular arithmetic as well. For example, a dobb equals b do a. The dotproduct is commutative. Why is that? Well, think of what a dob is. It's the magnitude of a times the magnitude of b times the cosine of the angle between a and b. But that's the same as what? The magnitude of b times the magnitude of a. After all, numbers we know are commutive when you multiply them. And the cosine of the angle between a and b is the same as the cosine of the angle between b and a. So these are equal numerical quantities. Again, without going through the proof here, it turns out that if you want to dot a vector with the sum of two given vectors, the distributive property holds. Namely, a dob + c is a dob plus a dot c. By the way, if you did want to prove this, all you would have to do if you couldn't see it geometrically is to argue as follows. You say you know the easiest way to add and dot vectors in is in cartisian coordinates. So let me prove that this result is true in cartisian coordinates. Carry out the details and if it works in cartisian coordinates since the result doesn't depend on the coordinate system. The result must be true regardless of the coordinate system. But it's a very simple exercise to actually write a blast and cruise in terms of i j k components. compute both sides of this equ of this expression and show that they're numerically equal. I say numerically because it's crucial to notice that both expressions on either side of the equal sign are numbers. B plus C is a vector. A is a vector. When you dot two vectors, you get a number. Finally, a scalar multiple of a vector dotted with another vector has the property that you can leave the scalar multiple outside. In other words, you can first dot the two vectors and then multiply by the scala. In other words, in a way, you can you don't have to worry about voice inflection when you have a scalar multiple. And we will talk more about these as we go along. However, what's very crucial is to notice that the dot product does have some difficulties not associated with ordinary multiplication. So, I say beware. For example, somebody might say, "I wonder if the dot product is associative. I wonder if A dobb dotted with C is the same as A dotted with B dotted with C." And this is nonsensical. I I wanted to do this with great dramatic gesture, but I probably would have broken two fingers against the board here. Let's just cross this out so that you won't be inclined to remember that this not only is false, it's stupid. And the reason that it's stupid is that it's nonsensical that these things don't make sense. Namely, the dotproduct has been defined to be an operation between two vectors that yields a number. Notice that as soon as you dot a and b, you no longer have a vector. You have a number. And you cannot dot a number with a vector. In other words, neither a dobb dot c nor a dot b do c is defined because you see a number is never dotted with a vector. All right. And finally a closing note as we've already seen if a is perpendicular to b then the cosine of the angle between a and b is zero. And that says that if a is perpendicular to b then a dob is zero. In fact, this is one of the most common usages on the elementary level of the dotproduct is to prove that two vectors are perpendicular. But whereas that's a nice property, what causes great hardship here is to notice the following in particular that if a dob is zero, we cannot conclude that either a is the zero vector or b is the zero vector. For example, i.j is zero, but neither I nor j is the zero vector. You see with ordinary arithmetic we had the cancellation rule things that said if the product of two numbers is zero at least one of the factors must be zero. With the dot product this need not be true. The thing I want you to get from this lesson more than anything else other than the applications that you can get from the book and from the exercises is to learn to get a feeling for the structure. Don't be upset that certain vector properties are different than arithmetic properties and certain ones are the same. Notice in terms of the game, we take our rules as they may apply and just carry them out towards inescapable conclusions. But I think that will become clearer as you read the text and do the exercises. And until next time when we'll talk about a new vector product, let's just say so long. Funding for the publication of this video was provided by the Gabriel Ella and Paul Rosenbomb Foundation. Help OCW continue to provide free and open access to MIT courses by making a donation at ocw.mmit.edu/donate.