Welcome to this recitation on a face portrait. So you're given matrix A, a 2x2 matrix with entries minus one, minus one, one minus C, where C is a constant, we will be varying and minus one. As C increases from zero to other positive values, determine the path of the system on the trace determinant diagram that we saw in previous recitations and draw the face portraits that corresponds to uh the critical points uh and the nature of the critical points. So here we're basically talking of a system that would be a 2x two system where we have derivative of entries xy for vector equals to this matrix a c multiplying the unknown uh vector x c. So take a few minutes and work out through this problem and I'll be right back. Welcome back. Okay, so I already prepared the trace diagram uh the the trace determined diagram for you. So here as a reminder, this is the uh parabola that determines whether we're going to have repeated a values or not. Above this parabola, we have two real two complex conjugate values. Below this parabola we have real values either of the same signs positive or negative or of different signs. And then we have the borderline cases. In our case here we're looking at a matrix A with a trace equals to -1 + -1 - 1. So it's minus2 and a determinant that is equal to 2 - c. So here we are basically along this dotted line where the trace equals to minus2. So either we're going to have complex values with negative real parts or uh negative agon value. So we're in stable configurations. So we're going to be moving at C equal to zero from a case where I'm just going to label this point one from for example we have the matrix minus one one one minus one with the trace equals to minus2 and the determinant equals to two. So clearly we're at this point and we were we are just going to be increasing the value of C and moving along this line crossing this first boundary case where we will have uh either defective or or not case and I'll discuss very briefly uh what we have and then we have other value where we are basically in this area where we have real values both of them negative so we have stability and it would basically be a sync and then we cross this uh other border line case where the determinant is equal to zero. And here we have one egg value that is equal to zero and one that is negative and then we get to the the part of the diagram where the determinant is negative and the trace is negative and we basically have a saddle uh a saddle uh structure where we have one egg in value that is negative and another egg in value that is positive. So let's get through these uh five cases and I'll just do more detailed picture illustrating what I just said. So I'll just uh write down a bit more in detail the first case here. So we have the case where the the the uh the aen values are both complex conjugate and we have their real part being negative. So basically we have spirals, right? asmtotically stable spirals and the spirals could be either clockwise or counterclockwise. And one way of determining the direction of these spirals is to look at the sign of the velocity vector of the trajectories in the face. So the face base basically diagram here where we have x and y as the axis of the of this space. So let's look at oops let's look for example at a particular point here that would be veloc and this uh position vector 1 z would give us a velocity vector uh of minus1 and plus one. So basically this vector would be directed upward which means that we are in the case where we would have a spiral coming this way toward the critical point and basically with the velocity vector here going this way. You don't have to actually do all this to figure out which direction of the spiral you should choose. You can just look for these cases 2 x2 matrices at the entry at the lower left part of your matrix and if the coefficient here is positive then it will determine the direction of the uh of the velocity vector at this point. So if it's positive in this case you would have this counterclockwise uh direction of rotation of the spiral. Okay. So now we can move on and do the second the following cases a bit faster. So the second case we are in the case where we now have two repeated egg values. both of them are negative. So we can have either uh a complete case. If we had a matrix that was diagonal, we would have basically a star. But that's not the case because if we pick for example the value C equals to one, that puts us on the parabola. We can see that the matrix AC is not diagonal. So we are in a defective case. The defective case uh if you compute the AEN uh values in AEN vector would give you something that looks like that. The first ray of the agon vector corresponding to your uh agon values would be uh in the direction of one zero. We have negative aen values. So it's going to zero. And basically to determine the direction you have to see that we're also following a transition here on the determinant on the on the trace determinant diagram. And so basically we will have um a spiral that would look like this. Um yep. What am I doing? Am I doing the same thing? Yeah. And it would basically rotate as you can see here in the same direction as the case that we had just before because we basically have the transition of the structure of the critical point. Okay. And the arrows are pointing toward the critical point again because our two aen values are uh uh are basically here negative. which is just a repeated egg value that is negative. Okay. So now we can move on to a third case where here we move into the wedge area where we have the two aen values now being real and uh both of them are negative. So for example we would have two egg values that would give us two egg vectors that are basically the rays. The direction of the trajectories on these two rays would be toward the critical point because we have again negative uh a values and uh the trajectories then would be following the uh lambda. So if I for example pick lambda one less than lambda 2 then I would have something like this going to zero and we would have this trajectory corresponding to the value that is the closer to zero. Okay. And again the arrows would be going toward this critical point. So we can now move on and if we keep increasing C uh we reach now the point four where we are in the special case again a boundary case where the determinant is zero but the trace is non zero. If the terminant is zero which is the product of the two aen values it means that we have one a value that is equal to zero and another aen value that is actually in this case minus two. So just negative. So what happens here? uh what happens is that we have now the aen vector that corresponds to the egg value equals to zero is basically just defining a whole line of critical points. So all the points on this line that would correspond so for example to lambda zero are all critical points. So we don't need to actually draw arrows here. All the points would be critical points. And another direction or ray would be determined by the second egg value lambda 2. And uh we would have for example directions uh in this way that would correspond to direction of v2. So all these would be parallel to v2 and we would have the trajectories going toward all the critical points on this line. So in this case we're in a case where we actually don't have one localized critical points like in the previous case that we saw we actually have a full a whole line of critical points. Okay. So let's move one more point down. So here for another value of C. We now are in the lower part of the diagram where we now have two values are again real but now the determinant is negative. Determinant is the product of the two. So basically you know that one is positive and the other one is negative. Okay. So for example here we would have uh one positive the negative aen uh value. Oops sorry. Thank you. So we would have the positive aen value and the negative aen value here. So here again we're just moving in the structure of the a of the uh critical point. So we should have a smooth transition between the diagrams going one to five. And so here what we see is that we actually have uh the array that is basically the stable the spa stable space here that would uh give us the trajectories going to zero. But it's the only air region where we have stability and all the trajectories would just then be tangent in minus infinity to the the array v1 corresponding to uh the negative aen value and going toward the direction of the ray with the positive aen uh value at plus infinity. Okay. So we would have something like that that would correspond to a saddle. This would be a comp. This is basically a sink or basically a stable node. This would be defective stable node. And here we just have a astoically stable spiral. So uh basically here what you could see is that we have uh by just changing the value of the constant C had um moved this the the structure of the critical point for the of the system from the phase diagrams one to five and the transitions can be seen to be smooth if you had a continuum of values of for C. So that ends this recitation.