Okay. So, uh this video is about using igen vectors and igen values to take powers of a matrix. And I'll show you why we want to take powers of a matrix. And then the next video would be using igen values vectors to solve differential equations. The two big you applications. So here's the first application. Let let me remember the main fact that if a if I this is an important point not every matrix has n independent igen vectors that would go in the matrix V. You remember V is the vector the igen vector matrix and I want I need N independent vectors in order to have a V inverse to make that formula correct. So that's the key formula for using igen values and igen vectors and we do have to the case where we might run short of igen vectors is when igen value maybe one igen value is repeated it's a double igen value and maybe there's only one igen vector to go with it. Every igen value has got at least one line of igen vectors but we might not have two when the igen value is repeated or we might but so there are cases when this formula doesn't apply because I must be able to take v inverse I need n independent columns there okay but when it works it really works so the nth power just remembering is V lambda V inverse V lambda V inverse N times but every time I have a V inverse and a V that's the identity so I have a V out at the beginning I have lambda lambda lambda n of those and a V inverse at the very end so that's the nice result for the nth power of a matrix now I have to show you how to use that formula how to use igen values val and igen vectors. Okay, so that's we know we know we can get take powers of a matrix. So first of all, what kind of equation? There's an equation that's called a difference equation. It goes from step k to step k + one to step k + two. It steps one at a time and every time multiplies by a. So after k steps I've multiplied by a k times from the original u0. So it's a it's a instead of a differential equation it's a step difference equation with u0 given and the sol there's the solution. That's the quickest form of the solution. A to the k power. That's what we want. Now, but just writing A to the K, if we had a big matrix to take its hundredth power, it would be ridiculous. So, we uh but with igen values and igen vectors, we have that formula. Okay, but now I want to think let me try to turn that formula into something that you just naturally see. And we know what happens if u0 is an igen vector. If u0 is an igen vector, that probably won't happen. But because they're just niggen vector directions, but if it happened to be an igen vector, then every step would multiply by lambda and we'd have the answer lambda k times. But what do we do for all the ve all the ve initial vectors? you not which are maybe not an igen vector. How do I proceed? How do I use igen vectors when my original uh starting uh vector is not an igen vector? The answer is it will be a combination of igen vectors. That's so this is making this formula real starts with this u0 so I write u0 as a combination of the igen vectors and I can do it because if I have n independent vectors that will be a basis. Every vector can be written in the basis. So I'm looking there at a combination of igen vectors. And now the point is that as as I take these steps to u1, what happens? What will u1 be? U1 will be a u0. So I'm multiplying by a. So when I multiply this by a, what happens? That's the whole point. C1 A * X1 is lambda 1 * X1. It's an igen vector. C2 tells me how much of the second igon vector I have. When I multiply by A, that multiplies by lambda and so on. CN lambda n x n. That's the thing. Each vector goes its own way and I just add them together. Okay. And what about u a to the k power? What what now that will give me u k and what happens? What happens if I do this k times? You see what I got after doing it one time? If I do it k times that lambda 1 that multiplies the i its igen vector will happen k times. So I'll have lambda 1 to the k power. Do you see that? Every every step brings another factor lambda 1. Every step brings another factor lambda 2. every step brings. That's the answer. That is well that answer must be the same as this answer. I'll do an example in a minute. Right now, I'm just getting the formula straight. So, I have the quickest possible formula, but it doesn't help me much. I have the using the igen vectors and igen value formula. And here I have it that really it's the same thing written out in in as a combination of igen vectors and and then this is my answer that's my answer to the that that's my solution uk that's it. So that must be the same as that. Do you want to just think for one minute why why this answer is the same as that answer? Well, we need to know what are the C's. Well, the C's came from U0. And what is if I write that equation for the C's? Do you see what I have as an equation for the C's? U0 is this combination of IGEN vectors. That's a matrix multiplication. That's the igen vector matrix multiplied by the vector C of coefficients. Right? That's how a matrix multiplies a vector. The columns which are the x's multiply the the numbers c1 c2 cn. There it is. That's the same as that. So u0 is v c. So C is V inverse U0. Oh, that's that's nice. That's telling us what are the coefficients? What are the numbers? What amount of each IGEN vector is present in U0? That's this is the equation. But look, you see that that V inverse U0, that's the first part there of the formula. I'm I'm trying to match this formula with that one. And I'm taking one step to recognize that this part of the formula is exactly C. You might want to think about that. Run this video once more just to see that step. Now, what do we do? We've got the lambdas. So, I've I've taken care of the C's, you could say. Now, I need the lambda to the k power. lambda one to the k lambda 2 to the k lambda n to the k that's exactly what goes in here. So that factor is producing the lambdas to the k power. And finally this factor has you everybody's remembering here v is the igen vector matrix x1 x2 to xn and when I multiply by v it's a matrix times a vector. This is a matrix. This is a vector. And I get the combination. I I'm adding up. I'm I'm reconstructing the solution. So first I break up u0 into the x's. I multiply by the lambdas and then I put them all together. I reconstruct u k. I hope you like that. that this formula which is like common sense formula is exactly what that algebra formula matrix formula says. Okay, I have to do an example. Let me finish with an example. Okay, here's a matrix. Example A equals this will be a special matrix. I'm going to make the first column add up to one. And I'm going to make the second column add up to one. And I I'm using num positive numbers. They're adding to one. And that's called a Markoff matrix. So it's it's nice to know that name. Markoff matrix. One of the beauties of linear algebra is the variety of matrices. You know, orthogonal matrices, symmetric matrices. We'll see more and more kinds of matrices and sometimes they're named after somebody who understood that they were important and found their special properties. So that a markoff matrix is a matrix with the columns adding up to one and all no negative numbers involved. No negative numbers. Okay, that's just by the way. But it tells us something about the igen values here. Well, we could find those two values. We we could do the determinant. You remember how to find values? Determinant of lambda I minus A would be something could easily figure it out. There's always a lambda squared because it's 2x two minus the trace.8 and 7 is 1.5 lambda plus the determinant 56 minus.06 06 is 50.5 and you set that to zero and you get a result that one of the iggon values is this factors into lambda minus one lambda minus a half and here's the cool fact about markoff matrices is lambda= 1 is always an igen value. So lambda equal 1 is an igen value. Let's call that lambda 1. And lambda 2 is an igen value. And that depends on the numbers. And it's 1/2.5. Those are the igen values. 1 plus a half is 1.5. The trace is 08 plus 7 1.5. Are we good for those two igen values? Yes. What? And then we find the igen vectors that go with them. I think that this igen vector turns out to be 6.4. I could check if I multiply I get 48 +2 is 60 and that's the same as 6. And that goes with igen value 1. And I think that this vector is 1 minus one. Maybe that's always for a 2x two markoff matrix. Maybe that's always the second vector. I think that's probably good, right? Okay. Yeah. All right. What now? What now? I want to use the igen values and igen vectors and I'm going to write out now u k. So if I apply a k times to u0 I get u k and that's c1 1 to the k lambda this lambda 1 is one times its igen vector 6.4 4 plus C2 however much of the second igon vector is in there times its igon value 1/2 to the k power times its igon vector the second igon vector 1 that is our formula c1 lambda 1 to the k^x1 plus c2 lambda 2 to the k^ x2 2 that's and C1 and C2 would be determined by U0 which I haven't picked a U0 I I could but I can make the point because it the point I want to make is true for every uh every U0 every example and the here's the point what happens as K gets large what happens if I if Marov multiplies his matrix over and over again which is what happens in a markoff process. A markoff process this is like uh actually the whole Google algorithm for page rank is based on a markoff matrix. So that's like a billion dollar multi-billion dollar company that's based on the the properties of a markoff matrix and you repeat it and repeat it that that that just means that Google is going through the looping through the web and if it sees a website more often the ranking goes up and if it never sees my website then for that when it was googling some special subject. It never came to yours and my your website and mine. We didn't get ranked. Okay. So, this goes to zero. One half to the It goes fast to zero, quickly to zero. So, that goes to zero. And of course, that stays exactly where it is. So, there's a steady state. What happens with if page rank had only two websites to rank? If Google was just ranking two websites then its initial ranking they don't know what it is but by repeating the markoff matrix and this part going to zero that goes to zero because of 1/2 to the k power there is the ranking 6.4 for that's that's where Google so this first website would be ranked above the second one. Okay, there's an example of a process that's repeated and repeated and uh so a markoff matrix comes in. This business of adding up to one means that nothing is lost, nothing is created. You're just moving at every step. You take a markoff step and the question is where do you end up? Well, you keep moving but this vector tells you how much of the time you're spending in the two uh possible locations and this one goes to zero. Okay. Powers of a matrix, powers of a marov matrix. Thank you.