The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right. In the last class, we looked at the architecture and urbanism of the world as it was known to the Mongolians. And during that class, I had introduced uh Janet Abu Lugod's idea that a preodern world system existed circa 1300. And just to refresh your memory, I thought I'd put up the excerpt that I showed the last time as well. And uh I think in our continuing effort to understand uh the architectural and geographic dimensions of uh Abu Lugo's assertion that I'm showing here on the slide number two uh that circa 1300 the globe was integrated through exchange in unprecedented ways. We want to today examine port cities and specifically we will look at ports on the Indian Ocean that facilitated global exchange and this is sort of important for today and nurtured new tastes for luxuries and ornaments like silk and porcelain. Now on slide number three, I've added to uh the slide that we began with cities in yellow that constitute the major uh global ports circa 1300 across uh the Indian Ocean region, which is to say not just ports that were necessarily on the Indian Ocean, but certainly also um ports like Alexandria and Guanghou referred to um in subsequent European accounts as Canton uh that certainly were connected in the network of uh Indian Ocean area trade. Now besides thinking about the architectural connections and social relationships across these ports, it is important to analyze the relationship between ports and non-coastal centers of power, commerce and production. that I'm thinking here of uh specifically the relationship that uh emerges around uh the the early part of the 1200s between Kish Pas and Shiraz which at that time was newly emerging as a center of political and commercial power. Um, I also just want to say that what I've tried to do with this map is indicate that most cities in the Indian Ocean region on the coast were in fact spatially rather small and it's really only a few places like Alexandria that we get uh that are significantly different in scale. Uh, I think no less important are the connections between ports and places of pilgrimage. And while the map on slide number four is not intended as an exhaustive list of major religious sites in the 14th century, it does list places that we know uh influential traders visited in some cases routinely. Uh Mecca for example was the site of a large market in the mid-4th century and numerous traders uh journeyied from uh Cairo or Fustat as it was known then uh via Suez to Jidda and then overland to Mecca for religious and commercial purposes. So what uh preliminary inferences can we draw from this specific example of Makkah? So let us begin our work today by trying to define port cities as um hubs that connect to non- coastal markets, landmarks and production centers as zones of commerce that are linked to one another. And what I mean by zones of commerce is that it's not always just the jetty on the water that makes a port a port. It's also the relationships that exist in the immediate region surrounding that uh coastal settlement that allows for certain places we find to emerge as uh a port city of of global consequence. And finally the third point or the third third defining characteristic might seem a little abstract uh but but I'll try and give as concrete an example as I can uh is that politically port cities are not just any other town or village in a kingdom. uh they seem to have a very special relationship to say the capital of a kingdom or even other cities or other places in a given place or state. Um for example, we know that in many cases in the Indian Ocean region, ports were often autonomous uh but in all kinds of tributary relationships with uh certain centers of power. Uh the main point that I want to however emphasize in in this effort to define a global port city is that it's not just a city on the water. We do not want to indulge in the myth of geographic determinism. If that were true then the entire coastline of East Africa, the Arabian Peninsula, the Dean and Southeast Asia would have been littered with port cities. And yet we know this is not the case. Circa 1300. And if we look specifically at a mid- 20th century uh archaeological uh mapping of settlements on the East African coast on slide number six on the left hand side we see that in fact there were settlements all throughout uh the coast region uh and that's really an enlargement just of this area and yet we find no evidence of a major urban settlement devoted to global trade uh except for a place like Kilwa which is one of our case studies for today. Um, moreover, we find that not all port cities were equal. Some were more important than others, even though the same sailors and merchants visited both major and minor ports. Throughout this class, we will want to return to this question then. Why were some port cities architecturally grander or more commercially important than others? And uh the best I could do to in some senses uh suggest the hierarchy between major and minor global ports was on slide number seven to provide these dashed circles around uh the cities that we know from uh travel accounts and and from records pertaining to merchants uh from the 12th and 13th century that these in fact seem to have been the major zones of of international exchange. Now a lot of what we know about this part of the world and from this time period comes to us from economic and social histories of the Indian Ocean. That branch of history refers to this trade as the Dhao trade. A dhao being the particular kind of sailboat used by Arab merchants and sailors at this time to navigate the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. And here on slide number eight on the left hand side we have a 13th century uh illustration from manuscript al-hiri's makamat and I'm grateful to analen for uh helping me decipher this particular manuscript. It's believed to have been illustrated by somebody from the town of Wasit and that's why it says by Alwastiti and and Wasit itself was a minor um trading post inland in between um uh well just sort of off Basra to on the route to Baghdad. Uh so in all likelihood uh al-wastiti whoever he may have been may have been deeply familiar with what a dhao was although uh some later historians have pointed to certain inaccuracies in this particular illustration. The only thing I wanted to point to was the presence of uh the merchant figures in this illustration itself. Um and on the right hand side on the same slide we have a contemporary sort of 20th century photograph of a dhao docked in Kuwait. Now, how did these boats get across? For this, some attention to geography actually would be helpful. The monsoons, the word itself derived from the Arabic Mossim meaning weather, are periodic winds. And on slide number nine, uh, this taken from Janet Abu Lugod's book, um, I show how or she shows how, uh, in fact the winds move in the summer from the high-pressure area of the Indian Ocean, um, onto the land mass, which is a low pressure area, and then reverse in the winter. Uh now the implication of all of these uh patterns appears to be that the trade routes followed by uh merchants and and sailors at this time tended to stick fairly close to the coastline and uh there's some backup of our semise of this in the form of uh travel accounts from the 13th and 14th centuries. Now, drawing on translations of these travel accounts as well as later studies of standing buildings, we will look in depth at four ports. Each case is architecturally and historically distinct, although all four were visited by the same merchants, clerics, and sailors during this time period. And our four principal case studies are um I'm on slide number 11 now. Um uh Kilva in East Africa. Uh Cambe situated really at the head of the Gulf of Cambi. Uh Mangalore situated in the in the Dean Peninsula and Majapahit in uh Southeast Asia, the island based out of a centered on the island of Java. Starting then with um Kilwa which and I've sort of held on to the map with all the cities over here. So we have some thumbnail guide Kilwa located here uh off uh the coast of modern day Tanzania. Uh Kila in fact is a remarkably small island as you can see. Um and and what we have with it is a powerful entreport or trading post where merchandise was imported and reexported. each such transaction profiting Kilwa's small trading and ruling community. It's also thought that Kilwa uh on account of its military might was able to preserve its position as the key point on the trade route of southern African gold coming from Sufala and heading up towards uh Hadrami uh Hyderamat the the Razulid kingdom of Hyderabad here in in present day Aiden. but certainly also to Mamluk Egypt. Both of which had a tremendous taste uh for gold. Now, as I suggested, it's a rather small island and even more interestingly than that for me was that uh it's really less than about four square kilometers of this island that appeared to have been settled as an anthroport uh in the 13th century. Although there is some evidence that there was outlying agrarian and fishing settlements as well on the same island. And uh our main interest for today in terms of uh 12th and 13th century or even 14th century structures is the great mosque of Kilwa uh shown here on uh slide 13 with with the red outline. Uh but certainly there are other structures here of historical note from later periods that people have paid considerable attention to the fort and the macuni complex there. Now the oldest sections of the great mosque of Kilwa date back to the 11th century to when the ruling uh elite of Kilwa may have been Shia rather than Sunni. And the oldest sections, if you're uh with me on slide 14, is really this part here. It's rather narrow, subsequently enlarged um around the 14th century. These are the original paving stones that seem to date back to the very early 11th century, possibly even some dispute, but possibly even the late 10th century. Uh and here we have a a plan for the great mosque that allows us to understand uh the different phases of building activity. The darkest lines representing uh the work that was first commenced in the 11th century. Uh this larger uh southern extension so labeled the larger prayer hall actually comes from the 14th century although in the form that we find the ruin today. Kilwa was discovered in 1955 by British archaeologists. And what they in fact found was a 15th century reconstruction uh where stone pillars had replaced the coral block that had been used uh originally to to build um the the columns or pillars that we see here in plan. Uh what's interesting about coral construction and here is a photograph on the left of slide 16 of um the great mask itself with the coral box is that um this particular construction style or method is more generally associated with an architectural surveys to the red uh seapport town of Swakin present day Sudan. Uh, right immediately adjacent to the immediate south of the great mosque is the great house. And I'm not really going to spend any amount of time describing the great house, but um I just want to say that from its footprint and from the archaeological remnants that were found on the site um scholars have come to believe that this structure was probably home to a powerful merchant family and uh that in fact the oldest parts of the structure date back to the 14th century and that it was in continuous use. that would appear up until the 16th century. Um, I'm certainly intrigued but was unable to find any definitive evidence to suggest that the presence of a merchant family so close uh to the main congregational mosque in fact might suggest that the mosque itself was somehow institutionally connected to mercantile activity. But um there's no uh real backup evidence uh for that. Um I just want to briefly turn. So all that we looked at, if you're with me on slide 18, all we had looked at was sort of just in this area, this sort of um western most tip of the island of Kilwa. What I want to do now is briefly turn to structures that are here in this part of the island. um and and specifically to the Husini Kubwa uh complex u although it should be noted that there's an other older 12th century structure here which I just find remarkable not at least of all because of its planned condition but again we we know so little about it that it's hard to really make a sensible story out of it on the other hand Kuba is a truly remarkable strange but certainly at the very least wonderful story. Uh the collective best guess on Husnik Kuba was that it accommodated a complex mix of public, private and commercial programs. Uh this may for example have very well been where Iben Batuta stayed when he visited Kilwa in 1331. Uh in stark contrast to the other landmarks at uh uh in Kilwa on this island, the Husniki Kubwa has no columns. Uh the roofing structure is supported instead by loadbearing walls. Um which I think is is quite interesting and uh unprecedented. You don't find any other structure that survives at least on the island that that uses that tectonic system. Uh it's possible that work on the complex was never completed and that in all likelihood the site was altogether abandoned sometime after 1335 when the sultan who was the building's patron died. Um and what's interesting I described this sort of mix of of commercial public and private uh programs within the complex. Uh here you have these two different courts that are used in a variety of ways uh for political as well as for trading purposes. Uh a palace court used much more privately and then a south court which uh was more connected with the storage facilities uh that form a part of um Husini Kubwa. And uh the word Hassen or its root the the root Hassen in in the word hus probably referred to the strength of its fortification. And I particularly like this uh reconstruction and model because you can just sort of imagine pulling up in one of those small dowels and sort of seeing this immense uh structure strung along uh this this raised uh embankment as it were. uh it must have been quite a sight if not formidable and daunting in some ways. Um now this is an exonometric reconstruction done um a few decades ago uh by archaeologists of um the Husnik Kubua complex based mostly on uh ruins particularly the roofing system which is really an interesting hodgepodge of of different schemes had collapsed and sort of where it's collapsed and they've sort of extrapolated out and drawn up uh the exonometric that we see on slide type 21. Um, the palace's ornamental pool, this one here, has been likened to a form found in Mamluk, Egypt. Uh, the conical domes have been likened to 10-shaped ones found in Persia and Saljuk, Turkey. And I bring all this up just to say that if any of these connections bear out, how should we think about them? Should it be inter interpreted as evidence of globe trotting architects? Or does it prove that Kilwa's elite through trade and travel were aware of architectural wonders in distant metropolises? Or was it a 14th century architectural attempt by Kilwise elite to claim Persian ancestry? Ultimately, we can be much shorter about the import and deployment of luxury ornaments like the yuan vo and porcelain found amongst Kilwad's remnants than we can be about any of the questions that might explain uh the particular fashioning of the Husni Kuba complex. Um what I suggest is that new tastes uh like the rasole and mamluk taste for gold or the taste for porcelain and uh this here is blue and white pottery from Iran uh yuan vase that the taste for these items in fact is what drives sea trade. My point is distinct from the idea that increased in increased exchange or the globalization of trade created surpluses that were converted into domestic luxuries. Rather in Kilwa and in the other cities we will visit uh today textiles facilitated trade. To paraphrase one of my favorite characters, an ugly berry in the medieval uh fashion was currency. Uh so I'm just thinking of the original scene. Uh sort of continuing with our uh survey done. I want to now move in fact to Cambe and uh here we have uh a satellite image of the Gulf of Cam with the modern city of Kat or Cambe located here. And I think part of what this uh satellite image composes it is in fact of different sheets uh helps us understand is that this area has now largely silted and that all that we see here particularly in fact was water in um the 13th and 14th and even up to the 15th century. And this is in fact what made Cumber in Marco Polo's words one of the largest and most magnific magnificent ports that he'd ever been to. And and uh writing a few decades later Iben Batuta said much the same thing. It's actually still a very small town. I mean its footprint is not even covered uh by the generic icon thrown on by uh Google Earth. Um and one can only imagine that the um 13th century town was uh smaller. Now what's interesting about Cambe is that it was certainly connected to the Dilly Sultan uh but it's not clear that it was directly ruled by it in the 13th century and we want to return to this theme a couple of times. The principal building that I want to talk about here is the Jam Mazjid, the Friday congregational mosque. And again, just sort of look at the topographical geographical detail here, we can be quite sure that the waterfront was actually quite close to where uh the Jam Masjid had been built in 1325. If you look at your slide list, uh we're on slide number 24. This is by far the most widely documented landmark in Cambe and uh although built uh or the one that we look at is built in 1325, it was probably not the first Jami or Friday mosque in the city. Um it's I think most uh prominent features might be uh this central courtyard and the roofing system which consists of 21 domes uh supported by uh 156 columns and 70 pilasters all of which rise to 15 ft. and we'll see um some photographs and plans of this. Um this are eligibly recent photographs taken by an architectural historian who completed her dissertation at Harvard a few years ago. Um and so here you get a sense of the extent to which uh light and air comes in uh to these colonated walkway spaces precisely because in fact they rise uh to to 15 ft. And here on slide number 26 we have uh a plan and here we have the columns and this is what I say totals up to 156 and the pilasters back wall like so. Um the area on this slide uh denoted by the red dashed line is the enclosure for the Al Kazeruni tomb and uh this in fact in the center is his tomb from 1333 and the one adjacent to it is uh his daughters from 1381. Uh give you a sense of the courtyard. The photograph on slide number 27 on the left is an archival photograph taken by the great or notorious depending on your perspective uh archaeologist Henry Cousins. And um I think it sort of luckily gives us a very good sense of what we see in plant this structure being what we see here. That's that. And uh that previous photograph that I had shown you of the colonade was sort of taken looking that way. Uh just one last architectural feature to point out is this portico. This sort of becomes important for our understanding not just of the building um but of uh architectural and commercial culture in uh Cambe circa 1300. Um now architectural historians drawing partly on in Arabic inscriptions and partly on formal analysis of the building including the portico and ceilings have suggested that this mosque was in part a reconstruction of a 12th century mosque on the same site. And here you actually have um ceiling fragments uh dating not as far back as the 12th century but uh according to Alapatel who was the former doctoral student at Harvard that I referenced earlier uh quite definitively dates it to 13th century. I pulled up uh translations of two inscriptions from two different mosques uh found in Cambe. Um mostly because I think it gives us a tremendous way to understand the nature of patronage in a port city like Campbe with its particular kind of links to the Delhi Sultanit but also to global trade and to uh places like Hmaz in the Persian Gulf. Uh some of the key things I think to pay attention to is that it is a bequest of personal or or one might translate it as private property. Um and that a certain kind of relationship between uh the merchant and the sultan is is expressed um in uh these passages. I also just absolutely love the second in inscription which sort of ends with the prayer for the architect and and I imagine that that Frank Gary would just love it if Susan Hawkfield would pray for him occasionally. Um I I think that these inscriptions prove that it was merchants rather than sultans who were the patrons uh for at least the major mosques that we have in the 14th century uh in in Camay specifically. uh I think they also like I said express this relationship of benefactor and beneficiary that existed between the sultan and the merchant and u I sort of bring all this up because unfortunately within standard south Asian architectural history kambe is portrayed as a Muslim town and so thus you know despite the significant presence of non-Muslim merchant groups in uh the 14th century or the fact that Muslim merchant groups other than the state are patronizing architecture Uh despite both these things, all architectural surveys tend to focus exclusively on the city's masks and and sort of exclusively trying to attribute them um to the state even when the epigraphic evidence so clearly points to the fact that they were built by merchants. um to just sort of reinforce this point of that in fact continuing in the 13th and 14th centuries to exist a tremendously vibrant uh iconographic and architectural practice associated with non-Muslim merchant groups Hindu and Jane merchants specifically I want to show this early 13th century portrait depicting a family of merchants uh and this portrait was installed at a shrine that they supported in Kambe and sadly the shrine has not been documented at all. We have nothing by way of an architectural drawing to to make any sense of it. And I was particularly disheartened when I discovered that I simply uh could not even locate using Google Earth the city Shantina temple uh which housed one of the earliest giant grant bundars or scripture store rooms that was ever built. The best I was able to do and we're on slide 31 uh was to locate copies of the only illustrations found amongst the grantabar scriptural and literary texts. Now a grunt bundar is a bit like our very own library storage annex at MIT. Uh it was it's it's it's a it's a storage room that nobody really sees but if you wanted to consult if you were an aesthetic or a monk and you wanted to consult a rare manuscript there was a way in which you could page it. Um this is an entirely new program in the late 12th century. There's no evidence of Jens or really anybody else uh in this region having previously stored so many manuscripts in a single place. And in fact there is no extent giant manuscript dating to before the 11th century at all. Now although the Yazbeck and Pash textbook does not exclusively uh deal with medieval port cities, its year 1 chapter introduces us to Janism and describes Jens as an important mercantile community. I found this section uh a little troubling. Um, for one, there's a large body of Jane iconography and architecture from preceding periods, notably at Allora. So, in other words, if there were to be some kind of introduction of Janisms or Jans, the year 1000 doesn't necessarily feel like the best place to have done it. Um, but moreover, I would suggest that a global history of architecture should avoid organizing information into civilizational categories in the first place. Nonetheless, I want to make sure that we do cover a few giant sites that bear on our understanding of global port cities. And for that, we move to the Dean and specifically to the area that constitutes um uh what we now politically refer to uh as Karnataka. And uh while it's not a coastal town and while it was never a hub in global trade, the giant complex at Shraban Belgola is important to coastal Karnataka and I will describe how so and it is featured uh quite prominently in the Azbeck and Praash textbook that we use. Now we're at slide 34 and uh by far the most well-known and some might say significant um element within the complex of giant shrines at Shahan Belgola is the statue of Bahubali carved out of single stone around 981 AD at 57 ft. It's probably the most widely known Bahubali statue there is in the world. Now the statue shows Bahubali in a meditative pose, his clothes having withered away and creepers beginning to climb up his limbs. In giant epic literature, Bahubali's renunciation followed a battle between him and his elder brother over their kingdom and wealth. While fighting, as Bahubali raised his arm to strike his brother, he realized the folly of his of fighting his own brother over land, wealth, and power. And so instead of striking him and killing him essentially he raised his arm and removed his hair. Now renunciation during or immediately after a battle and in the Bahubali epic um renunciation is sort of inaugurated by this ad hoc tansia ceremony uh that he conducts is a key trope in um Jan heroic literature. And I think that in sculpture what we have is Bahubali presented naked that is victorious over his desire for wealth and power and thus appears to us as the paragmatic hero. Uh as I suggested the shavean belgola complex uh is much more than just the statue and sort of very overcast shot but uh that's sort of it. It actually the complex consists of three different hills that have a variety of shrines. Um and uh also sort of this for example here on on slide 35 on the lower right corner is a wall painting uh that depicts the gen uh cosmology. The site is perhaps best known in popular imagination for the Mahamastak Abhisheka ceremony which is when devotees bathe and anoint the statue with milk, water, sugarcane, juice, turmeric, saffron, vermilion and sandalwood. Offerings of gold and silver coins are also made at this point and more recently a helicopter will sort of shower petals over it. Uh that sort of all adds to the contemporary spectacle. Now, the ceremony is held every 12 years with the first one dating back to the 11th century and the most recent one was held in 2006. Uh, I actually just love these photographs just because of the of the color, you know, sort of working with plans that were drawn in the 1950s and60s. They tend to have yellowed and that's the only color you see. But, you know, here with the vermilion and and turmeric, these colors are quite something to look at. Uh this woman here is performing uh her last right as uh in her secular life uh she will become a nun when she completes the ceremony. And this is not the same woman but this is in fact uh a jen monk or nun uh praying at the feet of the bahubali statue just days before the last uh mahamasteka ceremony. The other thing about these photographs that I really like and I'll have another one that's going to help us even more is um it it shows us quite clearly the prominence of these inscriptions and uh in fact there are more than 800 inscriptions uh from across the 10th to about the 14th century 15th century in uh at Sha and Belgola and I think what makes uh the ones at the at the bahubali feat particularly important uh not just for literary and cultural history but also for our purposes in our attempt to do a global uh survey of what a port city was at this time period uh is less the content of the inscription which just translates to Chamundaya made this and Chamundaya was a minister in in the kingdom that patronized uh the construction of of the statue but really that it was inscribed in three different language languages uh using four different scripts and that this act of inscription marked the inauguration of a very new political and social imagination. Uh whereas for the previous 10th centuries courts like the one Chamundaraya had belonged to had used and patronized Sanskrit literature exclusively. Starting somewhere around the 10th century uh multiple des bhashas or languages of place began to be used in place of Sanskrit and uh while it's impossible to give a singular account of the shift in this practice the so-called vernacularization uh that incidentally is taking place at about the same time the vernacularization of Europe is taking place which itself might be worth uh another kind of global study. Uh so while it's impossible to really provide a singular account of vernacularization, we know for sure that global trade and the emergence of highly localized centers of power in this period are a part of the story are a part of why uh not one as it is in the sort of 19th century embrace of of vernaculars for the purposes of modern nationalism. But in fact multiple languages of place come to be used in in court which had otherwise up until then been singly using Sanskrit. And it is within the architectural story of the emergence of localized centers of power within a global system that we find ourselves visiting Kal and Mud Mudbadri still within the Dean area in the sort of area just immediately adjacent to the Mangalore port. You remember that I said that Mangalore was sort of our a third case study and it's really a a case of what I call a zone of commerce and I'll I'll do a better job of defining that. So it was in the agricultural lands that surround Kal and Mudbadri that native Tulu speaking merchants would buy produce to then sell to Arabic speaking merchants based in Mangalore. uh Turunad the literally meaning the land of Tulu speaking people and the term generally applied to the Mangalore area is a good example of a globally linked zone of commerce. When we looked at the Jam Mazjid in Cambe I had pointed to the patronal role of merchants in the 14th century in that particular city. I want to now focus on other ways in which different religious institutions intersected with the crisscross of global trade. We know for sure that mosques con constituted a network of credit and social infrastructure that nurtured seafaring and overland trade and I suspect something similar can be said of the sites the giant shrines at Kal and Mudbadri. And now basically from uh slides 39 to 45 we're going to watch television. We're just going to sail through this really quickly. These are mostly in fact sites that um are from the 15th and 16th century. These the most interesting ones are uh but there were certainly significant uh sites now more or less ruined from the 11th through 14th centuries. Um they were built by Jane merchants. They were built on land owned and donated by giant merchants. And it is in the um repositories of uh these places that we find documents related to trade that begin to suggest that temples but certainly also religious schools all supported trade in a variety of ways perhaps even serving as vehicles of credit and investment. Um this is in fact a second Bahubali statue and this is sort of it from the Google sat image and and it's not as tall as the one in Shabban Belgola but is built in the late 14th century uh by a local merchant who owned the land to rival that other place of pilgrimage. Um and subsequently um in the sort of mid to late 15th century we have this rather interesting uh structure of the Chhaturmuk Basadi unprecedented at its time in in um the region. Um I wanted to show you uh one again religious complex but this time not giant but rather vishnav on uh closer to the coastline in the area around UPI and um again I'll just watch this I think as television or this is Mudbid sorry shown you these images earlier uh all of these roof structures over here are in fact uh giant sites many of them dating back to the 12th 13th century. Mudbid's thousandpillar temple is later um but really interesting architecturally and these are taken from the grand pandar or storoom um from that thousand pillar temple and I want to call sort of particular attention to uh this palm leaf manuscript which illustration which depicts Bahubali and you can already see the creepers sort of coming up and uh that illustration would have been done about the same time as the statue maybe about a hundred years later. Um so this is the complex in uh UPI uh has again a variety of programs that are situated within the complex. Uh, one of the more interesting things I think to talk about for our purposes is the history attributed to the central Krishna icon in the Aneshwar temple within the complex is that it was found on a beach uh by the founder of the particular sect that um that this complex forms the sort of architectural center of. And uh the the legend is that it was rescued from a shipwreck and that the icon originated from Gujarat uh from the Gulf of Cam in fact and uh this is very much the nature of trade that in fact does not occur overland at this point in time precisely for artifacts like religious idols in fact comes by a sea route even when it's just coming from the Gulf of Cam to the Declan. The other thing to say about this complex is that unlike uh all the other buildings that we've looked at so far, uh this one is principally a timber structure and sadly one that has not been adequately studied architecturally. Uh this complex is probably best known at least within the region if not more globally the blonde heck and events that um that uh by uh a particular festival that takes place in in the middle of January every year in which these uh uh chariots, this one dating back to the 15th century, are actually pulled around the complex on a street appropriately named Carr Street And you know part of my interest in even bringing up uh any of these uh sites the the Jane ones as well as the Vishnav ones is there's an active theorizing of beauty that is taking place at this time uh in these uh religious context rather than courtly contexts and it's it's being act beauty is being actively theorized by aesthetics and monks and I think that there's a rich set of studies that uh could be done on uh the relation ationship between uh that sort of theorizing of the aesthetic and uh in fact the material culture that we find in the Mangalore port um around this time particularly it's the the sort of vast uh or wide uh prevalence of things like Chinese silk and and other fabrics uh and other luxury items uh at the just domestic level itself. And so our final case study today comes from Sumatra and Java and is perhaps going to be the least satisfying and I know that's not the best note to end on. Um in the beginning of the class I suggested that port cities were a distinct political type. Uh Kilwa was probably a single island state. Kambi and the many towns of Tulunad were certainly related uh to the Delhi Sultanat and the Vijayagar Empire respectively but seemed to have retained a fair measure of autonomy. However, it does not seem that 14th century Cambe had substantial military resources of its own unlike Kilwa and by contrast also boats approaching the Mangalore port uh appear to have been regularly attacked by pirates and travel accounts from the period provide some sense that local chieftains were only able to provide sporadic protection from something like p u piracy. Now the Shri Vijaya kingdom of early medieval Sumatra on the other hand offers an interesting comparative story. Uh the kingdom included a network of small ports uh along the east coast of Somatra from Pasai to Jambi which is here which were it would seem all controlled independently of each other and from Palimalang Palang sorry which was a an inland uh center of political power and the capital of Shijaya up until the 11th century. Um what we seem to know from or our best guess using epigraphic evidence is that each port was controlled by a local military functionary of the of the Shiva kingdom who may or may not have also been a landowner or a merchant. You have some cases in which their title very clearly refers to the fact that they were occupying two stations military chief and merchant or military chief and landowner. And so coming to our last couple of slides 54 and 55 um we see that this sort of relationship between the political center and trading periphery was maintained by the later Majapahit kingdom of Java. Uh in fact the Javanese poem Desaana more commonly known as Nagar Kagama uh written in 1365 lists Tamask which is modern Singapore uh as one of the dependencies of Majapahit. Now sadly uh only a few buildings from the Majapahit kingdoms remain and most of them in the village really of Trolan in Java, Eastern Java. Uh what's interesting about these buildings is they represent an almost complete abandonment of stone as a building material in favor of brick. Uh we have no explanation for the shift in this practice. Uh but it is worth uh saying however that in other parts of Jaba in the 14th century brick continued to be used sorry stone continued to be used and amongst the Majapahit ruins we still find um stone uh icons and and some statuery. Um we also know incidentally from travel accounts that buildings in coastal Java and Majapahit and Trolan are still uh located further inland uh were built almost exclusively of wood which might explain why there are no standing structures from this period. U now this particular image that we have here on slide 54 of the Bajangu gate um is I have very little to say for it because so little has been studied of it. Uh it's about 50 ft high. Um an analysis of its iconographic program has led scholars to think that the gate was used to enter a holy building commemorating the death of King Jay Nagara in 1328. And it's believed that he was reborn as Vishnu or at least that is the tale that the iconographic program suggests. Um oops. Uh slide 55. The uh other structures uh that are found in Majapahit and this is literally it um are uh I've labeled them. So it's it's Chandi Brahu and and Chandi Tinkush which I don't know why they still call it that because it means the rat breathing tank uh in Bahasa. Um which is obviously not what it was used for. It was a ritual bathing place. Um but but I guess we just don't know what the old Javanese uh name for it was. Um there are possibly other structures for uh Majapahit in the Trolan area but also elsewhere. Uh evidence from a surface survey conducted in the early 90s points to the existence of manufacturing and long-distance trading activities uh within Trollan itself. So again we see this relationship between a highly um uh well- definfined here brick structure a capital complex um but accommodating programs associated with with trade that was coming long distance being from the coast into uh this more inland settlement. Uh so like I said perhaps not the most satisfying note to end on but end we do and in the next class we'll look at the Iberian world and the world system it creates in the 16th century and thereabouts. Thanks.