so I guess we can get started. Um, we're going to be going over some of the basics of PyTorch today. Um, and you guys are going to be using PyTorch uh many times with all of your pets. Um, and I think if you keep doing deep learning in the future, um, everyone's using PyTorch. Uh and so lots of projects, research projects and real industry projects are actually using PyTorch. Um so there's a few uh things to know about PyTorch. Um and a few of the sort of more important things um are that PyTorch uh is fast. So we're able to run PyTorch on GPU. Um and this allows us to actually complete uh powerful deep learning models uh by actually running these things uh with a within a reasonable time frame. Um so GPUs really speed up um the ability to perform operations that we use uh within these machine learning models. Um and PyTorch supports that ability. Um so you may have used something like NumPy before uh where PyTorch and NumPy have sort of similar um data uh operations but we were able to use GPU and speed up within PyTorch. Um the other thing about PyTorch um is it supports autograd. Um so we talked about um gradients a little bit in lecture today but autograd is basically the idea that we can compute the gradients automatically um as we uh sort of iterate through our our models. Um and so PyTorch makes this very easy for us makes it very intuitive um and simple for us to actually train um and update the the weights of our models. Um so that's sort of a few reasons of why we use PyTorch. Um it's a great uh library um and I think you guys will hopefully enjoy it. Um so today uh just sort of a quick overview of what we're going to do. I'm going to go over um some sort of intro stuff of just like how we use PyTorch tensors and how some of the simple operations on these tensors. Um and then we're going to go through a little bit about autograd um then a little bit about uh sort of how we can train a model. um you'll go into a lot more depth on some of the pets, but overall this should give you a good start um to be able to understand how it actually works behind the scenes um and how you're going to actually be able to use it well on your pets. So, just to start off, does how many people have used PyTorch? Maybe you could raise your hand if you've used PyTorch. Okay, so we definitely have a lot of uh newbies to PyTorch, I guess. Um and that's that's totally fine. I think you guys will all be able to pick it up um and be able to totally be totally fine throughout the course. Um so yeah, let's get started. Uh if you guys want to pull up this notebook, you can. It's on the piaza. Um I posted it. Uh it's probably one of the latest posts. Um and yeah, we'll get started. So the first thing we have to do uh is we have to do a few imports. Uh PyTorch can be imported by importing torch here. Um and then we'll import a few other things as well. to uh help with this uh visualizing and uh creating tensors. Um yeah, so the first topic we're going to go over is PyTorch tensors. Um and PyTorch tensors is basically where we can actually store data within PyTorch. So if you ever want some input data um that you wanted to put into a machine learning model um or if you wanted to sort of compare some outputs, these outputs uh are going to be represented as PyTorch tensors. Uh, and so the first thing we'll go over is how we can actually initialize a tensor. Uh, so the first way we can do this here is just directly from data. You're probably not going to actually do this too often, but it's good to know all the different ways that you can do. So if we just have a a Python list here where we have the inputs 1, two, three, and four, um, we can create a tensor directly from that data. Um, so if we run that cell, uh, we see that we create a tensor, um, a tensor object here, uh, which is sort of the same structure as that nested uh, list that we saw before. The next way we can do this um is we can also transform uh and create tensors from a numpy array. Um so num did we have a question back there? Oh, you can't see. Um is that a little better? One more. Good. All right. Um so yeah, we can create tensors from numpy arrays. Um, numpy arrays are obviously another common way we can store data in Python. Um, and tensors and numpy arrays store sort of the same uh structure. So we can copy directly from numpy arrays. Um, and it actually can sort of use the same memory um in the system for both the tensor and the numpy array. Um, so if we do the same thing here um we're copying the same data um and we can create a tensor with this torch. Numpy um function. Uh the next way we can create tensors um is if we wanted to sort of create a tensor with a specific shape um and specific values within it. Um we might want to take a create a tensor of all ones or a tensor with random numbers to sort of initialize uh some sort of model. Um and what we can do here is just use this ones like if we wanted to uh make a tensor of the same shape as another object. Um but there's also operations I think I have that uh there's next that where you can input a specific shape. Um and then rand like uh will will give you a random number between zero and one in each element. Uh moving on, yeah, we can create uh tensors of of specific shapes here um using rand ones, zeros, and you can also uh there's al more uh that you can find in the documentation of different uh types of initializations of each element that you can do. Um so yeah, we can also define tensors uh with a specific shape. So if you didn't already have a tensor defined that you are interested in their shape, you could um say create a tensor of size 2x3. Um and we can do that in a few different ways here. We can do random, we can do ones, zeros. Um there's a few other options. Um there's a few attributes of a tensor that are good to know. Um so the first one that we've seen already is is the shape. So if we make a random tensor of size 3x4, um we can get the shape by doing shape. Um next thing to know is the data type. So most of the tensors you're probably going to be using and that we use as inputs to machine learning models are going to be float 32s. So that's a 30 bit 32-bit float. Um but you might see uh integers as well in some situations. Um but the float 32 is generally used um because it's the fastest um and GPU hardware is optimized to to use that. [clears throat] Uh the last thing you see here is the device. Um, we can get the device the tensor is stored on by doing dot device. Um, and this is important if you're using both CPU and GPU. Uh, so we can only do operations between tensors that are on the same device. So if you have one tensor that's on a CPU and one tensor that's on a GPU, you won't be able to do any operations between the two. You would have to move one to the other device um before you can actually do any operations between them. Uh, and so you might you will probably frequently be finding out like which device your tensors are on um and then moving them to to the device you actually want them to be on if you wanted to to do some operation between the two. All right, the next thing we're going to talk about is just some of the basic operations that we can perform on tensors. Um, so we can do things like to modify a tensor um or create a new tensor based on the tensor input. uh and these are are pretty just simple uh operations uh that include things like adding tensors together or multiplying them uh that we can do to to get different data that we want. So if we look at an example, the first thing we'll do is let's just uh create some sort of input tensor. Um and this this notation here is basically going to create a tensor of 101 uh equally spaced numbers from 0 to 5. Uh, and so that might be something that's if we're interested in seeing the effect along a specific range, in this case 0 to five. Um, and if we wanted to see that that that worked, we can print the first five things in X by just uh indexing in the same way we would in in NumPy or other Python uh environments. So uh we can also get the last ones uh by doing neg five to the end uh which you may have seen in other Python libraries. Um so let's try and perform some operations on this this tensor. So if we wanted to say graph a sine wave or a cosine um we could do x dot sign um and that will perform perform sign on on each input in the tensor. Um we can also do something more complex uh like uh doing x to the power of x cosine um to create a more more interesting uh output. Um we can also subtract tensors. So if we can subtract those two outputs uh or just find the specific value within that tensor. So if we wanted to find the min, you could also find max mean standard deviation stuff like that. Uh if you wanted to find a sort of some characteristic about a tensor. Uh we can also use tensors with mapplot lib. So maybe some of you have used mapplot lib um in other cases. Um and we can directly input these these tensors um and create plots with mapplot lib. Um so we see here that some of our our transformations of x from 0 to 5 uh and we can see how how that those different uh transformations occurred. Um so there's a lot of different operations we can do. I'm obviously not going to be able to go through all the all the different operations. Um but just know that you can sort of apply some of these vector operations uh to tensors and you'll you'll just get a tensor as the output. Um another thing that that might be uh important is you can clamp tensors. So if you uh say we're worried about your outputs going too far in some direction um you can use clamp um and then some specific range to actually get a specifically clamped output. Um so we can see this plot here of that kind of transformation. Um, and so yeah, there's lots of different uh transformations that we can do. I'm not going to be able to go through all of them, but uh just know that you if you want to do some sort of operation or transformation on a tensor, there's probably some some ability to do it, and you'll just have to look up the documentation. Okay, moving on. Um, we're going to start talking about how we can deal with multi-dimensional data. Uh so we're going to be dealing with uh frequently sort of uh some sort of data input that's in a batch. Um and I think we talked about batches in lectures today, but basically we create a batch of of some sort of inputs. Uh and generally what we do to represent that is we're include the batch as the first dimension. Um and then this example is for an image. So you might do the channel uh of RG and B uh as the second dimension and then uh the rest of your data and so on. Uh but in general I think the most important part there is that the batch index is generally uh the f the first dimension. Um okay moving on uh we can look at some of these tensors of higher dimensions and see how we can uh play with their shapes uh and see how these this affects things. So if we create a random tensor um we're going to do this shape uh representing sort of two images here. So we have two RGB images that are are 5 by4. Um and we can create this uh random we'll just say they're random numbers. They're not obviously not following RGB format but but that's okay for this example. Uh one thing we can do is permute dimensions. So if we were interested in in swapping the dimensions X and Y within our image uh we can use this permute command. Uh and so what you do is you basically just order the dimensions how you want them to be ordered. So if you wanted to keep the batch size the same and then the RGB uh dimension the same uh we say zero and one because those are are indexed uh as so. And then if we wanted to swap say the x and y uh we just swap the the the dimensions that they were originally in in our permute statement. Um so uh if we run that we see that we get we originally had a shape size of 2 three four five U but in this case we've swapped the four and the five uh with our permute command. Um another thing you might frequently do is reshaping. Um and so there's a few different ways to do this. Um the first is with view. Um, and this is generally the the more efficient way, but there's also reshape and it has pretty much the same functionality. Um, and basically what we can do is we can uh input uh specific shapes that we want. So in this case, we're just keeping the batch size and then the negative one basically just means that we're going to have all of the rest of the data that we had included um included in one dimension. So we end up with a a shape of just two and 60. Um because this negative one was just the rest of the data in each uh the the rest of those uh dimensions. Um next thing to know is indexing. Um so PyTorch does indexing pretty much the same way as NumPy does. Um so if we wanted to say get something like the first row, um we can just input a specific number. So that would be zero. Um, and if we wanted to get the first column, we can use this colon um to represent all of the rows and then the zero to represent the first column um as that's the second second dimension. Um, and then if we want to get the last thing um similar to other Python methods, you can just use negative one. Um, we can also use these this slicing to assign values. So if we did wanted to assign the the first column or the I guess this second column um to zero uh we could do this using this assignment. Um next thing we might want to do is join tensors together. So we might want to uh combine different maybe batches or u just specific elements to create a larger tensor. Uh and so we'll go through two different ways here. Um the first first is just concatenating. Um so we use this torch.cat operator. Um then we import input our tensors uh in a list here. Um we also uh define a dimension that we want to concatenate along. Uh and basically what this will do is it will just add all of these um input tensors together along that specific dimension. So we see here uh we have this tensor that's a 4x4. Um and if we concatenate the three tensors together along the the first dimension dim equals 1, we're going to end up with a 4x12. Um, and you can sort of see how this this works out with our our second column and our tensor all zeros. Um, the next thing you can do is torch.stack. Um, and instead of concatenating along one dimension, you're going to actually create a new dimension. Um, so say if you had uh a few different inputs and you wanted to create a batch, um, you might concat do a stack along dimension equals zero. Um, and you'll end up with uh sort of an additional dimension at the the start here. Okay. Um, the next thing we can do is things like matrix multiplication. Um, so there's a few different ways we can do this. Um, all of these operations here, uh, do the same thing. Um, I think the using the at symbol is probably the easiest way, but you can pick whatever you would like. Um, and this just performs matrix multiplication as you would expect. Uh, and so in this case, we have we made this tensor. Um, and we'll just apply uh, matrix multiplication to it. Um we can also compute elementwise products. Uh so that will just be the multiplication symbol uh or this tensor. Uh and so that will do just an element wise product. So if we had this uh tensor of one 2 3 4 we'll just end up with the the squares element wise product. Um, next thing to know is we can do some uh use some aggregators to find some different statistics or um uh values within our tensors. So we can do things like sum uh mean, max, min, stuff like that um and get the value uh along a specific dimension or along the whole tensor. So that kind of concludes the overall tensor uh part of this. Um, definitely going a little slower than I was hoping, but uh, we'll try and get through as much as we can. Um, so the next thing to talk about is the autograd of PyTorch. And autograd is one of the most important parts of PyTorch because it allows us to actually compute gradients and update our models uh, so that they can can actually learn and produce reasonable outputs. Uh, and so we can first use autograd to just calculate a simple gradient of a vector. Um so I think we saw a similar example here before um where we made this uh x which is the values between zero and five um and then we applied uh an operator on this. So we're squaring it and then taking the cosine here uh and we can find the the derivative of this uh by using the autograd features of pytorch. And so if we want to take a derivative we actually need to have a scaler as a as a output. So we take the sum here um and then we can use this torch.grad uh of that output with respect to x to get uh our actual derivative here dy by dx. Um and so this is sort of the the backend like how how you could specifically calculate one specific gradient or one derivative here. Um but when we're actually doing a model uh it pietorch takes care of exactly like which derivatives we need. Um and we don't have to do these really specific calculations of of which which uh differential we actually want. Um but we can see in this plot here that we have our our uh you know x squ cosine where we we end up with a shorter period as we go to the right. Um and then we can see our our gradient here uh where we you know it it is it's it's the correct gradient of of that value. Um we can do this with another function here. Um so if you have a polomial um and we want to compute the gradient uh we can do this in the same way as we we previously did um and we can run this and we can see the result is is the same. We we end up with our our plot and we have our gradient of our plot as well. Um so these are are you know this really specific way we can calculate this exact uh gradient. Um but PyTorch allows us to actually just calculate all of the gradients uh al together. Um, and so we don't need to specifically calculate one gradient. Um, instead we can just do uh a specific command and we will get all the gradients that we want. Um, and so that's what you'll actually be doing if you're you're running a PyTorch model. You won't need to to calculate and store each each different part individually. Uh, and so if we look at this, we have the same example as we had before. Um, but instead of of doing our autograd and and using the the brackets as we saw before, we can just use this dot backward. Um and that will store uh the gradient of each part uh within uh its the tensor. Uh and so if we just get the usegrad, we can actually get the specific gradient uh using the dotbackward command. Uh so you'll never do the autograd uhgrad that we had up here. Um you'll always use the dotbackward to just calculate all the gradients that you need. So yeah, as I was mentioning, if you aren't going to use the gradient, you shouldn't calculate it. Um, and we can use u I don't know if I have it listed here, but you uh would say torch.nograd. Um, and that would allow you to to not use the gradient and speed up your computation. Um, oh yeah, here we go with torch.nograd. That would be what we use. Okay. Um, the next thing we're going to talk about is optimizers. So, um, we figured out how we can calculate a gradient. Um but the next thing we need to do is actually use that gradient to to optimize uh some some function uh some loss function something like that. Okay. Um so this naive gradient descent obviously it works for this scenario but in a lot of cases we want to be more adaptive uh and speed up our training. Um so I think we saw stoastic gradient descent in lecture. Um but this is another method. Um we import this optimizer. Um and if we do optimizer.step it takes care of the the gradient update. So it will use the gradient uh and it will update our the weights of our model. So if we run this um we see again uh you know our model minimizes maybe it got to the minimum a little faster and then it's jumping around a little bit. Um this is just some some little toy examples so we don't we're not too too concerned exactly about what's happening. Um okay the last optimizer here we're going to look at is Adam. Um, so Adam's a pretty common optimizer and it it sort of adaptively does a lot of the the steps. Uh, and it generally is the most efficient. Um, so a lot of people use that in in real scenarios as opposed to just naive gradient descent or or uh sarcastic gradient descent. Um, so we can run this one. um it's sort of the same structure as um as the SGD, but uh we see in this example it's it's not quite doing as well as some of the the simpler ways. But um in general, this is a pretty good method uh of optimizing. I think we can sort of try and get through a quick bit of neural networks um and how we can use PyTorch for neural networks. Um so obviously that's a a big part of of deep learning is is neural networks. Um and so there's a lot of modules within PyTorch that we can use to create networks um from just really simple um MLPS to more complex models. So the first uh building block that we see here is the linear layer. Um and so this is basically just going to do a a transformation from one dimension to another dimension um with linear uh with a linear transformation. Um so we can generate that um and we can set the number of input features and the number of output features um along with a bias term as well. Um and so we could just run uh an input through our our our linear network. Um we put an input of size three and get an output of size two. Um so yeah then we can we can pass an input to that and we see we had an input of three. Oops. Um and then we end up with an output of size two. Um we can also use a batch. So we have an input of four inputs of size three here. Um and natively it it'll just work to support that. And we get four outputs of size two. Um if we can take a look at some of the weights and bias of of this uh linear layer, um we can just get the the actual numbers. Um and so these are the numbers that it's going to multiply the the inputs by to to actually get an output. Um and then the bias terms are added to the to the outputs. And you'll note the requires grad equals true um on this tensor here uh which shows that it's calculating uh the gradient as you go along. Uh we can we can set um specific things like the bias to zero um if we wanted to um and then we we can see that our outputs uh will not add that bias term um at the end. Um we can look at some of the parameters um just uh if we look do this net.name parameters um and that will get the the exact values uh within those those weights as well. Um and we can see that we set it to zero and the bias term is now zero. Um yeah we can uh we can look at a few different features. The shapes of our of our of our weights. Um, we can can load them. Um, we can So, yeah, we saved the the weights and then we can load the weights here. Um, sorry, I'm trying to go let's see if we can get to something a little more interesting. Um, maybe if we wanted to calculate a loss. So if we're trying to optimize this linear layer um and let's say we wanted to just kind of a a dumb example but if we wanted to just always output one comma one um we could try and train our linear layer to always output one comma one. Um so if we see here first um we can we get an output um and it will calculate this loss um where we're doing squared squared uh loss here. Um, and we could use the loss.backward to get the gradients. Um, and then we could use those gradients to update our our our linear layer. Um, so here uh we could if we wanted to actually train this model to learn to always output one comma one um we could do an update loop. So here we're just uh looping um doing a batch input and then calculating the loss. Um, we're getting the gradients here with loss. Um, and then we're just using gradient descent to update our our parameters. Um, and we can see if we run this, um, we should get a graph of what our loss is. So, we end up with these the following weights. You can see our the weights within the linear layer just went to zero and our bias went to one. Um, and so our loss uh went to near zero because we're we've learned to to always output one comma one. Okay. Um I'll try and work through uh maybe one more part here. Um but feel free to to go if you need to go. Um so the last thing I want to talk about is that we can create a more complex network using this sequential command. Um and this will combine different layers together. Um so here we see a combination of linear and relu layers. Um so ReLU is the activation um that we've seen in lecture. Um and then we can combine this together with this sequential framework. Uh and so this actually creates a little bit of a more interesting network uh that we can use to create outputs. Um so we can see the different parts of this. We have sequential parts, we have linear parts, relu um and then continuously we're creating a network. Um I think this one's yeah three layers uh in size. So we can uh use this to uh train a more interesting model. So here what we're trying to do is we're trying to train a model that takes uh an input in the space uh a 2D input in the space -2 to two. Um and it's going to try and output uh try and classify points as either above a sine wave or below a sine wave. Um and [clears throat] so what we do is we want to use the atom optimizer here. Um we have a classify target which is going to say like is our uh input either above or below the sine wave. Um and that's going to give us our loss. Um when we use uh this cross entropy because we can actually generate what the actual target is. Um so what we do in this loop is we're iterating um we're generating a target a batch um a batch of random inputs. Um we're classifying those random inputs as you know either above the sine wave or below the sine wave. Um and we're calculating a loss using cross entropy. Um which is a a loss typically used for a classification model. Um and basically it's going to give a higher value if your if your classification result is worse and a lower value if it if it's better. Um then we continue with this iteration. We're doing lost step backwards to get our gradients and we're doing optimizer step. Um and then this last bit here is just uh giving us some information about our accuracy. And so if we run this um I didn't create the um sorry must have not ran another cell above. Um must have not ran a few cells above. Uh but basically if we uh want to run this, we're going to be able to train a model that is able to classify these points as either above the sine wave or below the sine wave. Um let me see if I can find where that's not loaded. Not sure where that is. Um but yeah, um I think a little strange, but um I think yeah, we'll just leave that there.