The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. All right, let's get started. Uh today's topic would be distributed algorithms. uh we we will look at two new algorithms but they are similar to what you have seen in the lectures. So it will also be a review of uh some concepts in lectures. So our first example would be again leader election. The simple the simplest example but this time uh the network anthropology would be a ring. So in in the lectures uh the example we see is a click meaning they are fully connected right every node can talk to every other node uh there if you remember our solution is to for everyone to generate a UID or a random number and if you are the maximum then you output you are the leader uh it's you can do that because yeah you are connected to everybody so you immediately know what random number everybody generates and you can compare whether you are the largest now uh the idea is the same if we have a ring so you want everyone to generate an ID or random number I'll just say ID from now on and you want to collect everyone else ID so that you know whether your ID is the largest among uh uh all of them. Okay. Comparison like comparing the numbers. Pardon? Where is the comparison competition happening? Uh okay. The question is where the comparison happen? Um so we first need some way to pass the numbers around such that everyone has everyone else's number right you have the number of everyone then you can compare whether the largest equals yours okay if the largest equals yours then you know you're the largest and you're going to output uh I'm the leader okay so the difficulty is just how to pass the numbers around so that everyone sees everyone else's number. Any ideas? Simple solution. Oh, there's not much you can do. You just connect to your two neighbors, the left one and the right one. So, how do you propagate the information? Go ahead. You can take the maximum of your ID and kind of broadcast that. Okay. So, what does broadcast mean here? Like tell your neighbors what the largest of your value is. Okay. And yes, uh uh let me call them ABC. EF then yeah Z can tell D or can tell B. But how does C tell Esate? Yeah. So uh it would be just uh say everyone talks to its right neighbor and then B has A's ID, C has B's ID, D has C's ID and then continue and pass around next time. So just to make it perfectly clear uh say they generate some random ids that's 5 1020 and then in the next round A would send its ID to B would send its ID to C would send its ID to D and in the next round B would pass this information along to C and C would pass the information to D and just continue and eventually everyone will have everyone else's this idea. So, how many runs do we need? If there are nodes in the system, are they probably just one direction or two neighbors? Um, I think you can do it either way. It will be if you propagate both ways, it probably 2x faster. Yeah. Yeah. Correct. It's just all of them, right? But to keep it simple, let's say we just propagate in one direction, right? That's also fine. Still event. So, how many messages are sent in total? Pardon? N square. N square. Yep. Is that obvious to everyone? Can you give an explanation? Uh yeah. Each round everyone sends me. Yeah. Yeah. Everyone everyone every round everyone sends a message or you can think of every message is propagated n times and there are n messages in total. Okay. Yeah, that's definitely your solution. Uh well you can imagine it's probably the naive solution and can we do better than that in this case? Uh are we assuming they know that there are n of them like terminate? Okay. Uh good question. So if we if they know there are n of them yep then they know how to terminate. So your question is how to terminate right? uh if they don't eventually you will receive your own ID on the other side. If we keep sending left eventually you'll receive it on the left port and yeah that's uh that's an indication of termination assuming that the generated are unique. Yeah, we usually assume that. Yeah. Uh either it's a unique user ID uh sorry UID. What does you stand for, by the way? Or uh if you generate random numbers in a large range, it's very unlikely that they collide. Okay. Uh, so can we do better than that? Have some idea. Once something probably some sort of research where you only pass it to the one that's bigger. Mhm. Okay. I think you have two ideas and uh binary search. We'll see how that works later. So you said uh only forward something that's larger. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, that's on the right track. So, uh, one obvious thing we can do is that, so we actually don't care what all the ids are, right? We only care whether uh, a certain ID is the largest. So, for example, in this case, when A send its ID five to B, B knows this five won't be the leader, right? Because five is too small. It's even smaller than his ID. So B can choose to drop this message, right? There's no point in passing that message further. Same thing for this me message. C knows that 10 is too small and it doesn't have to pass it along. The ID uh it's just the integer each node chooses at random. Say Yeah, the only purpose of the ID is to break uh symmetry. So yeah, like we have seen in the lecture, if they don't do this, if they don't have any unique identifier, they won't be able to select the leader. And when they have a unique number then they can select yeah the largest one or smallest one or some in in some way. Okay. Does this optimization make sense? We can cut drop several messages that uh have no chance of becoming the leader. Is it still in square? Correct. Yep. That's uh yeah, very good question and very good answer by the way. Uh but how effective is this? Well, in the average case, you may we may be able to drop some messages. But there are pathological case where it actually doesn't help at all. Say this is the ID we choose. Then when there's 20, it's send around. B cannot drop it, right? because it it's pro it may be the largest and when this 10 is sent to C C cannot drop it and when 20 comes along it also cannot drop it so no node can drop any message it's worst case is still n square Okay. So let's think about the binary search equivalent. Uh yeah, how to binary search in this case. So binary search to what? Uh yeah, good question. It's not very obvious obvious. uh binary searching to what um yeah just some binary idea that that will give us a oh log inbound so actually that's the this is the better algorithm but once you have a login you can probably guess okay go ahead how about like kind of merging like instead of finding the global maximum finding like local maximum then yeah That's on the right track. Yeah. Um clusters of some points. Yeah, that's definitely the uh right idea. Yeah. Let's detail it a little bit. How do you carry it up? Mhm. Um divide the um two parts like two parts like dividing and okay so then it's let them select their leader respectively and compare which one is larger. It's interesting thought. AB finds the maximum between CD finds the maximum max. I think the first difficulty I see is that if you cut it by half, it's no longer a ring, right? Yeah, correct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's definitely not an easy problem, another not easy algorithm. And the idea is to uh well you had the right idea that we want to uh what's the word let the weak candidates shut up early so what I mean by that is say we have several round so this B and A and C we will let B only propagate to A and C test. If B is the local maximum among ABC, then B will try to talk further, increase its range. If B is not the local maximum of ABC, then yeah, it can be quiet and doesn't need to send messages anymore. If B succeeds in the next round, then it will further increase its range to try to talk to more people. Okay. So how does it work in detail? Uh well so in round I uh we will let a node send this message up to two ra to i uh hops. In this case is one and in next round is two and then four. If at any point some node like along this range decides that you are not the local maximum then they will reply that yeah you can you you no longer need to send messages anymore. If this message successfully reaches uh this end point that two ra to iHops then this guy will respond and this guy if it still thinks you are the local maximum then it will respond a message uh well saying yeah continue. Okay. And if the sender receives this continue message on both sides then it will continue into the next round otherwise it will go inactive. Is the algorithm clear? And how do we choose the next maximum like next which has to send the message uh say that again like after receiving like um don't send again like we have to choose one node which has to send okay in the first round everyone send their messages okay then some of them will go inactive because they learn they are not maximum and the remaining the surviving surviving ones will yeah continue sending messages and then yeah half of them probably will die in the next round and the surviving ones keep sending messages. Make sense? How does it send messages? It can only neighbor right not to Yep. So we will send a message of this form uh say well some message and then we will send a hop uh and the direction either left or right and this hop will initially be set to two raised to i the number of round. Then when this guy receives the message, it will decrement the hop count and pass it along. And every node when forwarding the message will decrease the that h by one. And finally when it reaches here, that number becomes zero. And when you see a when when a node sees a message with zero hop count, it going it's going to reverse it, send it in the other direction. And again set it back to 22 to I uh this message I should say uh ID and at at certain point c a certain node may decide this ID is too small it doesn't have a chance then yeah it can directly uh send it in the opposite direction replying a message saying yeah you are too small. Okay. So any more questions on the algorithm itself? If not what's the next step? Yeah time complexity. Oh I already claim it's n login. Is it? Uh this is round this is message. This is also message complexity. So why is it in login? Mhm. So we have uh a certain number of rounds. So how many rounds do we have? Yeah, maybe. Uh yeah, I'll just say login. Okay, because yeah, you're increasing your uh hop length and we're going to compute like how many nodes are still active in each round and how many messages are sent in that round. So uh well the number of nodes active just will just be this number if we start from zero. Why? Because the first time everyone is active in the next time only oneird of them will be active but we said uh we are conservative here and we put one half right next round is actually 15th because the local maximum if it's local maximum it means like these two and those two will go inactive but we put this as a uh upper bound So this is the number of nodes that are still active and they will send the message up to this many hops. And there are two directions and you send the message back and then uh yeah sorry send a message forward and someone will reply but in the end this is an login. Yeah, I think I got eight n login. So my recitation note says it's four login. I'm not entirely sure whether what's going on. Yeah, but you can double check whether this is correct or the recitation note is correct. What is I again? I is the uh num number of round in the e round. Yeah, this many nodes are still active and each of them will send uh the message this many hops. And I didn't mention whether this is whether the network is synchronous or asynchronous. And it turns out it doesn't care. This algorithm can work for both synchronous and asynchronous. Apparently, it works for synchronous networks. If it's asynchronous, then the uh what changes is that different nodes are in different rounds, right? A certain round may a certain node may be far ahead than the others, but it's fine. Eventually, they will converge to the correct result. Okay. So, let's look at the second problem. Well, problem is defined even simpler. Uh we just want to count how many nodes are out there and we want the algorithm to uh work both synchronously and asynchronously. Uh by that I just mean we have a network Well, say you have a lot of nodes after that just want to count how many nodes are there in this network. So I'll give you say one minute to let's first come up with a high level plan. Oh is the problem clear? the worst case following. Mhm. The worst case. Um okay, I haven't defined that. Let's not worry about uh complexity now for now. The complexity will depend on number of nodes n and the number of edges e. Yeah, let's just get it functionally correct. Can anyone share a high level strategy? Go ahead. So each will store the like um ids of the other places it has received. So basically like it's going to send prop the Mhm. Uh on what edge? For this one. Yeah, it was sent in both on both edges. Mhm. Of course. Mhm. Okay. So then maybe it send a one here and send a one here. There. Then this node will think it has a children. It has a child, right? Which is this one. Let's just say this is this is the entire network. And what message does this does it send to this guy? Right. You probably need send two here because you have one and this is possibly child, right? But then we're double counting this node. You see the problem? Do nodes have their IDs like ID? Oh yeah, they they have their IDs. We can send the ID set of the ID. Oh, okay. You're going to send all the IDs after. Okay. Yeah, that's a interesting thought. And then you still you may still need a root and that one have will have everyone's ID and then see how many unique guys are there. Okay. Interesting. Does this algorithm work? Yeah, I don't see any problem. Okay. Um, let me still uh repeat what uh our algorithm is. It's because it's closer to what's in the lecture. So, we're going to uh find the spanning tree of this network, right? A spanning tree means well like I have to cut one of these edges. If I have a tree that then I can have every child report to its parent like how many offsprings including myself do I have? And this this note will sum up uh all its all its children and report to its parent. Does everyone get that? So first we'll find a spanning tree and second uh we'll have child reports to parent. How can how can we find this tree? Good question. So in the lecture we have seen an algorithm that find BFS spanning tree for synchronous networks. Okay, this is review of the lecture. How does it work? Each node will say we we need to first choose a root and our root will just send a message to its neighbor and yeah saying you are my child, you're my child, you are my child, you are my child and then every node upon receiving uh this message from the me uh from the parent will search among its neighbors, right? So the neighbors that haven't got a parent will acknowledge this sender as the parent. Okay, that's a little messy. So this node will search to uh the leaf node but then it will also try to search for this guy but this guy already has a parent. Then yeah it will say I I already got a parent and blah blah blah. This will give us a BFS spanning tree. What does it mean? It's a spanning tree found by BFS. Does it work for asynchronous network? Go ahead. This version does, but there's a different version that uses an edge relaxation. Yeah, correct. And so why does this version not work work for a synchronous network? Because different nodes can be on a different round number. So that a longer path could end up going to a yeah exactly. So let me give a concrete example. Uh what does asynchronous network mean is that well messages travel at different speed. Say this link for some reason is temporarily down and this node doesn't receive the message from the root and then this message travels very fast and this message also travels very fast. So this message may reach uh this node earlier and then this this node will think of it as a child of this node. Okay. And then this message comes along finally but this node says yeah I already have a parent and I'm going to reject you. So it makes a spanning tree. Yes, good point. This is not a BFS spanning tree but it's it's still a spanning tree. Right. So in our problem we are totally fine with it. Yeah. But you do have to know uh if you really want a BFS spanning tree in an asynchronous network then you have to like record the distance and do the relaxation and so on and so forth. Okay. So we'll just use this algorithm the BFS spanning tree algorithm. Uh just run it asynchronously. It doesn't find the BFS spanning tree but it finds some finds a sum spanning tree. Okay, how does this algorithm work? Uh we will have several variables. The first one is parent. We will initialize it to this undefined single Okay, then every note will pass around this search message. I'll use a slightly well shorthand notation than uh from the lecture. Uh okay let's say uh the code I wrote is for process U. Okay. If we receive a message a search message from V uh to U that means U sorry V is trying to become apparent. And if I do not have a parent yet, I should set the parent to V. Okay. So, what's the next step? And we got this search message from our parent and we have to pass it along. Oh yeah, great. Um Yeah, we first need to respond by saying okay, I'll use a well shorter notation. Send V is a que that that's the message uh that will be sent to V at some point. Well, the message we sent is parent one parent true. This is a response to V saying uh yeah you are my parent. Okay. Then else we also have to re respond by saying parent zero. You are not my parent because I already got some other parent. We're missing a step here. If we receive a search message, go ahead. Yeah, we need to pass it to all my potential children. So I'll use this gamma U mean meaning the neighbors of U. Thanks and then I'll send them a message. What message? Search. Okay. Okay. So uh well naturally since we created a we have a search message and we know how to deal with it. Now we are sending this parent message we better deal with it right. So then the next chunk of code should be if we receive this parent message I'll say parent B meaning this message come comes with either true or false oh I received this message from some note w okay I'm still you here because I just send all the message to to all the W's to all my neighbors and they should give me a response. Okay. If B is one that means this particular W uh take me as its parent. Make sense? Okay. So I'd better have a list of my children. I want to track that. I want to keep track of that. How we will create a new variable for children. It's going to be initialized to what? Yeah. Empty set. And now if this B is one then I'm going to put W in this children list. Okay. Uh I'm leaving some space here because our root will should be slightly different. So every other node will send search messages when it received the search message. We need someone to initiate make sense. So if u equals root uh we say the root is v 0. So two things should happen. First we should set its parent to some special value and just say root. And then uh I should copy this block blob of code to here. Okay, this is a little crowded but um hope it's still illeible. Okay, this is already a almost the correct algorithm except that we don't know how to terminate, right? If we wait long enough, then everyone will receive all the responses and everyone will know um its parent and its child list. But how do we terminate? after non. Yeah, that's uh that's one way to do it after n runs. But the whole point is we are trying to find what n is. We don't know how many nodes are there. If we receive rejects for all the search. Mhm. Say again. For all the search um if you receive it reject. Oh yeah. If you re receive a response either either parent zero or parent one from all your neighbors then your job is pretty much done right but uh the others have not right so you send the message very fast they responded to you and they are still working very hard okay so then we need to use the technique from the lecture that's called converge cast so Everyone will send a done signal when it is done and all its children are also done. Okay. Uh to do that I'm going to define a new variable called searched. Searched means uh someone has responded. Okay. In this case uh w has responded. I'll put it into the searched list no matter whether it accepts me as parent or reject. Okay. Then naturally I need to define this variable here. As a last step, if this search the list equals my neighbor list, that means everyone has responded and all my children are done. Then I need a new variable called done. That's another list tracking who has finished and who has not. Say again. This one searched means uh someone has responded to the search message. Okay. Done means all its children are done. Okay, it's uh I haven't write what how done is defined. Give me a minute. In this case, I'm going to send my parent a message. This is the step of converge cast. What do I send? I'm going to send I'm Okay. Then whenever we create a message, well, we should deal with that message. If I if we receive a message, I'm done. What do we do? Okay. From from W, then we're going to mark that node as done. Okay, this is uh there's a subtle point. So someone has to initiate the done signal. That's going to be our leaves. Why? Because when this condition check, they don't have any children. Their children list is empty set and their done list is also empty set. So they're going to send the I'm done signal first and then all the intermediate nodes will send the done signal when all its children are done. Right? So this is the converge cast version only gives us a termination point of the of our span entry search. Right? We haven't count the number of nodes in the network. But that's a small modification. Uh we are just going to include that number in the I'm done signal. So then I'm I need to define another variable called total that's initialized to zero. This variable will track how many nodes do I have in my sub tree including me and all my children. Then when I send the I'm done signal, I'm going I'm going to send this. Sorry, that's not the right way. When I'm sending the I'm done signal, I'm going to send my total number of offspring with it. Okay. And when I receive someone my ch my one of my children reports that I do have t children, I need to increment my total by that amount. Okay, I made a mistake again. Should be total plus one. Right? Because I'm counting all my children and then I should include myself. So that's the complete algorithm. Yeah. One purpose is just to create a different angle to look at distributed algorithm. You usually just draw that network graphs but sometimes it's helpful to think about how the code actually works. Okay. Yeah, that's all for today.