Okay. Uh so this is the next step for a first order differential equation. We take instead of an exponential now we have an oscillating exponentials the previous lecture grew or decayed. Now we have an oscillate. We have AC alternating current in this problem. Instead of uh expon pure expon instead of real exponentials we have oscillation vibration all the all the applications that involve uh uh circular motion going around and around instead of going off exponentially. Okay. So here's the point again. I'm looking for a particular solution. the particular solution. It would be nice if we could say the particular solution was just some multiple of the cosine. But that won't work. So that makes this problem one step harder than the exponential. We need to allow the signs in there because if I looked for a cosine, if I tried only this part that I could match that, I could I'd have a times the cosine that would be cosiness. But the derivative of a cosine is a sine function. So we h signs are going to get in there and we have to allow them into the solution. Okay. So that's the right thing to assume. Actually there will be you'll see three different ways to write the answer to this problem. And this is the first sort of most straightforward but not the best in the long run. Okay. straightforward one. I'm going to substitute that into the equation and find m and n. That's my job. Find these numbers. Okay. So, put that into the equation. On the left side, I want the derivative. So, that will be omega well the derivative of the cosine is minus omega m sin omega t. Right? The derivative brought out this factor omega. The derivative of cosine was s. Now the derivative of this brings out a factor of omega. Omega n cossine omega t. And that should equal a * y. There's y. So I just multiply by a uh a m a m cosine omega t and a n sin omega t. That's the a y part. And now I have the source term plus cossine omega t. And that has to be true for all time. and the now I need the equation. What do I do with this? I'm looking for two things m and n. I'm looking for two equations. So I match the cosine terms. I match that term, that cosine term, and the source term. So they all multiply cosine omega t. So I want omega n. Sh should I bring this over on the other side? Minus a m + omega n equ= here I just have one cosine equals 1 - a m + omega n = 1. And now I'll match the s terms. So in the s terms I have a minus omega m sin omega t. And I have to bring this on the other side. So that'll be a minus a n sin omega t. And there's no sin omega t in the source. There's my two equations. Those are my two equations for m and n. So I just solve those two equations and I've got the particular solution that I look for. So it's two equations, two unknowns. It's the basic problem of linear algebra. I'm inclined to just write down the answer which I prepared in advance. M it turns out to be minus a over omega^ 2 + a 2 and n turns out to have that same omega^ 2 + a 2 and above it goes omega. Okay. If you check this equation for example, omega * the m will give me a a omega with a minus with a minus and then a * n will also be have an a omega and the same omega^ 2 + a^ 2 it I get they cancel to give zero and this equation is also solved. So one more important problem solved. Well, we found the particular solution. I haven't added in I haven't matched the initial condition. Now in many many cases it's this particular solution that's of interest. This here let me put a box around our solution and we substituted that in the differential equation. We discovered m, we discovered n, we've got this particular solution. And and that's the sort of that's the oscillation that keeps going that if we're listening to radio or uh or if we have alternating current, this is what we see. the the null solution, the thing that's coming with no source term usually a is negative and that disappears. That's called the transient term. The so the the null solution would be in have an ae to the a as always. But I'm not so interested in that. It's uh because it disappears. You don't hear it after a minute. and and this is the solution that you're this is what your ear is hearing. Okay, so we've got one form of the answer. Now that's a pretty nice form, but it's not perfect. I can't see exactly this can be simplified in a really nice way. So when we work with SS and cosiness, it's this next step that's important. I believe that that same yp of t can be written in a different way as what also uh another another form a different well I should say another another form for the same y of t. another form will be the same y of t. You see what I don't like is having a cosine and a sign. So, because those are out of phase and they're combining into something and I want to find out what they're combining into. And it's really nice. They're combining into a single cosine, but not just omega t. It's there's a lag, a phase shift. The angle involved is often called the phase. So the the two uh s and cosine combine to give a phase shift with some amplitude. Maybe I'll call it g uh the gain or often it would be called capital r just for uh because it's some some sort of what you're seeing here is polar coordinates. So I want to match this which has the G and the alpha. Polar coordinates is really the right way to think of this. G and an alpha, a a magnitude and an angle. I want to match that with the form I already had. So I'll use a little trigonometry here to remember that this is equal to you I have a g. Do you remember a formula for the cosine of a minus b? The cosine of a difference is cosine of omega t cosine of alpha plus it's a plus here because it's a minus there sin omega t sin alpha. So I have just written this out in the two-term form and I did that so that I could match the two-term form I already had. So can I just do that matching the cosine omega t the m must be g cos alpha and the n must be g sin alpha. So, and now I have two equations, the M and the N. I I I still remember what those are. I figured those out. But now I want to convert the MN form to the G alpha form. And this is what I have to do. And it's the usual thing with polar coordinates. How how can I get how do I discover what G is there and what alpha is? Okay, the trick is the one fundamental identity when you see cosiness and ss is to remember that cosine squar plus sin squared is one. I'm going to use that have to use it. So I'll square both sides. I'll have m 2 and and I'll add. So I'll have m^2 + n^2 is g^2 cos cosine^ 2 alpha g^2 times cossine^ 2 alpha when I squared that one and sin^ squar alpha when I squared that one and again the point is that's one so that's just g squar so what have I learned G is the square root of this. G is the square root of M2 + N2. And I'm always free to plug in the M and the N that I found. Okay, that's ah what about alpha? That's the angle. So I have have to again I'm thinking trig here. How am I going to get alpha here? I want to get G out of this formula now and just focus on the alpha. Previously I got alpha out of it and got the G. Now the way to do it is take the ratio. If I take the ratio of that to that, divide one by the other, the G's will fac will cancel. So I'll take the ratio of that to that to get sin al g sin alpha divided by g cos alpha is then n / m right and the g's cancel as I wanted so now I have an equation for alpha or more exactly I have an equation for tangent of alpha s over cosine is tan tangent of alpha is n /n. So this is called the you could call it the sinosoidal identity. What is that word sinosoid? Sinosoid is a word for any mixture of ss and cosiness. Any mixture of ss and cosiness of the same uh omega t. So, so the syosoidal identity says that that I can rewrite that solution into this solution. And I really see the key number in the whole thing is the gain, the magnitude. It's it's how loud the station comes through if we're if we're tuning a radio. So uh and again this is the response that keeps going because the the cosine oscillates forever. There will be also uh something coming from the initial condition that we expect to die out. Okay. So I mentioned at the very start that there were three forms of the answer to this s cosine input and I've given you two. I've given you the M andN form. You could say rectangular coordinates, cosiness and SS. I've given you the polar form- which is a a gain, a magnitude and a phase. And the third one involves complex numbers. I have to make that a separate lecture maybe even two. So complex numbers uh where do they come in? It's a totally real equation. If I if I think about all this that I've done, it was all totally real. But uh I can I I get there's a link the key fact about complex numbers. Oilers's great formula will give me a connection between cosine omega t and sin omega t with e to the i omega t. So at the price of introducing that complex number imaginary number i or j for for uh electrical engineers we have uh we're back to exponentials. We're back to exponentials. So that'll come in the next lecture. This is uh one more example of a nice source function. So the maybe I could just say the what are the what are the nicest source functions. So this is the source function here and it was nice. Exponential was even nicer. Constant was best of all. And I want to another one I want to introduce is a delta function. So that's a a delta function is an impulse something that happens in an instant. And that's an interesting very interesting and very important possibility. Okay. Thank you.