So now uh let's let's talk about the uh let's talk about first the different uh concepts uh that we have talked about in class and then get and then in the end I'll get to just some example of some problems that you might face on the mid. So the first is this that if you take a subset of Rn uh to say that a is bounded from above. This just means that there exist m such that for all a in a a here is less than equal to a. This is what it means to be bounded from about from a subset, right? And now the there's a list of about um this is a number uh so so m here is a least so m is a least upper bound. If uh um if uh m is an upper bound and any other bound let's call it m uh uh is bigger equal to it. So this is what it means to be a least up and so the least up bounds. So so the least upper bounds is this is what we denote by super. Okay. And similarly, similarly form for lower bound and uh and in right and the real numbers have this property that if I set this bounded from above then it has a then there is a least upper bound. uh and likewise for uh assets that is below. Okay, so that was soup and we'll get to this mean soup and make uh I'll just review that a little bit later also. Uh but that's another important thing. Uh a sequence. So another key uh concept in this class is sequence and we let's begin with a sequence of real numbers. So this is a map from the positive integers into and again it denotes so the image. So if you're looking at uh the image of some n we typically denote this by a n or by a n or xn or something like that where we use the subscript but it's just the image under this map. So that's a sequence. So for each positive integer you get a real number. Then um then for a sequence one of the first things you are interested in is convergence. So if you have so if this here is a sequence that xn converts to some x here. This here just means for all uh epsilon greater than zero they exist. I I will use this symbol. I haven't used it until now but it's so hard not to use it. This means they exist. It's not on but it's a totally standard symbol. So they exist. uh capital n such that if little n is bigger equal to capital n then uh xn - x small. So this is what it means for a sequence to convert to x sequence x to convert to x and you write like this or you can write xn and then the limit here as n go to infinity= both of these are standard use. So and then also if a seage is not convergent is not convergent then then we say is diver. So sequence is either convergent or it's divergent. Um and then you there's this property useful property. So a lema if x is convergent Then the set this as a set this here is a bounce set. Okay, we talk about that. And then another thing about sequences is that the algebraic processes of sequences and what are the algebraic properties they are that if you take two sequences a n and bn and let's say that a n converts to a and bn convert to b then the algebraic and c and c is just a constant Then you have that sort of and often when you combine what I did there is one and two before you combine you're looking at a n + c * bn this here converts to a c * b this is the first and this when I state it like this it actually combine two of the one properties that we talked about earlier uh the second one is that a n * B n will converge to a * b. Third property is that if uh if a n if these here are not equal to zero and the limit here is not equal to zero then 1 / a n converts to 1. And so of course this last one you know this one implies in particular of course that also bn / a n converse to b this is just because this property here combined with property two that will give you this okay so that's the algebraic properties uh of limits um then you have um the concept of a subsequence. So a subsequence. So we are imagining that we have a sequence and often we don't go all the way back like this but but a sequence again is is a map from the positive integer into R and we know the image of N like typically like Xn then a subsequence of this sequence and this is typically denoted something like this where you have a further subscript And this is and this is important again that this is like equal to f of g of k where g here and this is the really important property that g is a map from the positive integers into the positive integers and the really important is that g here is strictly increasing And so strictly increasing guarantee you that these numbers here is taken in the same order as in the original sequence but you may skip a bunch right I mean you know you take one and then you may skip a bunch and then you take another one and then you may skip more but it's in the same order and that's what increasing this guinea and and then you have then you have this property. So you have this theorem that a sequence xn is converged if and only if or all subsequences And one of these two was one of the two directions for this was trivial because if you have a um because because if you take a sequence then it is if you're thinking about this map here G as being the identity that's so that will give you a subsequence but that really is the original sequence, right? So the original sequence is a subsequence of itself. So if all subsequences are convergent, well then in particular the sequence itself is convergent. So one of those two directions was trivial. Okay. Now then we had these two theorems and they were right by then. So you know the like the sing the sort of the singing mathematics is a sinks built on each other right and hopefully like each step is fairly trivial but you build step by step and then you end up with something highly non-trivial right? So this here was was pretty trivial but then we used it later on to prove something non-trivial. So this was this model from convergence theorem and it has two there was two versions of this. you had a sequence xm and and xm was increasing. So that means that the next element is bigger equal to the previous element. If this here was the case, then XN is convergent if and only if uh XM is is bound. If the sequence is bound and uh the soup of the exam this here is is is the here is the second pro the second verse. of this is if you have a monot. So instead of being increasing it's now decreasing. So the next element is smaller equal to the previous element. And then similarly uh the sequence uh xn is convergent X is found from below below and in this case and if it is part from below then the limit here is of XN. Okay. So that was the monitor convergence there and it has these two versions the increasing version and the decreasing version. Then another important concept was that of the precence and the use the the the reason why sequence is useful even for the real numbers right I mean you know later on we generalize these concepts there was obvious generalization of of the concept of convergence but also of that of being a cruise sequence to metric spaces But even for the real numbers C sequence, you know, you might be interested in whether a sequence is convergent. But sometimes it's much easier to prove that it's a C sequence than to prove that it actually is convergent. And so if you don't really care about what the limit is, then it's often uh easier to prove that it's a co So cushy sequence. So you have a sequence again. We're still in in the real numbers. And this is a cushy sequence. It just means that for all and now I will use also this here. This symbol just means for all and that's also a standard symbol. It's a inverted a for all epsilon greater than zero there exist again this here the inver you know inverted e there exist delta there sorry there exist capital n um such that if little n and little m are bigger than capital n Then those two elements are bunched epsilon close together. This is what it means for a sequence to be precise sequence that the tail of the sequence lies very very close together. Then um let me skip uh in my notes I have something about contracting that but actually there won't be anything about contracting that so I'll skip that uh let me uh let me look at let me now next talk about the convergence and Put some wires right there. So you see also let me just remind you that again on the midterm so there are these five main problems then there's a six bonus problems but make sure that you uh if you know it doesn't matter which one you do so you might as well uh start like with the ones that seems easiest to uh and you can see anyway say exactly how many points each of them give. So you can uh if you don't have you know enough time to finish all of this you can make sure to try to optimize. Okay. So what is the cushy convergence theorem? So again we are in R sorry uh and uh and we have and so the CI convergence is the let's say that if XM is a C sequence then uh XM is converted That's a pushy convers and and and this trans we talk about that. So like the concepts if you when we in a minute review metric spaces then convergence sequence that makes sense in a metric space could see sequence makes sense in a metric space um but it's not and the statement of this theorem makes sense in a metric space but it's not always that it holds it holds in on but it doesn't hold in a general metric space. The possum statement of that also makes sense in a general metric space but it doesn't hold in a general metric space. So these are again these are things about the real numbers. I mean they they extend to more than the real number but you have to for other spaces you have to kind of prove it individually right. So banana bias theorem say that if xn is a bounded sequence uh xn has a convergent subsequence. Okay. So that's simp. Um the next thing is the next thing I want to review is what it means for a function to be continuous. So continuity is another important property. It's closely tied together with this sequence and we'll get to that in just a minute. So if you take a if you take and you have so so if you have a function let's say on R but it could be defined on a subset of R. So if you have a function like this then we say that f here is continuous at x0 if for all uh it's continuous at x0 if for all u epsilon greater zero there exist delta greater than zero such that if uh x - x0 is smaller than delta then the images smaller than epsilon um so that what it means for a function to be continuous and there was this this theorem or lema that was that tied things together. So lema if uh f is continuous at x0 and xn converge to x0 then then then the images of this sequence. So that's another sequence convert. So we prove this even in a metric space but we're still not. Okay. And so uh right and then we had the algebraic properties of functions and they were very similar to this. So let me just review them. So algebraic properties of continuous functions. So imagine that you have f and g are continuous functions. Everything is defined on r. C here is a constant. Well then property one that correspond to that property one here is that this function plus C * this function here this here is also continuous and then two is that if this function here is never equal to zero then one over this function again is is also continuous and then sorry that was not that should sorry I should not make that the second I should make that the third property sorry that f * is also continuous and then the third property would be that f is not equal to z correspond to it then this function here is also contin and Again I divided it up when I did it I divided up into four steps because I separated this out as two steps. Okay. And so from this one we got that right just because then we proved that the constant function was continuous and the linear function the function f ofx= to x is continuous. Once we have that then we then we just use one and two. >> Yeah. >> To prove that all all uh polomials is continuous. And then if we bring in three then we have this with all rational functions are continuous except of course where the denominator vanishes by. Okay. So, so that was how you sort of built uh continuous functions from non continuous functions. Um then we proved the extreme value and the intermediate values theorem. We had these two zero and they were proved. So one way to prove it that we did last time was to use this lemon that tie together um that tie together continuity and sequences. And so we had the extreme values there and this just say that if you have a function but now it's crucial that this here is a bounded interval and the end points are included in this. So if you have a function like this and this function is continuous then the soup and the in over the set here is achieved. So max or if you go the max of f and min of of f are achieved. in particular the function is bounded. So I just state it like this little brief like that. So that was the extreme value theorem. The intermediate value theorem it say that if you have a function imagine that starting off here and it ending there. So this is like the function the intermediate value shall say that everything in between these two is also the image of something right. So if let's say that f of a smaller than f of b then n y here is between f of a and f of b then there exist x between a and b so that f of x is equal to one. Again the functions we're talking about are continuous right and they're defined on this inter this inter okay so that was those two themselium right and then they used uh And then he used how sequences and continuous functions was tied together. The Banana bias theorem is using something about the real numbers are ordered and like this will soup and if uh uh you know you have the least upper bound property and the greatest lower bound property, right? So okay now another thing. So there was so we tal about so like some of the highlights is like the in terms of concepts are sequences and continuity of functions and then various properties that follow from this. Then another thing is sequence series. So that's another key property key concept. So series. So series is where you started with a sequence. So serious. So you started with so this here is a sequence and now you form another sequence sn but here you sum it and it could start wherever you want to start it let's say start from zero you're summing the first in this case it would be because you're starting at zero you're summing the first n + one so AI this is A z + a n is like n + one in this case, but you don't have to start at zero. You start at one, it would be the first n numbers. So you're looking at so a series is really kind of the same thing, but you think about it a little bit different, but really the same thing as a sequence where you starting with a sequence and then you form a new sequence. And then the the key question here is so key question is the serious conversion conversion, right? And um so that's a key question and if it is convergent and you often the series is often written like this and so this is so this here will symbolize the series and if the series is convergent it will also symbolize the limit. So it has two meanings. Okay. Um but you can but even if it's not convergent then it well but if it's not convergent you would just write down and you think about this as as as a series. Now there are some series that are particular you know important and and they can then be used to determine whether or not other series. So let me just review them. And the most important of all is the geometric series. And the geometric series is the series um C to the N= to Z to infinity. This is C is just some fixed number, real number. And you're looking at this and this is called this is the geometric series and this is is convergent. uh if the absolute value of C is less than one and divergent otherwise and if it is convergent when when C here in absolute value is less than one then this here is = 1us but remember two things one is that when you actually want to evaluate the sum it's crucial where you starting if I started at one then it's not anymore equal to this but you have to subtract the first element right that was missing so it's really for convergence it doesn't matter where you start but for the limits it's it's it's That's one thing and the other thing is uh is like when you again we talk about this that when you're given a series even before there's any question the first thing when you have a series the first thing you look at is does this a end convert to zero or not right if a end does not go to zero well the series is not going to converge there's no need to apply any fancy test right and and for a series it's it's always the question is always whether it's convergent or not. Okay. So that's so that's a geometric series and then there are two other series that we talked about and let me just you know that not only talked about but we also determined whether or not they were converging and they were used then we used them to determine whether other series were convergent. But but the again the most important of all of them is the geometric series. That's the one that we use to determine whether power series in general was converging or not. But there are two other that are worth mentioning. One is the harmonic series. The harmonic series is the series 1 / n. So this here is diverg. So let's call this second and then there is like a closely related. Let's call it two and a half. That's called the alternating. So the alternating was that the it was like the harmonic series but the sign of it was alternating and this here is actually converging and then so there's one two two and a half and then there's three uh three and that's uh that's the series this series. Here we this year and this year was converging. The only one where we determine what the sum was was actually the geometric series. Okay. So that's like some key series. Um then then there are then there's when you have a series there was one concept that proved to be quite useful and that's was the concept of absolute convergence. of a series and so you're looking at a series and absolute convergence was that this sum here was was converging. So this here is absolute convergent. If this series where you just the a replaced by the absolute value is convergent. Okay. So of course a non- negative for non for a series of non- negative numbers it's automatically if it's convergence it's automatically absolute convergent. And like we talked about it a little bit that that one of the things about an absolute convergent is that you could kind of reorder the value of summing things and it wouldn't matter for the limit. But if it's not absolute convergent that really matters we thought about it. We didn't really prove anything there but I think it was kind of clear you can do this. One thing where we used it was that when we look at product of series then the product of series was convergent if each of them was absolute convergence and there you saw that we estimated some remainder term and there was really kind of key that that we had absolute convergence. Okay. So anyway, so absolute convergence is an important uh you know it's it's it's for a series it's a it's a stronger property than convergence. So absolute convergence implies convergence. Maybe I should write this as a theorem. So we had that theorem. So absolute conversion but it's not it's it's stronger. general. Okay. And now then we had some tests. Then we had some tests and so we had uh we talked in particular about there was a few other tests that we talked about but but I didn't um I mean they're not actually going to be on the victim uh and and some of them we get back to this one here won't be on the victim alternating but we talked about how to prove the convergence right and the important and and when we talk about that we discovered that this thing here that there was a stronger statement that if you have alternating and the a were all non negative and these guys was decreasing goes decreasing down to zero then actually any alternating sequence like that would be would be converging anyway but but but the test we really talked about was three test. One of them had two parts and then then in a minute we'll talk about how we apply them to power series which one. So we had some tests to determine whether or not the series or not as serious uh is convergence. Okay. So what are the tests? So there are the comparison test. Let me just first write down the test. So the comparison test and there was two versions. Version A and version B. Then there was the ratio test. And then there was the root test. the ratio test and the root test they are both offsprings of the geometric series right in both of these you got let's just talk about these first uh the ratio test was looking at this ratio of a n a divided by a n a n + 1 / a n so you are implicitly assuming that the a does not vanish not zero. Right? So you can form this ratio and then if this limit here as n goes to infinity if this limit here is less than one then then uh the ratio test say that uh the series was convergent. If the ratio was bigger than one then this ordinary element a n would not even go to zero. Right? So this here is so that in this case here maybe maybe I'll write it over here. So for the ratio test, for the ratio test, you assume that a none of the a and you're looking at a n + one / n. And if this limit here, let's call this limit, let's assume that the limit exists. Of course, it may not exist, right? But if the limit existed. So if if C here is less than one, right? It's always not negative. These are non negative numbers. See is is less than one, then the series is converted. If this C here is strictly bigger than one, this implies that the series is diverted. And if the C was equal to one then it's unclear and so unclear which means that further test are needed. And so now um so that's the ratio test and the root test was similar. the root test where so you're looking at the AM you take the so this is the root test and again this is tested by comparing it to the geometric series so the root test so you take the am take the nth root of this and you're looking at the limit here and we actually looked at the name soup. I write in the new soup. Reason why I want the new soup is that I want to make sure it's later on I want to apply more generally. Okay. So I have uh so if the loom soup here was um was less than one is called soup. It's called C. If if C here is less than one then uh series is convergence. True. If the C is bigger than one series is divergent. This fails the most basic test divergence. And again uh three if C is equal to one then it's unclear for test or leave it. That was the that was those two tests. The comparison tests, let's get back to that. The comparison test had two parts that you had suppose you had a n and bn. The first part is this statement that if you have two series, one based on the a series based on the bn. If you have this if BN so this if if this is converted then it fires like this it's converted right and this is sometimes used both exactly like this and it's also sometimes used where you know that this one here is divergent and so you conclude that this The other part of the comparison test was if you had the limit here if this limit here exist and it was some L then actually it it say that let's say L here is not equal to Z then then uh then um then um If if one of them is converging the other one is also converging. So a b that a and vice versa is actually equivalent. So those were the three tests that we really went through. There was a few other tests like again this alternating series test that sort of proved but it's not being unmet and you will be trapped to this later. >> Yeah. >> Um are there like patterns of like when we should apply which tests? >> Yeah. No. And I want to get to this um I want to get to this in just a second. Uh let me let me just say a couple of words first and then let let me jump to some of the examples of problems and then I'll come back and I'll review a little more. So uh but let's just talk about power shares. Um maybe maybe a little whether uh just now when you were asking the question uh no this this just review the power series. So a power series was a series but it was something that also defined a function right and so you take so you have a you have a u you have see power series so you have a sequence a and then you think for each x but x but x is being fixed you form a series and this is the series that you form and so for each x you can ask is this series convergent or not right this here is called a power series and uh and the the key point for a power series is uh again of course whether or not this is convergence and this give rise to the radius of convergence. And so the radius of convergence was that we defined we looked at at le of the nth root of a n like that. Right? And we looked at when this thing here uh if this thing here is uh right so we define this thing here and so we get this thing here and then we define the radius of convergence. So the radius of conver of convergence this is r and the r is 1 / This should but there was an understanding in this. The understanding is that if this number here this number here you this one of potential could be infinite. Right? If it was infinite it meant that this thing here was zero. Right? If this one here is is infinity, if this here is zero, then this here would be infinity. Okay, so that's so that's like a convention in this particular case, right? I mean, usually we don't want to divide by zero that kind of stuff, but this is convention in this particular case. And so using this radius of convergence, we saw that if you take a power series, if you have any power shares like this, there have any power shares like this, it's going to be if this here is R and again R could be zero or it could be infinity, right? But if this is R. So I should write this minus then the for x in between for x not including the end point but in between the series is converging right the power series is converging and outside here it's it's diverging outside it's diverging here it's converting and and at those two points here further test are needed right so this is always this picture so this come back to your question about you know which test I mean of course you can use any test you want but when I you know like if you're looking at a series you can use whatever test you want but if it was a power series you already know that there's some integral around here where it's convergent and then there's a question about the end points, right? And so um okay, so now let's look at let's look at some examples of this and suppose you look at and so it's usually not too hard to use either either the roof to to use either um the this here was based on the root test to either use the root test or the ratio test for power but but you can take advantage of it sometimes slightly easier. So let's look at two examples here. So suppose that that you ask to find the the radius of convergence for the power sh and then let's say that this is n to the fifth power x. So suppose that you are this is a power series you're given and you want to find the radius of convergence right you can either just form you know do plug it into this test right or you can just say okay we just apply we know that it's some interval and I just want to see for which x does this here converge so if I looked in this case you might find it slightly easier to do the the root test. So if you're looking at the n + one elements in this series the n elements sorry the n elements would be this to the fifth power think about x as being fixed right and you're asking for which and then you want to for given x you want to determine whether the series this series here is convergent right so if you using the root test you would look at this one here and you might find in this case slightly easier to use the root test. So if you're looking at this, this thing here is now n + 1 to the 5th power * x to the n + 1 / n 5th power * x to the n. Right? That's a ratio. And so of course you can write this in here. This is like x n + 1 * by itself five times divided by n * by itself five times and then this thing here you can write as x to the n * x uh over x to the n. So you see this thing here you can then think about as n + 1 / n to the fifth power um and and time sorry time x right and I can write this in here in the usual way if you want you can write it as 1 + 1 / n I'm dividing by n in both denominator and denominator so you can write it like this to the fifth power * x. And so now the root test it's asking it's asking whether this the absolute value of this root test would be then asking if the limit here of x n + one sorry n + 1 if this here has a limit and then it's asking you if that limit is less than one if it has a limit and the limit is less than one when the series is converting and it's diverse one. But in this case, this thing here this ratio here is 1 + 1 to the 5th power * x that this is all non negative. So the absolute value just go over here. The algebraic property of the limit say that this this one here goes to zero and so raised to the fifth power still go to zero right it's multiply bunch of sequences five times together that go to zero to one so so this here this goes to one and so even raised to fifth power still go to one so this here goes to to the norm of x right and so the ratio test would be that if x so ratio test gives you is that if this norm here is less than one then this series is convergent. If the norm here is bigger than one the ratio is divergent and it's unclear if the norm is equal to one. So in other words you see that the ratio test here gives you directly that the radius of convergence is one. Right? So and and of course you could apply the root test, right? The root test is great on this here. It's ah it's a little bit more know I mean you have to do a little bit more argument. It's not very hard but it actually in this case the root ratio test would be easier to it would be less to argue than in the root test. Let's do one more example of this. So maybe I'll just switch a little bit to and then I'll come back and review some more stuff. I will um I'll just talk about a few of the problems that I added to the end of my review notes again. I post this with these problems. Um and and obviously they are I mean it's not exactly problems on the met but Okay. Also another thing I want to say is that uh that the the homework uh is graded up to an including four. So I wasn't actually aware of over the weekend. It was supposed to be handed back within latest a week of when you handed it in and I just discovered it over the weekend that it was uh some of them were late. So, but I it's fixed uh you know I'm I'm not the grader. There's two ways that are grading and a greater um but it's all fixed now. So the first four are are you know you can review those also for the lecture. Okay. So the other the other series or power series I want to look at is that so again what is the radius the thing about power series the nice thing about power series is that you know power series also test about series right so it's like you know So what is the radius of convergence? And now the series it's a slightly different series. It's this series here. So this series. Okay. And so now let me again I mean you could apply the root test. The root test is the one that sort of just give you a answer. It always give you an answer, but you know it you may have to work harder to find the nth root. So, and sometimes it's just easier to use the ratio test. So, let's use the ratio test again. So, a n here is n to the 5th power x^ n / n factorial. So if you're looking at a n + 1 / a n, maybe I should maybe let me write over here. So if I'm looking at at a n + one a n so then I have uh n + 1 to the 3 power uh * x to the power n + 1 um over n + 1 that is a n + one and then I have to divide by this. But when I divide by a fraction, it's like multiplying by the inverse of this. So like this in here n power x to the n power like that. And so again I can what I again I can uh I can write this in here as um so if I just do like I did before I would have n + one over n to the fifth power that's when I take this one here and that one together then I have when I take those two together I can get rid of the n here and I just get x and then when I look at the ratio of these two this one here n + one factorial you can think about that as n + one and then times n factorial. So this n factorial cancel out with that and you're left with n + one. So this is what you get and this one here just writing it as we did before dividing this fraction by 1 / n in both uh denominator and denominator and getting this ring here 5 * x n and now you see that if and this here I guess it should have been absolute value of So it's absolute value on this like that. This one here converts to one. This one is just x and this converts to x. And then this here goes to infinity. So the ratio here goes to zero. Right? I'm using the algebraic property of limits. So this is converted to zero. And so you see that it does have a limit. So the ratio test apply because that limit is zero for all x. It's going to be converged for all x. So the radius of convergence in this case and of course on the midterm don't just say that the radius of convergence is infinite explain this thing here and the more detailed the better right because even if there's some typos you would definitely get you should definitely get I mean I'm not great in mid either But you you definitely should get positive, right? Yeah. >> So to get R, is it always like you divide by the limb soup? Cuz like is the thing on the bottom board the limb soup or just the >> Yeah. So So when you take just a complete general sh then then um you then the radius of convergence is by definition this this is related to you. You asked this question a couple of times ago that because we started with the RA ratio test. We did that before we did the root test and you were noting that the in the ratio test you always comparing an element to the previous one, right? And so but in and in general, right, the series can be convergent even though the next element is slightly larger than the previous. If that keep happening, it's not convergent. But it could happen a few times and then it go really down, right? And that's fine, right? And so that's why like the the the the root test, right, gives you this general result about that is always right. It always work. It doesn't assume that a end not zero etc. right in any part for any particular and and it really should be in suk right and then it's like defined it's also you know it's a number that's always defined um and it it's and again you know the way it's stated here the way the proof goes is it's not comparing two uh consecutive a um in any particular example the root test may not be the easiest way to argue. Often if you can for a power sense almost always I would say if if it almost in a power sense it's almost always easier to use the ratio test but it require that power shares has some nice property for this to apply. >> Yeah. So the reason you know that r is infinity for that example because you know for all x >> so in this example here yeah this guy is infinity which means that this thing here would be zero yeah >> but you like you know it's very >> but I didn't actually calculate you see I didn't calculate the end booth in this example but if I had calculated I would actually it's not very hard to calculate but it needs some small tricks and So and we have yeah which we haven't talked about but so that's why like let me talk about a few other things and then I mean so again I mean you you know I I didn't necess I don't think I can probably review all what I what I hadn't my review notes but let me just talk about a few of the problems that I had but again so the things I Let me just quickly mention the things I I I may or may not get to that I have in my review notes. So I had also poverty you know what is le what is le and so definitely review that also talk about the radius convergence um and maybe this is all and then talk a little bit about the power series for the exponential functions but again all the stuff we did on the power series for the exponential functions And you know at this point we have established it. This is like um it's more like uh I mean there won't be anything particular about I mean the exponential function itself could be on the uh midterm but it's not like you would have to prove the properties of the exponential function. This property that it has property that the exponential function of x + y is like the product of that kind of stuff. It's not on the midterm. Okay. So, I didn't so it's not part of this review. The other thing that I probably won't get to because I in a minute I'll just turn to these other problems is that metric spaces definitely review metric spaces. Uh it was in the last lecture. So, you know there's a bunch of you know like there's three properties for metric space. The distance should be non- negative. It should be symmetric and the distance between two points should be zero if and only if those point are the same. And then the crucial the crucial property in the metric space and that's like the powerful property is the triangle. Okay. And so there was a few examples and review those examples. I I there in my review notes like the most important example I would say this the French world metric is kind of uh you know crazy uh metric that's not one of the important ones so I just in just the most important ones and then there's this with what does it mean to be convergent in a metric space and what does it mean to be a C sequence and so now let's get to a couple of the other uh problems that I suggested that you look at u and so so here are two other problems u and again you know I won't get to there's also problems about message bases and you should definitely look at it but I I don't have the time even though it's relevant for the mum uh I just have to pick some all of all of the problems that I I I have four problems here. All of these are okay. So now uh suppose you take suppose you take a sequence. So I have a sequence here xn and so often a sequence is defined recursively. So recursive so recursively defined sequences. So what does it mean? It means that typically you have the first one is defined to be whatever and then the next one is defined from the previous one. And so the one I was suggesting looking at here is that you said this here the first one. Um right and then actually let me let me and then the next one let me just do this one here. It's actually simpler than what I have in my notes, but maybe that one. But but I just want to So the next one is defined to be xn. Okay. And so then uh right. So now uh the question will be uh for what for what a does this have a limit the sequence have a limit and so you see that in this case we only have four minutes left so I only say few but this is also it just you do I just wanted you to review what it means like for a sequence to be defined recursively okay and so you see that in this is right. You have you have that this thing here. It is going down. It's actually going down. It it even could go down by a fraction. But now it's like if you're looking at this thing here, if you're looking at XN, this here is definitely going to converge. Whatever you start with. So I claim that you will always get that you will always get that xn here converted to zero and it's just you see that if you when you have something recursively it's often can pay to just write out the few first few terms. So you have x and a x2 is equal to uh a over uh y a is also a right because it's the previous one. H x2 is now uh a / 2 x4 is then uh a / 2 / 3. So this is a / 6, right? and so on, right? And so if you continue like this, you will see that they get that it's like a divided by some larger and larger number, right? And but you have to of course write it nicely out as a proof, right? But this is so this is proving that. But again, you know, this here, if you just did what I did, that would not be enough to get full credit, right? So definitely write out the other thing in the last minute here. The other thing uh uh the other thing here for my example here we look suppose you take a series like this and suppose that a yeah here was less than 1 / n² and then the question could be is this series is the series because you knew this but that's all you know is the is convergent or divergent or divergent, right? And and and and then I say in the notes here, I mean in the in the review here, right? that if either you should prove that for all such series it's convergent or if that's not the case you should give an example of a series with this property that is divergent because obviously if all the a was zero it would be convergence right but it still could be another series with a end that property that was divergent right but in this case it is going to be convergence. And why is it convergent? Because that this series here is convergence, right? But we've already seen. So this here would be like the simple comparison test like the first comparison test. Okay. So um right. So these are just like examples of things you should be reviewing. Right? They are this like these sinks here, the two sinks to the end that like this one here like this is super fast. So don't expect it to be quite as fast on the m but it just give you it just give you an idea of what you should be doing. Okay.