Uh last time we talked about the picard uh lindelof theorem. And so this theorem is about uh solutions uh to to ODEs. And so specifically it's it's asking that so you have a function uh f and a function g and uh f here is is is differentiable and the derivative of of f as well as g are continuous. And then the problem is that you're looking for solutions. So you want a solution. So looking for a solution y to the OD where the and the OD is that the derivative should be equal to f of y. So at some point uh x uh the derivative of y should be equal to f of y of x plus g of x and uh you are looking for that uh that this function that y of zero say is equal to a. Okay. So this is what's called the initial condition, right? And this is so the this is equal to that. And so in order to uh so we want ex you uh existence. So want existence and uniqueness. So existence just means that there is a solution for a given a there is a solution. Uniqueness means that if you have two solutions uh to this uh od then they will have to coincide. And so uh we uh the way we were setting it up was that we were using so using the contracting mapping theorem. So the contracting mapping theorem is the following that if you take a metric space X and this metric space is so X comma D is a metric space is a cushy complete uh metric space uh then a contracting map. So a contracting map um is a map t from this metric space into itself. So that um um and a constant C strictly less than one. So that if you measure the distance between the images, the images are squeezed together. So this means that the the distance between the images is this constant that is strictly less than one times the distance between x and y. So this is a contracting map. And the contracting mapping theorem say. So the contracting mapping theorem uh is is the following that uh there exist if you have a cushy complete metric space and you have a contracting map like this then uh t has a unique fix point and remember that a fixed point. So a fixed point this is a x in this space so that t leaves it invariant. Okay. And so we proved this we proved the contracting mapping theorem last time. Now how were we going to use this for this OD? So we define so if if um if I here is an interval containing containing uh a zero. Then we defined uh n u is a function. So n u and sorry y is a continuous function. Then we defined t of y. So this is a continuous function on on the interval on i. Then we defined a another continuous function on the same interval as follow that the t of y. So this is going to be a continuous function. So in in x this thing here is this is a because we want it to have value at zero a and then we're integrating from zero to x of f of uh y of s plus g of s ds Right. And so this so this here gives you a map from t gives you a map from the continuous function on this interval into the continuous function on the interval. And it also has the property that if you take a function and you evaluate it at zero then you get a okay. And now we observe that in fact this the image here the image is if you define when you define it like this by the fundamental theorem of calculus this function here is differentiable. So this function is so it actually takes so t actually takes the space of continuous functions into the space of functions that are not just continuous but actually differentiable and even the derivative is continuous and the ones that are um so this here is a space of functions. So this is functions that are um that are where where the functions y so that y prime exist and is continuous. Okay. So right and so now what we saw last time was that by the fundamental theorem of calculus of calculus. Um the derivative Right? So by the fundamental therm calculus the derivative of this function if you take y and you take t of it this is now a function and it's differentiable and the derivative is f of y. So at x it's f of y of x plus g of x. And so this means that if so if y is a fixed point for the map t. So if it's a fixed point, this just means that t of y is equal to y. Well then then this thing here is the derivative of y. So then it means that y here solves the right. We have already checked that the initial value we did that uh somewhere here we already checked that the initial value is what it should be and if it's a fixed point then the derivative is also what it should be. Right? Okay. So we want to find a fixed point and so what we did last time was that we saw that if we if we restrict the interval. So last time what we proved is that if we restrict the interval. So last time we showed so we set m here equal to a absolute value of a + 2. And then we saw that there exist a delta zero at delta zero greater than zero. So that such that if you restrict to the interval if you're looking at the interval of continuous function so the interval of continuous function on this little So this is a interval around zero and you're looking at this map. Then this map here well first of all we already know that it takes this the space of continuous function into the space of continuous function. But we have something more that we have that if you're looking at the subspace of this which is a space of functions y that are here and you also require that the norm here is lesser equal to m. Then takes this space here into itself. Right? This is this lema that we proved last time, right? And and so okay. So so this this space here, right? You can think about this space here as we did last time as then we defined we defined we define uh capital R equal to uh no actually so we we defined uh we looked at the balls I guess just on on this so we looked at the ball of freighers capital n in in in this around the zero function. So this thing here is the closed ball in the space of continuous function with the metric that we've been using and this set here we can think about if we want as this set. Okay. Okay. So now what we have is so we have so the setup now is that we want to find a fixed point for this map T right we have a space that we want to look at and the space is again now we're going to think about so just to so this is the space we're looking at but this is what we before have denoted like the ball in this metric space it's a centered at the function function that is constant zero and this is the radius right and so I'm I'm now looking at this this map so we have now shown that it take this metric ball into itself okay and I want to find a fixed point want to find a fix fixed point of t. Okay. So I need to I need to show So we want to show that T is a contracting map, right? Because if it is a contracting map, then we already know that if you take a closed interval like this and you equip it with the usual distance that we have, this here is this here is cushy complete, right? But now if you take a cushy complete space and you're taking a closed subset and this here is a closed subset then this here is also cushy complete this here is also okay. So if we could prove that t from this space into itself is a contracting map. So it means that the existence C strictly less than one. Then we would have a fixed point and we would have a solution to the OD. Right? The thing is that this is not quite going to do it. It's not quite a contracting map, but so so we will need so for it to be a contracting map. We need to restrict the interval further. Okay. So by that I mean that we so we need to find we need to we need a delta to be we need to show that there's some delta it will actually be less than so we need to show that there's some delta that is smaller than this delta zero and so that if you restrict to this space here now it's a continuous function I won't define the I won't I will denote the ball by the same but this here is actually a ball in a different metric space because this is now a ball in the continuous functions on this smaller interval. Okay, but it's for the same radius. Okay, so if we restrict the map to this space here then on this it is a contracting map. Okay. So we need to cut down the interval. Uh okay. So now how do we do that? So so we need a contracting property again. And so suppose you take two functions. These are continuous maps on some interval say from right here again delta is now that's the delta we're looking for and it would be smaller than delta zero so since it's smaller than delta zero we already know that t that so we have two maps like this they are both supposed to be in the ball so this means that this thing here is less than m and we know we have already proven just because delta is less than delta zero that t of this function here has norm less or equal to m. Okay. So, but now let's look at the difference. So, t of y1 uh of x minus t of y2 of x, right? And then we're interested in the norm here. And I and now x here is in this smaller interval. Okay. So now let's just write down what the map is. So the map here is the integral. So it's a sorry it's a plus the integral from zero to x of f of y1 s plus g of s d s minus a + the integral from zero to x of f of y 2 s + G of S DS, right? And now you see that the A's cancel, right? The A's here cancel and the G of S that those also cancel out, right? So you left with that this thing here is the absolute value of the integral from 0 to x of f of um y1 of s minus uh um f of y2 of s ds. Now we So last time when we proved that at the map He takes this ball into this ball we used we defined. So let me just define that again. We defined L1 and N1 was the the maximum of actually uh uh um I don't remember whether it was called L1. Let me just call it L uh to not call it some. So uh L here is the maximum of FP prime um of of offset where set here has no less or equal to M. Okay. So this is so f prime exists and is continuous. So on this interval here it has a maximum. Okay. So it's a nice finite number. And so now we use the so by the mean value theorem the mean value theorem. By the mean value theorem, we have that f of set one minus f of set 2. As long as set one and set two are uh are in the interval from minus m to m. Then we have that this difference here is equal to the derivative in some intermediate point set sigma s I guess s times the difference between the two set one minus set two. So we have this right this is the mean math theorem and so we have that uh therefore we have that the norm here of the difference is bounded by this here when we take the absolute value of this we're getting the absolute value. So this here is is equal to the absolute value of frime sigma time z 1 minus z 2. This thing here because these two are in this interval this is bounded by by capital L. So you're getting this. And so now if you use this fact here and you use this on this. So this thing here is less or equal to the integral from zero to x and I can take the absolute value in under the integration sign. So I get f of y1 s minus uh f of y2 s ds right and so now I can continue this string so I have what I'm interested in is g of y1 at x minus g of y2 of x and I'm interested in the abs bound for the absolute value and I have that this is less or equal to the integral from 0 to x of f of y1 s plus f of y 2 ds and now I know that this interval here right x is supposed to lie in this interval here so this means is that that this the length of this interval from zero to is at most delta. So delta and then I can take the maximum of this or I can take the uh that's right I can take the the maximum of this but you see that this thing here is bounded by so this is the maximum is the maximum and if I use this inequality here it's bounded by L and then it's applied this here you should think about as set one and this here for each x you can s you can think about this as set one and set two and so you're getting this thing here times y1 s - y 2 s and here s will now lie in the interval um in this interval here oops Right? And so now you see that this is just a constant. So this is equal to delta L. And then this maximum S lesser equal to delta Y1 minus Y2 like this. Right? This is evaluated in S. But I wouldn't I don't write that. Okay? And this thing here. But this is just delta L. This maximum here is just the distance between this function and that function. That's how we define this distance. Right? And so you see that this right hand side is now holds for all x. So this means that we have that the maximum of this thing here over x where x is in the interval between zero and delta. So this means that we have that the distance between t of y1 and t of y2. This thing here is equal to the maximum. This is how we define that distance after all. Um and then it's of this thing here sorry uh x minus t of y 2 in x right so we have that this and this inequality say that it's less or equal to delta uh L D Y1 comma Y2 and so you see that now if you so L here was just a fixed constant right if I now set delta just to make sure that there's no problem I'm setting delta equal to 1 / 2 L I don't really need the one but I I I'll just do it like this so I don't have zero in the denominator if I choose the delta to be equal to this. Right? Well, then you see that this thing here the the inner product of these two is less or the the product of these two is less than a half. So this is less or equal to I can just place it by a half like that. Right? And so you see this is exactly what it means to be a contracting mapping. In fact, it's a contracting mapping which is pretty nice that the constant it's not just strictly some constant strictly less than one but it's actually a half right. So it's a contracting mapping theorem a contracting map and so now by the contracting mapping theorem we have a fixed point. Okay. So this solve the OD. Okay. And it do does more than that because a contracting mapping theorem says that it has a unique uh unique fix point. Right? So this means that and and if you have a solution to this, right? If you have a solution to this, then we saw last time that if it is a solution, then it is a fixed point, right? Okay. So now we almost have existence and uniqueness. Uh let me explain what is missing to the existence of uniqueness. So for that let me backtrack a little bit and talk about something about metric spaces. bases specifically uh about connected matrix bases. Okay. So suppose you have a metric space then we say that It is connected if um if x here is the only subset only subset. So, so the whole set itself is the only subset of of X that is is both open and closed. Right? Remember that if you take a metric space then the sorry if if X and sorry and and the empty set are the only uh subset of X that are both open and closed. Right? Remember that if you take a metric space and if you take the whole set or the empty set, those are all they're both always closed and open, right? And so it's connected if those are the only two subsets that are at the same time open and closed. Okay? And so now we have that we have the following we have the following lema or theorem just call it theorem that if you take a interval here with a usual metric here so this is so I here is a interval then uh the theorem is that that that uh this metric space here so is connected. Okay. So let's try to prove that. So I take now a subset here uh that is is both open open and closed. And we want to show want to show that if a here is non- empty then it implies that a is is everything. Right? So we're assuming that it's non- empty and then we should apply uh to try to prove that a is everything. So we let x0 be an element in a right but right we're assuming it's not empty so we can let x0 be an element in a and now I want to define um I want to I want to so I have here I have here my interval this is my interval I have here x0 and I take uh and I'm looking at the the y uh in in a so that um that if you take everything uh so that so y is an a and I'm going to look at y in a with y bigger equal to x0 and I'm going to look at the y so that that this whole interval here from x0 to y is contained in a so I'm defining so so define as subset here B of of I so that uh it's the y this subset b is the y in a with a property that it is that y here is big or equal to x0 and and you have And this interval here okay and now I want to show that so let's say let's say for the sake of argument let me assume that this interval is a closed interval like this it works equally well the argument with obvious modification work each equally well if it's open or half open uh interval. Okay. So I take some y here and I have so I have a y and I and y is so it's a set so that this whole interval is contained in a and what I want to show is so want to show that y is in a And this is the first thing I want to show. One is that y is in a and then I want the second thing I want to show is that y is equal to b. You see if I had proven both of these property right then it would be that so then um then um it would mean that everything here would be in a and including this last point right and so this means that we have this entire interval is in a is in I sorry and then likewise we could argue on the other side Okay. So now how do we prove this? So well the first thing is that if if um if we take so if we set sorry this is no sorry but that's this here should have been this here should have been y zero and this should have been the soup of y in Okay. So these guys and then this here and we want to prove that this thing here is in in a and uh and the second thing is we want to prove that this soup is actually equal to B. Okay, that's what we want to prove. So the soup of these well if you have if y z is a soup of elements then you have a sequence. So here you have y z and this means that you have a sequence of elements which are then in elements in the set B. This is soup of B. Mine is the same as soup of B. Sorry, soup of B. I write like this. So I take this set and these are the Y so that this entire interval is contained in a right and then I take the soup of this set and I want to prove that this soup is in A. And then I want to prove that in fact the soup is B. Okay. So that it's a soup of of such elements in capital B means that there exists a sequence of elements in B. So, so that y here y0 is the soup of b. This here implies that there exist a sequence y and these yn are in a and you have that x0 y is contained in a and and then you have that these guys converge to y z. Right? This is what you get from that is a soup. Right? These two things are that the elements are in that these elements. So this here is just that's the y in on b. So now what you have so this here means so here I have x0 here I have y z and I have these uh these elements y in and they are in particular they are in a okay but a is closed right since a is closed since y is in a and Y in and a is closed is a closed is a closed subset. This means that that the limit here the limit y z which is the limit this here must also be in a right. Okay. So we have proven the first property right we proven that that right so well so we've proven that y0 is in a but now you see that we have that for each of the y in we have that this interval here lie in a right and they converge to this so it means that if you take anything to the left of y0. Well, then eventually there's some y in to the right of that and so this whole interval is in a right. So you see that this it now means that not only is y z in a but y z is really in the set b. Okay, this here only used that A was closed, right? So now we need to use that A is open, So now suppose we take a element suppose. So now here we have x0 we have here b and we want to show that this y0 we define to be the soup of this set capital b. We want to prove that this thing here is in fact y zero. Right? Suppose not suppose that suppose not. So suppose that you have here strictly between these two this here is y z now we already know that y0 is in a. This is what we proved here. So but since since um uh a here is open there exist some tiny little interval there exist some interval here around this y z. So if you take y z and you subtract this epsilon so there exists some epsilon greater than zero. So that if you're looking at this tiny little interval centered at y z then this here is contained in a. This is just because a was open right. But this means that that now you have that. So this here is you assume this is y z. So you have that this thing here lie in the set capital A and this here I guarantee you that you can actually go a little bit past it right that even if you go a little bit past it if you go a little bit past it here then these are still in A right so this means that this could not be the soup right so therefore this point here had to be B right it had to be the final point. Okay, so this proved these two property, right? And so once you have these two property, you have that the interval is connected, right? That the only non-enty subset of the interval that is both open and closed is itself. Okay. Now why is this related to what we want? So this is just so we have suppose you take two functions. So why is this related to the uniqueness for the OD? So this is the following lema. Suppose you have a interval. So this is a interval in R and suppose you have two functions U1 and U2 they're functions on the interval and they are both continuous and then assume that for some assume that for some X0 0 in the interval uh u 1 of x0 is equal to u2 of x0. So they coincide in one point. And assume you have a second condition. And the second condition is that if uh if u uh of u1 of x is equal to u2 of x then there exist there exist a neighborhood so a epsilon where this is allowed. not to depend on x. So that uh u 1 is equal to u2 in not just at x but actually uh on this little interval x minus epsilon x + epsilon. Okay. So you have these two properties. So you have two continuous functions on an interval. They agree at one point and if they agree at any point in this interval then they agree on a little neighborhood of that point. Okay. But the neighborhood may depend on the point. Okay. And then the statement is so the claim is that that U1 is actually equal to U2 everywhere. in in the interval where they defined. Okay, that's a claim. Okay. And so now you see that if you take if you're looking at so the proof of this is that suppose so proof suppose you define a function uh and this function here is u1 of x minus u2 of x. If you define it like this, u1 and u2 are continuous. So f here is continuous. You also have that f of x0. Well, this is u1 of x0 minus u2 of x0. And these two function coincided at x0. So this is zero. You also have that if f ofx so if f of x is equal to zero. Well right now then then you have by this second property here this property here. So if f is zero this is just meaning that the two function coincided at that x just means that there exist they exist a delta epsilon sorry epsilon greater than zero such that uh f um of um of y is equal to zero in this little interval around X and so you have that and now I claim that so now the claim is that the zero set so the set where the function f is zero this is both open and closed. So the claim here is that that the set u capital a this is the set of x in the interval where f of x is equal to zero that this here is both open and closed. Right? We already know that this set this is follow up here that that x0 is so since since x0 is in this set then we have and the integral is connected and I is connected. If this set is both open and closed, then we have that then uh a is equal to the whole interval. Right? So this means that the that f is constant zero which means that the two functions coincided everywhere. Right? And so we just need to prove that f is both uh open and closed. But the zero set if you take a continuous function right. So if if f here is continuous and you have a sequence so that each element here in the sequence is zero and these xn converts to some x. Well then by continuity right by by continuity f of x would also be zero. This is by continuity right we already so this means that this set here is definitely closed right and the open thing with the open is just exactly this property that we're assuming that if you have an element in it each element is interior which means that there is this little interval around it right so you have we have proven that it's both uh closed. We prove that first and also open. And so we have that that if you have two such function defined both continuous and defined on an interval they coincide at one point and if they coincide at one point then they coincide in a little neighborhood. If you have two function with this property then they must be equal in the whole interval. Right? Okay. So now how does this relate to the the uniqueness that we wanted to prove? So we're starting again. So we have the so we have so this is again the picard linder theorem and this is the uniqueness part. And so you're looking at again you're looking at solutions to to this OD. Um and we have that now we had that um in a we have that in a so and then we let sorry and let y1 and y2 be solutions and let's say that these two they may be defined on different interval of course you know but but you just take the intersection of the two intervals that they're defined. So suppose that they're both defined say on the same interval like this and this interval here and I of course has to include the zero where we want this condition. Well then we have what do we have? So we have a interval and we have two continuous functions. They're actually better than continuous. They're differentiable and even the derivative is continuous. But but never mind that. Uh we have that we have that y1 of zero is equal to a and that's equal to y2 of zero. So they coincide at one point. And now the you the Picard Lindelof theorem said that because there were two solutions if you restrict the interval right to looking at this little interval around zero but then there was a unique fixed point right so it means that in a small neighborhood of the origin so two in a small neighborhood of the origin. This is again this is thanks to that in the contracting mapping theorem you had a unique fixed point in a small neighborhood of the origin y1 is equal to y2 right but actually the pical line the argument would work at any other point right suppose you take any other point then you and you take a solution to the OD well if If you take another point then the value so suppose so so if you take so take you any other point so here you have zero and so now take any other points let's call it x0 and if you assume that these two functions coincide at this point so suppose that y1 of x0 is equal to y2 of x0. If you now restrict this interval, make it sufficiently small, then the argument of picard lindelof tells you that you had this unique fixed point. So you had a unique solution on this little interval. But since they coincide at this point, it means that they must be the same in this little interval. And so you see that now we have the condition for for the lema okay for the lema that said that so you have these two continuous function and they were equal at one point and if they're equal at a point then they're equal in a whole neighborhood. Okay so these two functions these two solutions are equal on the on the interval where they're both defined. Okay. Now Okay. Okay. So now you might and and then I want to do a little bit of review at the end. So at least say something about the the final. But before we get to that, let me just make one more observation about the picard line. So you may say that in the proof of the picard linder we kind of had to restrict the interval. Is that really necessary? Why should we restrict? Why should we only be able to say that we had a solution in a very small interval? And so if you're looking at the example, suppose you're looking at the example where y where f so f of y is equal to y 2 g of x is equal to zero. And so you're looking at the OD the solutions here y so that's uh y prime is equal to y 2 and uh let's say equal to a uh form uh x uh equal to x0 okay so suppose you're looking at a like this right so at this x0 you want the value of the function to be so you want sorry y of uh x0 uh equal to want maybe I should maybe this is a little bit bad notation so I want a a function so that y prime is equal to y^ 2 and I want y of x0 = a Right. Okay. Now let's say that x0 and a are both positive. So if you're looking at this OD then then you can just this one here is easy to solve because you have a function you have a function y prime equal to y² and now let's try to find a solution in a neighborhood of x0 but there supposed to be positive. So in a small neighborhood it's positive. So I can divide by y^2. So I can looking at so this thing here is equivalent to that y prime over y^ 2 is equal to 1. And this thing here I can write as 1 / y prime * -1. this thing here, if you're looking at this function here by the chain rule, it's equal to that, right? And so this means that now you can apply the fundamental theorem of calculus. And if you're integrating this function here and you're integrating it from uh two values uh x0 to x uh d uh uh d of s sorry this is the prime. Then what you get is that this thing here is equal to well on one hand by the fundamental theorem of calculus it's 1 / y of x minus and then there's a minus sign sorry this here because of this minus sign. So it's minus this plus 1 / y of x0 and on the other hand it's equal to this and when you're integrating this on this interval here so this also equal to x0 x um and then one d s this thing here is just x - x0 x - x0 okay So if you solve it then let me just write the result. If you check what this gives you, this gives you that um when you solve it like this, uh you're getting you're getting that y here is so you have this od here and you're assuming that these things here are positive and then the solutions are of the form y of x = a over 1 + a uh x0 - x right and so what you should observe here is that this thing here right as this is not defined. So this is note that y is not defined uh on all of r. But instead as x here goes to uh x0 um + 1. As x0 goes to this, this thing here goes to minus one. So the denominator goes to zero. So the function blows up. Right? So this is so this here show you that it does in a neighborhood of this point. It has a solution but that neighborhood is not you know it's some relatively small neighborhoods and the function you cannot extend it past a you know past as a a certain value you can't extend it past in this case you can't extend it past this point here so to the left of this point to the sorry to the to the right I guess of that Okay. Okay. So now I want to say a little bit about the the final. Yeah. Sorry. >> Why is it that you can't um once you reach that point where it blows up does it like it never solves differential equation past that point? >> Yeah, that's right. So so the thing is so so right. So this here this OD is going to force it to once this here once Y become large then why become really really large so it become large too quickly so it becomes quickly so that so it would give you some sort of OD like this that you have some critical value where you couldn't extend it past that because it is it will have like a a tangent that is that is going vertical like this. Okay. And >> so you can't So, so this means that there's, you know, that's right. So, so um but so, so you have a solution that exists on some interval, but it doesn't exist past this point. So, you can't have a solution, uh, you know, on some interval larger than than this to the left. and and this is probably a similar phenomena on the other side, right? Okay. But and it's like a kind of standard prop, you know, standard uh issue that for uh differential equations you can get blowups like this that that this is a particular simple examp. Any other questions? Um okay, great.