Okay. Um, it's time to move on to second order equations. First order equations we've done pretty carefully. Second order equations are a step harder and but they come up in nature. They come in every application because they include a an acceleration a second derivative. Okay. So this would be a second order equation because of that second derivative. I'm often going to have constant A, B, and C. We have enough difficulties to without allowing those to change. So A, B, C constants. Uh, and I doing the null solution to start with. Later there'll be a forcing term on the right hand side but today for this video null solutions and the point is now what's new is that there are two null solutions. So y null will be a combination of e and they're both exponentials. The having constant coefficients there means exponentials in the solution. So e to the some exponent and another one to a hopefully different exponent. Sometimes if s1 equals s2 that'll be a special case and we'll have a slight change but this is typical. So we have two constants c1 and c2 in the null solutions and we need two initial conditions to determine those constants. So previously for a first order equation we were given y of zero. Now when we have acceleration we give the initial velocity y prime of zero. Y prime I use may I use prime as a shorthand for derivative? y prime of zero is dydt at zero. So two conditions will at the right time determine those two constants. And just to say again so second derivative will be y doublep prime and that represents in physics it represents acceleration change in velocity. Change in y prime is yblep prime. And in a graph of a function, yblep prime shows up in bending of the graph. Bending of the graph because bending is a change in slope. Bending is a change in the slope. And the slope is y prime the first derivative. So to measure changes in y prime which will bend the graph the the my chalk would be a tangent line. As that changes that gives us a yblep prime a second derivative. Okay. So I'm ready for some examples. And the first example, the most basic equation of motion in uh physics and engineering, I would say it's called harmonic motion and B is zero. That's the key point. B is zero. So we have a it's Newton's law. And so a will be the mass m yblep prime second derivative b is zero later b will be a damping term a a friction term a resistance term but let's have that zero so we're going to have perpetual motion here plus the force so this is Newton's law m a is f= ma the force is proportional with a minus sign. So it's going to come on this side as a plus proportional to y. There's the equation. No, no y prime term. m yp prime + k y = z. Starting from an initial position and an initial velocity, it's like a spring going up and down. or a clock pendulum going going back and forth and it we'll see it it so it's going to be well we want to solve that equation so do we see solutions to that so if I had if m and k were one suppose m and k were one I'm looking for second derivative plus the function is zero second derivative is minus the function I Immediately think of sin t and cosine t ss and cosiness because the second derivative the first derivative of s is cosine the second derivative is minus the sign it gives us the minus sign here the plus sign there zero. So the the these special solutions here are y is this is the null I'm finding the null solution is let me call them c1 times the cosine and now I have to figure out the cosine of what I want the cosine to satisfy to be a null solution satisfy my equation let me put it in it there's a square root of k over mt and you have to see that if I take two derivatives of the cosine that will produce minus the cosine which I want and because of that the chain rule will bring out this square root twice so it will bring bring out the factor km m for yblep prime and that factor k / m. The m's will cancel and I'll have the k that matches that k. It's a solution. And the other solution is just like it. It's the sign of this square root of k / m t. That's worth putting a box around. That's what I mean by free harmonic motion. Something is just oscillating in rotation problem. Something is just going around a circle at a constant speed. So, and notice well notice I haven't these are not the same as those cosiness are related to exponentials but not identical. So I could write the answer this way with using cosine and s or as you'll see I can write the same the same formula using exponentials complex exponentials. Everybody remembers the big formula that allows complex numbers in here is Oiler's formula that the exponential of I omega t is the cosine plus i * the s of omega t. I'll write it again. That that that's a solution. It's got the two it's got two null solutions. They're independent. They're different. If we've got two constants, because our equation is linear, we can safely multiply by any constant and add solutions and they stay solutions because we have a linear equation and zero on the right hand side. Good. Uh, of course, we can't write this square root of a over m k over m forever. Let let me do what everybody does. Introduce omega. It's omega natural. The N here stands for the natural frequency. The frequency that that clock is going at. And that is the square root of K over M. So our equation, we could rewrite that equation. Let me rewrite that equation to make it simple. I'll divide by M. No problem to divide by M. So then I have yp prime plus k / m which is omega n^2 the natural frequency squared y equals zero. That's let's put a box around that one because that's you couldn't couldn't be better than that. The constant a is one. The constant b is zero. the constant C is a known omega n^ squ depending on the the the pendulum itself. Okay. And the solutions then I'll just copy this solution. Y null is c1 cosine of omega n t because omega n is that square root and c2 sine of omega n t. Oh well, wait a minute. I can figure out what C1 and C2 are. So coming from the initial conditions, right? The initial conditions. If I plug in t equals 0, then I want to get the answer y of 0. The the known initial condition, the place the pendulum started swinging from, the place the spring you you pulled the spring a distance y of 0, you let go at t equals 0. So I'm plugging in tals 0. At tals 0, that's zero. Forget the sign. This is one. So I I discover that C1 should be Y of zero. Simple. C1 is Y of zero because that gives me the right answer at T equals Z. And what about C2? Can I figure out C2? Well, that's going to involve the initial velocity, the derivative at t=0. So the der because the derivative of the sign is the cosine which equals 1 at t= 0. The derivative of this is the sign which is zero. So the when I'm looking at y prime, the derivative, I'm looking here at t equals z. And I want y prime of zero. But I don't just want y prime of zero. Do you see that? That doesn't have the right derivative at t equals z. Because when I take the derivative and omega n, that constant, you remember that constant, the derivative of of this will bring out an omega n. So I better have an omega n down here to cancel it. And now I've got it. That tells me the motion forever and ever. Energy is constant. Potential energy plus kinetic energy. I could speak about energy but I won't. That's that motion continues forever. Free harmonic motion. Free harmonic motion. Okay. It it goes on and on. Okay. And again, uh, I could write this in terms of complex exponentials, but I'm pretty happy with that form. It's hard to beat that form. Okay. So, uh, what else to what else to do here? First of all, we're going to have cosine omega t's for quite a while. I better d draw the graph of that simple familiar function. And so here's a graph of cosine omega t. So here's t, here's cosine of omega, here's zero, here's two. Well, let me see what I get. So I go cosine of omega. Cosine of omega t is what I'm drawing. Not cosine t. Cosine t would go 0 to 2 pi. But I have cosine of omega t. So cosine of omega t is what I want to graph. So it starts at at one and it comes back it drops comes back up comes back to one. But what is this t final? The the period this t is the period of the oscillation. It's the time it takes for the swing to go up and back. It's And what is that? That would be So I'm looking So I'm graphing coine of omega t is what I'm graphing. So omega t starts out at zero where t is zero and it goes up to So I want omega t. when I get here this omega t should be 2 pi right then I've completed the cosine uh one one uh rotation around the circle one movement of the pendulum back and forth is in that picture now okay so omega t is 2 pi right the period is t. I think of omega as the circular frequency. Omega is in Omega is in radians per second. That's that's my that's the units. And units truly are important to keep track. O omega that's omega radians per second when I multiply by the period the t in seconds I get 2 pi radians okay now in engineers and in everyday use there's another frequency called f for frequency probably okay so f you should know about f and its frequency is in hertz. So f is measured in hertz. H e r tz. H er tz named after the guy, not the tomato uh ketchup guy, but the Oh, that's hints. Anyway, sorry about that. Uh Herz, not the car. That's what I was trying to say. but the the German guy who was involved early with this stuff. So what is f? F is one. F * t is one. Instead of dealing with 2 pi, which counts radians, the one just counts complete loops, complete oscillations. So, so, so f f compared to omega uh f is smaller by a factor 2 pi. So, f * t is 1. f is 1 / t. Omega is 2 pi / t. So, putting these together, all I'm saying is omega is 2i * f. So when we say we're getting 60 cycles, so that's what I would measure TF in. FF would be in cycles is cycles per second. One cycle, 2 pi radians. This isn't big heavy math, but it's more important than a lot of math just to get these letters straight. So there's capital T, the period, and two measures of frequency. One is omega in radians per second, and the other is F in cycle, full cycles per second. So one is 2 pi times the other. Good. Okay. And we have this. Okay. I think we're uh we've got the key ideas here then for unforced motion pure oscillation going on forever. And uh let me just write what I already mentioned. A different way to express y would be with small c's e to the i omega n t and c2 e to the minus i omega n t. All I'm saying is that this form with exponentials is is entirely equivalent to this form with cosine and sign. That form allows me two constants capital C1 and C2. This form allows me two constants little one and C C2. And from that I have that. From this I have this. So So we really do have exponentials here. And the key message is that for pure oscillation those exponentials are pure imaginary exponent i omega nt. Okay that's the best example the simplest example the first example. Thanks.