Welcome back to our recitation. In this video, I want us to compute the following limit. It's the limit as n goes to infinity of the sum for i= 0 to n minus one of the following 2n * the quantity uh 2 i n^2us 1. Now, this might look a little intimidating to try and take a limit of this. Uh, but what I'd like you to do as a as a hint to you is that you should think about this as being potentially a remon sum of a certain function. So if you can figure out the function and you can figure out the appropriate interval uh that you're taking a remon sum over as n goes to infinity, you should be able to write this as an integral. And we know how to use the fundamental theorem of calculus to determine a definite integral in many cases. Hopefully this is a function for for which we know that the uh a way to do that. But so that's my hint to you is think about it. It's a remon sum approximating an integral and I'll give you a while to work on it and then I'll be back. Okay, welcome back. Well, hopefully it's been fun for you to look at this problem so far. Let me just remind you what we were doing. We were trying to comput a limit as n goes to infinity of the sum from i= 0 to n minus 1 of 2n * 2 i n^2 minus 1. So I gave you the big hint that this is this is probably going to be written as an integral. So let me let me show you some pieces of this sum that should help us see what the integral is and then I'll make a guess about what it is and then I'll try to give an educ an educated way to check my guess. So the first thing we notice is that there's one thing this is a product of two functions and one of them well of n I guess but this is a product of two things. One thing appears in every single term uh that you have for i. So this sum has n terms and they're all going to be 2 overn times this and the i is going to change but this does not change. This two overn does not change right? In fact I could even pull that out if I wanted but I don't want to pull it out of the sum right now. Now I want us to to look at what's actually going on um in this product. So if this thing is appearing over and over again and we know this is probably a remon sum then chances are this is our delta x. So delta x being equal to 2 overn we know delta x equals b minus a over n where b and a are our our left end point no sorry our right end point and our left end point right we integrate from a to b. So b minus a is the length of the interval. So this is really dividing up whatever interval we're integrating over into n equal sub intervals. So that's my first thought is that b minus a n is equal to 2 overn. And now we want to try and figure out well what the heck is this? Well when we take a remon sum remember when we take a remon sum what we get? We get the sum of delta x times f ofx sub i right and i is what's varying from 0 to n minus one. Let me put a little curve in here so we see those are two different things. So this is i= 0 to n minus one. I have this delta x here. I'm anticipating this is some f of x subi. And so the question is what f is it? Right? If I know what f it is, then I know that this sum will be equal to something the integral from a to b of fx dx and a and b will differ by two. So that's where I'm heading. So now the question is what is this a function of? is is what function is this I should say. Now first guess would be something like well I'm taking some quantity I'm squaring it and I'm subtracting one. So my first guess for this function is x^2 minus one. I mean that seems easy to me. Let's see if this would actually even make sense just by looking at uh the subscripts or the sorry the index the indices I have here. So what do I have? Well, when I put in I = 0, let's put down some of these values. When I put in I equals 0, I get 2 * 0 / n^ 2 - 1. And when I put in i = 1, I get 2 * 1 / n^ 2 - 1. And I go all the way up to 2 * n -1 / n^ 2 - one. So it's kind of a long sum there, but these are this is what our our sum of these things looks like if I pull out the 2 overn. So here I get 0^ 2 - 1. That looks pretty good. Here I get 2 * 1 / n^2 minus one. So it does look like I'm doing something taking something squaring it subtracting one. Does it make sense that these are the kind of x values I would expect to get if this were the remon sum sum of x^2 minus one? It does. And let's think about why I'm starting at at xals 0 here. It sure looks like. Let's look at what happens when I go all the way over here. What happens when n gets really really big is that this ratio approaches 2. So it's 2 * n minus one overn. n minus one overn. Uh as n gets arbitrarily large, as n gets really big, this approaches two. So this is approaching 2^2 minus one. So it's giving me more evidence that this is probably the function x^2 minus one. And now I'm starting to believe the interval is 0 to 2. I know it's a a length two interval. And it's looking like the interval 0 to2. Let's come back and talk about one more thing. The one other thing that you should notice is that how does this value differ from this value and the next and the next and the next? They differ by 2 overn. So each time whatever input I had previously, I'm now adding two overn to the next input. And that should make sense with what we know about remon sums because what I do is I divide my interval into these sub intervals of length 2 overn. And I'm evaluating at at one x value. That's I'm starting in this case at zero. Then the next interval is 2 overn more. And then I evaluate at that at that x value. The next one is 2 over n more. And I evaluate at that x value. So this is looking like I'm going to write it here. This is my guess. Integral from 0 to 2 of x^2 - 1 dx. And now to make myself feel good about this, I'm pretty sure it's that. To make you feel good about this, I'm going to divide this into four sub intervals and I'm going to show you what the remon sum with four sub intervals looks like. And then we can talk about um how it relates to this one over here. Okay. So, let me draw a graph. Actually, I'll use just white chalk again. Let me draw a graph of x^2 - 1 from 0 to 2. So 0 1 2 - one. Okay. So at at 0 x^2 - 1 is negative 1. At x= 1 x^2 - 1 is 0. And at 2 x^2 - 1 is 3. So hopefully this is all going to go into the video and in the video screen I mean and there we go. Something like that. So this is you know it continues over here but I'm really only interested in this part. So now let's look at what the sub intervals are. And now I'm going to get some colored chalk. So what are the sub intervals? I'm taking n equal 4. Okay. Okay. And so delta x in this case is 2 over 4 which is equal to 12, right? And so what are my uh what are what is my sum going to look like? Well, I am going to tell you that I'm also going to use left-handed end points. And I mentioned earlier why that is I believe maybe I didn't but uh I started off at at i equals zero and my first input value was zero. My last input value had an n minus one in it instead of an n. So I was doing somehow the second to last place that I was interested in here. So it's definitely more of a lefth hand endpoint thing. So I'm going to do this with lefth hand end points and I'm not going to simplify as I go. I'm going to write it out in sort of an expanded form. Okay. So let's write it out in expanded form. So the reman sum this is y = x^2 minus one. The remon sum is the first term is 12 times what? It's the value this x value which is 0 evaluated on this curve. So 0^ 2 minus one. The next term I'll just write them right below each other is 12 because again so let's let's draw a picture of what the first one is. Sorry. It's this rectangle, right? It's it's length 1/2 and it's the function evaluated at zero. The next one is length 1/2 and it's going to be the function evaluated at whatever this left hand end point is here. So it's going to be this area. So it's going to be length 1/2 and then the height is going to be at x= 12. So 12^2 minus one. The next one it's going to be this interval. Well, there's no rectangle to draw because it's just the output is zero at the left end point there. So, it's a it's going to be um it's going to have output equal to zero at length 1/2 and height zero, but we'll write it out anyway. It's going to be 1/2 times the quantity. Now, I went up 1/2 more. So, it's going to be two 1/2s 2 * 1/2^ 2us 1. Let me just show you why I did this. Okay, if we look at the picture here, I'd gone up one half from my initial value. Here, I'd gone up another 1/2 from my initial value. So, that's two 1/2s from my initial value of zero. The next one's going to be three 1 halfs. This is three 1 halfs away or commonly known as three halves. Okay, so that one's going to be uh 1/2 is the base length again times the quantity 3 * 12^ 2 - 1. And that is in the picture this rectangle. Right? So what do we see here? If we look at this these four pieces, what do we have? We have a 1/2 in front each time, which what was the 1/2? It was B minus A over N. So B minus A was two. N was four. So maybe I should have kept that as two over four. But it's a little easier to write it as 1/2 because of what I'm doing next. I square something, I subtract one, I go up by the value that this is from the initial one here. And so now I'm taking the output of of what was in here. I now take the output at one half more than what was here. Now I take it at two 1 halfs more than what was here or one half more than what was there. And then three 1 halfs more than what was here or one more than what was there. That's kind of confusing, but let's go back to the picture and see what it is. my my uh delta x was 1/2, right? So I evaluate at the first place and I evaluate one more up and then I evaluate one more up and then I evaluate one more up which gives me outputs here, there, there and there. Right? So really if you go back and you look at the formulation of the of the sum this was 2 overn times quantity 2 i n^ 2 - 1. You can see the 2 overn is my 1/2. And then this is maybe the hardest part to see, but that's the two over n is my one half again. And the i is this thing that's coming in as one 2 3. And so that i was going from 0 to n minus one. So I should have said zero, one, two, three. Right? So that i is the zero to n minus one. And then I'm evaluating that. And then I add them all up. So when I take the sum I get for n= 4 I get this. So in fact this is just a guess still maybe you should maybe you should convince yourself more. I'm actually convinced at this point based on not just this evidence but the evidence I understood before about how the how the function works. Maybe you want to compare it when uh when n equals 6 or something like that. You need a little more evidence to make you understand this particular piece. Um, but hopefully that makes sense to you that this is really just I * delta x and then evaluated somewhere. That's the main idea of this component. Okay. Well, hopefully this was informative to you. And if you want to know the exact answer of how to compute the sum, obviously you just take the integral. So I know you can do that. So that's where I'll stop.