The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Okay, this is this is what we use called ACE uh competitive excellence and it's not only at Pratt and Whitney. United Technologies is Otis, Carrier, Sakorski, um Fire and Chub. I mean they have a lot of different divisions but we all are working to the ACE competitive excellence operating system. It defines daily management system. It defines the human wear. It defines the culture, the hardware, and the competency. Which one up here is the hardest one to do? Culture. All of you guys here are super smart. You guys could probably write programs and do all kinds of neat things and really get things going. But the hardest part of this is the people. If you don't have the people engaged and if they don't see what's in it for them, it's not going to happen. What else does it take? Can I just walk into Pratt and Whitney, go to my desk, sit down and say, "Boy, I want us to be ace gold. I want to be the best best company in the world." What does it take? Commitment. Commitment from whom? sponsorship from your higherups. Correct. You have to have sponsorship from the higherups. It has to be part of the culture. It's a it's a set of tools. It's a way to to do continuous improvement. And competency is really just the training part of it. Making sure that people understand the common language across. The really neat thing about achieving competitive excellence. How many of you have ever heard about ACE achieving competitive excellence and you can't raise your hand? No, I know you can't raise your hand in the back. It is like six sigma lean to United Technologies. It's the same. It has the same. We have what we call process certification. It talks about the upper and lower control limits for statistical control. It's our six sigma program. So if you're ever out and about with maybe Carrie or Sakorski and somebody says Ace, that's what they're talking about. George David. How many of you ever heard of George David? Well, nobody back here. Nobody here. He is our CEO and he's retiring this year and Louis Shenevir is going to be taking over. But George David truly believes in ACE achieving competitive excellence. He is a he'll go to Wall Street. He talks about it. He believes it. And if you just read this comment here, that was in 2003, but if you look in articles in Business Week, he was named CEO of the decade in 2006. And he is a strong driver behind us. And why is why why what what makes it important good quality delighted customers also looking at employee fulfillment also looking at EHNS environmental health and safety and it's also looking at even though the stock market's been doing lousy the stockholders it's all plays together and it's a common language for many many years at Pratt. I've been at Pratt for a long time and you'd had the flavor of the month TQM work simplification Q+ but if you went outside of Prattton Whitney and went to another division in United Technologies they didn't know what you were talking about. Nobody spoke the same language. So ACE is a common language across all divisions culture. I can tell you when I walk into a plant, you can see it. You actually truly can see an ACE organization, a gold organization. And I'll talk about the different levels coming up here. And top line, leadership is engaged at all levels. And I don't see our our friend from the army back there. You were talking about the frozen middle. Yeah, we have the frozen middle, too. We have lots of excitement down here. Lots of excitement here, but we're having a little problem with the middle part, but we're getting there. Pratt uh has been doing this since 1996. And at Prattton Whitney right now, we have 22% gold sites. This is 2008, ladies and gentlemen. So that should tell you how long this process takes. It's a slow, slow process, but once you get it going, it's amazing. Should look kind of familiar. It's a learning process when you first start continuous improvement. A lot of people think, well, I'm going to move the waste paper can from that corner of the room to the other corner of the room and I'm saving steps. You got to think bigger, guys and gals. You've got to think bigger. What is the customer? What are your objectives for the company? Where are what's your business strategy? Somebody was talking earlier today about you need to look at the projects that have the most value. What is what's going to make some impact to the company? How are you going to really show some results? And so you need to look at the customer business strategy. Where are some of the opportunities discrepancy? Here's quality and your processes. And now you ref you referred earlier today about they talk about process flow and looking for problems. You do a value stream map, you see the problems. I mean, I'm not quite sure why they separate those two, but it's interesting. Here's any of you familiar with Deming? I should see a for a few more hands than just a couple. Plan, do, check, act, folks. It's the continuous cycle of improvement. Why do they call it continuous improvement? Never ends. You just keep improving. You keep improving. You establish your vision, your goals, your strategy. Metrics is perhaps one of the most challenging parts of doing continuous improvement. I cannot tell you how many projects I walked in on and said, "Hey guys, what are you going to measure? Is it throughput? Is it, you know, improving your schedule? What are you trying to do? What's your metric? How you going to measure the improvement?" Very, very key. and identifying gaps. Now, I've heard you guys talk about root cause analysis. Have they gone through root cause five W's fishbone diagram? Okay. Now, does any of this look familiar? But you see the title, it's the same 5S, 6S, value stream management, process control, and certification. Once again, that's our six sigma. That's how we do processert to make sure that we have things under control and measuring the variation. 3P total product maintenance. Yes, we did talk about P total maintenance instead of Okay, these are more for like manufacturing uh opportunities, production prep, preparation process. Sounds kind of crazy, but they they did this at Hamilton Sunstrand in Prattton Whitney, Canada. And I wish I would have brought you the videos because it's really cool. What they'll do is they'll they'll just lay it out with cardboard and actually run through the process to see where they can improve things. And it's a way of designing ahead of time instead of setting up the manufacturing area and floor without actually thinking about what the flow is going to be. It's very very useful. Market feedback analysis. Oh, excuse me. TPM. When you have a machine, you need to keep it working. How do you do that? You keep ensuring that it's working and you keep taking care of it. How many of you change your oil on your car? I This gentleman here, Harvey, you're scaring me. you you you're like, "Well, maybe when was the last time you changed oil?" I asked my dad to do it. Oh, okay. Okay. And setup reduction. That's just a way of when they're setting up uh machines, if they're like making this part, what do you have to do to to set up the part in the machine and how can you improve on that process? And there's a lot of work that can be done in that area. And that's another thing too. Prattton Whitney. Uh we've been in with a lean book. We've been written up in some books. Jim Walmack has written about us. First off, we started in the manufacturing floor. Boy, there's lots of things to do in the manufacturing floor and they really went out there and fixed things. But then they realized it's above the floor. That's your opportunities. Now, we're dealing with our friends in engineering and that's that's another story, but we're getting there. and uh trying to get them to understand how important it is uh to improve and to design ahead of time instead of waiting until something happens and then fixing it. Market feedback analysis, that's just a way of getting customer feedback. I think you guys are probably going to be filling out a customer feed at the end of the class. I hope. Okay. QCPC. This is a way that we collect what we call opportunities. When you're doing a process, is there anything that impedes the process? Like if I'm making this this book over here and I can't get the printer to fix that label, that would be considered a turnback. And you collect that data. And like you were saying before, it is absolutely data driven. Steve Finger, the president of uh Pratt and Whitney, is absolutely passionate about this discussion. He will say when he's in a meeting with you and you start waving your hands about things being wrong, he will say, "Show me the data." If you don't have the data, I don't want to hear the discussion. So data is key. Mistake proofing. How many of you use computers here? Okay. How many of you know Bill Gates? Mr. Gates. Software. Microsoft software. And some of the things that he's put in there is mistake proofing to make sure you don't make mistakes, errors. This is something very unique to Pratt and Whitney. I'm not sure if this is across the industry. What happens is like when you're designing an engine, takes years to design an engine. There's processes and gates that you go through. The passport process checks throughout the life cycle of that engine to ensure that you don't go to market at the wrong time that you are developing something that's not technically sound. It's a way to actually check the process of developing an engine to ensure that it's not any turnbacks. Decision gates decision gates. And we are big on passport process. In fact, we're in the process of doing some continuous improvement ACE competencies. Ido University ACE training high impact ace teams great I high impact ace teams are looking at the big issues throughout the company and working across the value streams and I know you guys talked about value streams and I don't know what level you talked about value streams are you talking value streams or you talking enterprise value streams lower lower Okay. Someday think higher because it really Yeah, I know. really makes and sharing of best practices. Pratt Whitney and I think a lot of organizations suffer from this. We don't really take the opportunity to share best practices. We really don't stop and say good job. Now they have developed a web page where they actually put best practices out there. qualifying bronze, silver, and gold. These are different levels of ACE competency. And there's a Shingo jitsu. Am I I don't even know if I'm pronouncing that right, but they have something similar to this. And this actually came from the Olympics. And believe me, to get to ace gold, you have to be 100% on time delivery, zero escapes. I mean, the metrics are um what what we call a behag. I mean they are some very very serious metrics to get to ace gold and this is just the the progression that organizations go through. Steve Finger had put out an edict about two years ago uh by May of 2008. All of Pratt and Whitney would be gold solid gold. Well, Steve has good intentions. Steve is a is a great leader. But we're not at ace gold for all of Pratt and Whitney. And I think about a month ago he came to the actually I was in a meeting with him in October. He came to the realization may not get there but it's making a great strides to get towards that goal and he's he's still pushing it. In fact, this morning I just received an email at how excited he is about ACE and where it's going and how it's going to help us for 2008. Sure. Yeah. One quick question. Is any part of United Technology the technology is not um ACE qualifying yet? There are different segments of it. We are about 50 51%. There's parts of them that are like at 10, you know, very low. They haven't really gone as far. In fact, out of all the divisions, Pratt and Whitney is the leader. But the other ones are still getting there. Yes. With regard to the different levels, are they based on more like a maturity model for adoption of ACE or is it more about meeting objectives from the business perspective? Both. when they come out and do an ACE assessment from core core quality, the ACE office, they will look for your what we have control towers, which you guys would probably call data cards or quality cards or whatever that actually have certain metrics that are that have to be met. Those have to be solid gold for 12 months. I mean, it's some really tough metrics that they're driven by. And then when they go and do the assessment, they randomly walk through the area, they do the 6S, which is our 5S, which we have safety as is the 6S. And they go through and actually see are people engaged? Are they actually talking it? Are they actually doing it? So it's a twofold. And let me tell you, the metric one, okay, the hard one, the people, very, very tough. And here's George David being quoted in the financial times. Uh it talks about six sigas done by black belts. Um we all he's talking about ace there also. And then here I just wanted you know what is his secret and how does he maintain this clear consistent mature repetitive throughout operating systems. And here's Louisie. This is the gentleman that's going to take uh George's place this year. And you can see in December 13th, this was last 2007, talking about their shares, earnings. By the way, today we're at $74 per share UTC. And uh earnings per share. And then if you look down a little bit further down his quote here again, he's talking about the ACE operating system. George is moving on. Louis coming in. it isn't going to stop. So that that's the good news. Now a lot of people say, you know, does this stuff really work? What what are you doing? I think the stock market can show you that that it is working for us. And also here's here's some friends from global services engineering. Believe me, if you you get the engineering folks engaged, this is good stuff. This is talking to some quotes uh from this group. I just want to show you some numbers here. Cactus wires is is a way that we communicate back and forth with our customers. 70% to 98%. Overdue wires reduced from 13 to9 72% in improvement in turn time 40% improvement in turn time for processing with engineering um survey. And I'm not quite sure how they do this, but for employee fulfillment, 65% employee fulfillment is the standard. That's that's what we're being told by HR. So, anything above 65% is gold, considered gold. And then improvement on the website. Here's another one from engineering. Customer feedback is 6.2. Employee SE survey 71% zero lost time injuries. Quality assurance data delivered 100% on time. Engineering standard work. How many times you go in and improve a process. Everybody has the cake and the banners and the pictures are taken and everybody walks away but nobody's written it down. Nobody is going to be able to repeat this process again. So standard work is very very important. procedures, a way to let people know how to continue doing the job. Here we go. Moving from a silver to gold is directly attributed to, and I don't want to read this whole thing, but I just wanted to throw some quotes in here from different people throughout the organization. And then this is uh AEDC. Remember if you remember AEDC we did some work LI did some work with them a couple years ago but they have really uh moved ahead 94 straight months without loss time injury just goes on and on and on standard work just some of the data showing you here what's going on and then that is actually a site manager Prattton Whitney talking about how ACE has really helped them on their journey to improvement And the journey continues. Like I said, we are only at 22%. You imagine when Prattton Whitney is at 100%. It'll be amazing. Is there any questions? Well, I got a question. Sure. Uh, and you kind of alluded to it, but let me just put it on the table. When I go into organizations and asked, you know, who's the most difficult, what's the most difficult group of people in your organization to buy into the lean transformation? The answer is always the same. The frozen middle people in the middle because they're worried whether their job really adds value or not and the engineers because the engineers say it doesn't apply to me. Doesn't apply to me. Yeah. So, what are you doing at Prattton Whitney to get the engineers on board? Well, uh Paul Adams who's the executive there, he's on this working together team and they all talk across to do the cross talk. I now sit in the engineering building and I cannot tell you how many times I hear them talking about their control towers, their metrics, their turnbacks. They're talking it. They were perhaps the last group to make that flip that switch. A lot of push back. And that's one thing. And and if you remember this George David uh why is he such a great leader? You got to repeat the same message over and over again for people to get it. And and they're getting it. They have to get it. Okay. We want to thank you for fighting drove two hours to get here this morning. And let me tell you, Massachusetts drivers. A little certificate of appreciation. Thank you so much. Thanks. Thank you.