The following content is provided under a Creative Common License. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mmit.edu. Well, good morning Clauddio. Good morning. Thank you again for coming. It's uh always a pleasure to show you the the factory to you. Um so before the main purpose of that I show you the value stream, the factory, the product flow. But before that, let me uh I'm going to give you a little uh preview of who we are. Yeah, everybody knows New Balance, but tell us about your journey. Specifically, you know, the Lawrence factory. Um the factory specifically is divided into you have standing here, you got to your left side the portion that we call the cut stitch. This is the made in America shoes that we cut from cut from scratch and we pack here. And to your right, my right side is the we call the source upper world. Uh we get the sole and the um and the upper from Asia and we just put it together. Now are you the only shoe company that actually manufactures shoes in the US? I understand. Yes, it is. That's what's behind me here. That's and that's where our competenc uh turnaround shoes in two or three days. Two or three days. Yeah. We can get it into the in the customer. We'll see that how you do that when we go through the value stream. Absolutely. I'll show that. Um so some statistics we uh packed 5200 pair a day and ship 5200 pair a day. We are 220 associates. Um which I'm going to show you when we go through operation the value stream which uh is a group operations uh putting a strategically in a cell shape to make a product um that has there's some history behind it and and it's very interesting. What you see here is the product of three and a half four years of lean transformation. uh three and a half years ago we decided to work with the Toyota production uh company uh to about the Toyota production system which is uh lean is another name for it. Not so long four years ago it used to take us eight days to make a pair of shoes. Eight day from start to finish. From start to finish you mean it didn't you weren't working on that shoe the whole time but start to finish. Well that's a good question because what we call the value added work which was only 23 minutes. So the shoe was floating in the factory for eight days with only associates uh touching the shoe adding value to the shoe for 23 minutes. When did the transformation after three and a half years we went from eight days to right now it take us between two and three hours in a value stream to produce a pair of shoes. So that's a 98% reduction and still about 23 minutes of value added time. Yes, absolutely. So, so there's actually still some room for potentially for improvement. Once you send lean and you come part of your DNA, you never stop. You'll see supervisors and uh flow coordinators which are our team leaders always with a watch looking at uh the site taking cycle times if there's opportunity to to improve. So we there are other statistics we reduce we were used to be in two floors. Uh right now we're in one. We emptied like a quarter uh I think it's like um close to 2500 square feet of floor. Um the beginning of a value stream that in those days were not called value stream was like straight lines. Uh used to be in the in the first floor the beginning and the end on the second floor. Not too much communication. Nobody could see the whole value. Exactly. And I'll show you later is the from a management point of view. the ability to have a a value stream where the beginning and the end meet is extremely powerful. Um so square footage is I think it's close to 30% reduction al working process like I said 98%. Um so this is incredible. So how how do we do that? Um part of lean there are two basic concepts. um t time which is flow that based on our uh capacity of the value stream and availability is a t time of 25 22 and a half seconds which means that it's a frequency tag time is a frequency of delivery. So at the end of the line you will see a shoe leaving every 22 and it has a pair of shoes every 45. Absolutely. So that's the concept of the t time and flow and the other concept of waste we become uh actually we have a course we call waste detectives where we put our sources to identify waste. So what is a waste from in in the is every associate a waste detective? Yes that's where they are. Everyone here is becomes a waste detective. I'll um I have a poster very interesting that I like to use for tours and also for educational purposes where in the lean world they are like the deadly wastes and they are I'll go through you over production we produce a head waiting and it's very interesting there are some uh interesting pictures with associates participating in them of the examples transportation over processing so just on the waiting for example eight days 23 minutes of value added. There was a lot of waiting. Lot of lot of you know. Yes. And it used to be normal. Now it's uh the transportation you had two floors before. Absolutely. Okay. Um over processing. This is this is interesting ways that people don't sometimes have to understand in this particular uh case this shoe to it needs a row of stitching at the bottom. Now they put two. People may think well two is better than one. No it's not. The shoe needs one. Okay. But sometime we tend to add two like maybe three cost of pain when two was enough. So we're looking into that. Yeah. Um excess inventory y waste I mean interesting assets seems to be in the balance sheet seems to be an asset but we'll see this as soon as we start the value stream walk. Absolutely. This actually this is the first part of the cutting department and there motion safety has a lot to do with here. Here you have an associate placing issue and overstretching very different from getting closer to you know associate um and defects. And we you know we add in a which is and use associate creativity. Wonderful. Uh it's wonderful. So when I'm what we've all been training here is that as we walk the floor we do analysis we are starting to identify this waste. We see somebody over stretching is motion we see somebody waiting. So whenever we see this waste we put together a continuous improvement activity called you know the kaizen activity. So the whole goal is reduce waste, improve flow. Reduce waste, improve flow. I want to see your value stream. Can we get started? Absolutely. Let's start it. Absolutely. Wonderful. This is uh the beginning of the value stream. So this is the front end of your value stream here. This is the front end of a value stream. And you you don't call this a department, you call it a value stream. The value stream and the definition is value stream is a series of operations uh put in sequence. we call it a cell to make a particular product. Okay. Uh it doesn't have to be one product, could be two product, three product, but there is some uh similar operations and then you can connect them. Okay. Now in in a little bit bigger sense, your value stream goes all the way back to your suppliers and you know eventually out to your stores and so on. But we're looking just at the value stream. Absolutely. Starting with what's coming from the suppliers and maybe at the end we'll see what's going out to your stores. Correct. And as as the concept of value stream is used within a cell in manufacturing the concept also true for the whole corporation whether where we say a purchasing department would be a department part of the the whole corporation value correct. Yeah. So, so, so what you see here is the cutting that's the first uh the first operation and basically materials are coming from our suppliers. Uh they come in rolls they go to the consolidation center and then pull based on the demand. Okay. Uh the the production schedule. So this value pulls based on its demand. Exactly. Exactly. And the materials are uh layered and we build what we call a web. Okay. It's a series of staples right there. Exactly. How much is it given to the cutter is based we have a computer system that based on the schedule of number of pairs the size and the width um we'll tell how many pairs we need and then how much you know u square footage. Okay. To the cutter basically. And how how frequently do you make that calculation? Well each work quarter like daily daily. Daily daily. And right now we're delivering the materials uh every uh of the daily calculation we deliver four to five hours worth of material. So that's kind of like a just in time. Absolutely. Absolutely. So the cutter we'll pick out what's called a die which is um has the shape of the part. Okay. We have hydraulic machine and place the dye on the material. The placement of the dice is called nesting. Nesting. Okay. And he said it's it's trying to minimize waste. I guess exactly. It's like a puzzle. Uh cutters may take from 3 months to 6 months to get good at it. U not only to understand where the dye goes but also make it with speed because talk about speed. Let let me talk a bit concept concept which is a concept of tag time. Okay. In the le in a lean world you the goal is to flow and to reduce waste. Flow and to reduce waste uh based on the demand in this value stream which is 50 cases a day. The case being 12 pair and the available time per day 600 pair a day that this value stream this value specifically and 7 and a half hours in a shift the the frequency of output is 20 2 and 1/2 seconds per shoe. That frequency is called t time. Okay, t time. Now although I just mentioned that the frequency is 22 and a half seconds per shoe at this stage because of the uh characteristics of the operation, we are not blowing one shoe at a time. We are still in a batch world. Okay. But a small batch small batches. In the pa in the past as I said before when we were our lead time was eight days um in a equivalent value stream we will have close to 400 cases of whip. Okay. Now when the lead time of 3 hours our working process is 20 25 cases. Okay. That's a reduction of 98%. So I see a little green thing on the floor that visual control says cutting rip seven cases maximum. Absolutely. Okay. That's all the space you got. So the cutters will cut the individual parts based on the material and they will be placing the parts on the on the bins. Okay. When they finish the hour, so here the the unit of uh of flow you can call it an hour could be between six and seven cases depending on the style. Okay. So while we're here, I I see a broom hanging up there. So I want to just ask you about 5S. 5S that's actually that's a uh it's very typical 5S is the um it's a system that um or organization you know it's a 5S that for source setting order shine standardize and sustain and uh it's much more than just cleaning and once you understand the 5S there are economics in place and there is a very key location of parts and this is the first system we implemented like 5 years ago. I was going to ask you, it's hard for me almost to imagine a place where it wouldn't naturally be 5S, but you had to start with 5S. You start with the 5S because one of the I think the mistakes is thinking that 5S is just a cleaning. So, everybody understands cleaning and so much to clean and when you start a new process, you can get so many gains by just cleaning. It looks good. There's much more to it. But the broom in that place with the label says broom, that's been it becomes part of your organizing yourself. Absolutely. And it's part it goes deeper. I think that FS is good actually a reflection of leadership. If you cannot get an organized workplace and clean you your chances of flowing product and meeting the attack time are very slim. So it has to do with the discipline. It goes much bit deeper than that than just the cleaning. Uhhuh. Okay. So this is the cutting department about bad seven cases. Now and we're going to walk to the next department is called the prefeit department part of the value. This is like the second part of the value. It's the second thing in the value. We got the cutting. Now we're going to do stitching. Exactly. The prefeit is a shoe making technique many years ago when we didn't have computers. The way a shoe was stitched is used to be fitted. Two parts coming together and a very uh skillful stitchers to put it together. But before be able to preit and stitch it um be fitted used to be pre fitted which is you do marking you do embroidery you do other things before you put the shoe together that's where the name coming from pre fit so we do embroidery okay put the logos or made USA logo it's there and then you will see a series of operations miscellaneous operations that are required to make a shoe for example reinforcement on the chip. Uh I talk about embroidery. Some cells take embroidery, others do not. Here we have a machine called AR radio frequency machine. It's not being operated right now, but as an example, this is a part it will make this decor. You know, it's a nice feature. This what this machine is going to do. Again, some cells have it, some cells do not. And if we go through the the the team, you'll see associates making other miscellaneous operations to the part to the shoe. So the flow of material starts over there goes to So we'll go cutting, refit, we'll go to the computer stitching and we'll finish up stitching and then eventually uh the assembly where they put the so on. So if if things are getting a little out of uh sequence timing wise, could someone from here go over and help debrief it people? This is a this is a very good it's a very good point. When we changed from the batch and Q world to the lean world, we changed the management system. In the past, you have uh associates and supervisor, nobody in the middle. in order to support the attack time of 22 and a half seconds um and maintain that flow. Now we changed the system where we have a supervisor, we have team leaders and then the associate. So team leaders fill in if there is a disruption any kind break to a phone call to a quality issue. They will jump in to maintain the team leader will absolutely team leader can do everything. Absolutely. Yes. So we still in this team in the pre fit we have batch the parts are pre fitted put a a reinforcement to the toe you make a little dec uh you know uh you put those associates there are making a little hole on the part they're putting back on those bins that we talked before and brought filling badge to this department is called computer stitching computer stitching so what I'm going to show you right now are uh stitching machines but they have a computer and cameras and the way it works you see an associate picking this kind of parts put a pallet these little holes is to put on pins and the pallet will be fed into this machine and you have lights taking pictures okay and a computer and taking picture to three frames per second. So the camera tell the computer this is the edge and the computer tell the sewing machine where to put the stitch. Okay. Okay. At this computer stitching department is when we transition from the badge to the flow and that's what I'm going to show you. Okay. Great. This associate here I I forgot to mention we talk about the different management system. Remember t time flow supervisor team leader to help but also we want associates to be on the line producing the shoes at that tag time. So another level is called the point of views okay associates the of the goal point of views is to bring the parts to okay the operators actually adding value to the shoe. So this lady's a point of use association. She looks pretty busy too. Very busy. They have to distribute you know in case a case every 9 minutes and they have uh a flow from this computer stitching to the next department and come back and flow. Everything is about flow. So you want to keep this person want to have everything she needs to do what she needs to do. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah, this person in the past in the past world this person will leave the machine we both pick up the parts come back. Um lot of variability in the system and reduction of waste is to reduce variability at the same time. They must have to work very closely together. Yes, absolutely. So here you have the computer stitching machine. Um these are the parts that came from the cutting and the associate puts the parts on this pallet. is fed into the machine. Goes back in the machine. You got the cameras taking pictures and now it's stitching and then the sewing machines stitching where the computer telling to stitch the P comes up. Here we got the parts. Okay. Now why only three parts is because under the tact time of 22 and a2 seconds that solid fits in this machine. Okay. So we look at we take all the time that is required to stitch a shoe. We divide it by 22 and 1/2 seconds and that tells us how many assources we need to put to flow. Now when you switched to the tack time uh approach did you have to redesign some of these machines to completely? Okay. In the past, the old machines didn't fit the tactics. I'm sorry. The machines are okay. We have to change the thinking of the designing of the pallets. Okay. In the past, in the B and and and and Q world, we were very proud when we could put as many layers as possible to save machinery. Okay. Uh the goal was a machine efficiency, right? Because you get rewarded in the in the batch world for machine efficiency. Right now the goal is into efficiency in associated to okay so what we did is now we don't pack as many layers as we can. We only put enough layers to maintain flow. The machine the same but the design of the pallet and the number of parts has changed radically. Very good. And did and did the associates participate in that redesign. Oh, absolutely. I mean that that's a great question and we talk about the team leaders. That's one of the major major changes that you know we're reading the books about our associates are best assets and I tell we we I think we're walking you know uh we're talking but we also you know we're doing great things here where associates have an great part you know in the uh in the problem solving activity in the design supervisors and team leaders consult them all the time uh that's when it makes a big big difference before we talk about patch. Now you see single piece flow. You have flow. Yep. So we got a cell here. And you have a cell. Exactly. I mean this is a very good graphical realization of a cell. You can see it all connected together. It's a good point. This is a good example of of blowing. Yeah. Blowing. And we asked them to not to have more than two pairs. It says right there. Two pairs only. Two pairs only. Yeah. Um Yeah. And you got you got you got some visual work instructions here. Absolutely. That's part of the standardized work where we define the standardized web and visual management is big part of it. And if if you have more if I see three pairs you know there's a problem these are such a problems having problems. Okay. The flow coordinator we call the flow coordinator the team leader. We call them flow coordinator. Flow coordinator. Yeah. It's the name we come up with. That's much better than team leader. Yes. Um because the goal is to mind saying the flow in a way. Well, the title flow coordinator means team leader focuses on them. Flow coordinator focuses on what they're doing. Exactly. Exactly. So, visually if you see three pair, the flow coordinator will come, you know, something is not right. So, uh visually powerful. So, Cladio, I see some little red dots or red color labels. What are those for? It could be that um this machine sometime are very sensitive to u to the shape of the part because you take a picture and the part is sort of warped it pulls the machine. So in shoe making technology we can have a stitch run up. So the associate put a little red dot and as it goes by the floor will notice fix it quickly and put it back into the line. Now is that something that came out of an employee suggestion? Probably. Yeah. and they they like to have that and they identify themselves you know at least the defect is there but they take ownership that's a big thing that changed in the past they were just trying to you know we have inspectors at the line putting the doors now defects happen but now they have ownership and and we I'm very proud we we created really uh an environment that it's okay uh to show the mistakes and it's not it's no problem and they're happy with that oh not a problem and very interestingly when we change from the adds to the lean uh standards are very important standardized work which is the definition sort of the best uh flow of product considering cost policy and economics and some people thought well if I have to do always the same uh management was concerned that associate with feel like robot and feedback that we got after few months of lean implementation is that they love to know what they have to do So management and even human resources concept that they would feel a robot was not correct and um what we're trying to teach them is that it's sort of a paradox because standardized work tells you always have to do the same thing but as you do always the same thing you have a foundation for problem solving for continuous improvement. So standardized work is a continuous improvement tool continuous improvement very it depends how you look at them. So through that repetition they will recommend uh changes. That's a really interesting approach because that makes standardized work be something where you're always trying to improve it compared to now we can forget about it. Right. Well that's the thing it sometime we go crazy never stops once you got those friends we wire for continuous improvement never stop and the goal of management is it really changed uh radically. Um manage management become more of teachers and coaches coaches always um challenges the thinking always uh production management call they always have to uh put have like gentle tension you you will not in my experience or what I read you will not introduce lean with that that tension you know it's it's it's a you know it's like I read somewhere else you know this is like a pressure cooker it's always pressure to just release the That's a very good analogy. Okay, great. Maybe we should move on. Yes. So, here you got the uh the case ready for the next department. Okay. And the case will be sent to the stitching department. So, I think we should go around and I'll show you from the beginning. Okay. Very good. Okay. Good. quite a lot of visual control here. Yeah. So this So I wanted to talk to you about that before we talk about the um the stitching cell. Okay. D time flow flow coordinators are required to keep detail of you have detail here of the plan versus actual if there are any deviation okay this is the production board for the last team that we haven't done yet but if there is a negative they have to put a reason in this case was waiting for the closing closing happens to be this is this is today's this is today so I have 5 after 8. This is 7 8:00. So immediately this is filled in. Yes. Cuz we're now on this shift here. Right. So we'll see and we'll see what happen. Okay. Okay. Um yeah that's a good observation. So from a management for supervisors managers you come here and you know we're waiting for closing. So the first question I will have okay why what happened the closing in the stitching? You have a board here that then the floor porn said machine number seven was done for 10 minutes. Okay, just big picture detail they have in their on their desk. They have a more detailed log that will tell them what happened with that particular machine. But you see how they connected very very good and in part of the supervisor and management to make sure that they make sense. They make sense. Morning. They broken the thread. Good morning. How are you? Good. You see they broke the thread. Broke the thread. That's why the thread broke. Bro, that's what we're talking about. She knows about it. It's okay. Is she the float coordinator? She the supervisor. 25 years in the company. Okay. What an asset. That's my team. Yeah. So, this is her team. I saw you. You're way up there. So, like we were talking before um we talk about the generation, problem solving, involvement, and we have a very simple way to um appreciate the ideas of our associates. Um to talk about interaction supervisor associates I will introduce to Rosemary Munos. She's our supervisor in the Y value stream. She's been with the company 25 years. Wow. So she's seen a lot from the the B and Q world to the um it's okay to budge and Q world to to the lean world. So any questions you want to ask her? It's um yeah that Rosemary that it's um really crit lean transformation lean the people are really the to me the key part critical part and you're a frontline supervisor and you have a value stream I guess this is a kind of a picture of your value stream here yours is the gold value stream uh so as supervisor what are some of the things that you do when you work with your value stream team the most important is to work you know with because like you know link is 90 like 90% associate in 90 and 15% you know the rest material or maybe supervisor the most important ones you know to introduce lean uh system and they understand and work with them you know that's the most important thing you know that we can do get that result now Claudia was telling me that that one of the ways you do this is you get suggestions from them you engage them with suggestions so like Maria here she's did some kinds of suggestions and what happens to those suggestions when she contributes? The suggestion they given you know we we check if we try to implement almost the all the idea that they have to you know when they giving some idea we try to implement we work with them that way they feel more you know more um how I can say more more involved you know in help you know the team. Yeah. How how do you help them with the idea? How do you do you help them think to it? Do they come up with idea by themselves? They come they came up with idea by themselves when they don't have no idea. I go with them you know I say you know for example uh what you think you don't have no idea how you can get any idea sometime they say oh maybe I don't have too many time to think and something like that I told them what you think if I put you know for example the body here close to you you can save you know one second I said yeah that's fine we can try you know they all try anything you know that I can tell them to do yeah so what a as a supervisor what is a what what's the biggest challenge you have in this job. You got 25 people. That's a That's a That's a That's a That's a That's a That's a That's a lot right there. Work work together. Work together. Team work. That's the most important. You know, when we work like you can get anything you want, you know, if you want. Well, super. Well, let's go back in the factory. You got you got a lot of work to do. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. So, this one is called stitching. Before in the computer stitching, the upper was in the flat form. Yeah. Here is the first time the upper takes a 3D form. Okay. So it's a cell and basically it will follow something stop here trying to understand it will follow this you to feed to what we call the assembly department okay what is this the so okay still in the stitching department you still have flow continuous flow if you looked between the stations to oper Uppers to upper to uppers. That associate I just noticed he did not put another shoe on that tray until one was removed. Conbon. Okay. So they pulling pulling. Yep. Very critical. That discipline is very very important. You don't want that over production. You're right. Two there. Two there, two there. And you saw how they were stopped. You saw the switch. Yeah. And they were stopped. As soon as she pulled one off, he put one there. Yeah. It takes months and years to get that. But they understand. They they understand uh that the the shoes are not going anywhere if they overproduce. You know, it looks like a symphony. Everybody's playing together. Yeah. Yes. Exactly. It's attack. It's like a rhythm. Yeah. A rhythm. The shoe circulates to the department. They stop. That's why they don't have a shoe here. the associate will put uh and basically the department is there are two basic operation it's called the last thing where you this is called the last the last you have a last this is a style and you have a last per foots are very different uh it happens to be 10 and a half the width is Dave D call David um no balance that's you know specializes in width so this particular shoe goes from B very narrow to 6E very wide and each one each foot requires a different L. So does a so how do we know when the shoes are going through this cell that are they making it for a particular size last? There is um a document that is printed every day and distributed to all the supervisors per value stream that they know exactly the sequence. So he knows very well the flow coordinators in this team knows very well what's coming. But that's done on a daily basis. So you're really responding almost a daily basis to the pull of the in customer right. Yeah it's a daily. Yeah daily. They we know some sometimes weekly sometime daily but we know exactly it gets um at the beginning of the day or the afternoon before it gets put in this um you know document. Is that based on the orders that are coming in for shoes? Yeah depends on the work order. Some shoes are directly go direct to customers. Some orders go to the warehouse. It depends of where they are who they are for. It can be a weekly work order or a daily work order. Regardless of that, this document is daily and it gets distributed again to the supervisor for coordinators and setup people. Set up people the ones that bring the work. So it's like no, it's no question. So in the case of the last the setup person will have this document. So no need to talk. No need to talk. Every every single transaction is very clear who's responsible, what needs to be done. So this must give you a competitive edge over your competitors whose shoes are being made in another country and the market is here and there's a time lag between those two. This is one uh yes it is. you know, we can we're working right now with our lead time of 3 days is to try to help the retailers to minimize the inventory. So if Saturday, Friday, Saturday is a Saturday the big day on Monday they place an order 3 days later we can deliver back to them. So and this lady is doing it right now. I mean she's absolutely real time response. Okay, cool. This is to be in a customer in three or four days and that makes a big difference. Basically in this department this associates the shoe is put into what's called a conditioner just get some steam to soften up a little bit. Okay. So when he removes a last put on the paint and put the shoe on it flex to fill you know to fit uh the shoe gets cemented the bottom. Okay. Um the salt is delivered from behind that associates with that um yellow machine there that basically what it does it activates. Maybe I'll show you a little more closely here. So the shoe is cemented. Okay. Is put in this big dryer. Okay. To dry the soap underneath is come from behind the right salt for the right upper. Um the cement gets a little heat heat in that uh salt activator oven. Then the associate will get the upper and the salt, you know, activated. They stick it together. Put in the big press where they should stay for 2 minutes to ensure bonding. Okay. And then go to our table where the packing associates will do some basic inspection. We'll remove any cement. We'll apply the laces, any tags, advertisement, uh some tissue inside the shoe to keep the shape inside the box. Yep. Get packed. And that's it. And that's it. Okay. So, Cladio, this now goes to your customer. And if I Yeah. If I go to a New Balance Outland or a shoe store, I can buy them. You see those shoes? Absolutely. Clauddio, thanks so much for showing us. It's been a pleasure. Really a pleasure. You know, as we're leaving, I kind of want to know what's the next step of your lean journey. It's interesting. And the answer is more of the same. But what I mean by that everything is about the thinking. So what we'll do, we will work in more sophisticated problems. We continue sharpening our problem solving skills. So we will be to resolve more complicated waste problems.