Um, our next speaker is, uh, Tito. Um, sorry, Kristoff Reinhardt. Um, and I'm gonna again let you introduce yourself. >> Okay. I think >> Oh, you got it. You're all set. >> Thanks a lot, Zay. Good morning, everybody. Uh, great pleasure to be here. Thanks a lot to all of you for taking the time uh to learn about this important topic. And as Zanab said, we all have to get involved in this and become active. Uh I didn't learn how to use a corkbang from Zanap. I learned that from my uh father-in-law with whom I've done a lot of building renovations over the years. Uh but I'm meeting Zanab regularly over the past year on Pi Days and other events to eat a lot of pie. So I think you only know me with a serious sugar rush. And uh so let's see where I have my remote control here. Yeah, I think that fits really well. Basically Jay uh talked about the whole planet and the effects of various actions on the planet and I tried to make the jump from the planet to the individual building and what this means for an individual building owner. So uh I'm really excited about the slides since last week a little less so but uh what we put together basically that as of April of last year we had a spectacular 148 countries that represent 90% of the world's population and 90% of the world's GDP that had jointly said it's a good idea to decarbonize our industry our world and if we think about in what kind of incredibly polarized times we live and I guess last week shows that there are h bumps in the road towards this joint goal but uh that there's an incredible buyin here uh towards this idea of having a net zero global economy and I would call this goal really really radical and the reason why is because it's so different from what we have been doing and not a lot of people know this I only came across that a couple of years ago it's really worthwhile looking this up this uh 1952 pi commission resources for freedom that was a report that I would say was really the moment that defined global attitude towards economic growth fossil fuels and so forth. This was done uh by a set of experts was really widely published the paley commission was by the uh headed by the president of the CBC paley and basically the sentence at the bottom is really key. It says that permanent economic growth powered by cheap fossil fuels of arbitrary origin is the overarching political priority of the 20th century. And if you think about it, it's hard to think of any policy that has been like implemented with more vigor over such a long period of time. And so that in the face of this, we want to change here is really remarkable. Of course, we really don't want to get rid of our energy use. We want to get rid of the related carbon that's related to the energy. But um it's still it's a big change. What are the drivers between these change? Well, in a way we heard about it already. Uh there's lots of um disasters happening worldwide. There's just political momentum building and organizations such as heat obviously provide solutions towards this global kind of initiative to say we want to basically change the ways we deal with our planet. I would say a key driver is also that cities uh a lot of cities are located near uh the sea and due to sea level rise we see cities becoming so much under pressure that they're disappearing. I'm not you sure if you followed that Jakarta is the first mega city who announced that they're going to move Jakarta. There won't be any Jakarta anymore. The reason is sea level rise overuse of groundwater in the city. So they just there are some dramatic photos out there that I didn't want to share due to our open course reference. I'm not even sure if I'm allowed to show this graph here from the New York Times, but it's very dramatic what is going on there. And then finally, of course, uh we hear that all the time more and more extreme weather events are happening. This graph put we put together a couple of months ago that basically looks at Noah's recorded extreme weather events. Wow. Uh over the last um uh over the last 70 years and 90% of these events opened have happened in the last decade. So it's really uh dramatic what is happening and I've been told I have to speed up. So now I try to make this jump. How do we get basically from our goal of uh these are of reducing uh the temperature keeping global temperature rise let's say under two degrees C whatever our goal is then we know we have 90 930 gigatons of CO2 left to make the global building stock or the global economy carbon neutral really if we are releasing more carbon in the atmosphere it's going to get warmer so if we now say okay the building stock can take 40% of this then an easy number to remember is that we have 340 gigatons and 30 years left to make the global building stock carbon neutral. Now this is our budget where can we spend our budget on? It's basically the projections are that the global build area is going to double by 2050. So this is our budget and this is where we have to spend it on. This is a simple graph that shows three predictions of what we could do to the global building stock. Business as usual says 1% renovation rate globally. Uh this is what we currently have and by 2050 we will have net zero solutions for all buildings new and renovated. That's is going to blow our budget dramatically. Then the top of the orange line shows what happens if we have in 10 years net zero new buildings for all new construction and we increase the retrofitting rate to five% per year. That still doesn't get us fully there. We also need to have by this point embodied net zero. So all the energy that goes into building the buildings, we somewhat have to have net zero technologies. We have zero ideas of how to do that right now. But if we are putting that together really I would say there's a three-pronged approach of how we're going to move the building stock around. One is again 5% renovation rate per year. Within 10 years we need to have carbon neutral solutions for all new construction and for building retrofits. And really I would really question this terrible notion that we have to double the build area like in five in 30 years we're going to build what uh what we have built in the last 5,000 years seems a terrible idea. So more efficient space use is very important as well. So since I have only two years what techn I'm now trying to take it down right to the individual owner. So if you have a typical building in New England right now in Massachusetts, the main proposal that you get is put PV on your rooftop and put in an airsource heat pump. That's really what Massachusetts is pushing. And so if we look at that, what that means is basically if you just in isolation put in a heat pump that in the best case scenario, unless you do it yourself, cost you cost you about $25,000. And it's going to and that's important if you're using natural gas right now increase your operating costs. So really from an economic standpoint the best you can do is put a heat pump uh use an airsource heat pump and a PV system. But what what that happens if you are doing that then of course very suddenly you have a building that puts a really strong strain on the grid because you're creating the electricity in the summer but you're having a new peak due to your heat pump in the winter and so we don't have any big battery lying around somewhere so that is a key problem overall and so what we should really do and I know I'm nearly there is we have to have a detailed an we have to offer every homeowner like a whole series of different choices that they can make with LEDs, better appliances, retrofit their building, PV putting in a heat pump. This type of analysis we want to do to give to every home owner. And in order to reach this goal, we're working with the state of Massachusetts right now. We build a model at two and a half million buildings. And the way this is going to look like in a few weeks, you can go to your building. You can set what have I done to my building right now? And then we're going to give you estimates in terms of cost, carbon savings and so forth what you can do. Right now in the first instances we probably have a airsource and ground source heat pumps not a network but these are things that we can kind of introduce over time if there's interest. Thank you.