very very happy. I actually transitions beautifully to Don Lassard's conversation on business models for deploying and how to get that upfront cost spread out. And uh Don, I I as I've done all all day, um you are much better off introducing yourself and all of your history than I I'll be brief on my history. I'm I'm Don Lassard. I'm an extinguished professor at MIT. 51 years in the Sloan School. Uh my my claim to fame, I guess, here I I was one of the two faculty leaders on the energy minor that we built across all five schools, which was really really one of the most fun experiences at MIT. Uh I also once upon a time I taught finance and I came to realize this is largely about financial engineering. Not largely but financial engineering is overwhelmingly important here. Okay, I'm going to take just a little tiny slice of Nikki's presentation which is fantastic. Determining appropriate pricing that balances utility investments with customer usage. So to me that's the business model. All this other stuff is everything you need to do to get there. It's terribly even that piece is complicated enough. So, let's just focus on that one. Um, problem, right? High capital cost, but your all-in monthly cost has to come out about the same as the current all-in monthly cost of gas plus electricity. Otherwise, it's dead in the water. If you run current costs of geothermal, like your p even your second stage of your pilot through current utility models, it costs 2x at least. So it's two to three times as expensive as it needs to be to meet the cost right now. How do we get there? Well, this is my whole presentation. I have 17 more slides, but this is the whole presentation. Um, let's see. So, high capital costs. That's our issue. We are replacing ice boxes with refrigerators. We don't have to buy the ice every day, but the refrigerator costs a lot. And when I hear discussions of pricing, it seems to me we're still trying to price it. is if we're pricing ice whereas in fact we're renting a we're renting a refrigerator right so if you think of it as renting a refrigerator that's the analogy we want as opposed to we're buying ice uh so one-third bore holes one-ird system one-third customer and system and conversion I'd like I thought I'd corrected that how do we solve the problem is this is now 2x right we need to get monthly cost of the homeowner near current electrical and gas bill that's what we have to 2x. How do we get there? Well, we got to reduce the capital cost. So, you got to work like crazy. The unions have to work like crazy. We have to get down a learning curve. We really have to do this, right? The capital cost must come down. We have to allocate. At the moment, we're overbuilding these systems. Loop one, 425 tons against 70 275 tons actually used, right? You overbuild the system or whatever the numbers are. Overbuild the system by a massive amount. Somehow or another the excess capacity has to get banked and the customers only have to get charged for the actual used capacity. Third, right, this is a lot of the discussion. How do we monetize some of these other benefits? How do we get a heat pump tax? How do we get an investment tax credit? How do we get some payment for the avoided utility investments? Those are huge. Monetize other benefits and apply. So and then the financial engineering part is how do we spread the recovery of the capital over 30 years in constant terms inflationadjusted terms real terms if we run it through the current utility model it looks like this in real terms it's big in the first year gets smaller over time it's twice as high as it ought to be because we're using we're not even using a nominal level payment mortgage we're using rate of return plus depreciation, right? Well, 30 years ago, we invented a level payment novel mortgage. How do we spread the cost of capital equally in real terms over time? If we could do all of those things, we'd be there. So, you do your job in getting the cost down, really build it neat. Uh we find a way to bring in some of the other grants and tax incentives. Uh we grab back some of the avoided costs out of the electrical system. Ideally, we get some carbon credits for the carbon saved and then we spread the capital cost evenly and then people say, "Gee, this is more economical than the existing system and it's better for our kids, it's better for our community, we avoid the heat islands, we avoid all the other stuff." So, we get all these other bennies for free in a sense. Okay. Uh learning curve. So, learning curve, right? There are learning curves out there. There's evidence out there. It looks like you've got 50% from one to two, but probably this is going to be an 11 or 12% learning curve over time. Like a lot there's a lot of evidence on this. So to the ratebased folk, we'd say you got to be willing to eat some of it because you're investing against the learning curve and there's an investment in the learning curve. And so you can't load all of the current costs onto the current customers because part of the current cost is a public benefit of the learning curve that everyone else will gain. And so this has to be built into the thinking. Um excess capacity well let's allocate only the capacity used right and the excess capacity is banked. um mechanisms to monetize benefit. So, assignment of carbon tax or renewable energy, linkage of various incentive systems, assignment of voided cost credits. I mean, complicated, really complicated and hard to do, but we've got to get our act together and make this all in one place. Capital recovery model. And I don't expect everybody to follow this at uh 3:30 in the afternoon. But if you take cost of capital times unavertised capital plus depreciation and you look at your annual charge, it starts on A-50, you know, it starts high and it comes down over time. If you have a level nominal charge, right? It's like that. A level real charge would be rising over time with inflation. Short story. If you if you had a payment that looked like an index treasury and you could tell people that looks like social security because social security is indexed to inflation. If you have a payment that's indexed to social security, it can start at 1/ half the level of a fixed nominal payment and it will grow at social security over time and it will give the utility the rate of return that they're allowed full recovery of capital. It's fairly straightforward. Just have to do it. Okay. Uh so constant real capital recovery. There are ways to do this. Uh I wrote it up in 1975 for totally different reasons. Uh it's all in there. Okay. Now, alternative pricing models. Uh we could consumer purchase inhome uh and the utility supplies the common stuff or the utility supplies everything. Right? Those would be the two choices. And you could charge for thermal usage or you could charge for capacity. I personally like charging for capacity. I'm being told five minutes. I think thermal usage is a little bit like charging for ice in the ice box. I'd like capacities. These are fixed cost systems. You're largely talking about recovering capital costs. But one, two, or three or four. Okay. But now let's get simple pass forward. Stage one, pilot stage. Stage two, roll out stage. Stage three, steady state. In pilot stage, there are only very few systems. They're incomplete. There's no market for there's no thermal market and the vintage for the technical types the vintage of capital is too young. It's all new and so if you have standard rate recovery you're going to be recovering way too high rates. What would I do if I were in Jaime's position? I'd say in the short run we fix the cost equal to the current charge per unit of capacity period and we charge the customer with that amount and the difference 80% of the difference we stick on rate base 20% of the difference we give to Nikki so she has an an incentive to bring the difference down right we say basically we're going to price it off current gas plus electricity and we're going to stick the rest of it the rate base for learning curve for learning for all of these other benefits in the first and you might to protect yourself you might say for up to 3% of the ext installed base or up to 5% of the installed base this is a learning investment just matches the old one roll out stage you're still going to have relatively few systems but you can you can do a cost of capital recovery on those systems as long as it's level and real as opposed to nominal and declining steady state, it doesn't matter because you're going to have investments of all vintages and it's going to look like the existing system and you could go back to the existing system if you wanted to. But by then, by then you would have devised a new system. And remember this is the problem for utilities in general. We're going from operating cost to capital costs. Renewables are capital costs. We're getting rid of fossil fuels which are operating costs. So this helps us actually move from a volumetric to a capacity charging system. Okay, I got one more two more minutes. Uh consideration for low-income lowwealth households. I think this would be a great area. Take the one-third that is the retrofit in the internal system. Get the Boston Foundation to work with you. Get them to buy down the cost of the household part for low-income households. Don't throw it at the utility. say twothirds of it is a standard rate and if you qualify low income we'll buy down the other third and that will help us get all of the 20 houses around the culdesac to convert. Uh then their appendices so that's it. Uh so thank you Don. So so Don is a neighbor and I went for a walk and I said well here's here's where we are with the cost. Can you figure out some solutions? So uh uh and I I just if you if you didn't catch that in in the delusion of information and ideas um he he's putting out a whole bunch of series of solutions to deal with the cost as it is today with the first projects. And one of the things I want to flag on that is that that cost today with these first projects includes the entire cost of the building transition which incidentally also includes all of the like challenges of our aging. I think someone said crappy buildings. Yeah, we we have crappy buildings here. Just saying it. and and all of those problems that are ne from a hundred years of neglect, the asbestos, the mold, the faulty wiring, the code violations, they are a part of the challenge of decarbonizing our buildings because you cross the threshold and you have to deal with them. And so that cost is baked into that total sum. Part of what Nikki was referring to as going into new build is you don't deal with that at all. And even today, those pipes and bore holes can actually balance out for the energy supply in a kind of more classic gas utility approach. So, the incredible news is that we might have tools to remove the cost of all of our building upgrades, which has all these other incredible benefits like health and well-being and comfort. Um, so I just I just wanted to clarify that distinction.