Now we'll hear from Chair Van Astrand who has since I believe May 2023 chaired the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities. >> Thank you. Thanks everybody. So, I really appreciate the opportunity to be here. Um, as Andrew mentioned, I've been chair of the commission coming up on almost two years, May of 2023. Um, and one of the things I inherited was what was a pending proceeding in Massachusetts called the future of gas proceeding where we issued an order that's very relevant to what we've been talking about today. I wanted to provide a little bit of know I had to learn when I got here and I I I was a law professor in West West Virginia University. You can imagine the kind of the culture shock of going from a coal state to a wonderful blue state pursuing a really aggressive clean energy targets. But that provides the framework for what we're trying to do at the at the Department of Public Utilities and how network geothermal potentially fits into that whole message um whole initiative. So what's what's the statutory framework? What are we doing? And then a little bit about the current demonstration projects, but I think you probably heard a lot about those already. So one of the things is the global warming solutions act of 2008. So we're going to be net zero by 2050 and then later on the another subsequent climate bill says we're going to establish sector specific emissions reduction targets for 2025 and 2030. So that was the clean energy and climate plan of June of 2022. And this is just an excerpt from that plan. You can see um sort of starting off in 1990 and then to the far right is 2030. The four various sectors and you can see the building sector. You can see that reduction that we need to achieve by 2030. And this is that the the down below just excerpts that building sector. So that's kind of that's what we're striving for in terms of how does this network geothermal fit into how does this um the transition the natural gas industry? What are we trying to accomplish? It's really trying to achieve those goals. They're now statuto the global warming solution act and the fact that the CECP the clean energy and climate plan established these sub sector targets. So pretty much says residential got to get from 15.3 down to 7.8 and for commercial and the total percent reduction 47% reduction. And so that's what we're trying to achieve. That's that's basically I see my job as a as a regulator is these policy decisions have been made by the legislature. my job is to imple implement them and try to make that make that happen. Um so the statutory framework I think is Ania talked about this somewhat already but sort of where where network geothermal comes in. So the 2021 climate bill expressly allowed um the gas utilities to propose these these pilot scale projects. Another piece that came in the following year and you may hear be hearing a lot about um GSAP or gas system enhancement plans um the gas utilities in Massachusetts are spending a lot of money every year to address what is referred to in the statute as leakprone pipes. So back in 2014, the gas leaks act was passed that basically provided preferential rate recovery for costs incurred by the gas utilities to to repair or address leakprone pipe. The notion is these are safety issues. They're risk issues. Obviously, we have a lot of old infrastructure in Massachusetts. So that expedited rate recovery um sort of removes one of the tools that we have as regulators which is called regulatory lag that typically a utility will spend the money and then it won't recover in rates for a while could be a year or two years but that gap provides an incentive for cost containment. Well, what the gas leaks act did in 2014 was pretty much say you file your gas system enhancement plan with the DPU in October of 31st. we have six months to go over it and then May one you begin recovering those costs in rates. So it provides this expedited rate treatment to to um address the leakprone pipe and then so it's very controversial. We had a GEP working group that met through a lot of 2023 to figure out that gas leaks act having been passed in 2014 focusing primarily on the safety issue and the risk issue. Then we have the climate bill that says, well, we need to achieve these greenhouse gas reductions. Do we need to revisit the gas leaks act in light of the the new focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions? And so there's a lot a lot of work is revisiting that. We currently have those filings in front of us. We'll be issuing orders in April, April 30th with respect to gas system enhancement plans beginning on May 1. But a big thing and how network geothermal fits into this is the 2022 climate bill. I think Ania might have mentioned this but we can basically one means of addressing the leakprone pipe rather than just replacing it with more gas pipe is to replace it with a utility scale non-emitting renewable thermal energy infrastructure aka geothermal network. So that is a that is a big benefit in terms of um we're trying to avoid potentially stranded investment by continuing to replace gas pipes with gas pipes that going to last 50 or 60 years. This says well when you're spending that money on your GEP plan you can actually use a thermal energy network would be one way of addressing the leakprone pipe and avoiding that stranded cost by just putting more natural gas infrastructure into the ground. As Ania mentioned, the 2024 climate bill um actually makes it specific that a gas company is allowed to get in the business of of creating these thermal energy networks. Um and I also mentioned um we're trying to address this obligation to serve very controversial in the states but it's basically as as you can see from Ania's chart if if you have a a comp a customer who does not want to give up their gas how can you make the case we're going to substitute this network geothermal for their for your gas very controversial. So, they took a shot at addressing the obligation to serve um at least with respect to new hookups by allowing the consideration of adequate substitutes. In other words, you might not have a right to gas service if they're adequate substitutes. They're non- gas substitutes. Um but we're still working our way through this. Um and then that eligible infrastructure investment in these G GE programs is not just replacement and also includes retirement, which means we can actually take out the pipe. One way of addressing the leak prone pipe is just remove the leak prone pipe because you're going to convert you're going to put customers to elect electrification electrified solutions whether it's ground source heat pumps or air source heat pumps. So when I got here in May of 2023 I inherited this docket. It had been started in October of 2020 and I think the record had closed in October of 2022. I thought I think we need to probably issue an order in this in this docket. But it was um basically um what is going to be the pathway for the natural gas utilities? How do we achieve these greenhouse gas reduction targets which the global warming solutions act and the 2021 climate bill require us to achieve? And so we issued this order uh basically ident setting forth this regulatory framework and what we basically landed on was electrification is going to be the primary pathway and that's airsource heat pumps ground source heat pumps which includes the geothermal energy networks and the way I described what we did in that order was basically point out to this clean energy back the clean energy framework that I had in the first couple of slides. We just want to put the LDC's, the local gas distribution utilities on a pathway to achieve net zero by 2050. And so part of that is is in a couple months, April 1, each LDC has to file a climate compliance plan. In other words, show that you are on a pathway that's going to get you to net zero by 2050. You're going to achieve those those sub limits that I had that on that other slide. The other big thing we did in 2080 was um put the burden on the LDC, the local gas distribution companies. Before you make any additional investment in natural gas distribution infrastructure, show that you considered a non- gas pipeline alternative. And that could be it could be energy efficiency, it could be electric air source heat pump, ground source heat pump, network geothermal, but basically we want to avoid stranded costs. We want to avoid putting additional pipe in the ground. So that was a big element and right now the the the natural gas distribution companies, they're all working together. They're going to be filing with us an agreed upon natural um non- gas pipeline and NPA framework and because we need to start applying that as as they're coming in and asking for new additional investment. Did have you consider the an NPA that non- gas pipeline alternative? And then the other thing I think they can Ian mentioned um so March one roughly a year from now then we're requiring each LDC to file a target electrification project. In other words try to take out a decommission a portion of a gas service territory in favor of of air source heat pump ground source heat pump electric or network geothermal. Um you have to work with your applicable electric distribution company because in Massachusetts we have some utilities that are both gas and electric. Sometimes Eversource provides the electric and National Grid provides the gas. You got to come in together. Um, National Grid actually filed a target electrification demonstration proposal in December of 2024 for the towns of Lminster and Winthrop where they're going to try to decommission part of the gas service territory in favor of electrification. But that's going to be a big part of um sort of how we manage this this this gas transition is the climate compliance plans and the role that these that these um demonstration projects are going to play and that's where the obligation to serve piece is so challenging because when you look at the chart that Ania had you know all it takes is one one customer who says I don't want to give up my gas and you're not able to take out that you're not able to decommission the pipe and the number and the numbers just don't work all that well if you can't decommission the pipe. type. So that's why states are struggling with how can we how can we substitute um the basically a another means of providing the essential service of heat instead of instead of natural gas. So, one of the things that um it's it's helpful along the lines of of of NEO's discussion of the demonstration projects because the 2021 climate bill specifically authorizes the gas companies to file with us demonstration projects proposals and and it it lays out some criteria. So when we look at these demonstration projects when Framingham comes in, whenever source comes in with the Framingham project and National Grid comes in for the Lel and and Franklin Fields projects, these are the criteria that we are going to apply and in determining the rate treatment, the rate recovery of those of those costs. Um pretty straightforward. Must have reasonable likelihood of facilitating substantial reductions. That goes back to achieving those greenhouse gas limits. We don't want you don't want you to blend in hydrogen and RNG and we need to use a third party evaluation. And then we consider the reasonleness of the size, scope and scale. In other words, do the benefits justify the proposed cost. And another key element is the calculation of benefits must include the calculations of the social value of greenhouse gas emissions reduction. That's going to be a good way of when you're looking at those costs and benefits that you're going to put a price on carbon, basically the carbon that you're avoiding by taking out that natural gas infrastructure and replacing it with with something else. So, real briefly, I think you're going to hear a lot about the Framingham project that Eversource has done. There's a phase two that was awarded a preliminary grant, I think, by the Department of Energy, which is caught up in all this stuff that's going on in Washington DC right now. Um, n so that was approved in the in the Eversource rate case from from 2020, DPU19120. And then National Grid had a separate proceeding where this is before I got here, of course, but authorizing up to 15.6 million for four network geothermal projects. the first of which was in l and I think national good has announced that they are they are terminating that project um I think just the level of participation wasn't as wasn't as great the numbers didn't didn't work very well but they've also filed for the Franklin field apartments with the Boston Housing Authority and so that's that project is is moving forward and then we'll be looking like I say we'll be applying those criteria then we consider the rate recovery treatment of these of these demonstration projects so with that I'm happy to answer questions Sir, whatever.