And uh our our last um speaker for this session is Jonathan >> Buunor. I'm looking for a >> slide changer. This one >> is this the slide flipper? >> Yes. Okay, >> you got it. >> All right. Yeah. So, my my name is Jonathan Municore. I'm a assistant professor at Boston University School of Public Health. And uh my my goal in the next 10 minutes is to not only uh convince you that a person from public health belongs in the room, but also to uh convince you that you all are secretly um going to be public health professionals. Um so uh where I wanted to start was to look at this um process. This is how like uh EPA other environmental agencies um like help public health environmental health professionals look at um just hazards in the world. Um we do a lot of very fancy stuff but very often it breaks down into these four basic steps which is to start it start on the left to ask like is there some kind of pollutant a stressor something like that that people are being exposed to that might cause a problem could be you know air pollutant uh water pollutant heat um a safety issue um anything like anything that could harm people should go in that box. Um, next up is this dose response assessment. Um, where this is really just a process of asking like if there's a certain amount of this thing in the environment, what are the health problems at different levels of exposures? So like air high levels of air pollution or worse than uh lower levels of air pollution. Same goes for water pollution um and that kind of thing. The uh third step that goes in parallel with that is this exposure assessment step that asks um okay so we know that there's a thing that is bad. um how many people are exposed to it? How long are they exposed to it? Are there certain like um susceptible windows or susceptible populations like infants or um marginalized communities that are um exposed to this? And then in the end we have this fourth step called risk characterization which um basically just asks like how big of a deal is this anyway? Um, so what I've done and do occasionally is I put this uh flip these these four steps to look like one of these hazmat placards that you'll see on um like the the trucks going down the highway or whatever. Um and then um again here's a simple versions. Is there some is there something that might be harmful? How harmful is it if you're exposed? Uh how many people are exposed to it? And how big of a deal is this really? So four basic questions. Um now uh you can overlay this look at the full life cycle. This is supply chain of natural gas starting from your wells and everything on the left over to the right. Um all the gas consumers like your commercial buildings, your um residences, uh the use of gas and power plants and all the pipelines, storage facilities, compressor stations, um processing stations, LG terminals, whatever else it is that is in between a well and your stove or your furnace. And uh we take our little hazmat placard and say, okay, how bad is all this anyway? Um and I'll argue to you that uh there are hazards present across the entire supply chain. Um we know very little about most of these. Um which is, you know, this could potentially be my whole research career as a public health professional. Um and but uh I'm going to talk in detail about a couple of these different end points just to explain that um what you all are doing like you know all about the climate hazards. Um you're also doing a lot for uh for public health. So I'm going to start on the production side of things. Uh this is a map of every single uh oil and gas well in the United States. Um you may have noticed that there's a lot of them. Um, and a natural question that you should be asking yourself is, okay, so how big of a deal is this really? Um, going through a hazard assessment, there's like a lot of things that could be you could potentially be exposed to. Um, being I mostly focus on sort of regional air pollution. Um so I did a study that was focusing on the regional air pollution aspects of this and basically found that there are um a lot of uh violations of the national ambient air quality standards in the US that are due to the air pollution from oil and gas extraction. Um there's a big kind of plume of ozone in the middle of the country over the oil and gas um production there. Um there's NO2 which we're concerned about from a respiratory health standpoint. um this tends to be more concentrated in production areas and then PM2.5 which is our standard um aerosol um somewhere in between. So that's great. Um and then running it running it through all the science that we have about who lives where and what the health impacts of these different pollutants are. Um we have about 7,500 deaths per year in the United States due to air pollution from oil and gas production. um about 410,000 asthma attacks and 220 uh these are children that are newly diagnosed with asthma per year due to oil and gas just the production side pollution in the US. Um so toting up all the health damages um on top of this there's like emergency department visits, hospitalizations, heart attacks, strokes um a whole growing menu of health outcomes that are related to um air pollution. And uh we can put a price tag on this of about 77 billion with a B dollars yearly due to production of oil and gas. Um and as you've heard um geothermal will be able to kind of put a dent in that. So that's just the production side. Um and I'm going to move over to the other end of this which is the stove. Um they do emit air pollution. Um there's benzene which is a carcinogen so it causes cancer. There's a whole lot of volatile organic compounds that come along with that. there's NO2 when you burn it again and methane which is the greenhouse gas that we're all worried about from a climate standpoint. Um so Zand, myself and maybe a few other people in the room, Nathan um were involved in a study that um basically sampled gas around Boston. So we put it in a canister, sent it to a lab and they told us what was in it. Um and uh it looked like an organic chemistry textbook. Um there was uh a lot of methane as expected, a lot of ethane as expected, but a whole lot of things that were not methane and they were not ethane. Um we got hexane, benzene, taluine and heptine, carcinogenic, uh MPY, carcinogenic, carcinogenic xylene, and then all these other things that are also uh carcinogenic. Um so they went on to keep doing this kind of research. Uh turns out that Boston is not the only place that has a problem. Um it's uh there's also issues related to these odorants um which is the chemical that is uh intentionally added to the gas stream so we can smell it when it leaks. Um turns out that humans don't like how it smells because it is a respiratory irritant. It's harmful. Um and potentially there's other health issues related to it. Um but it is uh present in all the gas everywhere. Um and again looking at just benzene again um basically every single canister they sent to a lab had some amount of benzene in it. Um Boston is actually on the lowest end of the spectrum as far as um benzene concentrations. The highest in the US is Los Angeles and the highest of places in the uh in North America that they sampled was uh Vancouver and Los Angeles. So, um, you know, I could go on for hours about every single one of these spots, but, um, I I just wanted to give folks kind of a small snapshot of the types of health hazards that you all are helping to prevent by switching over to geothermal. Um because if you uh change what's going on on the right side of the supply chain, you're having ripple effects all the way across the supply chain and reducing air pollution, reducing safety hazards due to gas storage, which I could talk for hours about. Um reducing use of pipelines, reducing compressor station pollution, um and you know, really being a public health resource. So that's it. >> Thank you so much. I am feeling really grateful for those three amazing talks to start our day.