I'm delighted to introduce Isabelle Varela um to discuss some of the um research and learning we're trying to do at >> I have Thank you. So I'm Isabelle with heat and I will be sharing with you today uh how heat is trying to learn from these geothermal energy networks. Um so learning from geothermal energy networks and thank you. Keat has a research project um that is called learning from the ground up and it is funded by Massachusetts clean energy center and the goal of this project is to evaluate the potential of these geothermal networks in Massachusetts um and mainly to really increase understanding of this technology and uh to optimize it as much as we can. We want to share all the learnings with the stakeholders and make that knowledge um public open source. Here is a brief organizational chart um in bubbles. I'm not going to go into detail but I just want to share you know what are the different organizations that are collaborating with us. So we have this great uh consortium where we have uh ENL that Juliet will be speaking today. We have LBNL. We have uh Boston University uh Nathan Phillips, he was a speaker yesterday, Jonathan Bunor as well. They're part of that legup research group. We're also collaborating with Burough Habold. And of course, we partner with our utilities that are doing these systems and these installations uh here in Massachusetts. So, how is this project organized? at the core of this project. The project is anchored on the data demonstration uh projects that are here in Massachusetts. And then we're looking at core modeling, the impacts of these installations and a scaling of these systems. So we'll go a little bit into uh these in more detail. So in Massachusetts there are different pilot projects or demonstration projects. uh as we heard from uh Eric Bosworth, there's the Frammingham project. So that's the one that is installed already uh already in the commissioning stage. Then there's Franklin Field uh national grid uh just is right now in the design phase of that and they will be drilling their test bore hole this month. uh and we also have the extension the second loop in Frammingham and heat has collaborated with Eversource and got grant from the department of energy uh to do the design phase and now we were selected for the construction phase of that project. So we're very excited to have that moving forward. So what are the things that heat is doing as part of this? So the data acquisition here is focused on temperature data acquiring temperature data down the bore holes. So this is fiber optic cables that are being u installed in a subset of bore holes. So there are 90 bore holes in the Frammingham project and 15 of those have fiber optic cable to measure temperature at every location down the bore hole. And this is temperature that is measured constantly and the idea is that we can um analyze this data with the variations that we see in the days with the seasons and with the years. So really when we have one year of data when that system has been performed for one year and we get that sinosoidal curve that uh Connor uh showed earlier today that's when we want to you know uh really leverage this data and how do we think it's going to keep on performing throughout the years. So with this we can monitor the systems and see if there's any change that needs to be made so that it functions optimally within the temperature range that the heat pumps work best. the modeling part. So we have two groups LBNL and ENL that are focusing on developing these core modeling uh tools. So LBNL has focused on developing a full physics model um that is more complicated runs in Modelica softwares that are less accessible if you will and then ENL has been working on um reduced order models tools and I won't steal your thunder uh Juliet will be talking more about that um that will uh run quicker and you can still get uh the behavior of the system with these models and the idea is that they're going to be open source as well And this is another slide uh from that model and I'll just briefly mention that for example one of the outcomes that you can get is that um you have this in the horizontal line you have the buildings going along that uh loop and then in the summer for example as you go from building to building in that ambient temperature loop you're getting hotter and hotter until you reach the bore hole and then you cool down and then you go around the loop hotter hotter and then you reach the bore hole and you go down. So this is one of the advantages of having different bore fields as Brian Erlab was mentioning earlier today. Um so we have that in this uh in this Frammingham um project and then we have a similar example uh when we are uh in the winter. This project is looking at what are the impacts of these geothermal networks in a more holistical way. We're looking also at ecology um at the impacts on health, the impacts on equity. So this is a work that is being done right now uh and Angie here is the lead for that in heat impacts on emissions impacts on the electric grid. One of the things that we want to do is to have measurements at these demonstration projects uh to measure what um to quantify the impact on the electric grid. So Zay mentioned you know what is the impact of ground source heat pumps with this ORNL study if you had them at a national scale and here we want to quantify it for a particular project uh these demonstration projects that we have in Massachusetts and we also want to know what is the impact of costs one of the things that we're working with Boro Hapold and ENL is to make this um survey about costs um cost of drilling cost of the construction of the main loop and costs also of the retrofit. So the three different phases that were discussed earlier today and all of this the idea is to uh feed a study on this regional assessment uh how would it look like if we had these systems installed uh for an entire city uh here in Massachusetts uh say for example the city of Cambridge. How would it look like if we had it for the entire state of Massachusetts? So, what are the impacts uh of that and this ties very well into the previous uh session we were talking about data. Data is one of the things that is needed and here this is a database that heat is making. Um the idea is to enable quantitative comparison between the systems to identify what are the design parameters that work best. Things like the diameter of the main pipe. Uh what is you know the temperature range that the uh main pipe is allowed to fluctuate in. Um so all these kind of engineering technical aspects but also uh practical things. So we want to capture the knowledge of the demonstration project in Frammingham. We want to capture the knowledge of the demon of the project in Colorado Mesa University that will be presented later on that has been running since 2008. So all of this uh knowledge we want to be able to capture it in a database that will be open source and this uh interface uh heat has created it is up and running right now our beta version and we're in the process of collecting data from all these existing projects. Um we also want to capture information about costs. We want to really eventually identify how to reduce those costs. Right? But we want to first have that database and we want to support the development of datadriven u legislation and regulation which connects to uh our session yesterday with chair von nostrren. So what is it? We're creating a public datab bank of these geothermal network installations and why we want to do this to inform and to facilitate future developments of these systems and how this interface is linked to the heat data uh website and it is stored in the Harvard data versse which is has the infrastructure to store data in perpetuity. So as we right now have few of these um demonstration projects for example the one in Frammingham and Colorado Mesa University the idea is that when we have more of these systems we want to be populating this database so that it is really useful and that knowledge can be u the knowledge from the database can be useful for those installing uh these systems for communities that are thinking of doing these installations. Uh for example, we have the kickstart program here in Massachusetts that is also part of this uh legup project where uh 12 communities in Massachusetts are doing either feasibility studies or uh community engagement projects as to how can they move to have one of these geothermal networks in their community. And we often get the question is this database only for the US or if we have a system in Canada can we uh can can it be there and the answer is yes. So uh while the legup research project is funded by Massachusetts clean energy center and it's focused on the uh demonstration projects in Massachusetts. This database is really open nationally and to um projects in other countries as well. So what are the c different categories that we are uh acquiring in this database? Um information about the buildings we talked about the building retrofits in the previous session. Uh about the system performance that was the coefficient of performance that was referred to. um about the emissions reductions about the subsurface that's where the borehole uh test um information gets input about costs about the energy usage of the buildings before and after these geothermal networks have been installed and about uh demographics how many people are being uh benefited by these systems and uh these different categories can be also um put into these three buckets of the thermal resources what's happening um in the bore holes, the distribution, the main loop, and what's happening in the buildings. And now I'd like to close with um one of the projects that heat is working on. As as I mentioned, this is the extension to the Frammingham project that um Eric mentioned earlier. This would be the extension to that project. Um and this is the original loop. Right now we are planning a borefield right here. And uh the the idea is that this is the very first extension loop of one of these systems that is connecting to an already installed and operating system. So this extension loop can be the model for how these systems can connect in modularity and grow throughout the city. So learnings about how to uh do those connections and grow these systems will come from uh this expansion project. And with that I'll hand it over to our next speaker. Yeah.