Um the session one is framing the challenge and we're going to go as high level as we can looking at the whole world and all of humanity. And um I I couldn't be more excited about the three speakers. Um I I will not do them justice by introducing. So I'm asking each of them to take a moment to introduce themselves. And uh we're going to start with Jason J from here at MIT Sloan School. Um who has I will just add one one piece of introduction. He has the uh incredible distinction which I I don't know if it's on on your LinkedIn but of being a early heat volunteer for an energy efficiency barn raising. >> That's right. I learned how to use a cocking gun from Zanb. Um um good morning everybody. >> Good morning everybody. >> All right. Um so I'm Jason Jay. I teach at the MIT Sloan School of Management. I'm the director of the sustainability initiative there. Um, I've had the great pleasure to be part of this heat journey from the beginning. As Zanab was saying, I when I did my PhD here, I was studying something called the Cambridge Energy Alliance. Um, and I was looking at the sort of multistakeholder collaborations that were occurring here um, around our our our city of Cambridge advancing energy efficiency topics. And part of that included participating in HEAT's early barn raisings. And I did in fact learn to use a cocking gun from Zanab um, as we were weatherizing people's homes. Um and then and then have gotten to watch as this whole thing has evolved um going to the gas leaks effort, the collaboration with um Eversource and other utility companies um the advancement of the legal policy framework around better measurement of gas leaks and then towards this this transformational idea of geothermal energy networks where now there's enough trust between the advocates and the utilities to actually say, "Hey, could we just not have you be a gas utility anymore?" which is kind of an audacious thing and is the reason we bring in Zanb as a guest speaker into our courses uh every year. Um what she asked me to do is to um as she said go to the level of the of all of the whole planet and all of humanity. Um and the way I'm going to do that is using an interactive simulation tool called NROSS. Um just quick show of hands, how many of you have seen NROs before? Okay. Uh about half the room. Okay. So um this is the the result of a collaboration between the MIT Sloan Sustainability Initiative and uh Climate Interactive which is a independent uh nonpartisan nonprofit made of mostly MIT grads um who um who do a simulation tool that behaves the same as the big supercomputer integrated assessment models but runs instantly on any laptop and is freely available and open source to anybody with a web browser. So, um you can't open it up on your phones, but on any laptop or iPad, um you can pull this up and experiment it with it yourself. And um I am not on the modeling team. I'm not a climate scientist. I'm not an energy scientist. I'm an organizations person, but I've been facilitating probably hundreds of workshops at this point using this tool. And that means that any of you can do that as well. Um which which I would certainly recommend. What I'm going to try to do is just use this to expose a little bit about the climate challenge um and how the things that we're talking about here today sort of fit within that bigger picture and what some of the system interactions are because this is a system dynamics model right this is the interdependence of um you know thousands of variables to produce the outcomes that we are facing. So here you can see on the left this is the stack of global energy. Um so she talked about a zeta jewel that humanity is using about half of a zeta jewel. So 500 exogles. Um you can see that here on this picture and that is made up of coal, oil, gas, renewables, biomass and nuclear. Um uh if we were to invent nuclear fusion or some other new zerocarbon, we could add that to the mix. We're not going to talk about that today. On the right we have the stack of greenhouse gas emissions that are partly related to that. So the largest source of human anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions is uh CO2 from energy. That's about 35 gigatons uh a year right now. The second highest source is methane. So this is put on a 100redyear uh CO2 equivalent units on this graph. So 10 gigatons of CO2 equivalent from methane emissions. The third highest is land use change from deforestation and petlands and so on. And then you have nitrous oxide and F gases. So this gives you a picture of the faucet into the bathtub of the atmosphere. How much greenhouse gas we are putting into the atmosphere every year. And the result of that faucet being on stronger and stronger every year as we grow the global industrial economy is that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere is increasing. Um right, we you've heard 350.org or wanting to get that back down to 350 closer to pre-industrial levels. um we're now at about 424 and that increasing greenhouse gas as Zanv said creates this thermal regulation problem which is that we're heating the planet and so the temperature um is increasing um in 2024 um you know the data is still coming in but we're really pushing close to that 1.5 mark um and you can see in our business as usual projections um inroads we passed the 1.5 degree goal we passed the twoderee goal we at the end of the century hit 3.3° C, which is what this big number is. And unfortunately, the slope of this line is positive, which means that we're continuing to warm the planet into the 22nd century. Um, not everybody has a visceral sense of what 3.3 degrees Celsius means. Um, and so one thing you can do is you can use the impact graphs in NROS to explore some of that. So for example, we can think about you know how much sea level rise might we see as a result of that warming or we can think about um you know other graphs like um the extinction risk from animal species. So the effects on biodiversity. Um, one of the things that if you haven't played with Androids in a little while, we've now added is that we interface with maps that are from the um, probable futures site, which allows you to see what happens kind of on a more regional or geographic basis to the places that we care about. So, for example, this is a picture of the number of extreme humidity and heat days. So, um, how many days per year do we have with wet bulb temperatures, um, above 26 degrees C, which is where you start to have really serious health consequences of outdoor work, outdoor sports, um, and if you don't have cooling in your home, um, just even sleeping at night. So, um, you can see that the southeast of the United States starts to have really dire conditions. Um, but and and you can back this off by year and sort of see how this evolves. So here's where we were in 2000 um in terms of the frequency of those ultra high heat days and you can see that um that's all uh increasing um you know throughout the throughout North America and of course if we look at other geographies in the world in subsaharan Africa um where my wife's family is in India um in in uh in uh in uh the eastern part in West Bengal you can see that there's very serious consequences and so what this means is that we have to learn how to cool our buildings things fast and quickly and cheaply and low carbon. Um, and so that demand for cooling is a big piece of the the puzzle of what we're going to be grappling with. So that's one thing just to kind of be oriented to what is the challenge and why are we trying to solve for more efficient lowcarbon um methods for doing um uh heating and cooling. Um now the um the other thing couple other things I wanted to just kind of illuminate here. Um so one is that um you know the methane as a significant source of greenhouse gases this lever here which is about the waste um oop sorry I'm not used to windows um can I make that go away? Okay good um this lever over here which is about the waste and leakage of um non CO2 greenhouse gases. So if we look at methane in particular um what you can see here is that people talk about methane a when we talk about methane oftentimes we talk about cows and agricultural sources and that is very important. You can see the agricultural methane emissions but what a lot of people don't think about is the fact that a very significant part of our methane emissions um you know this is you know depending on the time horizon you know 50 60 times stronger than CO2 um do significantly come from energy production. So when we can move away from coal which leaks methane out of the mines, gas which leaks methane across the value chain and oil which leaks methane at the drilling sites um and in the refineries um we can work on this chunk right. So if we if we can if we can decrease methane leakage from the energy systems which was you know heat's first major effort. Yeah. Okay. So you can see this this bent the curve a little bit here. And if I just do a little um replay, you can see the change. So that um that bending of that curve of of energy leakage is one opportunity. But if we can get off of those of fossil fuels entirely, for example, by um you know, pricing CO2 um and doing things that are that that allow us to decarbonize energy supply, what you'll see is that those um those methane uh emissions from energy go down even further. So there's sort of a two-prong approach here, which is to reduce the leakage from the system that we have, which is the original gas leaks idea. And then there's the question of how do we transition away from these um highcarbon sources of energy? Um I'm just going to revert back without those changes and just say that. So then the question is, well, how might we simulate the effects of doing district geothermal like we're going to be talking about the next couple of days? And what I'll say is that that's a blind spot in tools like this because um as the first thing as Adam said today was that so much of our attention has been on electricity and light. We don't tend to think about thermal energy and I'll say that that's also the case for nodes. There is geothermal built into what we define as renewables. Um so that when you're you know you know subsidizing renewables or you're doing other moves like uh carbon pricing that do transition toward a renewable world that does include if you look at the details geothermal but it's largely thinking about that first bucket in her um in her graph of the um using geo using like the super high temperature geothermal to generate electricity. We're not really dealing with it um from a heat standpoint. The best way for us to represent that is for us to think about electrifying the building and industry space because what you're doing is you're often moving to some kind of a heat pump, a geothermal heat pump um in lie of a um but you're also doing that in a far more energy efficient way than um than you'd be doing otherwise with fossil fuels. So this is a this is a kind of an energy efficiency and electrification play which are you know important pieces of the puzzle. Um, the last thing I'll just say is that when you're anytime you're electrifying something, of course you'll have to and and you'll notice if you play with NROs that electrifying transport doesn't have a huge effect on the climate. Electrifying building an industry by itself doesn't have a huge effect on the climate. And part of that is because you're not decarbonizing the energy, the electricity supply. So you have to make sure that if you're running those heat pumps, you're running them off of lowcarbon electricity. And that's another system interaction. So if you can do things like uh you know stop building new coal plants and therefore um you know work toward kind of that decarbonization of the electricity system. If you you know do some really heavily heavy kind of um reductions either technologically or uh or through policy to reduce natural gas and so on then you're decarbonizing electricity supply then the electrifification actually has more of an impact on the climate. So just to say that these systems are interactive and we want to think about um as we are going and trying to solve these thermal heating problems that we do it in as renewably powered a way as possible. But also just that there are blind spots in so many of these modeling tools and so many of these policy discussions given the general tendency to focus very heavily on uh electricity. Is that what you want me to cover? Um, oh and I'll just say one one more thing which is that of course AI and it data center growth is driving you know increase in all of these parameters in terms of energy usage. So we have to do everything that much harder and that much faster. Um now hopefully the AI and the machine learning can help us and we're going to talk about the ways that advanced analytics can help us identify geothermal opportunities and optimize for them. But just notice just remembering whenever we talk about those types of computational things, we always want to think about the foot the handprint and the footprint of those technologies. >> Okay, >> thank you so much. >> Oh my gosh, that was amazing. And >> all right, that that was amazing. And now And now we have to talk afterwards about getting geothermal in there with a little toggle switch. Yeah.