Before I um pass it over to our next moderator for the amazing panel on policy, I just want to do a a brief moment summarizing um our first two sessions. Um, and I know we started with the enormity of the global challenge in front of us at from multiple perspectives and I thought that was a fantastic conversation and then we turn to people and it's easy um to skip the people part and uh and to not have the harder conversations about all the different stakeholders and viewpoints and challenges. Um, so I'm I'm glad we did it. And I also um felt uh the um I don't know, I irony isn't quite the right word. I'm going to misuse it, but I felt the um the kind of human level of what it is to be in a conversation about people. Um our emotions and our beliefs. um aligning them to take action is probably the largest challenge larger than that first panel. Um and to do that requires a degree of vulnerability and human connection. I think it was mentioned by some of the speakers that um you know heat likes to say ch change happens at the speed of trust. Um it is relationshipbased. And so, um, during the lunch break, uh, after that conversation about, um, utilities and the question about trust, I was, um, chatting with, um, a leader in a gas utility. Um, and we ended up, and I'm going to totally make this incredibly uncomfortable and call her up. Come on, Nikki. >> So, here's what we were talking about. We're going to just demonstrate um a little bit of vulnerability and trust. We ended up in a very um personal conversation about how to deal with waking up in the middle of the night with work issues and challenges and and you know was was was diet, coffee, um uh acupuncture, um other methods the way to cope with the burden and the exhaustion of trying to lead in this space. >> I'm just going to hand you the mic. Well, I'm sure it's a foreign issue to everybody in the room. No one ever has woken up in the middle of the night. Um, but I think where we we came out is just uh the enormity of it all on your shoulders and kind of goes back to what some of the panels were saying about how do you break that down and helpffectuate change where you can. Um, and then kind of detach really because you know you if you're working on something that you love, even if you're exhausted, it feels a little less weighty than if you're just putting the paces in, but you know, you don't really care. Because I'm I get asked sometimes um sometimes by people I love, why do you care so much? It's just a job. Or and I said, well, geez, if I went to work and I treated it as just a job, I would be really bored. Probably wouldn't perform as well. And and I know I you know not everybody's wired that way, right? And then you think, do I have this all wrong? Because then you could detach a little easier. And so I know and it's not just me. I mean, I stand here on behalf of my team, but um a lot of us are dealing with that. And and I think it's just thinking about the global picture and the to use the word enormity of it all, but what locally can you control and what can you do and trying to do the now I sound like a Frozen movie, but the next right thing I think was the song. You can tell how old my kids are. Yeah, >> I was going to say that. >> Thank you so much, Nikki, for for volunteering to do that. Um, and I just I wanted to do that to bring like that level of the people conversation in in response to some of the conversation we had before is just it's actually just human. And as you get to know other humans, no matter where they are in the system, you will find over and over again that they are just humans and that it is the systems that we must evolve and change to meet the moment. So with that note, turning it over to Andrew Eiff who is going to be our next moderator. And I'm so excited for this panel. >> I'm excited too. I hope you all are too. I think that's a great segue. We spent the morning, excuse me, talking about the sort of high level and talking about people and I think policy can seem like a sort of depersonified kind of a thing. It's just out there in the system, in the atmosphere, in the water. But I think we're going to hear in this panel about people making that policy and what is driving them, what are the opportunities, what are the challenges that they see. Uh we're going to begin with a video from Laurig Shakudian. She represents district 20 in in the Maryland assembly and serves on the economic matters committee. As you will hear, Laurig is a passionate and thoughtful advocate and also runs ultramarathons, which may help explain her stamina in pushing for geothermal networks. >> Delegate Lauren Chudian uh in the Maryland General Assembly and I am sending my greetings and a little bit of jealousy because I wish I was there with you. >> Um but I'm here in the Maryland General Assembly. We are in full session and I have bill hearings at the time that you all are meeting. So, I know your meetings um and your conversations are probably amazing and I look forward to hearing about everything that you are learning from each other as I continue to be part of this amazing network of people across the country uh who are moving legislation and pilots and programs forward to increase um network geothermal systems across our communities. Um last year around this time I was working to pass the warmth act which is the um working for accessible renewable Maryland thermal heat. A bit of a mouthful but really a brilliant name. Wouldn't you agree? Um and warmth like who doesn't want to be warm? And so with that as our entry, we were able to educate my colleagues on um network geothermal systems uh in our case utility owned systems and we passed the bill in uh 2024. And so now we've reached a point where the utilities are each putting in um their filings with working with the community on developing pilot locations um and things are moving forward. So I'll back up a little bit and tell you about our process. I became um really interested in geothermal in general when I was working both on building electrification a number of years ago. Working on building electrification and also simultaneously on looking at grid issues and and um grid stability and the ability of the grid to handle building and and um transportation electrification. And that was even before we were looking at load growth from data centers and other manufacturing. Um and it was clear to me that geothermal had to be part of our uh transition because of the fact that it has the ability to um to do the electrification superefficiently um and in a way that really minimizes impact on the grid and long-term as we've seen from the DOE studies um really saves an extraordinary amount of money in terms of uh infrastructure um and generation. So I got excited about that. I had an initial bill um in 2021 uh to create geothermal wrecks in the state. But as I was doing that research, I ran across the work that heat was doing and I absolutely fell in love with the model because for a few reasons. Um, one reason is because um, as I work on energy transition, one of my top priorities is to make sure that the jobs that are being created in our new energy economy are good union jobs and are equivalent to the jobs uh, that are being lost as we transition away from fossil fuels. And so network geothermal of course is the most perfect of those transitions because um literally the very same work working on pipes in the ground that could be done with gas is the very same work working on pipes in the ground that is done with never geothermal. So that sort of checked one of my top priority boxes. And then the idea of, you know, I do spend a lot of time um with legislation that the utilities don't like. Um and it's nice to work with the gas utilities and say, "Look, you know, like if you want a future, I don't have a problem with your future. I just have a problem with your current business model and your past business model of fossil gas." And so if you want a future, like let me help you have another kind of a future. and um really an opportunity to take um to take what it is that utilities do have, which is an ability and expertise on massive infrastructure projects and access to capital to do that um and a system that lets us spread the costs and the benefits across all rateayers. And so all of those things uh made me really excited about network geothermal. Um so I went up first and u met with folks at HEAT myself. Um learned a bunch of stuff um with um we brought up I went up with uh initially sorry first I went up with uh Washington gas uh and we took a look at the systems and then as I got clearer about the bill that I was putting together I started a process that I do on most of my big energy bills which is really bringing together all of the potential stakeholders. So, I was working with um I was working with the gas utilities. I was working with the labor unions, both the labor unions who represent gas workers. So, the in-house labor unions uh for Washington gas and BG and then also the building trades. Uh so, work that doesn't get done um by the in-house unions, construction work that gets contracted out could be done um by building trades. I was working very closely with uh the grassroots groups uh the housing justice folks, the climate justice folks who are doing really interesting organizing in my community where they're going in and measuring NO2 levels associated with gas stoves and then they're organizing tenants who are then going to their landlords and asking for um asking for electrification um for as a health and safety issue. So working with Action in Montgomery, Interfaith Power and Light, those were some of the groups doing that. grassroots housing justice, climate justice work, and then um also bringing into the conversation groups like the Maryland Energy Administration, the Public Service Commission, the Office of People's Council, and then of course all the climate groups um that do really good work in the state, Chesby Climate Action Network, League of Conservation, Vot Sierra Club, and others. And so, um I started working with all of those groups. And um I I um brought uh a group of people up to Massachusetts and thanks again to heat for hosting us. Um we had a chance to see um some of the test board holes. we had a chance to sort of stand there and look at, you know, buildings really, right? because um as AB likes to say there's not a lot to see but um but to be able to picture I think for folks who were there to be able to you know learn about what's happening but also to picture what kind of neighborhoods um uh this could be really effective in and um and then we continued to work collaboratively and and it was exciting to bring folks together who often are not working um in the same direction on the same policies um working through building trust across those groups of people and making sure that everybody body felt like the bill that we finally produced really um met the needs of of the folks who were going to be required and and necessary for implementation. And so, uh we had the bill last year in the 2024 session. Um and I'm happy to say it passed in the in the first year we introduced it. Um and really a lot of that had to do with the fact that we essentially had no opposition because everybody was sitting at the table. And in fact, when we went for our hearing, you know, I had the the climate justice groups and the gas workers union and the utility and the office of people's council and like that's a set of folks that I don't know if they've ever been on the same panel before, but I was telling my colleagues, I was like, just go ahead and take a picture of this um and then move my bill favorable because um obviously there was still work to be done and education and and so on, but most of the work really was the year and a half of building coalitions and connecting people with each and making sure that the language really met the needs of everybody involved. So that bill passed and then soon after we started um you know working with the gas companies uh to to start to you know connect them to the grassroots groups and to start to organize and identify potential locations. Um and that's really where we are right now. Um we're going through that process with community groups and the the gas companies are working on um some engineering studies and we're excited to have um to have something here in the next few years. So um I'll stop there. I'm not I may or may not be able to be on there for questions. I'm not sure how that's going to work, but um if anyone's interested in getting in touch with me, we'll make sure that you all have my contact information. Um so I'm happy to follow up and be supportive um as I am able. And I do hope to to connect with folks and and hear more and learn more about what you all are doing all across this country.