And finally, our last speaker is Brian Erl, who is a senior vice president at Salis O'Brien and their director of geothermal operations, and he'll be joining us virtually. >> Yeah, good morning everybody. Uh, sorry I can't be there. Um, I'm actually going to be in Boston all next week for more geothermal and thermal energy network uh uh conferences and and symposiums and uh looking forward to that next week. But um uh let's see is that in screen? Sorry. There we go. Okay. Um yeah, thanks for having me. So I'm going to talk a little bit about uh the introduction to designing geothermal energy networks or thermal energy networks. Um I know Nicholas and thank you for that uh mentioned something about a case study. I think maybe the agenda might have gotten changed a little bit but um so we're going to talk a little bit briefly about uh you know kind of the highlevel technical aspects of design considerations for thermal energy networks and and geothermal energy networks. So primarily these are the six kind of uh um most important topics or design considerations that in my mind when looking at these systems that you have to really consider think very you know thoroughly through and understand uh as you move forward in the design. So number one site selection uh obviously extremely important. Now I'm going to talk specifically about the technical aspects of this uh of the design. Obviously with site selection there's all kinds of other ramifications and and you know aspects of why you might choose a site uh over certain technical aspects but just from a technical perspective we'll go through that. We'll talk a little bit about thermal resources but obviously you've been hearing all about that and and so I'm not going to spend a lot of time there. Uh we'll also just dive into a little bit about the differences between a single pipe ambient loops versus two-pipe ambient loops and then what's an energy transfer station, why or why may you may or may not uh incorporate that into a design, what impacts that may have. Uh and then some of the infrastructure ramifications, pump houses primarily, because we're pumping fluid, we've got to have a lot of these types of uh uh systems throughout the network. And so where do they get located? Um and that's always a really big uh topic and discussion with the client and the community about you know uh where do where do these go? How do you locate them and uh what they might look like? uh then also talk just briefly about modeling these systems because it's ex you know these are relatively new from um the modeling community and so to try to dynamically model the impacts and the optimization of these systems I think is really important and then of course gathering data on existing systems so we can continue to refine the modeling is also you know extremely important which we know HEAT is doing a fantastic job with uh with their leg up program and And uh you know thinking about future expansion, we've got a lot of pilot projects going on in the country right now, but we need to think about and have as part of the design consideration, how do we expand these systems and what that might look like and make sure that we're incorporating proper um fundamentals within the system to be able to to to accommodate that expansion in the future. So first of all, site selection. Just looking at this from a technical perspective again, first thing we always look for when we're looking at sites is are there thermal assets that are available and accessible within that site. And what I mean by accessible is, you know, through both regulation and land uh uh agreements or access, can you can you make that thermal asset available to the system? So that's really important. So it might be vertical bore holes, but where do those go? Are they on somebody's private property? Are they within the street? Um, are they in a parking lot? You know, what does that look like? Is it is there a river or a or a surface body of water nearby? Uh, you know, any of those things that are going to be utilized, are they accessible and available? And then how do you get to those uh sites and incorporate that into your into your system? The next thing would be the building stock. You know, number one, we always want to look for a diverse load profile within the building stock that's going to be uh connected to the system. The reason for that is really just to try to reduce capital costs and peak loads and try to share energy. If we're not sharing energy during peak times, we still have to size the total for the for the for the sum of the peaks, right? So we don't get a real benefit from the diverse loads on the on the peak sizing which then doesn't offset any capital expenditures. So what we're really looking for is commercial buildings that have in in heating dominant climate zones have cooling dominant load profiles so we can share that energy with then some residential buildings on that same network. That's really important. as you were going south in, you know, uh, in into cooling dominant climate zones, then you would look for things like domestic hot water and things that are using, uh, uh, heat versus, um, getting rid of heat. So, it depends on, of course, where this is being done. Uh, number one, most of the systems we're seeing today are in heating dominant climate zones. So, we're looking for that commercial offtaker that can give heat to the system. And, uh, and then also the building density. You know, we don't want to run miles of pipe and only connect a few buildings. We want to make sure that our building density is such that we have enough connected customers to reduce that overall cost of the network. And and it makes sense to do that. Um and then of course the site has to have uh areas for infrastructure. Where does the infrastructure go? Where do these pump houses or vaults go? Where do where do we put the thermal assets in in and how we connect those systems? Because with these systems, you're going to have infrastructure that has to be placed somewhere both electrically uh hydraulically. Um so are they within buildings? Are they out uh um you know uh freestanding buildings? Are they built into maybe new developments? Uh you know, where do those things um uh you know, where are they going to be located? And that's really important because as these get built out, I think the last thing a lot of communities want to see is all kinds of just uh infrastructure that has to do with operating the system throughout their neighborhoods. So that's certainly uh technically we have to understand that and figure out where we're going to put it. And then of course the building age and the community that you're looking at, you know, what is the age of the buildings? Typically the older buildings are going to be harder to heat because of the envelopes. They need to be improved. They don't have as good of insulation. uh you know windows etc. And then also the HVAC systems are probably such that they're not easily retrofitable to a geothermal heat pump system. So the deeper the retrofits of course the higher the cost. So those are all things when it comes to the technical site selection that we take into account when looking at that and helping our clients really pick the best sites for these projects moving forward. Thermal assets or thermal resources. We, you know, uh, Nick did a really good job talking about this. Um, you know, obviously we've got all kinds of different earth energy type systems where you're talking about vertical closed loop, surface water, uh, openloop reinjection, energy piles. Uh, there's all kinds of really good geothermal resources, but there's also that waste heat, the waste heat that's around all of our communities that we can try to take advantage of. And so those are the thermal assets that we've always try to analyze, look at and figure out is it available, is it accessible and then what's the cost implication to that thermal asset single pipe versus two pipe uh ambient temperature loop. So the connect the interconnecting pipe that runs around the community or the network and how to connect these buildings is really important. Number one, uh technically to to put stuff in existing streets, to put new infrastructure in existing streets, you have to coordinate with all the other utilities and and a lot of these older neighborhoods and communities have a lot of utilities in the streets. So having a two-pipe system versus a one pipe system makes that a bit more challenging and a bit more cost costly to install. Uh the other nice thing about the single pipe versus the two pipe is it's much more flexible for expansion for distributed resources and distributed uh uh assets. So you can have multitude of of thermal assets and you can place those in different locations where with a two pipe it's a lot harder hydraulically to interconnect all of those systems and it also becomes a little bit more challenging. Um and then and just the building connections. Now uh the downside to a single pipe is if you only had one thermal resource to draw from then you have to size and pump the single pipe such that all the customers are still getting roughly the same temperature uh to those heat pumps. Usually we try to you know maintain less than a 5°ree delta t Fahrenheit between all of those buildings because that way everybody's getting the same efficiency. If you start to allow 7 8 10° between buildings, now you're impacting, you know, the person uh that's first off of the line versus the last off of the line, you know, uh differently. And that's not necessarily equitable and fair to to those customers. So, um that's one reason why when you're looking at a single pipe ambient system, distributed thermal resources are key to those uh designs. Whereas a two-pipe system, you know, everybody's getting the same temperature. You can locate one larger uh thermal asset and everybody gets the same temperature. So, it's a little bit easier to manage uh with a two-pipe system. I'll also say that the single pipe systems generally on average have lower flows through that single pipe through the ambient loop, which means smaller pipe, smaller pumps, less energy to operate. So those are also some benefits of the singlepipe system versus the two-pipe system. The other thing that just touch on briefly is the energy transfer station or or basically uh in layman terms would be just a hydraulic isolation between the building fluid and piping system and the infrastructure uh fluid and piping system. The reason why you do that is uh especially for larger buildings is if you have a lot of piping in your building, you have a lot of fluid, a lot of connections, a lot of joints, you have a larger risk for potential leaks and and breakage that would impact the entire infrastructure. So, a heat exchanger to isolate the building from the infrastructure then allows you know every building to have its own system. uh the infrastructure is completely isolated and that way the fluids don't mix, the pressures don't mix. If I had a mid-rise or a high-rise building on one of these systems, that pressure would would impact the infrastructure pressure if I didn't isolate that. So, most systems we see today have what we call an ETS or an energy transfer station to isolate those systems. Keep in mind every one of those heat exchangers though do reduce the temperatures uh and efficiency of the system because we're not getting a a straight through zero degree approach from infrastructure temperature to building temperature. You generally lose a couple of degrees which then again you know can negatively impact the heat pump performance slightly. Not a huge deal but it does there is an impact there. Uh if you had all residential homes and all just one heat pump per home, maybe an energy transfer station isn't necessary. Uh there's a great case study uh the one in in in Markham, Ontario, where all 300 homes do not have an energy transfer station because there's very limited piping. There's no pressure implications of additional building height. It's all single family. So again, project specific, but just understand what the differences are and why you might use that uh versus when you maybe wouldn't use it. And then let's talk a little bit about these pump houses and and infrastructure and where do we put those? Uh you know, the above grade pump houses uh obviously need to have architectural designs to meet any city standards and neighborhood standards from an from an architectural perspective. Um, you obviously have to have uh uh in certain cases have to have conditioned space. Uh when you get over certain square footages, we've uh in certain areas the code would require potentially a bathroom to be installed. So, you know, designing above grade structures, number one, there's a lot larger cost implications. It's something that people are going to see. So, where do you put that? What does it look like? um you know, great for educational purposes, but other than that, you know, it's really just there to operate the system. Uh are you going to have, you know, actual hardware installed there to operate the system, or is everything remote, you know? So, what goes into this pump house? How big is it? Uh some of these that we've seen on some of these pilot projects are 20x 40 foot long. So, a relatively large pump house uh that needs quite a bit of space and obviously can be, you know, can be seen. So, so you know, when you're into the beginning concepts, where do you put these? What do they look like? What are the sizes? Uh what are the implications of having above grade structures? And you know, you might have one, you may have more than one depending on how many different pump stations you might have in a system. So, those are things that need to be considered. The other thing you could consider is what if we do this below grade? Okay, so now we don't have to look at anything. Everything is below ground. Uh but what are the implications of that? Well, number one, anybody that's owning, operating, and maintaining these systems, you have to have confined space uh trained and and certified uh uh service technicians to be able to access those vaults and be down inside those spaces. It does make for a bit more challenging for that maintenance and repair if if needed. Um, you also have a very uh high humidity environment. So, you have to be careful with some of the materials that are used. And then where do you place these? Where do you have room for these? Generally, in the street, you may not have room because of all the other utilities. So, are they going to be placed in private property? If so, you have to have easements and and land access agreements to access these vaults. Um, so just thinking that all through about number one, who's the owner? Who's going to own and operate and maintain the system? What are their capabilities? Where do you have space for this stuff? And then, you know, what's the longevity? What are what are the service and maintenance implications of having something below grade? If this was in the street, it has to be vehicle load rated, etc. Here's just a couple of pictures of a project. Uh uh this was the one I mentioned up in Markham, Ontario. Uh that's been installed and operating for a couple of years now. And these uh they have 15 belowgrade vaults all located in the street. So, as you can see, you know, you have to access those from a manhole down into the vault to be able to get at the pumps, etc. Uh, you still have electrical and some water um uh pedestals above grade that you're still going to see within the community. So, where do you put those? Is that on someone's private property or or is it, you know, public property? Where does that get located? So with these systems we do have to con you know consider technically where does all this stuff um uh you know where do we place all of it and um uh you know uh what are the cost implications and then what are the maintenance and future you know accessibility to these systems uh look like and then I just talk a little bit about modeling uh modeling these systems can get quite complicated uh the bigger the systems the different types of energy sources is when you're adding in any type of supplemental or hybridization of the systems. Uh you know uh depending on the building loads and the different diversity of each of the buildings, you're you need to model these in a dynamic transient way that we can actually really number one understand how they're going to operate hour by hour, yearbyear, you know, over the long term. uh we need to understand and be able to run sequence sequencing and operational models or dispatch models so we can really understand how to build proper control schematics on on how to operate these so we can give those to the client. And then also just looking at long-term what happens to the system or throughout the year what happens when you know one building shifts from heating to cooling or uh you know maybe one asset isn't available because of the temperature profile or you know so so there's a lot of different things that are happening within these systems. And then we can also really look at not just the heat pump efficiencies we can also dive into the the parasitic pump loss efficiencies. And because one thing you see with these large um uh thermal energy networks is there's a lot of pump energy. You the bigger they get, the more pumping you have. And so how much are we being penalized by connecting all this together? Or is there different ways we can do this to maintain small parasitic losses on the pump side? And so the cost to operate the system doesn't offset as if you were to go through and and maybe do these in smaller pieces. So those are all things that we need to really understand and need to model correctly uh as we're designing these systems. So again the temperature profile of the ambient loop I mentioned earlier we want all the buildings to get roughly the same efficiency and the same temperature. So with that we need to model that temperature profile throughout the year and then obviously at the very coldest point and the and the warmest point in the year and what that looks like. So this is that project in Markham, Ontario where you can see all the different energy sources injecting or rejecting heat into that ambient loop and then how it uh the temperature profile follows that 2 miles of pipe around the development. So we know that based on this nobody's getting more than a 5 degree difference which means everybody's getting really good and pretty close to the same efficiencies at their home. And then of course we always look at long-term net effects of of the system especially when we're looking at vertical ground loop heat exchangers and if we have large uh um uh bore fields that we could impact with either putting too much heat in or taking too much heat out and how that impacts the earth over time. Uh and that's the other beautiful thing about you know distributed thermal assets is the smaller you make them and the more distributed the less we're going to have any impact of the earth over the long haul versus if we put all that into one area. Um so you can see here that we've you know you model five years you model 10 years um even as much as 30 40 years just to see you know what's the trend of that of that model look like and you can see here that there is no trend either going up or down which means that we have a very stable and consistent load profile both energy in energy out so the ground is going to be very stable over the long term and then we can also model all the efficiencies of the system so these are the the heat pumps throughout throughout the year um or for one year of operation that was in the third year both heating and cooling. So that's every heat pump in the system and looking at the coops of those uh different buildings and how they're operating on the system. So we can look and go okay everybody's pretty much operating around the same efficiencies and we can also just get an aggregate of the total coop of the system not including pump energy but of the heat pumps in the in the customers that are being served by the system. So we can really get a good snapshot of you know how efficient these systems are and is it is it penciling out to what you know the consumers are going to expect on their utility bills. And then the last thing I would just say uh you know when designing these systems we really have to consider the expansion of these systems in the future and how are we doing that. Um, for instance, one of the projects we worked on, uh, with heat actually in Framingham, um, you know, they had put some TE's and some valves on the piping, thinking about expansion, and then as we got into designing the expansion, we realized that that really wasn't done, uh, in a way that could do it um, uh, the the most optimized way for hydraulics and for energy sharing. uh what what it was initially thought was that you could just use the entire center pipe as the mix loop for connecting the two. Well, hydraulically when you add the flow rate of the second loop that increased the pump sizes. Whoops. Uh it increased the pump sizes dramatically for both systems. Um so that really wasn't the most optimized way to do that and because the pipe wasn't large enough. So rather than digging up and replacing that entire section, creating two smaller 20- foot mix loop sections on each end and just replacing that section uh and then modeling that to make sure we can still transfer enough energy within that 20 foot and see how that worked to see whether or not that was a good way to expand the system. But we have to understand what is you know when we look at a a system where would you expand what's the building stock get high level what are the loads of that potential expansion loop are there energy resources available on that particular expansion loop or do I need to feed it all from the original loop you know how does that all work together and so um this is showing how that mix loop actually works those two different spots which you can see here at the beginning um and then at the at the center of the loop where the two come together for 20 foot and mix. You can see that the temperatures actually do benefit one another and bring the two closer together as they operate uh simultaneously. Even though you only have two 20ft sections, we're still getting shared energy benefit across both of the loops. And actually the red loop is is being benefited more from the black loop because we've got a little bit better temperatures on the on the second loop, I should say, the phase 2 loop. Um so that's benefiting phase one. Okay. And so uh as you can see here we've we've lo you know um put numbers on that where the actual mix loops are one and three which is here one and three and then how the systems kind of operate together. So thinking about expansion which direction you might expand um and and then just thinking about you know the hydraulics of it and also the energy where is the energy going to come from? Will there be new energy assets being installed or does it need to come from phase one of the project? And so those are just kinds of things that you can think through high level as as you're designing a project and asking clients, you know, is this potentially going to be expanded? Which direction would you expand? Are there more customers that you already have in mind that you want to add later on? Um, so those are all some of the design considerations that I consider when designing these geothermal energy networks. Really critical. um you know from from the kind of major or six six most critical uh considerations. So with that, I thank you uh for your time. Again, apologize I can't be there in person. Wish I could have. Uh I'm sure I'll see a bunch of you next week. And uh I guess we're opening it up for questions.