Thank you everyone for coming back after the coffee break. Um our next session our moderator is uh Kurt Newton stepping in. uh the previous moderator is okay but she won't be ava a available for this session. Uh and with that I'll pass it on to Kurt. >> All right. Uh coming out of our our first session we now you know where it was I think was teed up in a really interesting way with the kind of the final discussion what's going on with the sort of human side of this the the social uh decision making the motivations and such. we get into the the the human landscape for these networks and we have you know again a a wonderful series of three uh speakers uh starting with Nathan Phillips uh and then uh we'll hear from Chris Rae and last uh Kelsey Worth and then as we did with the previous session then we'll we'll go from the presentations into uh into a Q&A session. So over to you Nathan. >> Right. Thank you, uh, Kurt. And let's see, is this the slide advancer thingy? Okay, great. All right. Well, I'm here to share with you how a mildmannered forest ecologist ended up in a room with engineers and law experts and policy people and activists uh to work on the energy transition. So, I'm going to give you that ecological viewpoint of this energy transition. And it started for me as this mildmannered uh ecologist who learned uh stumbled out of my lane and learned that gas leaks damage trees. So I study the plumbing of trees and I wanted to know why what's going on. Uh this is in Newton about three blocks away from where I live and seeing uh the loss of the tree canopy was really heartbreaking as a as a person uh but also as a scientist like what is going on and from that moment things started moving. I had an accidental toolkit for understanding the problem of methane leaks because I was looking at how greenhouse gases are exchanged from soils and leaves and the same kind of equipment could be used to document where this greenhouse gas was leaking from the streets and sidewalks. So we got funded to do a research study in the city of Boston where we documented 3,356 gas leaks across the city. Uh that was in 2012. And this is where as an ecologist I started thinking about kind of biomimicry and thinking about the eco the city as an ecosystem. We had a grant called urban metabolism at the time from the National Science Foundation and it was the lens of using living things to think about how cities function. And as a tree physiologist, it became clear, you know, this gas network, this thing that's having this kind of metabolic problem is like a tree. It's got trunks and it's got branches and twigs and we we need to fix this uh problem. And that's where the the idea of the transition started to come in. Uh can we prune the tree? Can the tree retract and a new system uh grow from there? Now things were happening at the same time like the collapse of the gas system in the Marramac Valley where uh system level failures were happening and we realized in talking with folks like Zanb and Audrey and Heat that to solve problems like that we need to think bigger. We need to make the problem bigger. And coming back to the gas leaks problems on the streets and sidewalks of of of Boston and the greater Boston area, it became apparent to me that I needed to think bigger as an ecologist. And when I started to see things like new trees, this is in Roslandale, being planted into active gas leaks and the money that was being spent and the labor and energy that was being spent to plant urban street trees in a place where we knew they were going to die. So the gas in the soil here is at about you can't see it but it's like 15% in the soil. That tree was not going to live. Um to see things like uh okay the fixes made after the problem has wre havoc on the tree. So there's the empty tree pit and there's the patch that fixed the gas leak after the uh fact. So it became apparent to me that what we call infrastructure ecology is about the wires and the pipes and the streets and and all of those things. But it's also about the knowledge networks and the systems and the institutions that need to communicate to actually get the problem uh fixed. the coordination. Uh just here's another example in what we uh call the circle of death in Newton which is right over the mass pike where you can see the new pavement here. You can see the line where the uh lighter grade shade shade becomes darker and the uh new pavement being cut up like two weeks after it was put down to uh address a gas leak. That's a 10-in cast iron uh gas mane there. And so this problem really I couldn't avoid as an ecologist to think about how we need to bring all of the stakeholders and we need to think about the colllocated and interdependent critical infrastructure including the trees and everything else as an ecosystem. That's the only way we're going to solve this problem. And so that's what inspired me so much about being here and connecting with groups like mothers out front and heat where we weren't I was no longer being restricted to my discipline of forest ecology. I was connecting with people who were thinking in a much more inclusive and holistic uh manner about all of the actors and entities that need to come together. So I feel like a more holistic uh ecologist. Uh this exemplifies to me the way we need to see beyond the surface and make the connections uh that are there uh under the streets uh and with other stakeholders. And so what continues this work the for me is being involved in the uh project in Framingham that is happening and to come back to my uh profession as a tree physiologist and an ecoysiologist is really fulfilling because it's like a a circle has come back around where we are now as part of this big project with so many different uh academic research researchers and others. Uh my part of this is to come back to look at tree health. So do these thermal networks uh have any effect on the tree canopy? Sometimes in in science a nonresult is actually a really great thing to have. And after uh our research in two years of looking at the tree canopy where this infrastructure has gone in, we don't see any uh negative impact on the trees. We're going to continue to monitor this the urban canopy in this area because there may be some subtle changes. If you change the thermal environment in the soil, there may be a change in when the leaves come out or when the leaves drop and it may be species dependent. So, lots of interesting questions, but really gratifying to to know that there's we're not seeing any negative impact on uh the e the actual ecosystem and and just that you know uh there was a term that a famous uh thinker and writer and philosopher came up with who was not an ecologist but came up with a very important ecological term called succession. And that was Henry David Thorough in conquered succession the change in ecosystems over time and so it's really gratifying to be part of a project was which is looking at that transition from our fossilfueled infrastructure into this new infrastructure where we're not seeing negative impacts on the trees here and we're likely to see a healthier tree canopy in places like the place where I saw the tree uh being damaged in my own city of Newton. So, uh, thank you and I'll leave it at that. There's my friend Bob Aley, colleague and Margaret Hendrickk. Yeah. And