Thank you for coming to the very last session and our moderator for this session is Nick Fry. >> Hi, thanks everybody. So, uh, just gather in and we'll get into some case studies next. Uh, the first speaker is going to be Carrie Smith joining us remotely. I believe we're going to have his video up. Okay. Uh, so Carrie Smith is pretty well known in the industry. He's an AE fellow. Uh, and he's had about 30 years in ground source and, uh, subsurface and almost another 30 years before that doing other things. Uh then we'll have uh Mark Metzner uh who you'd heard from earlier and Jay Egg and Susan Merkott to follow. So uh if we can ceue up Carrie's video. >> Hello, my name is Carrie Smith. I hope you're enjoying the conference. Uh thank you for letting me present my portion the about ATL systems. My presentation will give you an overview of one pipe ATLs. Depending on uh how you classify multi-building projects, we have between 20 and and 30 ambient temperature systems operating at at this time. Uh our first system was started in 2002 in SEU Springs, Colorado. Other projects include housing projects, a 40 acre heavy equipment dealer service center, a see a NASA track, seven school campuses, and of course uh additional uh university campuses like Colorado University and Weber State University. I'd like to uh describe what uh these the configuration of these uh uh ATLs and stuff. First uh we have a configuration that basically is a hair pin. two pipes going up and down uh the street uh which uh connected two connected pipes going up and down the street which are connected primary secondarily to these loads sync sources uh and buildings. The second would be the perimeter or runaround system which basically goes around the block or around the campus. These two loops can be uh two configurations can be combined together to form a multi-ist uh multi-asset uh uh system where we have a central loop that basically connects them. Uh and then we have submicro district coming off that central loop. We could also connect directly to another central loop system. Uh theoretically these are quite expandable uh over a large area. You know, nothing's more efficient than off. Uh, an ATL uses an independently large diameter HTP pipe uh attached that uh that uh pipe or or hydraulically separated independent surf circuits serving buildings or system assets. Uh these assets may be but are not limited to really uh graywater and blackwater systems closed loop and phase change materials. Uh that's for storage or sync source uh use solar thermal systems or PVT energy for energy addition or rejection. um open loop sources or sinks, high to mid temperature geothermal resources, CHP waste and conventional uh boilers and cooling towers for emergencies or peak loading. This system uses heat pumps and diversity of loads to heat and cool. Bore hole and phase change storage is dinural for load shifting or time of day power reduction or or seasonal for heating and cooling. All sequences are birectional central loop to building or building to central loop. Uh to give you an example of the control of these systems, we have a building up here that's uh running between 55 and 85. If it gets out of range, uh what happens is uh it turns the central loop pump on and goes to the central loop. Of course, we started with the uh first thing we had this central loop is idling. So, consequently, other buildings and assets are available to this building. Finally, uh if uh the central loop and the buildings that are on it can satisfy the load, that's diversity. uh then uh we will go to green systems or like uh loop fields and PV and so forth. uh when the temperature is under 50 or over 85. And finally when uh the system uh gets above its uh set capacity and is no longer able to uh uh to maintain this 50 to85 and it has all the green assets on will go to boiler cooling towers uh the for additional energy or to reject basically under 40° or over 95 degrees. This is a a uh picture of the front end system of Colorado Mesa University. Uh it uh the central loop flash fluids building the heat pump systems. We have about 3 and 12 miles of 18in central loop pipeline in the five micro districts. We have currently 19 buildings uh on the system itself and uh 13 1.3 million square ft. Uh these five five micro distances are interconnected and they can uh be operated independently or as one system. Let me see. There are over uh 250 van gallons of transport fluid in the system and there are distributed assets around campus. This system uses loop fields, irrigation water and some potable water at this time. Uh except for a small number of hours, we have not fired the boilers to maintain temperature in the system since 2012. So what we've got uh here we've got loop fields. This is district number one. We've got loop fields. We've got a pumping station. This is a main pumping station uh for the central loop. It's sized to uh to handle about 4,000 tons. And south district 2 is down here. It's a set of dorms is mostly heating. Of course, it's isolated primary secondary. Uh district three is the Maverick Center. Uh in the center here, we have mixing valves and so forth. So we can direct and redirect uh the fluid and uh uh throughout any of the micro districts. Down here we have a a classroom building dorm complex when we have a second uh pumping station. These pump two pumping stations by the way um when they're used together are in a kind of a parallel series configuration. And you know, most of the time uh uh we only used one or two pumps to start with. Uh as you might be able to see, it's kind of small here. This estimate right now, the central loop temperature is 82 degrees. And if you notice, we have none of the assets on. This is purely run on uh uh building diversity at this time. So, you know, uh it's uh oh, oops. you know, we do have, by the way, several buildings on at the uh at the same time. So, uh, as we go through this, um, we're currently planning on this campus another 1.3 million square foot addition, which is going to be a sixth, uh, uh, and probably seventh micro loop. This is kind of a nice cartoon. What it does is tell you a little bit about uh gives you a little broader perspective of what uh we have buildings on the loop. Uh they can be commercial, residential or industrial. They're cooling dominant or heating dominant. It doesn't matter. They could be balanced. It just depends. Uh then on top of that we have uh a system we're able to build solar PVT uh do heat exchange panels so forth. Uh we can uh use air source uh pumps built into made as multissource heat pumps which basically either uh use uh air as a source or water as source and of course ground source heat pumps. We may have chillers on the loop. We may have wastewater heat recovery and heat heat exchangers or we may have industrial us industrial waste and of course we have ground heat exchangers, thermal storage and water source heat changers exchangers. Uh all of the systems can be interfaced with the electrical uh grid and uh and also in PVT uh panels and so forth. But uh what we do is we operate the loop in such a way that we can uh uh shift loads and and or take care of take advantage of time of day rates and and so forth. Uh and then also on top of that, you know, we might be turn around have another source of electricity, river run, wind, whatever have you. And finally, you know, we can go with uh additions like conventional CHP, cooling towers and of course boilers for emergency. Uh the interesting thing is uh we can attach micro uh other micro grids to the loop. So consider that to be opponent. This system is emissions free uh uh and uh uses electrical power and in some cases we're starting to interface with the telecon uh with with grid enabled monitoring automated uh uh uh sequences above the general management system and monitoring and intelligent control. uh for example mapping the uh the flow of people back and forth across campuses uh in and out of city buildings and so forth. So that concludes my uh presentation. Uh I hope you enjoyed it and if you've got any questions, please submit them.