Um, but I am really glad to uh invite Nikki Bruno up to speak not about what keeps her awake at night in the middle of the night, but instead Well, I guess it is the same thing, isn't it? >> Different twist. Yes. Uh so thank you so much for for sharing uh your perspective on scaling. >> Yeah, >> thank you and hi everyone. Um thank you for having me. This has been a wonderful wonderful day. Um and you know when you think about the utility what I came into was the power of the people panel. Um I missed the the very first one. Um but you know there there is a general mistrust and a general dislike or even like even worse negligence about the utility, right? like I I don't know if it's better to be loved or hated, but if you don't feel anything, you know, so um you know, and I before coming to work at the utility, I kind of fell accidentally into the energy space. I have a degree in environmental science. Um but you know, life goes on, right? And it looks beautiful on a resume and all stitched together, but um you realize the energy is just such a it's a commodity. It's so needed. And I never knew all the work that the utility workers, gas or electric, do, water for that matter. Um but I think it's on us to continually change and evolve the perspective of right we have to earn our keep. Um we have a lot of beautiful touch points with the customer that many people do not. Um and that's a privilege and I think there you would find uh was just on the phone earlier this morning about it. A lot of people have ingrained and don't sleep at night around the fact that they have to provide safe and reliable service and and I know um gentleman earlier was mentioning what does reliable mean? When I say reliable, it's there for them all the time 247 365. Um so that's why some of us don't sleep. Um, but you know on the geo front it's it's been such a happy discussion and I'm going to be blending in kind of when we talk about scaling scaling technical systems certainly how we're thinking about our pilot in Framingham and what's next how it went what we can learn but also how we can scale that change management because there has to be a cultural shift in not only the utility but the um folks we interact with whether they're stakeholders, community partners, customers, regulators Everybody has to adjust and we're in this enormous transition period, right? And I think, you know, we've always said this in various places, but this pictorial example does not get built with one group. Um, and the reason this it may not feel like it's fast if you look like at this timeline, but being the first time we've certainly done this, it it is fast and it only happened because there were a lot of groups involved. Um, you know, certainly Zanab and the heat team right at the forefront really, I would argue before I even came to Eversource putting it out there in front of the DPU at the time to say, "Hey, the gas company could do this. Let's give them a shot." Um, and so what you see here is from 2019 when this was initially proposed to we commissioned the system in Framingham in 2024, a lot of blood, sweat, and tears. And you know, when we um maybe when you hopefully when you're picking up news articles online or otherwise, you see all the great um heralding about how this has been successful. I will tell you it's it's been tough. Um there's a lot of learning, a lot of scars. Uh but everybody has done so with such grace. And what I mean by that is they are willing and they want to show up to do this. So I was asked earlier, the gas companies want to do this? are they excited about this? Like how how do they feel? Um and you know I think there again even within your own internal company constituents you have to earn trust. You have to earn that this is additive. This is a positive and a benefit. Um and then when you talk about the pace of change, how things can scale and take off. Um we have a lot of folks that we brought in that were gas personnel. That's all they did all day long and we're very proud of it. um had a skill set, had a passion, had a career. Um and when we put them on things like Oversight for Construction, um it was amazing to see just how they delved in open-minded and took it on as if it were their own gas project. Um and at the end of it, um the most gratifying thing certainly is to hear like, wow, this was a pretty amazing project to work on. That's what that's the ultimate, right? Um so we're consistently trying to educate internally and ed and even our electric brethren. I'll say now that doesn't you know that goes beyond gas right electric's got their work to do on the utility side and because this is a true hybrid and has benefit across all systems got to educate them too and they've got a lot going on. So anyway, um just you know when you think about milestones on the timeline you say oh this is a project right normal course of business you do the feasibility you get the budget the estimate put it together you get customers you start construction you put it online all of these steps um we that flying the plane as you're building it that that was what was going on um and not to shake anybody's confidence in the utilities ability or the partners contractors etc teammates ability to do this um but as as you heard from um many speakers today a lot of this is art and science. So when we think about site selection and evaluating we had about 20 sites that we looked at um and it was really unique because I think from the get-go one of the big lessons learned about um these networks and the ability to scale is we had a crossf functional group of people in the room. So where maybe our a traditional infrastructure gas or electric you'd go to the DPW you'd go to the permitting agencies then you engage the community maybe at some level depending on the project size we were with the community and key folks in government community representatives in some cases in one location we didn't go with there was an active resident who petitioned her legislator um gathered the neighborhood it was that was an awful phone call to make by the way to call her and say I'm sorry we're not bringing it to your city um but she respected the engagement and I think that early engagement troubleshoots a lot of problems down the road. So that's something we want to do to continue building on, you know, the success that we think we've had with the community um in Framingham. Um we talk about permitting, right? I heard a lot in the last presentation about rules and regulations. The US is a little bit of the wild west, right? I mean, we don't even have the nomenclature set out. Um and that's confusing for people. Um, and so I think what what kind of environmental permits do we need? What kind of city like planning zoning type permits do you need? This gets very local very fast. Um, and I think what happened in Framingham is really a testament to the city in this case figuring it out with us. So we spent a ton of time meeting with them. In fact, um, I would argue in in all truth, we talk to them more than daily. And um, you know, we know what's everyone knows what's going on on the project in their personal lives. It's like the customers. And with that kind of trust, we were able to say, okay, we don't know what permits apply. This is a closed loop system. Do we really need to go for that board of health, you know, water type permit? Do we really need to go for that? Um, we'll gladly come before whatever council or permitting body, but maybe maybe it doesn't apply right now. And they were like, you know, maybe that's right. Okay. And in with the right protections, with the right construction methodology, we avoided a lot of time I feel like spent on permitting or if we had to get a permit, we had educated so much that it moved through in a manageable fashion. And and certainly in the state of Massachusetts, there was recent legislation passed. I was really excited about the geo work. Um, but within that a lot of expedited permitting and sighting for clean energy um because it is it does bog down schedule and timelines. And so I really enthused from that perspective and again another another component from a scaling um perspective that we want to take and bring forward. When we think about what we're going to learn here though that's that's really what excites me and I I want to spend just a few minutes talking about the customer side of this. Um, Eric Bosworth will be here tomorrow to talk about all the tech, commissioning, construction, drilling, all of that, which is very important. But to me, it's I should say and to me, it's a combination of customer and technical. Um, it it kind of is playing out that way in a lot of the dockets and a lot of the discussion around NPA around integrated planning. The planning is crucial um and and needs to be sound based on data, etc. You need to have the customer piece. you need to have the execution ability to go out there and actually build what you're talking about because otherwise we're just talking about it. And so in in Framingham as I move to the next slide here um we have taken the momentum of the pilot and are now on a grant um that even you know optimistic even with the administration geothermal is a very bipartisan discussion and because I think we've we've thought about it from a customer perspective just on our in our um world in Massachusetts and Connecticut if it can make fiscal sense and provide environmental benefits if we can get this whole thing to work. Um, it doesn't just have to work for climate advocates. It doesn't just have to work for folks concerned about future generations. It's going to be an ant. It's going to be for people who want effective heating and cooling from a cost perspective. So, what we're trying to do on this grant um, in effect is get data back from both a customer perspective, technical performance perspective to see those economies of scale as you build on this. And we've already seen it in our design. Um, costs have come down. We're smarter, leaner, faster, all that good stuff. Um, and I'm so excited and and hope the grant comes in certainly, but you know, at Eversource at least, we're thinking about how do we make a coherent rate proposal, project proposal using examples. We still have to learn, but to make sure that we're advancing this so it can stand on its own eventually. It's not on subsidies. Just a pictorial of it. Um, doubling the size of the pilot. This is the expansion. And um we don't talk a lot about delivered fuels customers, oil, propane, a lot of them here. So this could be accretive to a business, right? We could gain customers that we're not cannibalizing or we're not netting out net neutral, right? We are actually adding. Um and you know, for folks like me that like to build things. That's exciting. So let me just wrap with some of the opportunities and challenges and I'm happy to take questions later. um strong emissions goals here, targets here in Massachusetts and in a lot of the states we operate in. Um regardless of where the federal government goes, we see, you know, being good stewards, right, that we want to provide solutions and options for our customers. And when you go into more of AI call it like the subsidy verse tax. If you go into more of a positive mindset to give customers more choice, we find that that naturally puts them it doesn't back them into a corner, right? We talked about obligation to serve and customer choice. It gives them more to choose from and they feel like they are in control of their destiny. Um, a lot of customers and communities have expressed interest. We had to turn people away with the pilot. Now, we were paying for quite a bit on our tab um or on the rateayers collectively tabs, but it, you know, it begs the question of who else will go into this with us and how can we leverage that excitement, that momentum, that desire to bring this to whatever municipality we're in. the data will provide the learnings and you know I think the DOE liftoff report was really key new construction we have all these policies right to kind of styy gas growth and what do we replace it with if folks don't want airsource heat pumps this is like a natural fit we see so we're trying to attack the new construction market work with our existing relationships with those customers in this case builders developers who give them another option give them hopefully a better option right the challenges I think on the other side as you think about scaling are really things that have been mentioned already. Um but certainly workforce who can do this work. Um there's a variety of work streams that we know how to do that are transferable. Something like drilling, we don't have that skill set, right? And that's largely the bottleneck. Um the cost certainly too. This is an upfront capex investment that you make um that that you know we have to figure out a way to manage and spread um so that folks can enjoy the savings on the back end. And I think the utility is actually a great vehicle because folks were talking about putting in their own systems. It's expensive. Um it really is. And so um in wrapping, you know, we're trying to identify locations that are best suited from a technical perspective to deploy that the customers want that we can make the argument for them on a couple of different fronts, not just environmental emissions reductions. Um so that we could ultimately lower the cost of the project on on a whole. And so with that, um, I guess I'll say we're we're already seeing kind of acceleration here. We're still in that data collection. I'm a scientist, so we're still in that data collection mode certainly. Um, but the company, um, and I certainly am very very excited to be bringing this to more and more communities.