Um, a a very very warm welcome, but I uh I'm going to turn it over to our um hosts here at MIT to do the first welcome. >> Cool. Um, can we move the slide one? >> Oh, I got it. Okay, let's see. Um, do you want to talk about the flying the plane? >> Oh my gosh, I do. Um, all right. We're going to get our This is actually the perfect slide for our little start here, which we coordinated and and rehearsed. Um, I I love this picture because it uh basically embodies everything that is the organization heat and and the process of um moving forward in uncertainty. So we are here today um with this amazing course which you'll about to hear more about uh building uh and fixing the airplane while flying it. Um so I I I really want to know how that picture came to be but but it it stands. So it to that end I want to acknowledge that you know we've never done this before. Um it's really can't it can't go wrong because of the people in the room and um we're really excited to see where it does go. Uh and we're also really excited to learn from it as always. So for example, there is a lovely whiteboard outside during your coffee breaks that has two sides to it. One side is who are the people and the ideas and the topics that we need to add to this conversation. Please please put your ideas there. Um and the other one is just general feedback. Um thoughts, ideas, learnings, changes, etc. Um please don't hesitate to give us the gift of feedback. Uh and now for the part we probably should have started with. Hi, I'm Zay McAfei. I'm the executive director of HEAT. And heat is a um is a a nonprofit that has been focused on trying to solve climate change for a lot of years uh from a community level in the beginning and um scaling. So we um will talk more about the topic of geothermal networks in a few minutes but first I want to just um express a lot of gratitude to all of you for being present and here and offering yourselves to this conversation and and journey that might might look a little hazardous at times. Um, and also I want to just um thank MIT the inst the amazing institution and both Chris and Kurt for being our hosts and I want to turn it over to them to introduce themselves. >> Um, thanks Anab. Uh, so yeah, I'm so excited uh to welcome heat here to MIT. Uh, my name is Chris Rae. I'm the education program director at uh MIT's environmental solutions initiative. Um the education program mission is to better understand and expand climate education across both uh disciplinary contexts and institutional contexts. And I'd really like to make sure that our education our projects and activities are connecting to real world uh scenarios. So it's so exciting to be working with heat and kind of reinvisioning the way that energy can work. Um this is a part of a few other collaborations. So uh we started a new course called environmental justice science and technology and that has a massive open online version and heat participated with a really interesting lecture. Um and then also we're working on some K through2 curriculum in this uh day of climate uh project through open learning. So it's just really exciting to be doing both the K through2 space and the higher education space with heat. So again just so excited for heat to be here. Um thank you so much. >> Good morning everyone. Um, my name is Kurt Newton. I'm director of MIT Open Courseware, another of the co-hosts for this event. Um, and we're thrilled to be participating in this, not just to host, but also because this is all going to flow out to the world. We're recording, as you know, we've got video set up here to um to capture and then share back with the world this important emerging knowledge. Um you know we've had the pleasure at open courseware with serving this broader mission of unlocking and empowering people around the world both learners and educators for over two decades. Um you see a screenshot of you know the first engagement that we had with with heat with Zanb a uh a January session workshop that we did uh about gas leaks you know part of the maybe the origin story for so what we're getting up to here um and what we do at open courseware is not just sharing this knowledge again but to do so in ways that um encourage practices of sharing and the feedback that gets set up through this through this sort of broader open knowledge ecosystem. So heat for instance, you know, putting all of these resources in an open library and gathering together to, you know, in a really nimble sort of generative way create this knowledge new. I I'm recalling here at MIT in January 2020, just before all kinds of stuff got shut down, we we hosted here some design cherettes to start this process. and just what a what a thrill it is to us to be kind of part of this journey together. And just to let you know if you're not familiar with open courseware, you know, the the reach of this content is considerable around the world. 70% of our of our visitors come from outside North America. So that the interest around the world that's developing in these technologies, we want to plug into that. Our website gets millions of visits every year. Um and our YouTube channel where the videos you know also live is also a really important point of engagement. Um with over five and a half million subscribers on our YouTube channel it's the it's the largest subscriber base of any sort of educational institution out in the world. So rest assured that that what we come up with today you know flowing out to the world is going to reach a lot of people and it's really going to I think further the the work that we're all trying to get up to. So welcome. But don't hesitate to talk after that. >> Thank you. My name is Isabel Varela, science director at HEAT. And I wanted to briefly share this is the heat team that is here to help you. If you have any questions, uh don't hesitate to reach out to us. We've put together um an incredible program. HEAT takes the aim to look at uh for solving a problem bring identify all the stakeholders that need to be involved to make that change happen and this two-day course reflects that. As you see we have eight sessions for each day and they vary from what is the challenge that we need to solve? What are the policies that need to be implemented to do that? Um what are the learnings that we can get from the geothermal networks that are implemented today? what are the design principles that should be applied um and learn from case studies. We are excited that you're here and we hope you get uh most out of this course and participate your participation makes the course more lively and we have an incredible lineup of 28 speakers that are here. Some of them have come from uh around the country to be here in these two days. And we have organizations represented from universities, gas utilities, regulators, design firms, and community- based organizations. So, thank you for all the speakers uh that are here and making this uh course happen. Um >> just a quick note about the nature of the recordings that we're going to be doing. So what we'll be sharing with the world will be the the talks um and just the videos of the talks. There's a really important sort of Q&A interaction segment that will happen for each each of the sessions and we will not be sharing those straight out with the world. We want to have a you know a frank um completely un you know unconstrained conversation here in the room. Our hope is though that we will be sharing some kind of notes and takeaways some summaries and synthesis from those conversations. But rest assured um unless you are a speaker up here. We're not expecting you to show up in these videos that we share on OCW. If you have any concerns or questions about that uh please reach out to me, be in touch, but hopefully that's all right. Okay. >> Uh yeah. And um our our format uh is that each session is going to have a few brief presentations. Every single one of the speakers could likely speak for hours uh on any one of the topics and um and we're so aware of that. But we also thought that the most valuable thing here in the room is the interaction between. Uh so for um many speakers there will be a longer recorded piece of content that's attached to the courseware. Um but in the room we're going to keep the presentations brief so that we can get to that part of interacting between and talking and interacting with all of you. Um, and uh, we've got a Slido. Um, it's a little app that we'll introduce in a second um, for you to engage so we can kind of get more voices involved more quickly um, so that we can get the conversation going. Um, and then I've said this already, I'm going to say it again. You know, this is this is our first go at this. Um, I I love that you mentioned the previous um, wonderful events. The first one was a hackathon to design a a a tool to measure gas leaks. Um and the second one was a sharet. And now we're now we're trying um this this content. So uh you you will you will be part of making it um wonderful today. So please don't hesitate to participate. All right. One last comment for housekeeping. We have uh breakfast in the morning outside. We'll have coffee breaks. We'll have lunch outside. Uh food is allowed to come in here if you want to. Restrooms are here immediately to the right and there's another one in the hallway uh to the left. >> Thank you. And Isabelle planned this incredibly. So >> with the tea. With the tea. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. With with the tea. All right. So one of the things that we always do and and I know Kurt is always in on this. It's open. So, uh, your backgrounds here in the room are all over the spectrum. We think that's beautiful and exciting. And one of the things we're going to try to do is make sure that we move between um, introductory and advanced. And we're we're it may be a fire hose, but that's why we're providing coffee. Um, so I get to start us off with two quick ideas for the entire two days and then we have the most amazing panel to get going at a very like high scale level of you know the whole the whole world. Um, so um our our new our new uh tagline at the moment at HEAT is think thermal together. Um it kind of embodies a lot of the pieces that we're we've been learning over the past few years as we move forward with um networking ground source heat pumps or geothermal heat pumps. And um that idea of getting uh a problem solved by working together that's that's always been um there. But the piece where we realized as we as we spoke about geothermal that thermal energy itself wasn't always on the table in the climate solution space that people weren't thinking, they weren't measuring, they weren't talking about thermal energy. So, I'm going to just briefly start by getting us to take a moment to put on our thermal energy glasses. Um and then I'm going to do a little bit of housekeeping on language so that uh you know terminology and then we'll move to our first panel. Um so think thermal. Let's start with that part. Uh this is an image. If you use a thermal camera which actually we've recently purchased for the sheer fun of it. Um if you use a thermal camera you see things differently. um our eyes don't do that which may be why we don't we ignore it so often. Um but there is a huge amount of thermal energy in our earth and really if you stop and think about climate change what is climate change except a thermal energy regulation problem. And so if that's what it is and we talk about the rising temperature in air, well the kind of stunning thing is that uh there are a bunch of papers calculating how much thermal energy the earth has absorbed since say 1960 um and it's 630 times approximately all of the energy humanity uses every year. So I I was delighted to learn a new metric of energy, the zeta jewel. Um apparently humanity uses half a zeta jewel a year. All the energy we use. And every year our oceans alone are absorbing five zeta jewels. So that's a kind of stunning gut-wrenching challenge. But if you start to think about thermal energy, if start to look at it, if you start to measure it, it's also an extraordinary opportunity. It's a massive amount of energy all around us that we have been ignoring. And we have the technology to tap it, which is what we're here to talk about today. Um, a recent report from the IEA had a rather stunning statement um that kind of defines part of our our two days that the technical potential of geothermal would be more than enough to meet all heat demand. That's all heat demand. And they're not even talking about cooling in Africa, China, Europe, Southeast Asia, and the United States. So, I read that and I thought, well, what about those other places? Um but I also want to just add into the conversation not just that geothermal energy that's in the world all around us um but also uh the energy we waste all that energy we do use combust burn etc um the majority of it is wasted uh and a large large portion of that is thermal energy. So that is where we can think about yet another untapped resource all around us. All right. So taking the optimistic part of like wow there's thermal energy all around us. This is really exciting. Um what we're here to do today for two days is talk about um the technology we uh believe is there and ready for us to tap it and turn it into a solution. Um talking about that technology sometimes has some challenges. Um we we try to bring everyone together. Lots of different groups have lots of different language. Um this is kind of the heat approach that we've been talking about uh earlier with many other events. Um you're now part of it being in the room. Uh so coming together around what we mean when we say things is one way to start get us all on the same page. Um, and the first thing we have is a little quick intro visual, which many of you may have already seen. I apologize if you have. Um, explaining the technology of networking geothermal heat pumps in a very basic level. Tomorrow, you're going to get a very advanced level. For now, this is right beneath our feet. The Earth is soaking up energy from the sun. And it's been doing this for a long time. Near the surface, the ground warms and cools with the seasons, but lower down, it stays at a constant temperature. In Massachusetts, that's 55° F year round. This store temperature is a source of renewable energy. It can be access to heat or cool a single building without using fossil fuels. But did you know we can also connect entire communities to that renewable source in the ground? How does it work? It starts with underground pipes in the streets, sort of like gas pipes, but filled only with water. The water absorbs the ground temperature of the earth and delivers it to buildings. Pipes connect buildings with different heating needs. So, energy is never wasted. Instead, it's exchanged between buildings or stored in the ground until it's needed. Inside, a heat pump moves heat in or out according to the temperature you want. This system of pipes can connect like Lego blocks. gradually moving us all from gas to geo, giving us cleaner air, efficient heating and cooling, and a healthier planet. The idea for this worked geothermal system run at a utility scale originated at HEAT, a climate solutions nonprofit. Uh, all right, I'm going to really quickly go through language and then get out of here for so we can start this amazing panel. Um the word geothermal uh if any of you are thinking about uh you know Iceland and hot lava that's that's the stuff on the left. Um this is our one way to try to clarify that geothermal is like the last name of a family of technologies and energies both. Um and that uh the one we are talking about today is on the right. It isworked geothermal heat pumps can provide heating and cooling is what is typically called shallow. You'll hear purple hear people use the word shallow. Um but for the usual person uh 1,000 or 1200 feet isn't doesn't sound shallow but I I promise that's shallow. Um and then uh it is ambient temperature. In other words kind of the average temperature of the air and the ground. not super hot in any way. Um, and uh, one of the things that's really critical about this type of geothermal energy is that it is everywhere. Um, you'll hear people talking about the word district and certainly this is a form of district energy and the traditional naming system goes by generation. first generation, second generation and the type we are discussing today primarily is fifth generation. Um and the next more advanced level of this is okay. So why are we calling it a network then? And uh our proposal which is not universal um but there is kind of an emerging nomenclature um is that within fifth generation um if it has a single pipe decentralized and renewable and combustion free then it is a thermal energy network and if that thermal energy network is tapping geothermal energy which changes some of the outcomes then you could also call it a geothermal energy work. That's what we're going to use, but you'll hear speakers use a lot of different terminology. I just wanted to give you a a quick lay of the land. Um, and our last task before we begin is if you could please take out your phone. We have um this QR code you can scan and it should work pretty easily to get you on to Slido. And now you have um your first quiz. We did say class, right? No, don't don't worry. There's actually no test. Uh but um let's see how you do. Yeah, I made it too easy. So, if you have any trouble getting on, um, Erica back there is happy to help. >> You can also, you can also open your web browser and just go to slid.com and type in. >> All right. I like watching them go out and back. That's how I think. All right. Are we good? everyone on slidoh now for the rest of the day. Okay. Uh so yes um the the group um the group wisdom is prevailing. Uh the type of geothermal energy we're discussing today is ambient shallow and everywhere. Um which is a lovely feature. Um all right. So, we're going to take a a second and um begin our first uh conversation.