Uh next we're going to hear from Ania Kamargo who is uh associate director of thermal networks at the building decarbonization coalition to talk about that rapidly evolving policy landscape. And there's a little clicker. >> And there's clicker up there, I think. >> All right. >> Okay. Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Um, so I you see I have geo there in parenthesis and that is because most of the legislation that has the legislation that's passed to date uses the term uh thermal energy network. So you will be hearing me say that, but in general I'm talking about the broad category of both geothermal energy networks and thermal energy networks. And I'm just going to give you a picture of what's happening nationally. So here is how a bill becomes law. This is real. Um it is just never a straight line. It's very messy. And the reason why it's messy is kind of what delegate Shakudin was saying. It's about bringing stakeholders together with different interests and making sure that all of their interests are being met. So rarely does the start end up like the finish. But the really good news with uh thermal networks is that states are learning from each other. So this is coming becoming a little less muddy and uh legislation is moving really fast. Um so again I'm going to start with this one on like what's the general journey that we're seeing in legislation and again I have the word utility up there because the only uh anyone can build a thermal network right now uh municipality lots of colleges and universities a hospital anyone except for a regulated utility. And so we have to pass legislation to allow gas and electric or water companies to sell thermal or to build thermal networks. So the way it starts is exactly like uh delegate Shudian said it's in all the states that were working or that are passing this legislation. It's really a group of advocates. In her case, she was the legislator who started, but then she worked with all the people here. As you heard this morning from Kelsey, it started with mothers out front. Um and then the underpinning of this for the legislation that has passed so far is that all of the states so eight bills have passed all of the states have significant climate commitments of at least reducing total emissions by 75% or more um and greening the grid um so RPS commitments and seven out of the eight that have passed have future of gas proceedings meaning the regulators have said hey gas companies how are you going to meet these commitments so this is what's happened to date, not necessarily will happen in the future, but this is the kind of bills are very attached to our missions. Um, once legislation passes, there's a whole process that kicks off with the regulators, which you will hear after me from Sher Van Nostrin, but it's a it's a kind of a negotiation between the utilities and the regulators looking at the legislation that passed, saying, "Okay, what needs to happen for us to be able to move forward?" At the same time, you're going to have to be working on the, you know, the workforce, supply chain, making sure there's community outreach, etc. And then you can get to construction. Um, so so far only one project, which is here in Massachusetts, has made it through construction. And all of the bills that have passed uh require data collection and pilot evaluation. So this is this is again, every state is different, but this is the broad thing that we're seeing across the state that gets uh legislation passed. And here are the eight bills um the eight states that have passed. They're listed there on the right. Uh you will notice uh 2021 Massachusetts passed the first bill that allowed uh network geothermal. And just this year 2024 four bills passed as well as several states did another round of passing legislation. Uh and then you see there dark blue considering legislation. Actually uh just this month already five new states have filed legislation. So, we are expecting this to continue to grow. And this, you don't need to read this. Uh, it's just to give you a sense of what's in these bills. You see the states across the top, and you can sort of see what the provisions are. And the key thing about here is the states are learning from each other. And this is on our website, so you can check it out. Um, all right. So, now I'm going to combine it. Like, what does this all mean? And it's really about how does the the technology and the stuff on the ground relate to the legislation and the regulation. So here's a great uh diagram that heat put together. It's a gas system. And you can see that very cute little section of green. That's the thermal network. And so this is the demonstration. All eight bills uh either allow or mandate pilot. So everyone is starting with demonstration. So what's the kind of uh work that comes with that? The bills include um a whole series of things that are about these pilots, right? So the definitions uh ownership is really interesting in starting with New York. The the legislation actually says gas and electric utilities can own and operate thermal energy networks. And then several of the states after that implemented the same thing. Uh Massachusetts, we just passed legislation 2024 that allows the selling of thermal energy by the gas utilities. Um some include environmental protections, labor standards. You just heard from Ryan in New York, that group of advocates, one of the core uh members of that group of advocates were labor leaders. And so they're very strong labor standards in the New York bill that are about the geothermal workforce in general, but also about the existing gas for uh workforce and how that how they're going to be transitioned as part of this um consumer protection. I should say also environmental justice in there that uh many of the bills again starting with New York require at least one pilot to be in an environmental justice community and uh several of them say that they the customer should not have to pay more than what they're currently paying on their bills. All of them include cost recovery. So the pilots can go through the rates, but the issue is what's included. And so the states vary in that. Here in Massachusetts, everything could go through the rates. In California, for example, all of the behind the meter costs, which are pretty significant, all the retrofits uh cannot. And so they're struggling with how we're going to pay for that. Um and then pilot data collection and reporting. I guess I already said they're all doing this anyway. So this is sort of how this works. Next step um is development. And this is now where we're starting here in Massachusetts. It's like you grab what you learned from that first pilot and now we're expanding. And how's that going to work? And so through that, some of these bills are starting to pass and there's some conversations. Um interim rate design, how are we going to design the rates to deal with this? Uh amending the obligation to serve. This is a huge one. Many states file legislation to try to change this. and a full uh I I I'm going to explain what that is, which is if any one of those little house green houses says, "No, I want to stay on gas." It means that the gas system has to stay, you can't pull it back. And so amending it so that the gas um utilities can expand their service to not just be about gas, but also to be or to sell thermal energy allows them to then say, "Okay, we're going to provide you heating and cooling, but it's not going to be with gas." And so so far two states have touched that. Uh Washington state for thermal energy networks are allowed to meet the obligation to serve with thermal. And California has a really interesting one where they said 60% if 60% of a street or the segment that they're taking the gas pipe out of says that they want a thermal network then they're allowed to meet the obligation to serve that way. Um gas oh so then uh joint electric planning. This is uh our commissioner uh chair van will talk about this but basically the one of the biggest benefits of putting in these thermal networks is the impact on the electric grid and so being able to have that joint planning and prioritizing of where these things should be built is really important and so we're starting to see that already and not only in Massachusetts but elsewhere and thinking of okay which like if you're going to replace a pipe that's an obvious place uh if you if you're going to build a substation an electric substation because you're running out of capacity. Maybe that's a great place. So, that's starting. Um, and then of course the full system transition, which is what we all want, is going to require a lot more. And this uh really hasn't started. I mean, we've filed some of this this cycle for two years from now here in Massachusetts. But creating a thermal market, allowing folks to buy and sell energy, uh, integrating utilities, gas, electric, and potentially even water. like water has the water utilities also have a lot of thermal energy. Uh waste heat recovery, how is what's the what are the rules going to be around that? Uh tactical transition plans for whole cities and regions. And so this idea that you can map out, you know, how old your pipe is, you know, what's going to have to be taken down, what's going to make the most sense for everything and how can we transition the whole system thinking 10 years ahead and not just five or two. Um and then the final rate design you know still in consideration and I I'm involved in a few dockets across the country in some places the combination of the electric I mean I'm sorry of the thermal and geo rate makes a lot of sense right it's being covered by all the customers some folks are fighting that and saying no it should be by itself and then in New York there's one utility who's saying it should be covered by both gas and electric because the electric customers are the ones that are most benefiting. Um I I talked about allowable cost recovery and then big is the the voided cost uh uh integration into the thermal networks because what is happening is that the that benefit on the electric grid means that we're not going to have to build out the electric grid but the costs are on the network geothermal installer like so so the benefits and the costs are not aligned and so we have to figure out how to do that. Um, so that's sort of how the policy and this thing is we're hoping it's going to roll out. Um, and I just want to say remember only eight states have passed legislation, but this map looks a lot better than that, which is utilities across the country are really interested in doing this. Um, regardless of whether legislation has passed or not, this is the a map of the utility net geo collaborative and both blues are actually members of that collaborative. Um and uh they are basically exploring the exploring what this looks like for them. And the the maps the light blue is states where at least uh one utility has filed a pilot. So far there's been 22 pilots filed with the regulatory commission. And then I just also want to end with this map which I hope you'll all check out because you can click on what type of owners, what the status is and the type of thermal networks and just see that actually we have a lot of projects in this country and that there's huge opportunity for learning across projects and that is everything.