So today uh we we set aside that part and look at what is uh often the hardest thing to actually make it real uh to put in the around design, build, learn, research. So we get to work in a sense. Um and just like yesterday, uh there are many people, experts, ideas that we couldn't ram into this two-day session in 10-minute segments. And so we are so aware of that. There is still a whiteboard um with at the break you can add the names of people and experts and ideas that you really think need to be in here. We may have attempted to get them here. Um but we really want to hear that from you as well as feedback. Um we're trying to capture and share kind of a pulse of information, the state of knowledge. As you saw yesterday, there's all kinds of views, all kinds of perspectives, all kinds of voices and language. and we just welcome them all. We're not saying that we shouldn't have some healthy debates. Um, so I really hope it goes as well today. And I want to pass it over to uh Juliet who will be moderating our very first session. Hello everyone. Um we're excited to start our day off with some talks about design principles for geothermal energy networks. We have three great speakers. Um two of them in person and then one online. So we'll start our day with Connor Dwe uh who is a licensed engineer at Geoys and who teaches an IGBA um ground source heat pump course. Um, Connor, >> okay, good morning everyone. Um, so I I spoke with Zena before this this meeting. I I just wanted to, you know, thank all of HEAT for putting on the session. and I left yesterday quite optimistic on the geothermal district space in the United States which is you know it's it's very um relieving I'll say with the with the times. So thank you all for putting this on. So my my background is in engineering uh I have a doctor in what's called uh earth energy resource engineering. I'm a licensed engineer in the state of New York and also uh the province of Ontario and Canada. Um I also help teach the certified geo exchange designer course which is run by international ground source heat seat pump association and this specific slide deck today just goes through that introductory level uh CGD type type course. So we thought we'd start with the fundamentals of heat transfer uh to get into you know the ground source heat pumps and and how they work. So we have conduction, convection and radiation. By definition, conduction is when heat is directly transmitted through a substance when there is a difference in temperature. So if you're holding a metal rod and that metal rod heats up on one end, you feel that heat through your hand through conduction of that metal rod. We have convection, which is the rising motion of warmer areas of a liquid or gas and the sinking motion of cooler areas of liquid or gas. So if you're holding your hand over a fire, you know that heat. You're not physically touching anything, but you feel that heat and that's that's convection. Lastly, we have radiation. The process where heat energy is transferred from one object to another through the emission of electromagnetic waves. I promise the rest of the rest the rest of this presentation won't be this dry. Um just getting through the fundamentals, but when you're suntanning, you know, you feel that heat, that's radiation. Okay, so geothermal. What is geothermal? While geo means relating to the earth and thermal means relating to heat. So the earth temperature is relatively constant throughout the year, right? It's around 50 here. I think it's 55 degrees Fahrenheit. Whereas in the winter time it's 10° outside and then in the summertime around 90° outside, but the ground stays that same 50 55° F. And to harness that energy, you can install a ground heat exchanger, which is plastic pipe that's buried in the ground and it transfers heat to a volume of earth around that around that pipe um through various ways. You know, shallow ground heat exchangers take advantage of radiation, mainly conduction. Um but there's also conve convective heat transfer with that groundwater. You have heat exchange fluid that's pumped through the pipe. I'm getting used to this laser here. heat exchange fluid that's pumped through this pipe and then connected to that heat pump. And the reason why these systems are more efficient is because of this sign graph here. So the source temperatures going to that heat pump from the ground heat exchanger range between around 40 to 90 degrees Fahrenheit, sometimes as low as 30. But this specific graph is collected from four years worth of data in a very cold climate in in Winnipeg, Manitoba. So during this same time period, the outdoor air temperature ranged from -20 to + 100° F. So you can imagine that getting your source temperatures from the that more extreme uh you know air compared to your ground heat exchanger temperatures makes the heat pump work harder. It has to work harder to deliver that same amount of heat. Um so heat pumps like to receive more moderate temperatures so they don't need to work as hard. And how a heat pump works is just like a fridge, right? It's it's the vapor compression cycle is what it's called. It's no different than a fridge other than a reversing valve. But the the process is you have an evaporator that transfers heat with your external environment, right? So your air, your ground or your water. You have a compressor which compresses the refrigerant and increasing the pressure and temperature. Chemistry 101. If you increase pressure, you increase the temperature. You have your condenser which condenses the refrigerant vapor into liquid and that phase change transfers large amount of heat and then your expansion valve to rinse and repeat reduce the pressure and temperature to prepare for the next cycle. So our our ground source heat pump in heating again we have this reversing valve which differentiates our fridge from our our heat pump. So we can also do heating be strange if a fridge did heating. Um but we extract heat from our ground loop where we have three units of heat coming from the ground. We have our compressor which uses electricity to compress and heat the refrigerant. That electrically powered equipment generates heat as well. Right? That's your power input. That that compressor. There's also the circulation pump and fans. And then you give those four units of heat to the building. Right? So that hot refrigerant is pushed through the condenser and then rejects that heat to the air in the building. And this is how you get your coefficient of performance. So you may have heard the word coop or or coefficient of performance. And this is how it works. You you transfer those four units of of energy which is combined thermal and electrical energy to the space by only using one by only paying for one unit of electrical energy to power that compressor circulation pump and fans. In cooling mode, we have our heat that's extracted from the air in the building vaporizing the refrigerant. So, those three units of heat from the building, we have our compressor again that compresses the heat uh compresses and heats the refrigerant. Our reversing valve is on, right? So, we flip that flow of refrigerant. So, it's going in reverse now. And then that hot refrigerant is pushed through the condenser and rejects heat to that ground heat exchanger. We need to get rid of that electrical energy. an electrical heat and the heat from the building and we put that in the ground loop. So what's the difference between earth energy resource engineering or or geothermal engineering and conventional HVAC systems? Well, the the main difference is that for ground source heat pump systems, you should be considering the total demand, right? the total demand of a building, not just a peak of the coldest day of the year or the warmest day of the year, but your total heating and cooling on an annual basis to determine your total supply because you're designing your source, right? And so in a conventional system, you have a pipeline that's large enough to meet the peak heating day, the coldest day of the year, right? You have your natural gas pipeline that's feeding that equipment. You have your water utility line that's feeding your cooling tower to dissipate heat on the warmest day of the year. And as long as you pay your energy bill, you should be okay. But for a ground source heat pumps scenario, we are also considered with our our total loads, right? Again, because we're designing our source. So this example illustrates this. So we have a church, a retail store, and an apartment building. They may have the exact same peak and and peak heating and cooling loads, 40 tons of cooling and 385 MBH of heating, but due to the difference in occupancy of those three different buildings, the total heating and cooling loads are going to change quite dramatically, right? You think about that church probably highly occupied once or twice a week, right? You have a lot of people in the room like this space, you have a lot of lights on. those internal heat gains help uh heat the space and that's only available maybe once or twice a week. So your heating load over an annual um set of of data is probably going to be higher than than your cooling load. Whereas your retail store, you know, you could think of maybe an IKEA, you have a lot of internal heat gains, a lot of people, a lot of lights, a lot of um internal heat gains that you need to get rid of. So you put those in the ground, right? you need to reject that heat and the apartment building probably relatively balanced between heating and cooling. So the heating and cooling load ratio can change even if the peak heating and cooling loads are the exact same. And how this affects the ground loop and why it's important is because and this is especially true for a vertical ground heat exchanger scenario with a lot of conduction, right? you have a fixed volume of earth that you're exchanging heat with and so it it's more similar to a battery in in that case compared to a conventional system there there are nuances right and there are you know each project is unique um but even in openloop systems for example where you're tapping into an aquifer and pulling heat and rejecting heat to an aquifer we've seen we've been measuring a system in Winnipeg over the past uh 5 years or so and they've increased the temperature of that aquifer by 5 to 8° F um just because they're rejecting so much heat into that aquifer. So what can happen is this curve here, this temperature drift where you may fall outside of those efficient operating parameters. When we talked about that ground source heat pump, it likes to be fed 30 to 90° Fahrenheit water, right? But what can happen is you can fall ranges if you're not considering your total loads. if you're only looking at your peak loads. So, it's important to not only design again off of your your peak loads, which are certainly important, but your total loads are are also important to determine your your total demand to design your supply. So, when you have a customer or anyone frankly who's interested in a geothermal system, where do you start? If they say, "Hey, you know, Connor, I want I've heard of this geothermal technology. I've heard is pretty cool. Um, what do I do? Well, you'd probably want to start with the building, right? Again, determine your total demand to determine your supply. And then you can start looking at your mechanical system, your geothermal mechanical system, and your site and geology. The site and geology is going to dictate what type of ground heat exchanger you go with. There's many different ways to exchange heat with your external environment. Again, all you're doing is obtaining moderate temperatures so that your heat pump doesn't need to work as hard. So that could come from the air. You know, in Seattle, it's pretty moderate there. So air source works fine. Um, but in Winnipeg, in a cold climate like that, not so much. So you could have a vertical ground heat exchanger, horizontal surface water, aquafer. I'm staying at Susan Murkott's house right now, and she's a professor here at MIT, and she is a standing column, and that was pretty interesting to see. So there there's many different ways to give your heat pump source temperatures that are moderate. Um, but at the end of the day, what matters? Well, what matters is we're trying to save on energy, right? That's why we install these systems. But if it's going to cost you an arm and a leg to do that, it's probably not going to make a whole lot of sense. So, to balance the energy cost with the construction cost is the most important thing to make sure that it's practical, right? Because if if it's too expensive, nobody's going to buy it um at the end of the day. Um, and there are intangibles. You know, a lot of people value carbon in different ways. In Canada, we have a carbon tax. Um, so that's that's quantified. Um, but the main thing to consider when you're when you're looking at a geothermal system, in my opinion, is to balance these two things, construction cost, and then the energy savings that you're getting from that investment because you're buying an asset, which is that that ground heat exchanger. So, before I pass it to my colleague Nick, I thought I'd throw in a little segue slide here. I believe one person had a similar slide yesterday where it looks at the temperature in the distribution piping of district systems and over time we used to use really high temperature right I mean we still do today pressurized steam but that leads to low efficiency and so over time we've been able to reduce our temperature in our distribution piping which has led to an increase in efficiency so now we're dealing with ambient temperatures which has increased our efficiency in these district energy systems quite dramatically. So, thank you folks for listening and I'll now pass it to Nick.