So in this recitation we're going to look at step and delta functions integration and generalized derivatives. So the first part you're asked to compute the integral from 0 minus to infinity delta t exponential t ^ 2 dt. The second one is from z minus to infinity delta t minus 2 exponential of t ^ 2 sin t cos 2t. The third one is 0 plus to infinity delta t exponential of t ^ square dt. So note that it's the first is the same as a except that the bounds of integration changed. The second part we're asked to find the generalized derivatives of these two functions where u here is just a step function that you saw before. And uh yeah so it's 3 u t minus 2 u t minus one and the second one is t² for t negative and exponential minus t for t positive. So, why don't you pause the video and work through this example, and I'll be right back. Welcome back. So, let's compute the first one. 0 minus infinity delta t exponential t² dt. So just to remind you the delta function is everywhere zero except at the value zero and we're represented with an arrow and the integral of the delta would be one from minus infinity to plus infinity. In this in this integral we're integrating from 0 minus to infinity which means that the zero is included in our interval from 0 minus to infinity. Therefore, this integral is basically assigning the value to this function exponential t² and the value that it's assigning to it is the value would take at t equals to zero where the delta is non zero. And so really clearly this is just exponential of zero and is give us one. For the second one integral goes from 0 minus to infinity delta t minus 2 exponential a more complicated function t ^ 2 sin t cos 2t. So now let's represent this delta function here. So this is just our zero axis and the delta here is zero everywhere except at two where we would represent it again with an arrow and amplitude one. Okay. So this delta is zero everywhere except at two where it would assign the value to the function next to it at the value t equals to two. So really this integration gives us just the value of this function at t = 2. So 4 sin 2 cos 4 and here the key was that again this interval of integration from 0 minus to infinity and clearly includes the value at which delta function is non zero. So for the last one, we return to our first integral except that now we're changing the bounds of integration 0 plus to infinity. So now if I do a representation of the delta function that we are dealing with. So delta centered at one and the interval of integration. We have an open interval. Now that does not include the value at which delta is not equal to zero. So everywhere this function would just be assigned its value at it just be multiplied by the function that is zero. And so basically it's like multiplying this function by zero and it just gives us zero. It's like the delta fell off of our interval of integration. So we're just left with a zero function. So let's move to the second part. The second part asks us to find the generalized derivative 2 f of t equals 3 u t minus 2 u t minus one. So just to remind you here of what the U of Ts are just want to sketch a few things. So first uft is just the step function that would be zero everywhere and would take the value one for t larger than zero. So this first part here would just be non zero for t larger than zero. Instead of being assigned value one, it's just be assigned value three because we're multiplying the u of t by three. So this first part would look like this. The second part here would be u shifted to t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t by by minus one, which means that u is zero everywhere for t less than one. So it would have zero function here. So let me just do dots but it should be on the same axis and one for t larger than one. But here we're giving it multiplying it by factor minus two. So really what we have is another u function that is shifted down 2 minus 2. So the sum of these two contributions is zero for t negative takes the value three for t between 0 and one and a value one 3 minus 2 for t larger than one. Okay, so clearly here we have discontinuities at t= to0 and t= to 1. So let's just write down the derivative. The generalized derivative here would lead us first to compute the derivatives when where the function is continuous. So from minus infinity to zero, it's a constant. So derivative would be zero. Between 0 and one, it's constant. Derivative would be zero. And from one to infinity, it would also give us zero. So we would have a zero contribution from the the continuous part of the function if you wish but we still need to account for the discontinuities. So at zero we have a jump from zero to three and that we learned can be written down as a delta function of magnitude three centered at zero. After that we have another jump. Now it's from three to one. So it's a jump of minus2 amplitude centered at one. So here we can also do that with delta but we just need also to shift it by minus one to to show clearly that the jump occurs at one and multiply this by minus2 to show the amplitude of the jump down. Okay. So if we were now to represent it fprime basically the regular part zero so there's nothing to to write down except just a zero function and the discontinuities that I'm just going to represent on the graph would be the delta function centered at zero of magnitude 3 and delta function centered around one of magnitude minus 2 and the rest would just be the zero function. So that would be f prime that's f of t. So for the second one that we were given, it's a function f of t that takes the value t² for t negative and exponential minus t for t positive. So quick sketch here tells that this function looks like this an exponential minus t for t positive. Okay, taking a value here one. So clearly there is a jump here this continuity. So how do we go about computing this generalized derivative? So let's look again at the continuous parts. So from minus infinity to zero, we're dealing with just a t square. So the derivative is just 2t. For t between 0 and infinity, we're just dealing with exponential minus t. So that's minus exponential minus t. But we need to account for the discontinuity, the jump of amplitude one at zero. So as we saw before, this can just be modeled with a delta function. And if we were to represent this function, then we would just need to add a delta function of magnitude one here and then just sketch 2t. So for example and then minus exponential minus 2t that would give us something like that. And that ends the problem for today. And the key points here were just to learn how to manipulate the the step function and how to use the delta function when you compute your integrals and be careful with the bounds of integration.