You've probably all heard of quantum mechanics. The problem is, there's a broker, just an understanding of a phenomenon as it describes. For example, we know that quantum objects like electrons can go through walls across Japan, but cats ca n't walk through hands. In the following, I would like to present an algorithm that allows us to describe this phenomenon in this time of development from Vienna. I take the split operator as having ridden past peace. I'm currently doing this development, but quantum mechanical objects are also important for materials scientists if they want to write spectroscopically. But also if you can see in the course of this hard rhythm and also other algorithms for the concepts that are always recurring in computational chemistry. It's called, as I've experienced so far, the same thing. I also use it to work with culinary algorithms and heart gliding, such as velocity valleys, and I will also show that there are some rhythms you can create and how you can influence the numerical a little and also the quantum Hall seconds.  and in the form of the uncertainty principle and in the form of the tunnel effect, and we start our journey with the foundation of the equation Detroit and says if I integrate a lot of methods between users and you, a master method no longer depends on time, I can get out of this equation here. I should consider this exponential function with my heavenly Toni in it. If the state at time t equals zero, I come out again at time t. This means that it's a propaganda function propagated by our fans from time t equals 02 points. The master method that's in here has two different parts. Before you do n't already know, namely my kinetic part and a potential part, only related to momentum. Potential is related to potential. This will throw points at the system. For example, we can put a cat on an erotic one. This potential here could also be invested in Hamburg. There are a few evenings, for example. If this knowledge now guides our heart rhythm, and we found nothing about our private  To rewrite, we do this by moving in such a way that it doesn't matter whether we move our cat in one big step from time inside.com or whether it takes a small step. That means we could imagine that the cat slowly moves to time t in small steps. We write this as before. That means we basically take steps of size y one after the other. Now you can consider whether this helps us. Simply stating 1 doesn't help us at all. We don't know what to calculate. There's always an idea. You could consider whether it helps to divide the problem. That means the best approach is potential, then impulse. However, we might then want to arrive at such a notation. However, this is not generally permissible. The operators are not generally commented. That means we can't. It matters in which order we apply these two operators. However, we can get around this problem if we, despite the knowledge, lawyers and sidewalks. Knowledge tells us okay if we now write a device, a clock, for example. The provocation is that we have our potential here.  Two weeks, step by step, then here is potential again, one has drawings and here our credit, just do that once and in doing so, finally let go, that means taking it infinitely small, is the whole thing exactly now, criticism of the goal, so far we are a little less abstract, we do that with which we can project our state onto the coordinate basis, that means we want to be able to represent it in the viewer in the coordinate basis, we do that by simply applying our origins notation to zero, projecting each one onto an xt, and then doing a little algebra, now come this formula here, our core, namely that we find here the notation again that we also have here above, propagating my potential a half step, then I propagate an impulse a whole step and my children a whole step, then I benefit my potential, like a half step, that is, but what these particles do, they say that I am here in the position representation, start, I have that here, I am not x0 fx, newly produced, I get at  60 m time 0 out that I now propagate from us in the potential and then does a foil transformation into an impulse space. In the impulse space, I can then simply calculate my knee detail. It says 1 petr in which I did this to produce a place where I can simply calculate the potential by having nothing in it. This is the core of the algorithm, which looks like this: I start with my object, a position representation group, using a grid. Since I cannot propagate a continuous variable product, I can also propagate a role in the discussion a week later. I propagate an impulse, transforming it into the impulse space, which is not as well known as, for example, the center of the position. The speed is in a pulse space, in a rapid one. We want to benefit from this, then transform the kinetics back into the center of the position, again taking a half step in the potential. This is completely different from the right example, for example, the free particle. So we will not look at a potential, a wave packet, and look at ourselves.  To illustrate how time develops, I'll give two examples here for two different masses. What we see here is the top example, where the lighter particle tries to spread out in space, whereas the heavier particle localizes itself. You can see an analogy to the uncertainty principle here, namely that with classical zodiac signs, we don't have to struggle with localization. However, we would have to struggle with it if we were to make the particle even heavier. The difference would be 100 times greater, and the effect would be much more pronounced. In the end, we would have the same right to find the sign everywhere in space, whereas it would take infinitely longer. To see this in the other case, let's make it a bit more complex. In both cases, we have a wall, and we have a wave packet with two different cavities in the wall. Let's look at what happens in both cases: our wave packet propagates and then hits the wall, reflecting the incident wave from above. In the other case, it simply passes through. And that's the case where our wall is millions of times higher in the first case. is as the second driver and we are there, it's very much a tunnel effect at a level of the potential rate, which means that even a quantum object can I turn through arbitrarily high through tunnels on the one hand, and here we see difference effects where an event packets have donated themselves, we meet and then interference patterns, it's even more complex, let's approach two potentials with her, here too I stood with my wave packet and see that we can already say how it develops, it splits and then hits a wall, now the next righteous mothers are partially reflected and partially it can be continuous, just as well as a left one, where the barriers are the same height, and then we will again be able to see reference effects, however, we are also here where the energy is a bit crazy, so that one could Frank could do it better, a first visit would be that dead at the smallest, that means we take smaller steps in our time development and then he can do that, here I did it for 0.05 and once 09 05, that takes four minutes, that precisely for this one where it is near, for example, others already 19 Hours, we see a lot of effort or skill, nothing. The origin of the time step was already good enough for the problem. Then the next adjustment screw: we could make a fitter that is a bit finer so that it can be calculated overnight. Since Fritz already has so many points, it's impossible for it to calculate so quickly. And compare that with our original simulation. We look again at the energy. If you perhaps reach a point in time that is marked here with gray bars, that is approximately the case now, and we see here that the energy is significantly better than the original example. That means probably with a better grid we can get much further. You can do it in practice too, and in practice you can also apply active criteria that in some areas (finance) and in other areas to then get a bit of that. As you get such computing power, we also see here that we can quickly reach a barrier where it can no longer be calculated. You shouldn't say, "I'm a simple example." What we saw in this video is how we can manipulate an algorithm. We probably know the nutrition, a feeling of  Despite the renovation, one can also derive how large the error is. Despite the renovation, we can then use this in a later example, Quentin, to, for example, guide lascivious hearts. We were thus able to take a closer look at the uncertainty principle. We were able to observe a tunnel effect, and we saw how we can evaluate convergence, namely through normalization and energy conservation. Finally, we also saw the effect of bidder size and time steps. Here's a nice example of a time step: for a single barrier, we did it once for a time buffer, a gala association of the dative case, and 0.005 harbor. We only did one, and we see that the small time step shows significantly better energy conservation. A large time step... I hope I was able to give a small insight into account dynamics and how one could calculate time developments with indented elements, and how one can then better understand mechanics for the mini-system.