Hi, welcome back to recitation. In class, one of the things you've talked about recently was computing surface areas of solids of rotation. So I have a nice problem relating to that here. So the circle with center r0 and radius little r so so this is center big r0 and radius little r which is less than big r is rotated around the y ais and the question is what's the the surface area of the resulting solid. So we have here the this circle its center is at the point big r0 and its radius is little r. So this is the equation of that circle and we're going to rotate this circle around this axis. So, we're going to spin it around, and what you're going to get is a is a donut or or what mathematicians call a Taurus? So, here's a little schematic of it here with one dotted little cross-section corresponding to this circle. Um, so the question is, what is the the surface area of this Taurus? So, why don't you pause the video, take a few minutes to work this problem out yourself, come back and we can work it out together. So when we solved uh surface area problems in class, we took a we took the curve that we were going to rotate and we cut it into lots of little pieces with with length ds. So let me draw that just very quickly up here. So we had you you took whatever your curve was and you cut it into lots of these little segments and then for each segment you rotated it around an axis. Um and so if the segment has this little length ds a little a little piece of of arc length. So in our case we're going to rotate it around the the y ais. So the the length the the area that this thing traces out as it spins around is going to be this little piece of area da which is equal to 2 pi x ds. Now this is a little bit different than most of the examples professor jar did in class because here we're rotating around the y ais not around the x axis. So if you rotate it around the x axis, what you would get is 2 pi y ds. And here we get 2 pix ds. The idea, the x and the y in this formula, this x is just telling you what what the radius is between your little segment and the axis around which you're rotating it. So here, this is, you know, 2 pix is the circumference of this circle that it traces out and ds is its is its length because it's giving you a little ribbon um as it goes around. So we have this formula da = 2 pix ds. And so in order to get the the surface area what we do is we have to integrate this over an appropriate region. So in order to do that we we first need all you know all the variables in the in the integrant to be the same. So we need to write everything in terms of x or everything in terms of y or everything in terms of of some variable that we can integrate against. Um so in our so in our particular case with this Taurus um I think we can we can take advantage of a little bit of symmetry here which is that this this uh you know Taurus is is top bottom symmetric right as the as the top half of the circle goes around it traces out one surface as the bottom half of the circle goes around it traces out another surface but those two surfaces have exactly the same area. they're just mirror images of each other because the circle is is symmetric. Um so so we can we can just consider the the problem of of spinning the top half of the of the circle around. Um and so for the top half of the circle we can write down an equation for y in terms of x. And so then we can integrate you know that that sets up a nice integral with respect to x. So in order to do this well we're going to need two things. So we're going to need to know what ds is. And so um you had a couple of different formulas for this in class. So you had ds. So so one easy pneummonic that I like is is to write ds = the of dx^2 + dy^2. So for me this this always I can remember this because it's it's just the pythagorean theorem, right? So you have a little dx horizontal distance and a little dy vertical distance. And so the ds is just the hypotenuse of that of that triangle. So that's how I remember this. And so then you also have the equivalent formula. If you if you factor out a dx from here, you know, divide through by dx and multiply outside by dx, you can write this as the square root of 1 + dy by dx^ 2 times outside the square root dx. So this is our little piece ds and okay we we have an x in the formula already. So ds. So we now have ds um with a dx here. So the only thing we we have left is we need we need to figure out what dydx is in order to put all this into the formula in order to to integrate. So okay so dy dx. So okay. So that means I need y in terms of x. Now let okay. So if we're focusing only on the top half of of this Taurus, that means y is well, we can solve this equation for y. But when we take the square root, we we're only taking the the positive square root because we're only looking at the top half of the taurus. And then we we'll just double at the end to to account for the bottom half as well. So, so this is y equals the square root of so you solve you subtract x - r from both x - r^ 2 from both sides. So this is r little r^ 2 minus x - big r^ 2. So that's y and now you can differentiate to get dy by dx. All right. So now we have to do our our chain rule, right? Right. So we've got a 1/2 power. So this is 12 times well it's going to be the inside to the minus one2. So this is over the square t of r^ 2 minus x - rant^ 2. And now I need to multiply by the derivative of the inside which is - 2 * x - r. Okay. K and N the the twos cancel out a little bit. So we can rewrite this as minus x - r / the square root of little r^ 2 minus x - r^ 2. Okay, so that's dydx. Uh the square root that's a little ugly, but it's okay because we're about to square it out again. So all right, so we've got dydx. So now we go back now we can compute ds and then with ds we can go even further back and we can compute da and once we've got da to get a we just integrate da over the appropriate bounds. So which we haven't figured out yet by the way we'll have to talk about that at the at the very you know in a minute. Um okay so we take this um so we have dydx so from dydx we get ds is equal to it's the square t of well let's use this formula it's the square root of 1 plus now dydx squared okay so I put this in I square it so I get x - r squared on top you know you square the minus sign gives you one um and on the bottom we square this square root so we get little r^ 2 minus x - r 2. Okay. dx. Um, great. Good. So, now we add these two things together, right? I mean, well, we want I should say we we want to simplify this to a usable form. And so, to put it in a usable form, we well, we're going to manipulate it until it looks nice or as nice as we could hope for. And in this case, right, so we we can there's an obvious simplification or simplifying step which is we can add this one into the fraction. Okay. And so the this is r little r^ 2 - x - big r^ 2 over little r 2 - x - big r^2. And so when you add it to x - big r^ 2 over little r 2 - x - r 2 you the this part cancels. And so you're left with okay. And now I'm just going to pass the square root through right away. So this is little r over the square t of little r^ 2 - x - big r squar dx. Okay. So just a little bit of algebra there. So this is ds now. Okay. So now we're going we want to compute surface area. So we need da and da is 2x * ds. So okay so I that's easy to write down now that I've got ds. So this is da equal to 2 pi r x over r 2 - x - big r 2 square root of that dx. All right, this is da. You know, we haven't done any calculus actually. Oh, I guess we took a derivative somewhere. We haven't we haven't done any integration yet. Um now to compute the surface area we just integrate this. So we get to the you know the calculus step of this problem. Um so integrate this. Um but of course I you know I'm expecting a number out at the end. I'm taking a definite integral. Um so I need bounds. Well what bounds do I need? Well I'm integrating with respect to x. So I need to integrate over the relevant values of x. What are the relevant values of x? Well, come back to our picture over here. We have this circle. Its center is at x= r, y equals 0. And it has radius little r. So the, you know, the relevant values of x are just from the leftmost point of the circle to the rightmost point of the circle. And so this leftmost point is just well the radius is little r. So this is big r minus x= big r - little r. and the rightmost point is x= big r plus little r. So the bounds. So I'm going to go up here. So I have area is what I get when I integrate da. And I want to integrate it from x= big r minus little r to big r plus little r. And da is this this thing I found just a just a moment ago. So this is well okay. So, so 2 pi little r is a is a constant. I'm just going to factor that out in front. So, this is 2 pi little r times x over the of little r 2 minus big r minus uh sorry x - big r squared. That's all under the square root dx. Okay, so now we have to figure out how to how to integrate this thing, right? Um, so this is a little ugly. It's not horrible though, right? So, so down here we have something that's really reminiscent of one of these these trig integral things we've done, right? We've got a square root of of a something squared minus a something else squared. So that that remind you know what does that remind some maybe some sign substitution something something like that there's some there's some trig substitution waiting to happen here um but uh so okay so we could do it we could we could sort of shoot to do it all in one substitution I I like my life is always feels simpler when I do sort of one little substitution at a time and so one little substitution I could do is is is to simplify this this x - r thing I could just shift this by r. So I'm just going to do a little uh linear substitution. I'm going to do u = x minus big r or I'm going to want to substitute the other way. So that's the same thing as saying x= u + big r. And so du = dx. So this is a a simple little substitution. Um and I'm gonna have to move the bounds. So when x is big r minus little r then u is uh minus little r and this top bound here u is going to be equal to little r positive little r. So um so let me just make that substitution. So area is 2 pi little r integral from minus little r to plus little r. Uh so x is u + big r / now this thing becomes square of little r^ 2 minus u ^2 du. Okay. All right. So um now uh I can this is really kind of two separate pieces right for purposes of difficulty of integrating. There's the u over the square roo of r^ 2 - u2 piece and there's the big r over the square root of r^ 2 - u ^2 piece. So let's let's think about them separately. Um so for this first piece the u over the square root of uh little r^ 2 minus u ^2 um this is something you can integrate. This is uh you don't need a trig substitution to do that. Um but it's actually you you don't need to do any work to do that because this that function u divided by square root of little r^ 2 minus u ^2 that's an odd function right this part the the denom denominator is even u is odd um and we're integrating over an interval that's symmetric around the origin. So when we integrate this u divided by this denominator part between u from from minus r to r that's just going to give zero. So I can forget about that entirely. Um so this is this is nice. And then and then I have a constant here. So I'm going to factor that out as well. So I get 2 pi little r big r integral from minus r to r of du over the of little r 2 - u ^2. Okay. Um good. So far so good. Um so we've got this nice simplified form for the integral. So now now now this is screaming out trig substitution to me right there. There's nothing else I could do. So there there are sort of two things you could do. One is you could recognize this as as an as an integral related to ark sign just because you remember that. The other is you have this r^ 2us u ^2 thing. And so r^ 2us u^2 um that that that needs a trig substitution of some sort. And the and the relevant trig substitution that you're you would want to do is you would want to set u equal to r sin t. All right. Why? Because then we'll have down here we'll have r 2us r^ 2 sin t. Or if you factor out the the little r that that's just 1 minus sin^ 2 t which is cosine^ squ t and then you take a square root and and you're all good, right? Square root of cosine^ squ t. Okay. So, so, so we find this this trig substitution. Um, so if we, if we do u= r sin t, that's good. So, du then is r cosine t dt. And I need to change the bounds. So, minus u is equal to minus r when s of t is equal to minus1. So, that's at minus p / 2. And u is equal to r when s of t is equal to 1. So that's a pi / 2. So this is equal to 2 pi little r big r integral from minus p / 2 to pi / 2 of r cosine t dt divided by okay. So then down here we have the square t of r 2 - r 2 sin^ 2 t. And as we we said so r^ 2 - r^ 2 sin^ 2 t. This is r^ 2 cosine^ 2 t. And then you take a square root and you just get r cosine t. And so r cosine t cancels r cosine t. So the integrant here is actually 1 or 1 dt. So that's really easy to integrate. Um you integrate a constant you just get well the constant times the length of the interval. So this is equal to 2 pi r r * the constant is 1 time the length of the interval which is another pi time pi. Okay. So this is equal to 2 pi^ 2 little r big r. But uh remember so far we've only computed this is this is just the top half of the Taurus is is all we've ever talked about. So we want to get the whole Taurus you just double this. So you double this and the air you get the area of the whole Taurus is 4 pi^2 little r big r which is a nice nice formula. Um so quickly just to summarize what we've done standard setup. Standard setup here we did it. we're rotating around the the the y- axis instead of the the x- axis. So, so this this formula for for da looks a little bit different than than what you saw in class mostly. Um but uh but the thing to remember is just that what goes here is is the radius that this that your little segment is traveling. So this and this is the circumference that it's traveling and so this is the the area of that little ribbon that it traces out. So da Okay. And then we just did, you know, the sort of usual thing. You for your for your formula, you need, you know, you remember the formula for ds. Then you need to find this derivative and plug it in. Um, and so after you've done all that preparatory work, then you have the your integrant set up. And once you've set up your integrant, you you you know do whatever integration tools you you can to hit it with. So in in our case that was a a simplifying substitution and then a nice observation that we that we used here to to simplify this that this part was was odd. I mean you could have you didn't need that observation. You could have done the problem perfectly well um with another with another substitution there to to kill off that first part. Um and then okay and then a and then a trig substitution or remembering that this is an arc sign or related to an arc sign um to to finish it off. And uh is there anything else I want to say? I think that's oh yes there is one other thing I wanted to say which is that we could have done this slightly differently. Um which is here we solve for y explicitly in terms of x and it would have been possible to carry this through using implicit differentiation instead. um it would have actually simplified. I would have had to write this square root of little r^ 2 minus x - big rant^ 2 uh fewer fewer times if I if I'd done implicit differentiation starting from from this this implicit equation relating x and y. You have to be a little careful there whether you're doing the whole circle all at once or just the the top half or the bottom half. But um but you could do it with implicit differentiation instead and and maybe save yourself a little bit of of of messy looking arithmetic. Um, so I think I'll end there.