Hi, welcome to recitation. In lecture you've learned how to compute derivatives of polomials and you've learned the relationship between derivatives and tangent lines. So let's do a quick example that puts those two ideas together. So here I have a question on the board. compute the tangent line to the curve y = xub - x at the point 26. So why don't you take a minute, work on that yourself, pause the video, we'll come back and we'll do it together. All right, welcome back. So we have this function y = xubus x. Let's just draw a quick sketch of it. So, looks to me like it has zeros at 0 one minus one and it sort of does something like this in between. Very rough sketch there. And way over well, okay, we'll call that the point 26. It's a little sketchy, but all right. Uh, so okay. So we want to know what the what the tangent line to the curve at that at that point is. So in order to do that we need to know what it's what its derivative is. And then uh and then that'll give us the slope. And then with the slope we have the slope and we have a point. So we can we can slap that into say your point slope formula for for the for a line. So all right. So um so the derivative of this function is y prime. So okay. So, so here we have a sum of two things and they're both powers of x. And so we learned our rules for a power of x that the derivative of x to the n is n * x n minus one. And so we also learned that that the derivative of a sum of two things is is the sum of of the derivatives. So in this case, so the derivative of x cub - x is 3x^2 - 1. Okay. So this is the the slope of the function in terms of of x. But in order to compute the tangent line, we need the slope at the particular point in question. Right? This is this is really important. So so we aren't going to use 3x^2 + 1 as our slope. Right? We want the slope at the point x= 2. Right? So okay. So, so what we want for for the slope of the tangent line of is y prime of 2, right? We want it at this point when x is equal to 2. So that's equal to well 3 * 2 ^ 2 is 12 - 1 is 11. So this is the slope. This is the slope of the tangent line. So, I just want to say this one more time for emphasis. This is a really common mistake that that we see on on lots of homework and exams. Um, when teaching calculus, you have to remember that when you compute the slope of the tangent line, you compute the derivative and then you need to plug in the value of x at the point in question or the value of x and y, you know, you need to plug in the values of the of the point that you have. So, so here the the the derivative is 3x^2 minus 1. So, the slope at the point 26 is is 11, right? It's just a number. The the slope at that point is is that particular number. Okay. So, now to compute the tangent line, we have a point 26 and we have a we have a slope 11. So we can plug into point slope form. So the equation of the one the tangent line is so y - 6 = 11 * x - 2. Right? So it's y - y 0 is equal to the slope * x - x0. If you like, some people prefer to write their equations of their lines in in slope intercept form. So if you wanted to do that, you could just multiply through by 11 and then bring the the constants together. So we could all say or y = 11x. Well, we get -22 + 6 is minus 16. So either of those is a is a perfectly good answer to the question. So that's that.