Team nine. Uh, the pilot is Chris Matchenburgger. We have a unique architecture on Team 9's airplane. Uh uh the eggs are in their own sort of cradle that just sort of sits on top of the plane. Uh Chris Mattenburgger has very steady hands on the aircraft and we'll see if they can beat their personal endurance time of 6 minutes and 3 seconds. Beautiful flying plane. Steady control flight. Let's carry on. We'll check in a little later. Uh but again we have uh team nine. You can look at the playing field. You see that uh they have uh crew members at each edge of the course I guess to uh be available if anything should happen to the airplane or alert the pilot of uh anything uh that might be going wrong. A crack team well rehearsed. This team has over 1 hour of uh accumulated time, practice time with four eggs and um substantial amount of time in engineering the aircraft and clearly they've practiced. They know their routines. The pilot is well practiced and we'll uh see if they can uh best their time of 6 minutes and 3 seconds. I'm going to check in now for a time. We're at 1 minute and 43 seconds. Still got quite a bit of time to go. Still got quite a bit of time to go. We're now at 2 minutes. We're at 3 minutes at the halfway point here and we can get a little bit more than 3 minutes and 3 seconds. Save it a little bit and beat the current top time. We're at 4 minutes for uh team nine. A little bit over two more minutes to go. And um although they're in no danger of losing their top position, I'm sure they want to extend the lead by the uh narrow margin of 6 seconds and 18 points at this point. So we a lot of people holding their breath. A lot of people yawning. A lot of people yawning. That's right. A lot of people yawning. 5 minutes. We're at 5 minutes. The good a little bit more than 1 minute and 3 seconds. The most exciting ones are the crashes. It's like anytime you're flying for real, right? A normal flight's pretty boring, but you get there safe. Say again. It's like golf. Yes. Steady hands. Good shots in golf. Damn rest. So if we can break 530 5 minutes and 30 seconds 33 more seconds will 34 more seconds will be the best time. Everybody here watches the marathon too. But I'm sure this team wants to push it to the max and see if they could get 45 or so more seconds out of this. We're at 551 and we've got to see how much more we can We're at 6 minutes. We're at 6 minutes. 6 minutes. 6 minutes. Oh boy. Oh my god. 6 minutes in. 6 minutes and 2 seconds. Incredible. Only one second worse than the last five.