Nice flight. How do you feel? Great. I feel ecstatic. Yeah, very proud of it. I think I was in the zone and I feel great now. I got a lot of endorphins flowing. All the hard work paid off. I feel I feel great. How did your uh performance today compare with your predictions and your practice runs? I'd say that uh compared to our practice runs, this was uh marginally better or nominally better, I think. Yeah, but it it was actually the exact same time from our previous performance yesterday. So, uh we expected something like this. Yeah, pretty consistent. Did you change anything from yesterday to today? Um yeah, we did. We tried uh taking off leading and trailing edge tape and then we tried putting on a engine cowling. So, doesn't seem to have done too much though. An interesting trade-off, but with the uh the variance in the batteries and variance in the pilot, it's a it's really hard to tell. Oh, there's so many variables changed in this experiment, but uh I'd say overall the plane is better. Yeah. So, so the net effect is you still posted a great time today. Yeah. Exactly. Uh so what what to what do you attribute your success? What was the most effective part of your system? I think the team would say Yeah, I would say we got along pretty well as a team. Uh there was a chemistry of the team was good. So we didn't have to we had a a great division of labor. Everyone had their niche and was willing to do work and put in the hard work to get things done. We had a a slight off camera mishap, it seems. Uh, is there anything that you think you you would have done differently to maybe to get you up to 7 minutes? There's not much else we could have done in this. Just maybe remake everything a little bit, you know, just to polish it off again. But, um, I still put a lot of hours into it. some solid rocket motors right here that we can ignite the air and might be effective. I'm not sure. Surely that's not legal, but I I wanted to do it. Maybe that might help us. I'm not sure. Did you consider cheating? Uh we thought about filling the wings with cork, you know. Um if we put a vacuum inside of there, maybe that would help us, but that's uh illegal. Well, you guys have had a lot of uh new experiences in Unifi this year. You designed, built, and flew this plane. You built a team together. Um and you kept up the academic pace of Unified for a whole year. Yeah. So what experiences do you think that you got out of it are going to be the most valuable? I think really uh the experience of uh working in the lab for 8 hours with seven people and one problem for pet that uh that's really going to pay off later down the line when I actually get a job and have to have a something I have to do with a group and I have to put as much time into it as it takes. I know how to do that now. I might not be willing to do it, but I know how to do it. He's knowing how to apply it to, you know, different situations. Taking what we learn in the classroom, work together to apply it to whatever we need to. What are you going to do next? I think we're going to Disneyland and and the victory lap and the victory lap. Hopefully the victory lap. Hopefully we can get a victory lap in there. If you hold up. Well, you guys deserve it. Uh, thanks a lot for talking to us. Well done today. Let's put the eggs over there.