The following content is provided under a Creative Commons license. Your support will help MIT Open Courseware continue to offer high-quality educational resources for free. To make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of MIT courses, visit MIT Open Courseware at ocw.mit.edu. Peace and the cup, peace, oh you, get up, wake up, sleep, oh you, oh you crow's face, oh you, finish, Abu Z, tell him, oh Amer, by God, your words [ Music] Shia I came to a village on January 1983. I saw a festival in Egypt. It performed a cycle of heroic acts. I knew through Arabic speaking the world. I held a festival at these celebrations. I always employed a [ Music] I don't seem to be intrusive. [Music] One occasion, I brought a video camera with my friends to a village. We took turns filming. They preferred buildings and chased fellow [Music] women. Here, a wife faced [Music] and turned her back to [Music] [Music ] us [Music] Oh Hashish at the maret, usually a group  became cr thea out all cre Anaf and uf love, joy, welcome to the professor and Jamal, a merchant, oh [music] [ applause] [music ] the beloved ones, ir ir whose ofw jew ir makes live merch art, he also a poet does not usually perform in his own home, the camera crew and close friends continued filming in his own home One, not a lot, then raised the sky without a pillar, created me and made my tongue clear, a tooth on the ground, a load, come to the one, tell him, you will find the doorman, he says, regretful, he said to him, oh poet, where are you going, oh poetry the Arabs, he said to God, I am going to Amer, I will bring a yatt and walk, oh [ music] I am going ahead, and to Al-Khafaji, on your tune, the days, I am a poet, at the door, every night I die in medicine, I take a gift from the good, but I regret the duck, Amer, really, where are you, I have a limit from the arts, Amer, really, where are you, limit from the arts Half, there are wounds in the eye, visible on the palace  The wound of the one who was wounded, Abu Zaid said to him, "O doorman, open the gate to the king, I will return [music] a repentant greeting." He said to me, "O poet, neither a passerby nor respect." Abu Zaid wanted to tell him, " My friend, the trick with the slander, bleed, O poetry, he says, 'I am angry with you, words, O you who extend your right hand, go greet the Sultan, greet Abu Dawab for me, and develop the doorman, extend your right hand, your foot is in it, a pillar, no, Abu Zaid, your foot is in it, you say in the revelation, he said to him, 'The one who is the Angel of Death, I am sick, the one who is driving you, Muhammad, they drove him on the stone to the doorman.'" Abu Zaid opened the gate, he closed the gate with a brick and separated the tablet from the nail from the general palace, above the palace, Abu al-Amadan, he found Amer, seriously, from his wound, he spends the night without benefit, and he is coming out between the baskets, he pulls a rabab, a crescent pillar, Abu Zaid, when he was born, a rabab and an artist on the world, Amer is repentant, he said, "O Dawab, I am on the palace, I hear a rabab, an artist brings a rabab, a Dawab, she came running, she found Abu Zaid, a crescent pillar, she found the shrine with Abu Zaid, he saw it and that Sleep, poet, they want you a little, my father is above Abu Anzan, Abu Sidna Adam said, "Dawaba, O Bak Amer, I brought your uncle, a man of his age, and he can't get up, Abu Anzan, but listen, O Dawabat, son of Al-Zaben, or the shop, if your father wants me, let him come to me until the virgin bears and goes to her father and explains to him what Abu Zaid said. We sent a messenger, support him left and right, the one behind and the one in front. Come closer to [music] Al- Khafaji, O eye of patience, enjoy yourself even in Al-Khafaji, O Amer, and listen and don't ask. He said, "Get up, you want to grow up, or don't try to make children. I've left you four poems without coffee or smoke." He said to him, "O uncle, O poet, don't you say I'm a doctor and I treat all the girls? Come and see my wounds, examine them, O artist." Abu Zaid came closer to the king's wound and found it. Bedouin, Abu Nam, O mother of the beautiful eyes, O Siwan, do me a little bit of a slap and die in my uncle Al- Kharman. Coffee shops for Abu Makh, a storyteller, Abu Sahbi drank, no tricks, he drank the coffee with Abu Zaid, oh, you who grind, he drank a cup of coffee, two lines of anesthesia, a cup, he told him, get up, oh, King Amer, the Sultan drank, the coffee that Amer poured on the mattress, a year Hanam Abu Nadim said, oh, what a loss of pleasure, when I see the lying world, there is no one like a Pasha or a Sultan, this is what happened, oh, hair, it came to me from, oh, blue one, oh, face of crows, my father, a bucket, he was talking to me, he talked to me, meaning ask, even me, he talked to me, and the Angel of Death scooped up, and the head of the camel, animals, and oh, hope for me, your father, the mother of the eyes, a crow, and the state of the world in your father I lie, I prevent the eye, and no one, God help me, I became ascetic and shared it, I cried for it, tears, the tears are flowing, give the tears, the desert, oh, what a loss of the dust, when I shared it, I collected the cells, I poured for him, a lifetime, and he was not humiliated, when she tore the shirts, she said, the doctor of the stomach, the father of the canvas, peace, the head of the camels, when he took off the prossor, the whole camel, animals, and on the mattress, why And Abu Deet killed, saying, "The truth is, Abu Deet moved the world because he didn't appear. He said, 'In four nights, and in five days, he appeared.' He said, 'Close your eyes now, I'll come to you.' So he approached, and he knocked next to the truth. Arabla saw him, the beautiful [ Music], he saw him, the beautiful. She said to him, 'Oh, about my father, and tell me where are the kings?' Hilal Abu Zaidna said, 'Oh, President, now is not the time for peace. Your father has become a guest.' Amer sprinkles the Sultan's country. Look at the speech next to the palace. Abu Al-Amadan said to him, 'Please, orphan, we will ask for what you want.' He immediately asked Abu Deet, the first one, for the king's wound. He sprinkled the first one, and stitched the wound as it was. The two halves were stitched, but the Sultan Abu Zaid, from the bank's hole, made a stone on the ground. Oh, worker, sit on your wounds, oh Sultan. Say, 'Oh, poetry of the saying, you were a helper, and your father saw it. But, oh, poet, I hope the wound is correct.' Abu Zaid said to him, 'If  It was from me to you, I wanted animals, the white ones, and he would take them. His animals are dear to us, I'm afraid the Jews will take them, but they will remain a loan to us. Animals, call, oh, but your danger, they rode them, and by God, the determination of the age of the defect, they did not come to you, a slave, unknown, and he does not accept the words of blame, he does not speak, a question, I am afraid, my suspicion is safe, if my suspicion is afraid, Abu Zaid, from the guest, his life is strong, like the sea of ​​Egypt when it increases, he destroys the puppy in the strong, what animals, a big head, like the natural one, he strikes himself on people, his defect is a gift, this is the tree of the brotherhood himself, Muhammad, and peace be upon him, welcome, peace to the loved ones, we gathered a lot of words for the loved ones, we gathered from the East, my life is stingy, the day of Eid, the one who brought us together, my evening to all the loved ones, my evening to good people, white Arabs, God made them pass over the army and the soft ones, they swore they did not pass except for a doctor, for you, Ibrahim is going, and I have the saying, I have equals, bring Ibrahim, from the father, equal, my letters are barren, Abdul Jalil is a convert, he resembles loved ones, my greetings to Abdul Ghafour, Abdul Jalil, greetings  Oh, dearest friends, our Prophet is an honor. We are sitting and remembering our Lord, the One. We greet all those present. I don't forget a single person. May God bless you. [Music]