So, one of the nice things about this approach is that uh first of all, the students are always engaged. They're um actively engaged in their learning. They're not passively listening to me uh try to explain uh the important features of a problem. um by standing up and working at the board um I can see what all the students are doing in the room at the same time. So um I can tell from across the room if a group is having trouble um I can tell from the middle of the room if the entire class is maybe lost. Uh so it gives me a lot of options. I can go uh help students who are having trouble. I can stop the class. um I can lecture a little bit to help with a a broad misconception that they may have. Okay. Um but more importantly when when the students are standing um they're much more likely to share the responsibility for doing the problem. What I found is that when they're working at tables even if we ask them to work together the tendency is to turn to the piece of paper in front of them and work alone. Um but by standing up um sharing a blackboard uh no one can monopolize anyone can step in uh and do a problem. So in a conventional class uh the opportunities of feedback are essentially uh when you grade the problem sets you have some inkling of whether students understand the material. Uh but really you learn whether students know the material at the quiz at which point it's too late. the students have already scored uh perhaps poorly on the quiz uh but by then you've moved on to to other material. So one of the nice things about active learning uh is that it provides feedback at multiple time scales. So in a lecture if you have a concept quiz on material that you've just lectured you might discover that the lecture was completely ineffective or you might discover that it was very effective and you can move on to new material. Uh the same is true in recitation. um especially in the recitations that I've been doing in 1606 uh where we emphasize skills, you can see over the weeks the progression of skills. Students get um better at better uh at a at a core skill that they need later on. And in our case, it's things like root locus and bodie plots. You can really see week to week that they get much better at what they're doing.