Welcome to this recitation on the trace determinant diagram. So here you're asked to label the regions and lines of the trace determinant diagram for a 2x two general system written in the form x prime equals ax and to indicate the stability on your diagram. Um so here as a reminder this system is simply a system of uh two differential equations in vector form xy the derivative of xy= a bcd a 2x2 matrix multiplying the vector xy or in other in other in another form uh it would be x dot= f of xy and y dot= j of xy where the t wouldn't appear in f and j here functions which means that this system would be autonomous and we're dealing with linear systems. So, why don't you pause the video, take a few minutes to remind yourself what the trace determinant diagram is and how to label it, and I'll be right back. Welcome back. Okay, so let's remind ourselves where this trace determinant diagram comes from. So initially what we saw before was to solve this system we need to find the aen values of the matrix A. The AEN values are solutions of this equation which can be written in the form lambda square minus trace of lambda plus determinant of A equals to zero. Let's call this D and this T. Okay. And the trace of a is just the sum of the diagonals of the matrix. And the determinant is just in this case for 2x two a d minus c b. Okay. So the solutions for let's call them or plus and minus maybe for this uh second order polomial will simply be t plus of minus the root of our the determinant of second order polomial which is t ^2 minus 4d. Okay. So the sign of t ^ square minus 4d is going to determine whether we're dealing with real values or imaginary or complex values or uh simply repeated values if we have this determinant under the root being equal to zero. Okay. So just as a reminder here if uh we have t ^² over 4 equals to d we are in the case well this is equal to zero lambda plus or minus are the same and they're just equal to the trace over two. So the sign of the trace is going to determine whether we have two repeated negative aen values or two repeated positive aen values. Now if we have that the determinant of the matrix A is larger than T ^ square over 4 then we are above the curve determined by this equation which is a parabola that I'll draw in a minute and in this case we have the number under the root being negative so we're dealing with complex values and basically they're just complex conjugate of each other okay and you can notice here that the trace would be also the sum of the two agon values and basically we would just have two times the real part of lambda plus or minus. Okay, just as a note and in the third case where we have that the determinant is below t ^2 over 4, we are in the case where this number under the root is positive. So we're dealing with two relean values. Um so here I should mention real lambda plus lda minus real and we can have multiple cases. We can have lambda um plus larger than lambda minus both positive. We can have lambda plus less than lambda minus both negative or we can have lambda plus positive and lambda minus negative and each case will give us a different uh a different behavior of the system. So let's summarize first summarize this in this following determinant trace diagram and then we'll start labeling this diagram. Oops. I should probably keep a little more space here. Still have more space. So this is basically d= t ^² over 4 in our trace. determinant diagram. I'm going to also erase this part and just keep it in dots. Okay. Okay. So, in the first case that we looked at, we are in the case where we are right on this parabola. Okay. So, that's the case where we have lambda plus equal lambda minus. And you can see that if the trace is positive, so if we we are on the right hand side of the diagram, then we're going to have two positive AEN values that are both real. Okay. And they are repeated. So we can have multiple cases. We can have the case where we have a defective matrix where basically here we only have one aen vector associated with this repeated aen value and we have a defective case where we need to come up with a second agon vector using the generalized agon vector formula and I'm not going to write this here but I'm going to just do the diagram. So for example we would have one direction V1 where we would have in this case lambda 1 and lambda minus positive. So in the phase space in yx the little diagram would show us that the solution are escaping from the critical point or the equilibrium point. And the second solution that we built would have a dependence in v1 and tv1 plus a second agon vector v2 also also directed by the positive aen value. And so we would have a solution for example that would look like this with the solution escaping from the critical point because again we are in the case where the two values are positive. And so here we could have it in this form or we can also have it have the diagram uh in in the other direction and I'll do it in the other direction on the other wing of the of the of the uh diagram. So this is the defective case defective node. The other possibility that we could have on this uh parabola and I'm going to just do it here will be the case where we actually have all the a all the direction could be a vectors for this uh associated with this aen value and this would be for example for a diagonal matrix in which case all the directions would be escaping all the trajectories would be escaping from the critical point and this would be a star. Obviously here we are in the instable case for the defective node and we are also in the unstable case for the star because all the solutions are escaping are basically going away. So if I start at equilibrium the solution and I perturb it a little bit the solutions would want to escape from that equilibrium point. Okay. So on the other side here it would be exactly the same structure except that I would have stability because the trace is negative. So I would have asmtoically stable star. Why asically? because basically it's when t goes to infinity that the trajectories reach the critical point. Okay. And this is again in the face base yx diagram for the defective node we would have this time for example direction v1 attracting the solutions the array v1 and the the new trajectory that we will be uh constructing based on v_sub1 would again we be be dv v1 plus v2 a generalized egg vector. both of them would uh give us solutions that convert toward the equilibrium because the two values here are negative. And so we have that for large time the solution follows v1 and for uh large time minus infinity it follows v1 and for plus infinity it's going toward the equilibrium point also follows v1. So the solutions would have to look like this. for example, and this would be asically stable defective node. Okay, so we're done with this uh with the points on the parabola. So now let's look at the other points and I'll go maybe a bit less in the details. Um so for the the case where we have the determinant larger than t ^ square over 4 so we are just above this parabola now we have the case uh where we have two complex values there are two complex conjugates so let's assume that we can then just expand our our solution and write it in terms of the exponential in terms of the real part of the aen value. So it would be determined again the trace will give us the sign of the real part of the aen value multiplying a cosine and a sign. So we have something that is rotating uh in the in phase space because we have basically a periodicity but the distance to the critical point is changing and it's either growing if we have a positive real part for our aen values. So if we are on this side or decaying uh if we are on the left side of the diagram. So that gives us typically spirals. So for example that would be a spiral going toward zero uh toward the equilibrium point in phase space. And here we would be in the case where we have instability due to the fact that the real part of the aen value determining the stability is positive and so the solution of the trajectories escape from the critical point. And similarly here we could have the exam the same structure but I'm just going to draw it in another direction where here we would have stability. Oops, they should not cross. This is not the right way to draw this. And it would be going toward the critical point. So here just a quick note you can have this trajectory being drawn this way. So here we have basically a ca a clockwise motion but we could also have it be drawn in the other way for both cases giving us another another uh direction of rotation face and the direction that you choose will be determined by uh the lowest left entry of your matrix A and I will just explain quickly how how we do that okay so we have basically here in stable spiral mode and here it's again asmtoically stable uh spiral. So what happens now if we are in this case we're still above the parabola. So we have still complex um complex uh eggen values. However we have now the fact that the trace is equal to zero which means that the egg values don't have any real part. So basically we have pure oscillation and in fa in the phase space that corresponds to closed trajectories that could be circles or ellipses basically. And so for example we would have something of this form that would be called the center. And here again you can have either counterclockwise or a clockwise rotation in phase space depending on uh the the signs of the entries of your matrix. So uh one thing I want to note is that here the stability for the center is simply we say that it's simply stable and not astoically stable because the solution never actually reaches the the uh critical point but stays in the region around the critical point. So we're left with a few other cases that are now all below the parabola and for that we just have real aen values. Okay. So let's look at the case where the aen values have two different signs. So for that we have to have the determinant being negative. So it's this whole lower part of the diagram because the determinant is the product of the two aen values. So if they have different signs we're in this region. So in this case we could have for example uh one aen value with associated vector v1 being negative. So the trajectories on along this ray would be going toward the equilibrium point and then um and then another the other a value would be positive. So for example, lambda 2 here would correspond to this other agon vector uh v2. And so here we would have solutions that would be close to v1 when we're coming for example from minus infinity approaching the critical point and then going back toward uh approaching v2 when we go at t plus infinity for example. And so it gives us pseudo hyperbolas form here of this form and this is said to be unstable because all the solutions uh do not go to the critical point but we have some stable manifolds. For example, the V1 if we start on this ray we would be going toward the critical point and if we start the critical point itself it would stay in the critical point but it is unstable. So now what happened in these two different regions to finish. So in these two different regions and I'm going to have a little bit more space here. Oh yeah thank you. And this would be a saddle and it's just because of the shape. So going to just add a little bit of space here. so that we can complete the diagram. So we are be basically looking at the regions uh here in the in the wedge where we're below the parabola and I'm looking for another color but maybe I'll just use white. Okay, so now we are in the case where we would have two aen values both real so no oscillation but let's say both positive because we're basically on this on the region where the trace is positive okay so let's say that we have one ray v1 one ray v2 the trajectories are going away from the critical point because the two aen values are positive okay and now what what do the other trajectories do where they follow uh so for example there would be following V2 and I'm going to explain how so here we're in the case where obviously we're unstable because again the solution the trajectories are going away from the critical point and here how do you pick uh which uh ray do you follow when you get close to the critical point where in this case we would be in the situation where we have lambda 2 um lambda 2 smaller than lambda 1 larger than zero. So basically the lambda 2 that is the closer to zero and that's also the case for the positive and the negative uh aen values is the one that determines the solution closer to critical point and the larger in absolute value agon value uh and its array then determines the behavior um u determines the behavior. Oh, sorry. There's a mistake here. It should be lambda one. I said I said it, but I think I wrote it reversely. Yeah, the smaller the aen value closer to zero is the one that determines the behavior at zero. So here when we're going to infinity, the larger aen value lambda 2 will determine the behavior and the trajectories were become more and more parallel to v2. So what happened on this side? then it would be exactly the same diagram and I'm just going to do it similarly with the same let's say B2 here except that we would have our uh direction going trajectories going toward the critical point and the trajectories here again would be closer to v1. So which means that we would have a case where we have lambda 1 less than zero and larger than lambda 2. So that finishes roughly the diagram. I didn't detail a few borderline regions for example the region where the determinant equals to zero and uh we will discuss that in in another recitation and the case also at which uh the determinant and the trace are equal to zero. So we'll detail that also but try to uh think about it to complete the diagram. Okay. So the key points here were to remember what is the determinant trace diagram how to interpret uh the how to basically deduce the nature of the aen values based on t and d their sign and where to place uh the different structures on this determinant trace diagram. And that ends this recitation.