Hi, welcome back to recitation. In lecture, Professor Miller did a bunch of examples of integrals involving trigonometric functions. So, I thought I would give you a couple more well I guess three more examples uh of some of them are a little different flavor than the ones he did, but but some nice nice examples of some integrals you can compute. Now, um, one one thing you might need for them, um, is you you're going to have to remember some of your trig identities just just like, uh, just like you had to remember some of them last time. So, in particular, one identity that you might you need today that you didn't need in lecture was the was the angle sum identity for cosine. So, let me just remind you what that is. It says the cosine of a + b is equal to cossine a cosine b minus sin aromasin b. So you're going to need that formula to compute one of these three integrals. Um so why don't you pause the video, take some time to to work these out. Come back, you can check your answers against my work. Hopefully you had some some fun and some luck working on these these integrals. Let's uh let's have a go at them. Um the first integral is sin cub x secant^ 2 x. So I don't think that professor Miller did any uh integrals that involved the the secant function. But one thing to remember is that the secant function is very closely related to the cosine function. That's just cosine to the minus one. Um so sorry by that I mean one over cosine not the arc cosine. Um so so in order to uh so so we can view this this first integral here as an integral of a power of s times a power of cosine just like the ones you had in lecture. So this we can write this as sin cub of x * I'm going to write cossine x to the minus 2 dx. And here we see this is a nice example where the sign occurs with an odd power. So when the sign occurs with an odd power, life is or or when one of them at least occurs with an odd power, life is relatively simple. And what we do is just what we did in lecture which is we we break it up so that we just have one instance of the one that occurs to an odd power and then a bunch of powers of of the other one. So in this case we have sign to an odd power. So we want to pull out all the all the even you know all the extra multiples. So in this case we have s time sin^ squar um so we take all those sin squares and we convert them into into 1 - cosine^ squ. So this is going to be equal to the integral of sinx times well time sin^ 2 x which is 1 - cosine^ 2 x time cossine x^ the - 2 power dx. And now you you take all these cosiness and you multiply them together and you see what you've got. Um so in this case that's equal to the integral. Okay so 1 * cosine to the minus 2 is just cosine to the minus 2. So this first term is cossine x^ theus 2 sinx and then minus okay we have cosine^ 2* cosine to the - 2. So that one's even simpler. That's just minus sinx dx. So at this point if you like you could do the sub you could do a a substitution of a trigonometric function. You could set u equal to cossine x. All right. So what's going to happen if you set u equal to cosine x? Well, du is going to be sin or minus sinx dx. And so each of these have exactly one appearance of sin x in them. So this would become so if we set u equal cossine x. So as I said du= minus s x dx because each of these have have a a sinx dx in them that's going to get clumped into the du and the cosiness will just get replaced with u everywhere. So I'm going to take this over over here so I have a little more space. So this is becomes the integral of u to the minus 2 I guess it's minus u to the minus2 plus 1 du that minus sinx become is just is just exactly equal to du um okay and now this this is easy to finish from here this is equal to well okay so minus2 so we have to go up one to minus one so that's just U to the -1 + 1 gives us a U plus a constant and then of course we have to we have to substitute back in. So this is u is cosine x. So u to the -1 is secant x plus cossine x plus a constant. So that's the first one. Um for the second one sinx cosine of 2x let me um we actually have so so we have a slightly more complicated situation here because the the cosine 2x is no longer it's not just a trigonometric function of x alone it's a trigonometric function of 2x. So in order to to do the sorts of things we did in lecture, what you're going to have to do is you're going to have to expand this out in terms of just sinx and cosine x rather than cosine of 2x. So in order to do that, you just need to remember your double angle formula. Now if you don't remember your double angle formulas, one way you can remember them is remember the angle sum formula and and apply it with a and b both equal to x um if you like. But or you could just remember your your double angle formulas. So let's go over here. And so in this case we have the integral of sinx times well cosine 2x. So there there are actually right there there are several different ways you can write cosine 2x. So one way you can write it is cosine^ 2 x minus sin^ 2 x. But we want everything again we have an odd power of s. So it would be nice if everything else could be written in terms of just cosine. So an equivalent form for cosine 2x is to write is is that it's equal to 2 cosine^ 2 x - 1 dx. And here this is very very similar to the last question. Again you can make the substitution u= cosine if you liked. Um, and so I'm not going to do out the whole substitution for you, but this is going to work out to so the 2 cosine^ 2 x sinx that the integral of that is - cosine cub x and then the integral of minus sinx is cosine x plus a constant of integration. So that's the so that's the second one. Um the third one now is is of a similar flavor except you have here you have sin 2x and cosine 3x. So again when you want to integrate something where you have so here here we have the the both trigonometric functions occur uh in multiples. Now if it was the same multiple if it were 2x and 2x say that'd be fine. You know, you could just make a substitution like u equals 2x or something. Um, and and and then proceed as usual. But because they're different multiples, we need we need when we do these trig integrals, we need the to to apply the methods that we used in lecture, you want the the arguments to agree. So you want it all to be s of something and cosine of the same thing. Um so here the the thing to do I think is to try and put everything in terms of just sinx and cosine x. Um so sin 2x is one you should remember double angle formula cossine 3x. Well in order to figure out what cosine 3x is you could just know it. Maybe you learned it once upon a time. Um the other thing you can do for cosine 3x is you can again you can use this this angle sum formula. So let me just just work that out for you quickly. So cosine of 3x well how do you use the angle sum formula? You can write 3x as 2x plus x. So this is equal to cossine of 2x + x. And now this is a sum. So you can use the the cosine sum formula. So you get this is equal to cossine 2x cosine x minus sin 2x sinx. Okay. And now you can use the double angle formulas here and here. So in the end, if you do this all out, what you get is you're going to get four cosine cubed x - 3 cossine x. Well, you might say, oh, what happened to the sin x's? We're going to get aromasin^ 2 x and I've just I I want to write everything in terms of cosine. Um, so so I've replaced the I've done an extra step here that that I'm not showing where I replace the sin^ 2 x with a 1 - cosine^ 2 x. So you make this substitution and you also make the substitution for sinx uh sorry for sin 2x that you have okay sin 2x is equal to you know double angle formula 2 sinx cosine x and so when you multiply sin 2x by cosine 3x you again have an expression that's got powers of cosine with a single power of sign. So, so doing these simplifications you again get this nice form. One of them's odd, the other one, uh, so, so one of them, one of the trig functions s or cosine appears to just the power one. So, okay. So, you can do this nice simple substitution. Uh, you don't need to do any of the double angle or half angle complication. Um, so I'm not going to finish this one out for you, but I did write down the answer. So you can check your answer um when you the third integral that we had which was integral sin 2x cosine 3x dx. When you work it all out you should get let me see what I got. Okay, should get minus 8 fs cossine to the 5th x plus 2 cossine cub x plus a constant of integration. So if you if you you know work out all the details, this is what you should get. So I'll stop there.