Hello everyone, a very, very big thank you for agreeing to join our work. We have had to equip ourselves with a tool for this project, organized by African People's Action Lab in collaboration with the members of OCA Copé. This is the collective of Congolese associations for the Landes, Zealand, and Dante communities. We requested your help because we have seen that in all this debate on the question of memory, the end of colonial memories, and how we can address the injustices of colonization and colonial crimes, we constantly need to refer to archives. We need them, and that's an element to which the archiving system is central. And so, since we are not historians, or unfamiliar with archives, there are many questions we ask ourselves. Therefore, we are asking for your help to enlighten us in the maze of archives, you who are a historian and who have worked, or are still working, on archives and colonial archives.  From Belgium, perhaps before we begin with a whole series of questions, could you just tell us a little about your background? Thank you, hello, and thank you very much for this invitation. So, indeed, I am a historian trained in contemporary history, and my research focuses more specifically on the history of justice and the history of Rwanda, but also more recently on Burundi and Congo. My specialty is judicial archives, which are documents that historians, as we were just talking about, are extremely fond of because these archives offer a whole range of perspectives. So, that's one of the questions that has driven my research: trying to see what we can do with these archives. So, I hope there are points of connection with the debates that occupy your seminar and your projects. Yeah, great! In any case, we are delighted to have you, and as for the silliness, it's right here at the end of May. The questions that are, in quotes, "tormenting" us...  It's about knowing if we want to understand the crimes committed during colonization, to what extent the path of archives is a suitable route, to what extent it's feasible to go through it, what we have, finally, what it entails, how costly it is, what it implies in terms of narrative, in fact, when we have access to them, to what extent, or to its partials, can you tell us a little bit, start with this first big question: is it, is it a way to understand the issues of colonization? The first element is to remember that archives, which are documents produced by public or private institutions, or even individuals, companies, religious congregations, these archives, which are found on several media, can be written archives, iconographic documents, a whole series of documents, maps, these archives are the raw material of historians, it also includes oral archives, so I don't exclude... Of course, oral history is key, and what does this raw material allow us to do? Well, it allows us to observe the past. And this observation of the past naturally involves a whole series of questions when we are faced with a document that has been produced and preserved. This is perhaps a question we will return to later: what documents ultimately reach us today from this period of colonization? When we are faced with this archive, we ask it a series of questions, or rather, a series of related questions. The objective of this archive and its use will be to contribute to answering, from a certain point of view, what had several sub-questions in this first one. In this first question, that is to say, the archipelago is thus produced by an archive producer who describes, in a certain way, the reality of that time. But of course, it is a point of view, and so the whole challenge when using archives is to be aware of this point of view, to deconstruct it, to question it, and to compare it with others.  From these perspectives, which we call cross-referencing sources, a single archive won't give us direct access to the past as it was at that time. It will give us access to a vision of that past as it was at the time, and to the present as it was at that time. Therefore, to address these questions, historians—but we mustn't exclude all the other social sciences and humanities, political scientists, lawyers, and anthropologists, who also use archives—do what we call historical criticism. Historical criticism is a whole series of two methods, tools for questioning, that allow us to contextualize the archive and try to interrogate it as best we can. So, to answer the question, do archives allow us to document or understand, to question the injustices of the colonial past—to return to the question you posed—they are certainly an essential element, obviously, in which we can find a number of answers because it is this raw material that gives us access to what happened. Now, as I was saying, everything also depends on what reaches us.  The archived material was produced at a certain time, and then whether or not it will be preserved depends on decisions made by intellectuals. Does this archive have historical value that allows us to preserve it? It will also depend, of course, on the material conditions of preservation and transmission. With DDR data, for example, can be degraded, lost, or destroyed. We've had floods recently, even in Belgium, which impacted a number of archives that suffered damage and were destroyed at that time. So there are both voluntary and involuntary causes of destruction of these archives. These archives, which reach us in both public and private forms, sometimes partially, I would say. And if we now return to the specific question of colonial archives, we are faced with yet another issue: these are archives that were produced in multiple places. We've spoken of the Congo, Burundi, and Rwanda. These are three geographical areas that have their own history and therefore produced their own archives. These archives were produced in Africa, but also in Belgium. So we have collections that  are split between the two, and at the end of the 1950s, in fact in 1960, these archives were partially repatriated to Belgium. This means that we have documents that remained in place, and we have documents that were repatriated. I think we estimate today, more or less, that the so-called African, or colonial, archives—which go by several names—are kept in Belgium, but so some documents remained in place. Some are still kept today, others have unfortunately disappeared, destroyed over time. So these colonial or African archives—well, we'll see which terms we keep here—have a particularity: they are part of a kind of triptych between memory, justice, and history. Clearly, the question you are asking is the question of demobilization, in fact, of these archives, and through justice, as we saw with the Métis trial in Belgium, and through memory, as we see through collectives.  Because we call upon civil society, and of course through history, because historians have been working on its archives for years, and it's true that today we see an extremely strong demand for history, and that the discourse on history is carried by many actors, including non-historians, which is very good, by the way. So, I'm just saying that yes, archives are fundamental, but of course, they are not the only source of information that allows us to observe, to question, to understand, to go a little further into the questions that you address. You describe a situation in which archives are located in several geographical areas. Archives are both small and complex; there has been a whole process of sorting, in quotation marks, between the moment the document is archived and contains certain points of view, the moment it is archived, the decision is made whether or not to keep it, and all the unforeseen events that can...  to become subsequently and so I think to myself in all this process where we have partial and biased views, what is it, what do we, what do we have, what do we learn, in quotation marks, about 20, what is seen, what emerges about how these archives were, finally about the narratives that emerge, is it still you, has it been processed or are we still in the process of, we are still examining them? And so, well, we can't say when we can, it's impossible to take stock of the injustices of colonization based on what has been processed so far. So there are several things, I would say the first point is that this question of points of view and what we can glean from an archive is a fundamental question for historians. Well, here I'm speaking from my point of view, it's this point of view that I can speak from, and it's true that the first question we ask ourselves  And I'm going to take the example of judicial archives because it's the one I know best, and where I can give you concrete examples. When you're faced with a court file, you ask yourself, " Okay, in what context was this file produced? What elements do I need to understand what's happening?" It's not just the context; it's also understanding the language of the person who produced the file at the time, who the actors were, and what the architecture was— in this case, the justice system as it functions. And with that, once I'm faced with my file, what do I find in it? Judicial archives are a good example for asking this question of injustices and also how, in this case, the Congolese—because that's the example I have in mind—interact with a justice system that is, in fact, a colonial justice system. What you typically find in a court file are testimonies, confrontations of viewpoints, and that's the question of... The establishment of the facts, and therefore this is obviously an extremely interesting area for observing the issue of violence, for observing the interaction between colonized peoples and colonial authorities, for understanding how the law is constructed, which is also, of course, a form of violence in the sense that the law, as we know, is not applied in the same way to white Congolese people. If we take this example, in a colonial context, we have specific offenses that are defined specifically with specific penalties. So we really have an asymmetrical system that is reflected in its archives, in its judicial archives. So that's one thing; this entire legal framework allows us to question this. And then, on the other side, which is transversal, I would say, to all judicial archives, is the question of testimony. Obviously, the historian thinks, "Okay, here I'm going to have access to the voices of the actors," and the voices of the actors are also the voices of the victims, or the voices of the people who are convicted or prosecuted, the accused. And obviously  It's extremely exhilarating because we realize that we have this capacity for direct observation—to borrow an expression from the historian Marc Bloch, who starts from this—this historical observation, saying that the historian will never be an anthropologist who can't go and do their fieldwork. Of course, we can qualify that because today it's the case, but all we can do is this historical observation via documents, and so we're exhilarated. We think, "Yes, the testimony, here I have access to the person's voice." But obviously, when we're talking about judicial testimonies, even figures produced by other types of public or state institutions, this voice is filtered. It's filtered in different ways. First, it's transcribed. In this case, we're talking about a written document. Who transcribed it? In what language did the person express themselves? It's unlikely that this person would have expressed themselves in French at the time, but today this story is a transcription in French. How was their statement...  To summarize, to interpret, does it conform to what has been said? Some of the questions are, of course, a target to be resolved for the historian today, but taking them into account and trying to delve into the smallest details of these testimonies allows us to circumvent all the biases that any archive contains. Moreover, this isn't specific to colonial or African archives, and so, to try to rediscover this original path, or at least to put it in resonance with other types of archives— you could think of oral history campaigns for more recent periods that can put this into perspective—things that are being done. Well, that's it. It's not enough to do, of course, but it's already being done. So, a closed judicial file or any archive file is a document that was produced at a specific time, that has its own history, and that ultimately comes alive again through our own questioning. I always come back to this question of the question because I think that  It's essential, of course, that there are things contained in an archive. The archipelago is dated, it contains names, it may contain a location, it contains, for example, a description of the events: what happened, the event at the military camp, the soldier being questioned, what he is accused of, etc. But despite all that, what archiving can provide is obviously the questions we have. Unfortunately, it's not only historians who come to the documents with questions, but also citizens, since the archive is part of a democratic system, a state system to which everyone should have access for various reasons. Research is one question, genealogical questions are another, ownership issues are another. There are a whole series of questions and reasons that can lead someone to want to consult an archive. I had two other questions. I don't know if I should have left it open too; perhaps I started with one question and I'll address the other after the first.  It's as an ordinary citizen who wants to tackle the issue of understanding, or at least delve into what has been done, what's in the Belgian archives, what we're facing. Because, to go back to what you were saying earlier, an example given earlier of the process of controlling mixed-race people during colonization, the issue at stake in the trial was the lack of proper procedure, it was about access to the archives and access to their administrative documents, and so the difficulty, in any case, for everyone, and for all these children who are now adults, to have access, to understand what awaits them, and so even with a battery, actually two in their case, of a legal expert who worked with them, they had the impression it was incredibly difficult. Now, in what state are they? Just now, if an ordinary citizen can also attack, what are the obstacles? So, the obstacles to accessing the archives can be numerous indeed. So, of course, we can talk about the ideal of opening the archives, but then there's the concrete reality and the...  Difficulties in accessing them—just one point before answering that— generally speaking, all archives, whether produced by the state or private individuals, always have a waiting period. It's barely a legal opening period, meaning that after a certain number of years, an archive becomes public. Often, this period is 30 years for anything produced by the state. Of course, this 30-year period has many exceptions related to privacy and document classification. All of this is important to answer the specific question. If we take judicial archives, for example, the waiting period is 100 years. We say that after 100 years, a judicial archive becomes public. So, do we think, "Oh dear, we have absolutely no access to them"? Of course, there are also exceptions in the other direction, that is, access waivers. And that's typically what researchers do to gain access to documents.  They must therefore submit a request for authorization. This request can be addressed to the Archivist General of the Kingdom, or, for example, in the case of certain judicial archives, to the College of Prosecutors. So, for instance, in a previous project to access documents less than a hundred years old that dealt with war crimes trials in Belgium, I had to submit a request to the College of Prosecutors General, explaining that, for research purposes, with this objective, I would like access to this and that document. It's a process that takes some time, and access is granted. Now, what is the problem more specifically with African archives? As we've said, these are archives that have already traveled, in part, or were, so to speak, repatriated in 1960. They have had a rather turbulent history of preservation, which has gone hand in hand with a history of, I would say, quite marked opacity. In fact, these archives, like the archives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Defense archives, have been considered... These archives, described as sensitive, could potentially pose a certain danger if accessed, for the sake of maintaining order in the Seine, in society, etc. That's just talk, of course, I think, I put everything in quotes, but there you have it. And so, this means that for a very long time, these archives were actually quite closed.  including for researchers, but certainly for the average citizen, as you said a moment ago, one of the obstacles to opening these archives, even from a purely researcher's perspective, without yet addressing the issue of mobilization by civil society or individuals, was the lack of tools to know what existed, where it was located, the extent of the documents, what they contained—in short, what we call an inventory, an inventory or database that would allow us to locate and target specific documents, and then request access to answer specific questions. Obviously, the problem arises in exactly the same way for individuals who want access to these documents. So today we are in a rather different phase, and here I refer to the work of my colleagues on the Mettis project and the National Archives of Belgium, which has published a guide on the so-called African colonial archives in Belgium. This guide, I believe, is two thousand pages long and is available in open access on...  So, the internet, the donation— I can provide the link— explains all these steps, saying that what's happening now is that all these archives, which were kept at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was filtering—well, he's the one who uses the word "years," but my archivist colleagues, a bit like the client's head, in quotes—the documents to which we gave access today, these documents are being repatriated to the State Archives, and this repatriation to the State Archives clearly marks a break with the past in the sense that the State Archives' mission, their primary mission, is to make documents accessible, and making documents accessible means putting archivists and researchers on these collections who will study them, map them, inventory them, and allow us to give the public and researchers access to these documents in a transparent way because that's what's indecent, obviously, it's about equal access to the archives, ultimately, in transparency. So, that doesn't mean that when, as an individual, as a citizen, we have a question about our family, for example, we  You can contact the archives, and they will pull a file from the shelf that will provide all the answers. Obviously, when you come with questions about your past, you will be confronted with a whole series of potential sources that may provide information or perhaps even just clues. So that's one of the difficulties, of course, and archivists are there to support researchers and citizens in this quest. But it's true that this process, which stems from the Métis resolution adopted by the House of Representatives—which is, after all, a political decision—addressed the problem of opening the archives, and this problem must be addressed. These archives must be accessible. This debate on opening the archives can be found elsewhere. I mean, we can look at what is happening in France regarding archives, or at the relationship between France and Rwanda. It's exactly the same issues of openness and equal access to these archives, whereas at the moment, we are still in something quite opaque on both the French and international sides. I find this interesting.  What you're saying, because in fact it's done on this question of fan access, yes, it's not just a technical question, it's primarily a political one, and therefore it's about equal access. This term is quite telling; the way you're approaching it reflects this phase and its obstacles. And can it constitute, well, a constraint to be able to understand what's in its archives? I had a small question, actually, regarding this. I admit I was wondering, is it the fact that these archives have remained for a long time? Well, I don't know if I can use the term "cache," and Manta is accessible. Does it allow us to explain, in fact, is it a link with the end? Does it allow us to explain part of how Belgium managed its colonial past? And by that I mean the fact that there are, I think there aren't many loopholes, there aren't many gaps in the history of the contribution. Educating women who taught in the east in schools is really very recent, so is there a link between this inaccessibility and the fact that it remained a hidden history for a long time, or at least not very present in society, yes, that's certain. I come back to this triptych of justice, history, and memory, which ultimately reflects, somewhat zealously, the different aspects that come into play in this question, namely politics, society in general, and justice in the sense that in certain cases reparations can be demanded, as is the case in the mixed-race trial. But we know of other debates in other formerly colonized areas where this question can be raised; we think of slavery, etc. Anyway, there you have it. So, talking about the absent Allaoui, from which I'm returning to my idea, it's not very clear. So we have this triptych, and in this triptych, I think there is not only memory, but there is also research that already exists, to say that since  There was obviously no research in 1960; it would be quite unfair to all the historians, anthropologists, and political scientists who have worked on these issues. Now the question is how this research, in quotation marks, percolates into society, how it is received, how it is funded and supported, and that's where politics comes in, of course. What we often see—or at least what I observe, because it's a question that interests me—in all the commissions on the past, again in very diverse contexts, is that sometimes politicians commission research, if you will, to examine questions that have already been addressed by researchers. But it's true that these commissions are important because they allow us to shine a spotlight on these questions and effectively open up the debate in society and education. It's typically one of the most important channels, obviously, for addressing these questions from the school level. So I think that, after that, the situations are very different.  From one school to another, as now, things do change, but it's certainly a combination of factors. The fact that the archives weren't hidden back then, it was possible to access them, but it's true that, once again, for the reasons we've already described, it was very complicated. It wasn't exactly a sign of openness, a way of saying, "Let's talk about what happened. We are really very interested, politically, in coming to terms with the past." So yes, clearly it's part of this whole process. There's no silence, but in any case, I would say it's a bit of a variable geometry, or spaces that are more or less hidden, but again, they have been worked on by historians for decades already. Another small question: you're talking about the archives in Rwanda, Burundi, and the DRC, archives from the end of the colonial era. So what's in these archives? Are there any documents? What do we have? To what extent are they... are mobilizable, so yes, I think that's the motive. There are big, big differences between the different collections. Personally, I haven't worked on these archives from that period in these three countries on the ground, I mean, so I can't speak exactly about their content because I don't have personal experience with that. But there is a series of archived and preserved documents that were produced during the colonial period, local archives produced by local authorities. I know that there are still archives, particularly on the issue of the public force. If we take Congo and the DRC, which was the colonial army, there are a series of files that are kept there. My two colleagues on the current project I'm working on have just returned from a mission there and were able to see these collections. In Burundi, too, there is a series of documents that are in the national archives. So these three countries, of course, have national archive institutions that are experiencing many material and financial difficulties. They too have suffered from crises, conflicts, and wars in recent decades. But there are... to documents that are not extremely numerous, I think, but there are indeed documents in these three centers, produced at different levels, and there are all the archives of the religious congregations. So there too, for example, for Rwanda, we can think of Cap d'Ail, the bishopric, where there are documents dating from that period. So we really have national archives and decentralized archives in these countries, which somewhat breaks the image of there being no documents, because we often say that when it comes to history. So, to take a more general view of Africa, yes, but we don't have documents, it's just testimony. That's completely false, obviously. There are a huge number of documents that exist, that have existed, unfortunately, some have disappeared. And so, we can truly break this idea that there are no documents. If we take the example of Rwanda, obviously in 1994 there was a very large loss of a very large number of documents that date back, perhaps more to the post- colonial period, but I  Thinking including of the colonial period, which suffered from destruction, displacement, theft, and looting, and I'm going to ask one last question, which is somewhat relevant. It's not the simplest or most comfortable one, actually. When I get the impression that when you 're stupid, you're sure it's because we're in these debates about memory and we realize how much... well, it's a feeling I had when, as a child, I attended the trial at the Cité aux Procédés des Femmes. It's seeing how much historians and archives, in this context, play a central role. It's extremely central, both to allow access and to be able to say what's in them. So there's a kind of guardian role not a guardian's role, but a certain purpose: to allow access to certain memories, to certain realities that many people are unaware of. So there's an extremely important role. Finally, we want water that is very political, that's the first element. A second element that we talked about is seeing to what extent, in fact, everything was necessary, as you said, the the content of the archives is a point of view, a nose at a given moment in a given context, and it helped there too, in a colonial context with all the symmetry to buy a con, there isn't, so I have the impression that from the point of view of the people who are, who are, well, who are mobilizing, for sure, it's certainly on these issues that we are, we must rely on [Music], well, I do the same, I think about it in time, but I make the same analogy with the law, I have the impression that we need the law, but at the same time it's not what, it's not the law that simplifies our lives, and so we need the days and its political role, but there is a whole legislative apparatus that allows, in fact, that allows to justify, a team that gives a certain  From the perspective of the violence of colonization, so, as in C1, as an understanding, as a historian, you position yourself within this because there's something about hockey, there's a political role, but at the same time, people, well, many historians, are saying, well, in fact, we will do what is also true, we will have a position, not neutral on both sides, to work on documents on which we try to bring out a neutral message, but Lens fears there's nothing that happened in 30 rue, but in this story, so it's a bit disjointed, but I think you see what you want to do, you see what I mean, this kind of positioning in a debate that is, fortunately, extremely apolitical, but where it's this presence of history, both a guarantee, well, a necessity, but also a danger, I think, both for you and for the people who cover it, yes, the question is, do we need me or [Laughs] no, the demand certainly  Not on an individual level, that's for sure, but no, I think it's a very important question because, well, it's true that I do n't call it political, we can call it engaged, we can see that, but it's a fundamental question because it's been quite a while since historians have been as astute; most of them are no longer committed to the positivist idea of ​​objectivity and complete neutrality. And history, like all other disciplines in the humanities and social sciences, has integrated the fact that our point of view, our analysis, is constructed within a given context. We live in our time, so we are not—and I don't want to speak on behalf of all young people—I'm not disconnected from reality. And besides, these realities interest me; they nourish me daily. And so, in a way, what we call the social demand for history or memory—these two different things, but which we see a lot in societies today—I think is fundamental. On the one hand, I would say I need it as a researcher. I'm talking about  For me, as a researcher, I need to feel free in my choices and the questions I ask, so I don't have to feel like I'm being forced into a research agenda, while still being fully committed to helping, guiding, opening up avenues, and reflecting on questions. So that's a question, and I think that's something very important: this freedom to search. It's obviously fundamental, but on the other hand, to counterbalance this, I've tried to answer all the points you've raised in this research that I'm going to conduct. To take an example, but I mean in an abstract way, it also needs this social demand. That is to say, if there's no interest, if nobody cares, if there's no public funding, or even funding from private foundations, but there you have it, if there are no impulses behind this research, if this research can't also produce something for society, then it's useless because what we're asked to do is also to publish in journals.  Scientists, etc., but it's also about contributing to the debate, contributing to knowledge, and in any case, I would say with all humility, that is to say, being aware of the limits of our own work. Because this limit can be something like the languages we master, the opportunities we had to consult documents, or even the interpretation we make of certain things, which still contributes something. So history isn't something fixed. I think that's also important to point out, and it's all the more true in subjects like these, which are addressed by different bodies: the justice system, civil society, historians, education—not just school education, but also university education. It's also a real issue, so it's extremely important that all of this is still connected, but without losing that freedom, without losing one's freedom. Because I think that's where we'll come to the question of the expert, that is to say, a historian or a legal sociologist who is called upon in a trial to  Shedding light on the past or on a social issue certainly exists; we have plenty of examples throughout history, many trials, especially those for crimes against humanity, war crimes, and genocide, where we observe all of this. It's yet another role, a different role, but... well, if we're talking about research, for me, research must be part of this society, but I wouldn't say by seeking neutrality, but rather by exploring how to express a subjectivity that is inevitably present because the questions we ask are necessarily dictated by many things. The discussion we're having today will undoubtedly, at some point, guide a question I will ask myself in my research. So it's wonderful in a way because it's obviously a dialogue, but that's something subjective, of course. Simply put, the way we answer this question must be based on Pascal, it must be, I think, it should be based on all the elements we talked about at the beginning of the interview, that is to say, the critique of sources, the fact of... how to...  It's about not coming with preconceived ideas about the resources, not seeking that answer, whatever it may be, or reinforcing that thesis, but being open to elements that might contradict it. Basically, I would say respecting the paths we find in the archives or the people we interview. When doing oral history, let's say it's a bit about ethics, I don't know, research ethics. I think that's what's fundamental, and all the researcher's tools allow us to answer this question, these questions, perhaps subjective, but framed. Thinking through these tools, which are these, and so I believe that's where the political, historical, and memory boundaries are drawn, without these boundaries obviously preventing dialogue beyond them. That's very important. But then, of course, everyone defines for themselves what role they take on and what role they want to play. And obviously, I don't know if that answers your question because, listen, it's great, in any case, I think our little ones, that Fatou  Regarding all the points we discussed there, we could have put them into even more debate when you come to give your presentation with the Indians and the members of Kakobola. So, I thank you, and the Reverend, and so, we'll see each other in a few weeks. Thank you very much.