Hi everyone in this video we will be talking about two topics for D chapter for mathematics and IT preparation the topics are basically I will be dealing with problems on finding the perpendicular distance of a point from a line and I will be finding the equation of a line perpendicular to two lines given so are small topics how ever as in many of the maths topics basically this is a bit of an approach that you should learn on how to solve problems like this so let's start by finding the perpendicular distance of a point from a line first topic will be doing a line which will be given let from point a at a vector one given b vector w plus vector and we've been given point w plus vector and we've been asked to find the perpendicular distance of the point from a line so you recollect this type of problem in D in straight lines basically but  It's three-dimensional geometry. So how will we solve this problem? So one of the approaches to start this is to think about point c here. Let's call it c vector. And the idea is we know c vector would be a vector plus a plus b vector because it's a point on the line and p vector is perpendicular to a vector. This is what we know. Right, so we know that's the two conditions. Not p vector is perpendicular to the parallel vector. B is perpendicular to the line. So perpendicular to the plus vector. So it should satisfy the condition of perpendicularity. p vector dot b is zero. Again, the knowledge of p vector is super critical in chapter 1. As seen many times in the last video, also p vector is nothing but c vector minus p vector dot b vector and c vector is nothing but a plus a plus b vector minus p vector. Right, so if you find  To find the value of lda here you can get the value of lm as p minus a dotted with b divide by md b s so now you get the value of lda so you can calculate the point and then you can calculate the distance right so I mean this is just a sort of for far I hope you are able to understand and follow what we are doing here so you can solve this equation basically using the associative property you can open the brackets and then rearrange to get this let's just do a problem on this so that you can understand find what we have been given pi is basically that and the line is x minus by 3 a minus 7 by two is 7/2 okay so now how will we find lda so we know the for lm I would suggest you to remember this but you may want to quickly write it in the paper also it's up  to you but I'd recommend you just remember it's very easy to remember p vector is vector b so p is a vector divided by b square so p vector is a square p is a square p is a square p is a square 2 j is a square p is a vector is 6 a square so a vector is the one constant so remember the coordinate form a how to calculate it to the vector form 7 j is a square and b vector is 3 j is a square p is a square minus k is a square so if I were to do this then this would become p vector minus a vector f is -5 j is 5 j is 4k notched with 3 j is 2 j is 2k p vector minus a vector d with b vector divided by m is b square and m is b square is 3 j is 2 j is 8 j is 9 j is 17 and if I were to do this then this would become min 15 p 10 minus 10 psi 8 ch is nothing but minus 1 so lum i mive okay so the point i is actually the point c is a vector minus b vector and the point i y calculate the point it comes out to b 3 a square ps 5 z square ps na k cap and distance ps mod wad b 2 square ps 3 square and it comes out to b s okay so you can find the value of pc md you know the point c now so yan fa distance by just taking the difference of a component squared then y component squared and z component squared and that comes out to b seven AI hope that this is very obvious for you how to solve this type of problems and if you are still not very comfortable please practice just make some problems yourself make an equation of a line find a point and then do the problems  It's very easy. I think like if you do this many number of times, it should be quick for you to remember. Let me give you one more homework problem. So that you can do it on your own. And the homework problem is, so homework is, find a point on the axis such that the perpendicular distance from the point to the line x is equal to unity. Okay, so the opposite question is, you have been given an answer. Find a point on the axis such that the perpendicular distance from the point to the line x is equal to unity. So how will you do this problem? You can guess a problem. You can guess the point a = 0, k = 0, k = 0 and then proceed completely. The same way, you can very quickly find the value of this thing. And then you can calculate pc, and then you can equate that to one to find the value of k. So, please do this problem. I think this will give  You will have a very nice practice to understand how to solve the problems of perpendicular distance from a point to the line okay now let's do another problem that is what I want to do I will basically not be giving you any physical or any through something they are just taking some example of the problem because the example will be enough for you to understand so the question set we have been given two lines x is equal to 1 is equal to 2/2 - 3/3 right and then we have been told that line one is equal to this a2 has been given as to x is equal to 2 by 4 is equal to x - 3/5 x - 1/6 okay the question says find the line perpendicular to one and all and passing through no how to solve the problem so you have been given line one is equal let me set right  Answer here so let l1 l2 you have been given b1 vector a1 vector and b2 vector and you have to find the line three for which you just know one thing that it is perpendicular to both and it passes through the point so to find the equation of a line you need a point which you already have but you need a parallel vector and what is the speciality of that parallel vector is that it is perpendicular to line l1 and the third line is perpendicular to both l1 and l2 then the parallel vector will be perpendicular to both b1 and b2 and as soon as this happens it should flash into your mind that this is basically asking you to take a cross product that each vector perpendicular to two vectors is the cross product to vector so what you have to do is you have to find b3 vector be cross b and if you do and you should  Remember that for taking cross product you have to do 1/2 = k and then opening up terminate so if you do this this will be 1/3 = 6 + k * -3 so this is perpendicular to both 1/2 = 3 so if you take dot product with one a so you should remember the condition of perpendicularity is dot product is zero so if you take -3 + 12 - 9 basically dotted with b1 is 0 if you dot with b2 it's -12 + 30 - 18 so 30 - 30 is 0 so it is perpendicular to both b1 and b2 and you already have a point so the line equation of line l3 could be easily written as x - 1 = y - 1 = z-1 the point has come on the numerator and the denominator is -3 6 and -3 so this line is  Perpendicular to both the line and lines and passes through it so I hope that you are able to understand this understand how important the understanding of vectors is here and how I solve problems here so we discuss two things here one on how to find the perpendicular distance of a point from a line and for that we can remember this formula of lm we calculate the lm calculate the point and then when you calculate the point you can get the coordinate of that point and then subcut with the original point to get the distance I have given you a homework problem so please do that at home and then we did a problem of finding a line perpendicular to the two lines for that we have to take the cross product of the parallel and then you can get the equation of a line okay so I hope you enjoyed this video there  There are a lot more interesting videos in and topics in this chapter so I hope to see you in the next video thank you