Hello everyone, this is my video about crystal structures. I 'm Marcelo Alejandro González Alanís, and well, this entire document, done in mathematics, is written in English, but don't worry, I'm going to explain it very well in Spanish. First of all, I don't want you to focus on the code, and please just concentrate on the structures. First of all, here we can see what a crystal structure is, but before showing it, I want to explain two very important things that you need to know. For our doctor, crystal structures are, one, what a crystal structure is, because, on the other hand, a crystal is a way in which atoms, ions, or molecules are arranged in three dimensions. And another very important term is what a unit cell is. A unit cell is the smallest volume in a crystal that has to follow the same pattern; it has to follow the pattern of the entire crystal lattice. What do you want the unit cell to be in this crystal lattice? Well, of course, the unit cell is the one we had at the beginning; this is the unit cell of a simple cubic crystal structure, which is the simplest of all.  Besides this one, there are six other different ones that depend on the lengths and angles between them. In this case, the angles and lengths are all equal. Now that we've been talking about the simple cubic crystalline cell, we're going to delve a little deeper into it. As you've already seen, this is the crystalline structure cell, but if we focus on the unit cell, how many atoms does this unit cell have? The unit cell itself has one atom in total because it has eight atoms at all the corners of the cube, and that's eight atoms occupying one-eighth of its volume within the unit cell. So, one- eighth times eight corners equals one atom in total. Besides the number of atoms, another important term for crystalline structures is the coordination number. This is simply the number of nearest neighbors that each atom has. In this case, in the simple cubic cell, the coordination number is 6. In a simple unit cell, it's not possible to see the coordination number, so what we're going to do is group eights together, put them all together, and change the colors to make it clearer.  It's easy for you to see which are the nearest neighbor atoms to each of the atoms. Here we have the atom in red, which is the one we are analyzing, and its nearest neighbors are the yellow atoms. If you can count them, there are 6: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. These are the closest atoms that any atom has in a simple crystal lattice. Even though it's a very, very simple crystal lattice, there are n't many elements that want to crystallize in this type of structure. The alpha element polonium is the only one that crystallizes in a simple cubic structure. But well, I'm sure you've never used polonium because the former is radioactive, and besides the fact that it's the only one, it's because this structure has a very small packing factor, which favors the elements crystallizing in it because elements, generally, metallic ones, want to be much closer together. But now what you might be wondering is, what is the packing factor? Well, the packing factor is simply a value that tells us how close the atoms are in a unit cell. The packing factor can be calculated with a formula. This formula  I'm going to show you now what the volume of the atoms in the Domit Arias shell is in relation to the total volume of the unit cell. In this case, what I did was create a function to obtain that packing factor using the number of atoms in the unit cell, its volume, and the volume of the unit cell. Since it's a cube, it's just its length cubed, as you can see here. To calculate the volume of the atoms, we first have to consider that they are spheres. Considering that they are spheres, it's very easy to know their volume because the volume is four-thirds times pi times the radius cubed. In this case, in the simple cubic cell, it's very easy to obtain the radius because in one length of the unit cell there are two atoms. So, if the length is here, we have two atoms, and the radius will be half the length. So you see how, using the function, knowing that the number of atoms is one, the radius is half the length, we have a factor of practically 0.52, which is relatively low. And well, after talking about the structure that is always packed, we are going to open up something a little more complicated. Now we are going to  Our crystalline structure, which is called the unit cell in the body because it's called the body's seat, well, as you'll see here in this visualization, it's centered in the body because it has a complete atom in the middle of the whole series. Compared to the other, it still has the 8 atoms in all the corners, but now we have an atom in the middle, which means that the number of atoms in the cell is now 2. We have the one in the middle that is complete, we have one-eighth of the eight corners, so now the number of atoms in the unit cell is 2. As you'll see, now if we make the separation a little smaller, it's much denser, so we'll see that the packing factor is greater, but we'll see that later. Now, the coordination number in the simple cubic structure was 6, now it's 8. We'll show you that so you can see it. Although we did the same thing, the same thing was done, they put 8, they make the unit cells together. We're analyzing what the red atom is, and we see how the yellow atoms are its atoms or its nearest neighbors. If there are 8, we know that the coordination number is 8. How do you think its packing factor will be? Of course, the packing factor will be greater, but well, for the packing factor, the corruption plus the formula from the previous formula is the volume of the atoms divided by the volume of the unit cell. Now, since we have an atom in the middle, the atoms at the corners don't actually touch, so it's not so easy to calculate it with just the length. In this case, we have to use three different atoms, as you can see here: the smallest one in the middle and two from the corners. If you remember earlier, what is or how is the internal diagonal of a cube calculated? The internal diagonal in a cube is the square root of three times the length of any side of that cube. So, as we see here, we have four radii of spheres on that internal diagonal. So, if we have four, we made the internal diagonal the square root of three times any side of the cube. It's clear that the radius would be the square root of three times that length of the cube divided by four. We have four square roots. We use the same function for the packing factor, knowing that we now have two atoms. We already know what the radius is, and we see that the packing factor is 68 points, a little larger than that of the previous cell. Some of Examples of elements that crystallize in a body-centered shell are chromium, tungsten, tantalum, and molybdenum. Now that we've finished with body-centered shells, let's get a little more complicated with face-centered shells. Face-centered shells are among the most common in metals, as you'll see from the examples. As you can see in the structure, it's a much more tightly packed structure; it will be much denser than the others, as you'll see from its packing factor. What we can see here is that now the atoms are not centered in the body of the elements, but on the faces. Like a cube with six faces, the atoms are on the face, in the middle of the face. So, what is the number of atoms in that unit cell? It's four, because one is the eight that are in the corners, which we've already counted in all the previous cells. In this case, since we have six faces, the atoms are in the middle of the face, so we have six halves of atoms inside the  A unit cell with six halves gives us 33 plus 144, which is the number of atoms in this cell. What is your coordination number? Of course, as you can see, since it's much more packed, its coordination number is much larger than before. Its coordination number is 12. And in fact, if we wanted to see the coordination number as we had been seeing it when we put the three with eight unit cells together, it's impossible to see it. You can't even see where the cell or the red atom we had been analyzing is. So, what I'm going to do so you can see it is put just two unit cells together, one on top of the other, and you'll be able to see the nearest neighbors of the atoms. In this case, I decided to change the colors. As you can see, the atom being analyzed is yellow, and the nearest neighbors are the red ones. If you count them, there are 12. Finally, its packing factor is also not as direct as that of the simple cubic cell. In this case, we have to use one face of the cube. On this face, we are doing the same analysis. We have two atoms in the corners, one atom in the middle of the face, and as you remember, what is the diagonal of  A square's length on the diagonal of a square is square root of two times larger than any length of that square. So, using the same concept as before, we have three atoms. In these three atoms, there are four radii. So, to calculate the packing factor, we have four atoms. The radius is square root of two times the length divided by four, which gives us four radii. That gives us a packing factor of .74. .74 is the largest packing factor that can be obtained for atoms in a unit cell of the same radius. In this case, the examples are much more common, like aluminum, copper, nickel, silver, and gold. Well, thank you very much for everything. I just wanted to thank Bianca Jefferts and Cristian Hellinger, who were the authors of the CRYSTAL package. Without that package, this math document wouldn't have been possible. If you want to play with the structures and visualizations I made, please send an email, and I'll gladly share the document with you. Thank you very much.