Hello everyone, my name is Mois, a first-year Master's student in Science and Engineering at OPL, and I'm going to present this video about heat transfer in materials. This video will begin with a short introduction in which I'll give you some useful definitions related to heat transfer in materials. Then it will continue with a presentation of the different heat equations. Following that, I'll present some simple and concrete examples of heat transfer in materials to help you understand the examples that will follow. First, it's important to give some definitions. In this video, heat will simply be considered a form of energy. Temperature, on the other hand, will be the measurable manifestation of the heat stored in a material or body. If two bodies with different temperatures are brought into contact, heat transfer will occur, transferring heat from the hotter body to the cooler one. There are different types of heat transfer. First, there's conduction, which corresponds to an exchange of heat between two points in a solid, a liquid, or...  In the case of a stationary and opaque gas, heat collection corresponds to a heat exchange between a wall and a fluid, with heat transferred by the moving fluid. Finally, radiation corresponds to a heat exchange between two walls separated by a transparent medium. Since we will be discussing heat transfer in this video, it is important to understand the equations that govern this type of phenomenon. First, the law of heat conduction, which defines the most significant thermal effect generated by a temperature gradient, all linear and correlated by a thermal conduction coefficient. Then, the heat equation, which includes a term dependent on the velocity and which corresponds to the effects that can occur in internal heat transfers, including the divergence of the diffuse flux. The thermal term is finally a term at the sources, most often corresponding to chemical reactions, whether endothermic or exothermic. By combining these two previous equations, we obtain an equation governing the phenomenon of heat pancakes, which is as follows. We will now apply these equations to a few examples. As a first example of rather concrete applications, we take the case of a simple wall of thickness one in a stable thermal state, that is to say, a stationary state, and where the velocity is equal to zero. We also assume that no heat source term due to any thermal reaction is present. This wall is considered thin with a unidirectional heat flux along eex. The temperatures on both sides of the wall are different, with tes being a smaller t2. We seek to determine the temperature profile in this wall. For this problem, it is appropriate to use Cartesian coordinates. The temperature only changes along the x direction, and we can expect to see a homogeneous temperature distribution in the other directions. The conditions of this problem allow us to simplify the heat equation presented earlier as follows: we set as boundary conditions that the temperature at x is ( games heroes vote one here) and the temperature at (illegal e vote 2 here). Now that the system of equations has been defined, we can set it up and attempt to solve it. First, we define the system of equations and its boundary conditions, then we will try to solve the equations.  The differential solution is as follows. This solution is valid for a specific value this autumn, that is, for a certain wall thickness. In order to have a more general solution not dependent on any wall thickness, a change of variable is performed. The temperature is no longer solely a function of x, as is the case here, but of the ratio x to them, which therefore varies between 0 and 1, that is, between the beginning of the wall at 0 and the end of the wall. We set up the new system of equations and attempt to solve it. The solution at the next time by changing the arrangement of the equation, we can see that the equation is of the following form. We can try to generalize this expression to all cases by performing the following transformations. Thus, we end up with a solution dependent on only 2x. Thus, the temperature profile for this case at the next time, we notice that it is a linear curve along eex starting from t1 and arriving at t2 from the beginning to the end of the wall. We can visualize  The solution becomes clearer by looking at how the temperature is distributed within the wall. The temperature is distributed as follows: the gradient is linear, with the hottest side being at t1 and the coldest side at t200. This is for this example of a house wall. Now let's consider a newly constructed wall. In this second example, we take a concrete wall of thickness ls, currently hardening due to an exothermic chemical reaction. This is a phenomenon known as concrete hydration. We assume that both exterior surfaces are kept at the same temperature tbw and that the concrete is stationary. For this problem, it seems appropriate to use Cartesian coordinates. The temperature only changes along the x-direction, and we can expect to see a homogeneous temperature distribution in other directions. The conditions of this problem allow us to simplify the heat equation presented earlier, which becomes the following: We apply the boundary conditions defined previously, that is to say that  The temperature at 0 having had and Galatea w, the system of equations thus posed is as follows and it can be solved in the following way. In the same way as for the previous problem, we can try to obtain a general answer usable in a large number of cases. Thus, we perform the same change of variables as before, assuming that the temperature no longer varies solely as a function of x but as a function of x over them, and therefore that the ratio x/Europe varies between 0 and 1 for the same comparable reasons. This system is defined as follows and can be solved to obtain the following answer. In order to dimension, read the results. We can move all the elements not depending on the ratio x over them to the other side of the equation. This gives us the following solution. Thus, the temperature profile, as shown in the following diagram, we clearly notice a certain symmetry in the response with a maximum of heat in the center of the room where the temperature is highest and a minimum in the walls of the room where the temperature is highest. We can also see the temperature distribution in the wall.  where we can clearly see that the temperature is highest at the center of the wall and lowest at the edges. As a third example, we take the case of continuous heat treatment. For this example, we consider a thin steel bar undergoing a continuous heat treatment process. The bar is extracted at speed v from a furnace heated to a temperature t₀ and then placed, after a distance elle, in a water bath maintained at a temperature t₁elle. We seek to determine the temperature profile in the bar between the furnace outlet and the bath inlet when a steady state is established. For this problem, it is appropriate to use Cartesian coordinates. We assume that the temperature is uniform in a cross-section of the bar, that is to say, that the temperature field t depends only on the position x. The conditions of this problem allow us to simplify the heat equation presented previously, so that we only have this equation. If we set as a boundary condition the fact that at 0 the temperature will be 0 and at elle the temperature will be , then we set the system  The following equations and the network give the following solution, which appears somewhat complex. However, we can simplify this result by knowing that the company factor on k is equal to 1 on half, where alpha is the coefficient 2, the thermal diffusivity of the material. Thus, our solution is the following. We can further simplify the reading of this equation by rewriting it in this way. In the same way as for the previous examples, we seek to give a general answer. In this example, it has the following form: We have found the solution found previously. It should be noted that the real ratio on alpha is actually a two-dimensional number, the Berkeley number. This defines the ratio between the addiction and diffusion phenomena of a process. We can thus replace it in the previous relation. Here, we replace it in the denominator, and here in the numerator. Finally, in the same way as for the previous examples, we make a slight change of variables by replacing hic on it with the variable hic on l. We can try to understand the operation of the two- dimensional Peclet number by varying the temperature profile according to its value. Here is the result for a  With a low Peclet number, as the Peclet number increases, the curve tends to dip. This is perhaps even more visible when trying to plot the temperature profile in this bar for several Beckley numbers and obtaining the results for these different numbers simultaneously. Thus, a list of Peclet names is defined, to which the previously found solution is applied, resulting in the following graph. Here is the graph's appearance for the different Peclet members, with the lowest in blue and the steepest curve in blue. Here is a Gallas Peclet number. Finally, we can also represent this result on a wall by allowing a variable Peclet angle. We previously saw that if the Peclet number is low, we get a result that looks rather linear, with the maximum at 0 and the minimum at 0. When the Peclet number increases, the result is no longer linear at all, and the temperature increase occurs closest to this wall. That's all for this video. You will find below the references that helped me with this, and I thank you for your attention.