Hi, welcome back to recitation. In lecture, you've been learning about triple integration and I have a problem here for you on computing a volume of a region using a triple integral. So, let's look at this. So, I have a volume and I'm describing it to you. It's the volume uh inside the paraboid z = x^2 + y^2 and bounded by the plane z = 2 y. So I've drawn a little picture here for you. So this is the this is the paraboid here. And we're just sort of taking a plain cut of it. And so this is going to slice off some chunk of that paraboid. And what I want to know is what's the what's the volume of that of that piece that gets cut off by that plane there. So below the plane and above the paraboid. So why don't you pause the video, take some time, work out this problem, come back and we can work on it together. I hope you had some luck with this problem. I think it's a bit of a tricky one. So let's start to work through it together. Um, so sometimes you have a problem with a triple integral and you know you need to set up your bounds of integration and sometimes you can look at it and it's just clear what they are. You know if you're integrating over a cube life is really easy. Um, but in this case this this region that we want to integrate over is kind of more complicated to understand, right? So it's easy to see well relatively easy to see what the bounds on Z are. So let's let me draw a couple of one one two-dimensional picture. So let's I'm going to draw the the the YZ plane cross-section here. So in the YZ plane cross-section this paraboid just becomes a parabola. So that becomes the parabola Z = Y^2 which is you know a plain section of the paraboid Z = X^2 + Y^2. And this plane z = 2y becomes the line z = 2y. So and this little sliver is a plain section of the region in question. So we see that z is going from the paraboid to the plane. Um and over here we see that z is going from the paraboid to the plane. But what we need really need to understand then is what the relationship between x and y is. So what is the shadow of this region? how how are X and Y related to each other, how can we bound X in terms of Y or Y in terms of X or you know should we use cylindrical coordinates or what? Um and so in order to do that what we need to do is we need to figure out when you when you project this region down when you when you flatten it along Z so you're you're disregarding Z now and then you're just looking at its shadow its footprint in the in the XY plane. You want to figure out what what is that region? What does it look like? So you know somehow we'll project down there'll be some region R down here. So I'll call this region R and that region will be the projection of this of this solid region down and it has some boundary curve C say the boundary curve of the region R. um just you know in case we need to refer to them later it's good to give them letters so that we can so that they have names. So what we need to figure out now is what is this region R. Now this is tough to do by just sort of intuitive reasoning or just by looking at this picture that I've drawn. So in this case we're kind of forced to use some algebra. All right. So what do we know about about this region R and this curve C? Well C is what we get. It's the projection downwards of the curve of intersection of this plane with this paraboid. Right? So it's the projection down of this curve of intersection. So what does that mean about its equation? Well, it means it's what we get if we set uh these two, you know, if we if we solve for Z in one of the two equations of the surfaces and plug it into the other, and that'll give us an equation with just X and Y, and that will be the equation of this curve C. Okay. So in our case that means that we have to so C is given by this equation x^2 + y^2 = 2 y. All right. So whenever x^2 + y^2 = 2 y that's a point xy such that the directly above that point is a place where the plane intersects the the paraboid. Well okay. So what is this curve? Well, a little bit of algebra can help us sort that out. If you bring the 2 y over here and complete the square, you you can see that we can rewrite this as x^2 + y -1^ 2 = 1. I've just I've brought the 2 y over. I've added one to both sides and I've I've factored this the y part. And so this equation this is an easy equation to recognize. This is the equation of a circle uh with center 01 and radius one. So let's let's draw that then. So here's a picture of what the shadow looks like in the xy plane. So it's at the center is at height one and then it's this circle. Uh that's almost a circle. Looks enough like a circle for my purposes. So this is the region R. It's a circular region of radius one with center 01. Okay, great. So, I'm gonna just shade that in again because I like doing that. Okay, so that's that's the region R. That is So, what is this region R? It's the shadow of our solid region. Let's look back over here. It's the shadow of our solid region in the xy plane. So, when you project down, that's the region that you get. So, why do we need that? Because that tells us, so we know when we set up this triple integral, Z is going to be going from the paraboid up to the plane. But then we're going to need on the that's that's going to be the innermost integral. But then the middle integral is going to be you know y in terms of x or x in terms of y or if we do polar coordinates it's going to be you know cylindrical coordinates it's going to be r in terms of theta. So we need to figure out sort of what what the boundary is what that region looks like over which we'll be integrating um for those for the outer two integrals. So okay so well okay so now I've been saying oh we could use cylindrical we could use rectangular. What do we want to use? Well, so this is a circle. It's a circle. It's not centered at the at the origin, but it is tangent to one of the axes at the origin. Um, so this is a nice a reasonably nice situation to to to do polar coordinates in. Now, you have to remember you have to remember back from when you learn or cylindrical coordinates. You have to remember um from when you learned cylindrical and polar coordinates what what the equation of such a circle is. And so I'm gonna write it down here and and I'm going to invite you to go uh look up why this is true if you don't remember um that this that this curve has equation in polar. So this is the these are the x and y axes here. So this equation sorry this curve has in polar coordinates the equation r = 2 sin theta. All right. So that gives me this curve here, the outer boundary. And now what I want is I don't just want the curve. I want to integrate over the whole region. Um, and I want to integrate over it once. Remember polar coordinates are a little tricky because you have to worry about are you overlapping and so on. Um, so so how does this work? At at at theta equals 0, we're at the origin and then as theta grows, um, we we get further and further away. So we are sort of this is our radius growing out and then at pi / 2 we're at the top point of the circle and then as it comes back into pi it comes back in. So we want theta from going from 0 less than or equal to theta less than or equal to pi here. So at pi over 2 it's at the top and at pi it comes back for the first time. And what about r? Well it looks like r has to go all the way out to 2 sin theta. And in fact we always want it to start at the origin. So we always want r to go from zero to this outer boundary 2 sin theta. So this describes this this region big r that we're trying to integrate over this circular region in polar coordinates. So okay. So so it's a fairly easy description of polar coordinates. You could also describe it in rectangular coordinates and you could try to solve the problem that way. Um, I'm not going to do it for you, but but you could give it a shot and and see if you can come out with the same answer in the end that we do. Um, so okay. So now what have we done? Well, we we know I haven't written our bounds on let me write our bounds on Z right here. So we know that Z is going from the paraboid. So that's from if we look at the paraboid Z = X^2 + Y^2. But we're working in cylindrical coordinates now. So we need to write this in terms of r and theta. So that's z is going from r^2 and it's going up to the plane z = 2 y. Now y in in cylindrical coordinates is r sin theta. So z is going from r 2 to 2 r sin theta. So let's go write that down over here. So z is going from whoops not just ignore that from r 2 is less than or equal to z and it's going all the way up to 2 r sin theta. So these three equations describe our region. Yeah. 0 less than theta less than pi that just says theta. Okay. Then when when theta is going from 0 to pi, r going from 0 to 2 sin theta that says well in the xy plane we're tracing out this shadow, this circular shadow. And then as z goes from r^ 2 to 2 r sin theta that says okay so above this shadow we're we're above the paraboid and below the plane. So that's exactly the region that we want. Uh so okay so now how do we get its volume after we figured this out? Well we we just write down a triple integral right and we write down a triple integral. So V the volume of a region D is equal to the triple integral over that solid of DV. Okay. And in our case in in cylindrical coordinates DV is going to be DZ * R DR D theta or R DZ D R D theta. Okay. Okay, so this is equal to so if we're integrating okay, so it becomes r dz d r d theta. And now we need to put in our bounds. So we said if we look over on this side of me, here they are. And these are our bounds that we're going to be using. So theta is going from 0 to pi and r is going from 0 to 2 sin theta and z is going from r 2 to 2 r sin theta. So this triple integral gives us precisely the volume of our region. Um, and in order to figure out what that volume is, we just have to evaluate this integral. So, let's start doing that. I don't think I'm going to go quite all the way. Um, but I'll but I'll do most of the work. Um, so, okay, so let's do the innermost integral first. Whenever you have a triple integral like this, a nice iterated integral, you always start at the inside and work your way out. Well, here, so our integrant is r, and we're integrating with respect to z, and r doesn't have any z's in it. So, okay. So, this inner integral is going to be easy. So I'm going to rewrite this is equal to well we keep our outer two bounds. So it's still from 0 to pi and it's still from 0 to 2 sin theta of so now we get okay 2 r^ 2 sin theta - r cubed dr r d theta. So what I've done here is I've just I've just integrated. I get the anti-derivative of R DZ is RZ. And so then I take the difference between those two bounds. So I get R * 2 R sin theta - R * R 2. So that's R * 2 R sin theta is 2 R^ 2 sin theta - R * R is - R cub. Okay, so I've just done the first integral. So now um integrating with respect to R. Okay, this second one isn't so bad either. we've as far as r is concerned this is just a polomial theta is constant with respect to r um when we're doing an integral like this so okay so the second integral is not too bad either so this is the integral so our outer integral from 0 to pi sticks around let's put not do this one in one fell swoop I think um so it's going to become 2 r cub over 3 sin theta minus r 4 over 4 and we're taking that between r = 0 and r = 2 sin theta and then that whole thing is going to be integrated d theta. Uh so what do we get when we plug this in? Well at r equals 0 this is just zero. So that's easy and so we need the top one r= 2 sin theta. So this is going to give me something like 16/3 sin to the 4th theta minus 4 sin^ 4 theta. So I think that works out to be 4/3 sin to the 4th theta d theta between zero and pi. Um so now you have to remember how to do integrals like this. Um, so this is, uh, you know, something you probably learned back in the, uh, the trig integrals section of your calculus 1 or 1801 class. So, um, so when it's an even power here, I think the thing that we do is we we use our our half angle formulas. So, um, now I'm just going to I'm going to tell you what your final steps are. So, first you're going to use your half angle formula. So, what is that half angle formula? So it's sin^ 2 theta is equal to 1 - cossine 2 theta / 2. So you're going to have to plug this in here, right? Sin to the 4th is sin^ 2. And then you're going to have a cosine^ 2 theta. So you're going to have to use the the the double angle formula again. This time you're going to have to use the double angle formula for cosine, which is very similar, although not exactly the same. So you're going to have to use those two uh double angle formulas. After that, you'll have something that's straightforward to integrate. Um so you'll you'll have integrate. You'll integrate it. And if I'm not mistaken, what you get at the end is that you just get a a fairly nice and simple pi over two as your answer. So you can check your your work there and make sure that that you got out pi over two at the end. And hopefully if you if you tried to do this dur using rectangular coordinates, you also came out with something like this as well. In that case, you you would have to do a trig substitution at some point to to evaluate your integrals or or you might have an arc sign involved. Something something like that will happen. Um but it should also give you pi over two of course because it's the same region just just described in a different way. So let me quickly recap what we did. Way back over here, we had this description of this region. So it was the region above a paraboid and below a plane. And so when we're setting this up, we have to figure out we have to figure out in order to do a triple integral over this region in order to find its volume. We have to know well we have to know we have to pick an order of integration and then we have to know what the what the bounds are for the inside terms of the outer two variables for the middle one in terms of the outermost one and so on. So in this case that means first it was it was a natural choice to make Z the last variable sorry the first variable the innermost variable and so then after that we needed to project to find the relationship between in the XY plane between the other variables. Now in this case we decided after we we figured out so we did that by solving this this little algebra problem here. We solved for Z in the two surfaces that we were um that we were given and we set them equal to each other. And so this gives us a description for the boundary curve for our region. And because it's a nice circle um this this suggested that one possibility was cylindrical coordinates. So we went ahead and we found in cylindrical coordinates the the description of this shadow and that then we used the the knowledge we previously had to describe the whole region in cylindrical coordinates. So, we had this description of our entire region. And then to compute its volume, we just set up a triple integral. Volume is equal to the triple integral DV. Um, in our case, DV since we're in cylindrical coordinates, that's R DZ D R D theta. We put in our bounds and then we evaluated the integral. I'll stop there.