I have to know what the ducks are now. Like I I can't continue. So, okay. And a pig. And is that like noisy data or just noisy data? Okay. So, okay. Uh every semester when we run our classes uh on intro to programming and computer science. There is one particular class that is on debugging. Okay, which is the process of uh okay, you wrote a piece of code and it's not running as you expect it to. So how do you fix it? That is the debugging process. And so a a lot of times a bunch of the errors might be things that you can easily fix but most of the time uh your program runs fine and it gives you an answer but the answer is not what you thought it should be. That's kind of where like uh programming is kind of different than like English for example because in English like if you write a sentence somebody else can interpret it however they'd like. Like one example we give to students is the chicken is ready to eat. What do you think about when you when I say the chicken is ready to eat? Well I'm a vegetarian so I don't want to actually eat the chicken but I would like because I'm a vegetarian I assume the chicken wants to eat his food. Okay, there you go. But I would assume I enjoy meat. So, so I my uh my take on that is uh I have a chicken on the table and I'm going to eat it. Right. So, there's two interpretations to that. But when we write code, there's only one way to interpret that piece of code that is written, right? So, um, so that's where things go wrong in our code because we're like, well, it should work because in my mind, like when I kind of thought about it, it's supposed to give me the right answer, but it doesn't, right? And so, obviously, the program is the one who's wrong because the computer is merely following the algorithm, the set of instructions, and there's only one way to follow those instructions. That's basically what that whole lecture, that whole class is about. And then I bring out this big box of ducks and I say and I say, um, well, uh, programming is actually kind of creative because the solution to a problem, I mean, you could brute force a bunch of things, but often times the solution to a debugging problem is just to take time away from it and then potentially explain exactly what your you think the code is doing to someone who knows absolutely nothing about programming. It could be you. Yes, I'm available. Or it could be a rubber duck. Oh, so this is called rubber ducky debugging. Oh, because uh it's an inanimate object that doesn't know anything about programming, right? And it forces you to scrutinize every single line of code that you wrote, even ones you think are correct. Um, most often it's the ones that are that you think are correct that kind of are are the issue. It's kind of like like where did I put my glasses, right? And you spend a long time looking for them and they're on top of your head. It's that exact feeling. It's like where is that error coming from? And it's going to be something super simple. So, the rubber duck is what um helps you figure that that problem out because you're explaining it in very grave detail to something that doesn't know. And if ducks are not your thing, there are frogs. Oh, and the pig pigs, of course. Of course. Or friends, you want to explain it to them. But friends can be judgy. Friends can be judgy. Yes. So, I used to explain my code to my son when he was one. Yeah. Yeah. When I had issues cuz he doesn't know anything about programming, right? And so it's the act of talking it through. But you said it has to be in great detail. Yes. You can't skip because that's when cuz you already like clearly your code is wrong because of you. And and so don't skip any details. Right. That's I feel like this is very much like life outside of academia. like you 90% of the time the problem is probably you you know and it's like you have to figure out how to interact in the world or with others. So I brought all this all these ducks a wide variety. So now I have a a question for you. Which duck would you like to keep? This is a hidden personality test. Oh it's not. We'll probably have to cut this because it might take a long time. Um I would um this guy. This guy. Yeah. He's a little bit offbeat. Yeah. Um, you know, eye-catching and I feel like I could explain stuff to him. I get to keep him. Yeah. Yeah, of course. Thank you. That's so great. You put one for the set as well. Really? Oh gosh. Does someone from the crew want to like pick a duck for the set? You took the one I would have picked. Oh, no. All right, then. Um, there's another mohawk guy right over there. Yeah. Yeah, we'll go two mohawks. There you go. Thank you. Yeah, of course.