Welcome everyone. Thank you for joining us for our open conversation with neurossychologist and lifelong learner Beia Adams. Today we'll talk about the ways in which curiosity and continuous learning can transform personal growth and mental well-being. I'm Curt Newton, director of O MIT Open Courseware. Open Courseware is a free and open collection of materials from thousands of MIT courses covering the entire MIT curriculum. We create new opportunities for millions of learners and educators, share open education resources from MIT, and help lead a glo global revolution in free access to knowledge. This is the third event in the open conversation series which focuses on how open learning can empower people to improve their lives, communities, and the world. Our guest today is Beia Adams. Beia has been on a fascinating and inspiring journey from an initial degree and work in clinical and behavioral psychology to dance with the London Contemporary Dance School and the Royal Ballet and then back to psychology extending into computational neuroscience and related fields with MIT open learning resources. Thank you, Beia, for joining us today. There's so much to get to explore and share. Really looking forward to it. So if we might begin um you know with your wonderful accomplishments academic and in personal pursuits beia what would you please share with us some of the themes and through lines in your career and your personal growth and how curiosity has played a role in this journey. >> Hi Kurt. Hi everyone. Um thank you for having me. I'm so excited to finally be here. Um yeah, a few things about myself. Uh I'm a neurosychologist as you said and I'm a former professional dancer. Um I um I'm also a lifelong learning. My career has been built across diverse experiences, but I think I've always retained an interest in lifelong learning. Um I like to say that if money and jobs were not concepts, I would happily be a forever student. Um I um started dancing when I was four, four and a half. What I thought, my mom thought would be just a few lessons of of ballet turned into many years of dancing. Um I've spent most of my childhood and teens dancing. Then I I've studied psychology, clinical and and and cognitive. I worked as a psychologist uh for a few years. Then in my mid20ies I um I I went on an extended sabbatical because I wanted to explore dance um a bit more and I wanted to perform a bit more. So I um this time I studied contemporary dance in London contemporary dance school and I I performed for a few years. I also explored with other movement practices. Um I managed to get a back a black belt in Iikido. I started skateboarding, longboarding which of course led to to quite a few injuries and due to those and also because I I'd really developed an interest in the neuroscience part of psychology. I went back to psychology and I I resumed my studies and I eventually specialized in medical neuroscience and started working as a psych as a neurosychologist which is what I do uh now. Um I still dance albeit not professionally but I do it regularly and uh which with much joy. Um I I discovered MIT um open courses in 2022 it was. Yes. And I completed um several from from various fields. Um and I'm planning to actually approach um more uh in next year. Um I other than that I'm I'm multilingual. I grew up speaking several languages and then acquired more. Uh my one of my project I mean every five years I try to approach a new language and I'm I'm doing that at the moment. Um I find much um I'm I'm drawn I'm curious about uh how new languages work and how structure arises out of them. Um, also this year I I finished writing my first book of fiction uh to be released next year. It's called Humans After All and if you if you watch my online spaces, you will see excerpts from it already and hopefully the final result next year. Um, yeah, you asked me about curiosity. I think I think curiosity has been has been there throughout my uh development. Um I was um I've always been drawn by movement and interested in movement, how it arises, how our bodies move, why we are able to do things and why we are not able to do things. So I think when I started doing uh doing ballet I was drawn curiosity helped me dissect movement uh understand technique understand timing uh how movement relates to music. Um another big interest of mine um then also the the um expression the possibilities of expression that arise out of tney right not just the series of steps. So what I what I didn't know then but I appreciate now um as a psychologist is that this curiosity I had activated um the dopamineergic system in the brain the reward system that's something which makes you you know go after after things. It opens the door to learning and it also makes you a bit more cognitively flexible so that you can you know adapt to learning and through you know the connections that the dopamineergic system has with the hypoc campus to consolidate what you've learned. So I didn't know then that um I was actually priming my brain for deep learning without even knowing what deep learning was. Um later on when I transitioned to uh to neuroscience, I think curiosity curiosity served almost a protective almost had a protective role >> because instead of interpreting this change as um a change in career in you know almost in identity, I I looked at the I looked at it as an opportunity to explore something new, explore something meaningful. Um, right. Um, and I think that's important in in periods when uh you know that we associate with identity. U I was a dancer and then I became a scientist. So um instead of interpreting this this change as a threat, I tried to look at it um through the eyes of the explorer. What what could come out of this? And I think um that reframes uncertainty and it refrains ambiguity which our brains are not very good at uh to at tolerating. Um that's that answer your question. >> Yeah. Yeah. That uh that uh spirit of exploration you know is so fundamental to you know to what we can get up to and uh it's I know thank you for sharing you know that that sort of path. Yeah. Um I mean I I would um I would share that you know what we've learned about the people who use open MIT open courseware more broadly from around the world. You know they're coming from a lot of different you know positions. You know some of them are enrolled students. Some of them are educators trying to figure out how to teach more effectively. Many of them are just curious independent learners. And what we've heard, you know, from everyone kind of across the board that the number one reason why they're coming to these resources because they have this fundamental curiosity. It's, you know, and there's often, you know, you know, other other reasons beyond that. But it's just really interesting that that that force is out there so widely reflected and uh and you've you've definitely been living it. So, thank you. Yeah. Um well curiosity if we look at the way curiosity arises in the brain um I think that will probably you know just answer your your curiosity and your question a bit more. Um we become more curious when our brains detect an information gap right when we when we sense that there's something we don't know but we could know that there's something we don't fully understand but we could understand. And when the brain detects this gap, it sets in motion the same uh dopamineergic um system I mentioned earlier u that in its in turn sets you know prepares the neurochemical mill the dopamine required to create the motivation to go out there seek the missing information and close the gap and it's it it's exactly this exploratory behavior that we uh mentioned earlier. So most I I'm I'm quite confident that a lot of uh uh a lot of a lot of learners already have some knowledge from certain fields but there is that information gap there's that that's something they wish they would know more of and more from and um that once they find the platform once they find the source of knowledge they just you know they seize it because that's what the brain does right they have the all the support the neurob biological support to do that. >> Yeah. And and it never stops, right? You know, those those questions, that sense of, oh, here's a here's a gap. Here's a new thing. We we certainly feel that when we're young all the time, but but it also it it never stops, right? And so to be able to support people at every age of life continuing to explore that stuff um as you've been doing uh feels just really really important and uh uh useful. Yeah, >> it's self-relenishing I would say. >> Uh like it's it never stops. Uh once you you answer you know you find an answer to one question that another one arises. So, um I I totally agree. Uh and that's actually an important thing to note. Curiosity and motivation, they're not um they're not personality traits. You're not born of them and they stay rigid for the rest of their life. They are they are they are practice. They are tools and facets of one's behavior that need constant practice. And the more you practice, the more will come out of them. So, yeah, I agree. >> Yeah. Yeah. I wonder um if you if you have a perspective on how living a life of of curiosity um supports one's just sort of broader sense of well-being and and connection in the world, you know, through your own your own experience or you know the the work that you're doing with other people. What have what have you seen about that? Well, curiosity per se, the act of you know engaging curiosity and motivation to engage in new pursuits and mind you when I say learning curiosity to learn something new and the motivation to learn something new I don't mean just abstract stuff actually it's preferred from a neuroscient uh for it to be multimodal right cognitive motor social emotional because it recruits more areas of the brain uh going by the same principle of of lose it or use it or use it or lose it. >> Um so maintaining a curious approach uh to life, maintaining curiosity um in and engaging with new learning material with with lifelong learning um has quite a few benefits and it why why mainly why it is important? Um, it's because it literally changes the brain. It drives what we call neuroplasticity. Neuroplasticity is the brain's ability to change itself in response to experience, in response to new learning. So, um, curiosity, applied curiosity, um, and new learning rewires the brain. You form new new circuits. um you allow for neurogenesis, the formation of u the genesis of new neurons in some areas of the brain, particularly the hippocampus. It also acts as a protective buffer against uh age related cognitive decline. It slows down uh it slows the u lowers the incidence of dementia. Let us not forget the social benefits that come with, you know, being curious and engaging in in new pursuits with others. Just the act of of of doing something with others, of proving oneself to be capable of being competent, the feeling of self-efficacy of of of mastery. they build confidence and all these um all these things um are proven to reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression and isolation. Um also um you know the um when you see a curiosity um neuroscience shows us that um when curiosity is high yeah our brains switch from um networks that preferentially process threat to networks u that allow for exploration for the for you know for curious approach for going out in exploring one's territory that also goes hand inhand with um let's call it cognitive flexibility with the ability to reappraise a situation not in terms of threat but in terms of exploration so maintaining this mindset of what else you know how how else could I look at a situation what else is there to find out about this um um how can I look at this from a different perspective perspective like or then you know what else is there that I you know I feel I could know but I don't I don't yet understand but I know I could the missing puzzle puzzle how do I find it the brain loves puzzles um that that sense of of curiosity it helps us like we said like I said before reframe uncertainty but it also you know it It also puts puts us in a in a in a situation where we also become, you know, more more resilient. >> Uh we um we allow for for the brains instances of of cognitive reappraisal and um um reframing of a situation to work so that we have a better stress response, right? we u more a less better decision making. Um the impact of stress on emotional circuits in the lyic system is is is reduced. So um curiosity is not just you know learning new material. It actually impacts um mental health and resilience long term. >> Yeah. You know that that I I love hearing that reflection. You know we at open courseware at open learning we hear from so many people around the world that they've been able to make use of our resources when they are living in various sort of disrupted situations in their lives. I mean lives are complicated and having these materials shared openly and freely with the world you know you know clearly people's lives have some stresses in them but they're they're able to to tap into you know some foundational I guess curiosities to despite or working through with resilience those disruptions continue to keep learning and they you know they you know we we love hearing the stories reporting back about how you know they you know continue to be able to keep learning um you know um you know people I'm remembering u open course where we have this chalk radio podcast and we just did a series of hearing you know from learners around the world specifically you know we heard a story from a a person named Lafulla in Afghanistan who you know >> was living in a in a situation where you know could not count on having internet access from day to day from hour to or um you know and all sorts of other disruptions, but we're able to um make use of the materials that we've shared to keep learning and how just vitally useful that that was. Um you know, we hear those stories again and again, you know, so it does it does seem to switch something for people and uh really really glad that we can can help support that. Yeah. >> Yeah. And it's it's um it's um the occurrence of what you said is supported by very you know clearly defined structures in the brain. Um and again it's the it's again the midbrain the dopamineergic u subsystem in the midbrain um mainly the vententral tegmental area and the nuclear circumbent which allow for this sense of purpose right for this sense of of the micro of maybe understanding it doesn't have to be you know the big goal and the big monster it can be the small gremlin that you that you finally tame and you learn how to deal with but it's those micro wins those that that feeling of process that you know I may not have understood the full thing but at least I've got this much you know I mastered this much and maybe tomorrow I'll make sense of the next bit and next week I'll make this make sense of the next bit and that gives a sense of of progress but also of of purpose of goal directed behavior which in times of hardship in times of duress and distress is what keeps you know keeps you going and It could be it can be you know as little as um you know like I said it doesn't have to be abstract. It can be learning how to play a new instrument or learning how to that's not a small thing learning how to code. I've actually approached Annabelle's u um code AI and computer science course so it reminds me of that. Um, so yeah, maybe it has even a a stronger impact on people who who who go through through difficult times because again it gives you that something to look for to look forward to. That's something to mobilize your resources towards which is so important in um um the staving of in in staunching symptoms of of hopelessness which are very closely linked with depression uh and and crippling anxiety. So yeah, I completely agree with you. >> Yeah. Yeah. You're what I'm hearing in your description is this this process of building confidence bit by bit too. You know, you start from a >> from a place of >> realizing, hey, there's something that I don't know that I'm curious about and building that confidence. That confidence is can be really infectious in a in a good way. Yeah. >> Yeah. I I No, you you're spot on. Now that I'm I told you I'm I'm learning I'm approaching foreign languages and I was saying to my friend when I sit down to relearn I call it relearning Hebrew because I sort of knew something from before and I'm drawn to it because it forces my brain to do things counterintuitively the same way I I I um experienced with when I started Iikido. It's against the way my brain would do it. Right? Not only is it right to left, but it's a whole different grammar structure. So it you know puts me in a in a situation of discomfort. So um I'm you know go I'm sometimes overwhelmed. Um I'm I don't know whether I'll be able to make sense of it but I the micro you know there are micro wins. If I manage to understand this much then the next day I'll sit down and see okay let's see what happens. Let's see what happens today. Let's see what I make sense of today. So I become a bit more confident because it's yet another small milestone uh that I've um I've conquered. I'm this much closer to something which I don't even know where it is in in time and and space but I become more confident and that takes me back to when I retrained um in neurosychology. I remember I had to learn a lot of neuroanatomy, neurohysiology, diagnostics and it was uh you know often times it was quite intimidating. It was overwhelming. Um but even you know the small win of understanding how cranial nerves work or finding the acronym to remember something or nailing a small differential diagnosis that um not only did it make me happy right through the same reward circuitry uh but it um boosted my motivation the big M word to carry on. Yeah. >> So, um it actually kept me on track. Um otherwise perhaps I would have given up if I looked at this whole chunk as oh god here's the big monster. So I agree with you. Building confidence slowly um is definitely um something that we see um with with with lifelong learners, people who engage in lifelong learning. >> Yeah. Yeah. This brings to mind, you know, stories that we hear from so many people, especially older learners. I think there's there's a way in which >> we're conditioned as older people to think we're supposed to know stuff, right? >> And that moving into that space of not knowing can be sort of uncomfortable. But we hear from so many people, >> you know, I studied this subject back in school and I it didn't make sense to me. And >> suddenly, thank you open courseware for instance for giving me this alternate explanation. Suddenly now I understand. I've kind of recovered that sense of of yeah, I can I can I can come back to this and and take another try at it. Um and just how transformative that could be for, you know, for people no matter what stage in life they're at. You know, got to keep doing >> Absolutely. It also, you know, I like to say this tongue and cheek that it it stops you. It prevents one from taking oneself too seriously, right? Keeping humble. Uh a lot of us especially if there's something we become good at hopefully uh we tend to think that we know the answers to all the questions or what we know is enough but it's always good to have this reality check that you know there's something there we you don't know or there may be another way to look at it and that again takes us back to cognitive flexibility right is something that tends to because of how how brain function declines physiologically cognitive flexibility um fluidity of of thinking and of appraising reality and what's being internalized as knowledge is a bit lost. So um you know working on that wiring through lifelong learning through complex work through um um like you said you know learning new things or revisiting new things through mentally stimulating hobbies. Um it it sort of allows for for the looseness of of that circuitry to to be maintained and also for um you know the the the distance from yourself that sometimes is needed to just be able to to learn new things and to look at the world with different eyes. It's a it's a it's a humble thing >> uh to be able to do that later in life. >> Yeah. Do you ever have people who who have learned about your story uh say something like, "I just don't know how I would have time to learn all of these things. How do you how do you find the time? How do you create that?" >> I get that in the sauna. I get that uh at work. I get that uh I get that. Um and I my answer is how do you know I actually get that question? My answer is usually, well, I'm old, so I've had time to do all those things. That's usually my go-to get out of jail free card. I usually say, well, you know, I'm old. I've been around since forever. I've had I've had time to do these things. But then you know maybe the more complex um less tongue and cheek answer would be I've um I've I don't I I really enjoyed what I did. I never even now people say oh why do you swim 5 days a week? I'm actually enjoy doing it. It's not something it's not an ordeal. Most of the things I've done I've done because I was really drawn to them. So for me it's joy. This is joy. Um I mean there are clearly things that I would rather not do and there are there just to maintain something you know like you know having to do strength in order to maintain flexibility. Um but I actually like you said it's self-relenishing it's self-perpetuating like now I can't stop learning these foreign languages. I actually I I wake up and I think you know you know maybe I want to make sense of that. Um so I think it's just it's it's something that um I was encouraged to do also. I had good uh parental encouragement growing up and luckily I had the uh you know the context in the environment to pursue some interests. Um and I maintained like I like I said it's practice. I I I I maintained the the curiosity and the motivation and also the discipline which is deserves another conversation all together to to do these things and then you know to complete the answer they've brought me enough reward to keep me going um it was not something I did just for the sake of doing I've I got a lot out of it enough to to keep going. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Um curious to hear a little bit more maybe about your sense of of the the social aspects of being a lifelong learner. Um in addition to all the things that we individually are drawn into. Um um how have how have you experienced in your life um sharing it with other people or bringing bringing other people into these sort of journeys and uh things you might want to share with share with our viewers about that. well you you hit the nail on the head is like you you read my mind. Um I actually meant to bring this into a conversation how um and and maybe you know part of it I discuss is sort of a fiction context in this book I've finished uh writing how important the social dimension of learning is in general and also how important it's been for me and how intrinsic it is to sometimes just stay on track and to maintain the motivation to keep going And it's something which is perhaps um slightly waning in the modern world. Um the act of learning with others, the act of sharing knowledge with others, uh you know, we're in this together as hard as it gets. Uh you know, we're learning this together or we're learning from each other to me has has been very important. Although um in terms of personality maybe I actually prefer especially when it comes to abstract knowledge to to learn alone but um then I like to uh I like to share I like to um have somebody to um have shared reflection with and it also helps with accountability you know um I I remember it could be it could be a a discussion forum but um learning with somebody else uh a study buddy right preferably a human study buddy um helps with um I've already mentioned accountability and you know comprehension and um sharing understanding of material but what it also does um I've noticed especially when you know you study something which is hard and um there are obstacles along the way and and fatigue um rears its ugly said having having a study buddy um helps with eliminating or reducing the sense of isolation that can come out of you know months and months of being engaged in in hard study and it's sometimes it's that sense of isolation that can halt progress. So to me it it's been important to have somebody to um when it came to academic pursuits it was important to have somebody to even meet and have a conversation about you know tomorrow's exam or what had to be studied. I was lucky to have a good friend in university and I'm forever grateful to her for you know being my study buddy human study buddy. Um and when when it comes to other types of learning, of course, um you know, just sharing the fact that uh you know, let me show you how I um learned to play guitar or you show me this dance piece and I'll try to copy you. It creates um a sense of cohesion and also a sense of mastery. Um like I've I've mentioned before, a sense of efficacy. I'm showing you that I'm good at this. I'm showing you that I'm, you know, I'm I'm I'm competent enough to do this. And then there's the, you know, then there's the the feedback that comes back to me and I feel competent, right? Through the same social reward and the circuitry that supports it is back mirrored to me and in turn I feel more competent and that's extremely important and again it helps with with resilience, you know, with grit. >> Yeah. So um social learning I I couldn't encourage it more. Um and the um the I think learning per se we've already said you know all the we've already outlined the benefits the lifelong benefits that come with just being engaged in in in learning but there's also the aspect of you know if we were to to visualize this in a sort of visual vignette you have this learning window or or door let's call it and you of curiosity and motivation which help you take the first steps through good job I didn't say window um so they tell you you take the first step through the learning door >> and then you have the discipline and the rigor and the structure which keep you on track but then I think you also need a sense of community to to anchor you into something which hopefully will become larger than yourself um so u I'm I couldn't stress more the uh the the benefits of of social learning and just you know doing it with other humans. >> Yeah. Thanks. Thanks. Yeah. It makes me think of MIT's motto, you know, mind and hand, you know. Yeah. Yes. There's the there's the the learning part of it, the intellectual part of it, but the hand part, the doing >> in particular, I think has this way of just bringing other people into the process. you know, we we demonstrate the things that we're learning, you know, through the through the hand, through the activities out in the world. Um, you know, we're creating opportunities to engage with other people. Um, you know, I know in my in my personal life, I've been on a learning journey for over a decade about um, climate change and how how to respond to these, you know, intersecting challenges and, you know, the things that it calls me into, you know, to to share my learnings have to do with like how do how do how do we show up for civic engagement, you know, as a citizen, how to how to get engaged there. Um, so there's this there's this continuous feedback loop between learning new things and showing up in social spaces, you know, to uh both demonstrate what I've learned, but also ask those questions that are still ringing that uh sort of lead me into into the next thing. Um, I'll also note, you know, yeah, it's not part of MIT's official motto, but informally mind, hand, and heart, you know, showing up for all of this, you know, with our with our full selves is a is a really important part of it as well. Um, and I I I think of uh of the heart part of it as as very connected with um, you know, that feeling of curiosity. What is it that that spark or that that small flame that that opens up as kind of the heart piece? So, yeah, just enjoy riffing on that for a moment. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I um No, I I I I totally agree and I absolutely love um MIT's moto. Um I like you know like maybe I mentioned earlier this this aspect of of embodied cognition and I touched on it briefly earlier when I um and I when I mentioned multimodal learning and you know just um learning through all modalities which is actually actually preferred and um the brain likes that because it recruits more areas it allocates more resources is from various bits. Um and um it's also a very it's quite it's been quite the buzz word in the uh in the last few years embodied condition and how because you know there's both top down regulation of of processes and bottom up right it's not just the brain dictating everything into the body. It actually what happens in how how emotion and behavior arises is both top down and bottom up. What comes through the senses, what comes from the outside going all the way up into the higher instances of the brain and top down as well. So I'm I'm happy you touched on that because it's linked with as I said this buzz word. >> Yeah. >> In body cognition. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And if I may, um, reflecting on the social aspect of this, we're so grateful for all of the people who are who are watching our live stream right now and and, uh, who registered and we got so many questions from people, you know, right about the sort of broader themes that we'd be talking about today. Maybe maybe I'll turn some of our attention to what we've what we've heard from those questions here. Um I think we got over a hundred questions that were submitted and our team has has uh done some valiant work trying to group these into some themes um you know that that people out in the world are cur are wondering about you know especially around curiosity. So here's this. >> Yeah, here's this first one. >> Um, Beia, do you think curiosity is a learnable skill? >> And if so, what strategies might help individuals and communities to develop and reinforce and uh carry it forward? >> Uh, curiosity we've said, right? CU is, let me think of other questions. So, is curiosity learnable? um >> or can it be developed? Maybe maybe >> can it be enhanced? Right. So >> straight straight off the bat there are no chemical you know pharmacological stimulants uh that could enhance or create uh curiosity at least not in a healthy way. But there are um there are cognitive and emotional conditions that we could create to enhance uh curiosity. Well, that this question actually very good one takes me back to what we mentioned earlier, right? About curiosity arising when the brain detects this information gap, right? So, why do we become curious? Because we know that there's something we don't yet know or we can't yet do or we don't yet understand, but we could. So the brain sets in motion uh it's you know tried and tested ways to make us motivated to go out there and you know find the missing piece in the puzzle. So how you know how could we how could we create the context in which curiosity peaks? Um I've I've noticed both in dance and neuroscience that but mainly neuroscience has confirmed this that the human brain likes and at the same time hates um incomplete puzzles >> and that's tied in with the information gap. When the brain detects that there is a missing puzzle, it will it will increase motivation to go out there and find it. Right? We like we like to find the missing gap. So sometimes if we frame the learning material and the question in such a way that we sense that there's something we don't yet know, our brains will do what needs to be done to put us in the situation where we can go out and you know find the missing p the missing piece. So um that's usually a strategy. Then um you know novelty novelty is you know bringing new things into into our reality into our um environment can can um can can spike curiosity. Brain loves novelty. Um new new perspectives, new ways of looking at the world, new new tools, new tools are great. Like how do I use this? new angles into a into a a a problem. Um that's that's what uh novelty spikes curiosity. Um also um that gets me thinking about something that a friend of mine mentioned the other day. Um Tim he said that um he you know he feels more curious and more motivated to do things and also performs better when he feels free or I would say I would say autonomous >> um yeah and just to get my disclaimer in early by autonomous I don't you know I don't mean anarchy by autonomy I mean the freedom to to explore to sometimes choose the question rather than um engaging in the type of learning that where you you just have to to learn given material all the time. The sense of agency, the sense of, you know, I'm the one who does the exploration and sometimes if it we don't choose the answer, we at least choose the question. M >> um also you know feeling you know the sense of sometimes feeling safe maybe that's the word and I will explain the sense of um you know that low stake not always engaging in low in high stakes environment not that their environments not that they're bad and they're not uh conducive to progress or or or mastery or competence but because the constant involvement ment in a high stake slightly threatening environment dampens curiosity. As we've said before, curiosity spikes when the brain shifts from threat perception networks to exploratory networks. So sometimes feeling a bit looser, a bit more comfortable in an environment with lower stakes can set off exploratory behavior. um if we're constantly engaged in in in learning um activities that titillate the brain's defense mechanisms, we tend to become less curious and then motivation goes down a bit. So to answer the question, you know, frame, you know, look for puzzles, incomplete puzzles, um novelty, autonomy to explore and then, you know, find environments where you feel looser, you know, not constantly judged, not constantly evaluated and stuck labels on. I think that helps with long-term sustainment and uh um and you sustainment and enhancing of of curiosity and the motivation to back. >> Yeah. Good. Yeah. Um it it leads me to another set of questions we got from from some folks which I will I will summarize is while we've been singing curiosities praises you know are there ways in which you know one might be too curious are there are there are there ways that we might want to think about managing that curiosity to particular ends versus just welcoming it with Okay, that's an interesting question. Becoming too curious as in dabbing into >> an excessive number of interests. >> Yeah. Well, I think we can interpret it. You know, you you were talking about novelty and how novelty is a is a the brain loves novelty. Um I assume >> No, you're right. The brain Yeah. No, you're totally right. The brain loves novelty. But if there's one thing that the brain can't do, as much as we would like to think that and as much as you know uh biohackers promise us, uh the brain can't process unlimited input. >> Yeah. >> Right. Um, cognitive fatigue is a real thing and it's mainly due to the prefrontal cortex which is you know sits just here below the forehead uh being metabolically extremely costly and uh it fatigues easily and performance uh performance goes down. So, um, if becoming too curious about too many things at one specific time leads to cognitive overload, then you have a problem, right? Because there's, you know, there's mental clutter. You won't see clearly. You won't see as clearly. the brains analytical instances won't be as well equipped to one comprehend and make sense of what's being learned to also evaluate evidence right if it's something that you know requires you know seeking truth or you know figuring out whether you know trying to make sense of things that mental clutter that um prefrontal fatigue right prefrontal fatigue actually it it the prefrontal cortex fatigues because of two for two reasons. One uh when multitasking and two when having to switch between uh sources of information. So you know um being too curious as in being a bit >> uh you know jumpy and frivolous about what you allow your attention to go towards if that leads to cognitive overwhelm that those analytical instances of the bra of the brain won't do their job. >> Yeah. as well. Yeah. So you need to you need to filter, you need to curate and then to focus and concentrate just to keep uh just to keep cognitive uh fatigue and cognitive overload from happening. So I would say that is that is a caveat when when plus you just don't have enough attentional power. It's it's mainly an issue of um of of computation >> mainly it's just brain limitation >> but um you know when one you know maintains enough distance to become their own filter and curator then hopefully you know it will get distilled to what actually deserves your attention and what doesn't. >> Yeah. it uh this this makes me think of um of this interesting balance that we have found ourselves in with open courseware and our MITx you know free online open courses um that there's a way in which the sort of information system online is now really good at feeding that wish for dopamine hits right and the novelty continuous >> um >> and on the other And there might be things that that are out in the world that are just like too big to take on, right? You know, require too much persistence. But by by sharing materials like open courseware does, here's materials framed within say a course in which they were taught, but here's the materials openly for you to sort of make your way through. There's enough of a container that that you can sort of match your persistence at the moment to track your way through. Um it's it's it's like the best of both worlds if you will. It's like yeah all I completely agree all of this all of this stuff to feed your curiosity but just contain it enough to walk you through it. That's >> that's what >> and that also restores a bit of agency if you like you know you're the one who who chooses what what you know what's internalized instead of everything coming towards you and being a bit overwhelming. Um I had that issue. I remember when I approached uh MIT courses I was I want oh god what do I do I want to do everything and then I had that and I had the immunology course and I had Patrick uh Winston's I had the AI course and then I I had the mind and machine course. So, but it had um I noticed that the structure in which they're they're presented and then the individual structure of the individual courses actually um helped me tone down that initial anxiety and I was like, "Okay, hang on. I can sort of find my way through it." So, it wasn't that that overwhelming. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's it's a it's a helpful feature to not have a defined end date where you have to finish it all by Right. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um, you know, we got some other questions um about the the the shifting information, you know, content landscape [clears throat] out in the world, you know, um, you know, and between say all the all the shows that we can stream online and, you know, short form videos that social media is pushing out. Um, what role do you think on an ongoing basis platforms like MIT Open Learning can play in in fostering, supporting uh, stewarding that sort of like ability for deeper learning? This is kind of building on what we've just been talking about, but maybe anything more to think about there with like >> opportunities for open for for deep learning, you know? Yeah. Deeper learning, you know, beyond the, you know, the the short form stuff or the pure entertainment stuff. Yeah. [snorts] >> Yeah. >> Well, I think the crux [sighs] is maybe sounds a bit, you know, elitist, the quality of it, right? the rigor, the um the fact that it's not something you can it's not I mean it is entertaining and it's it's definitely rewarding but it's not something you can just brush the surface of right. It's not something that can be you just take a look at and you dab in and out of this course and then you move on to another. It takes it takes a certain amount of engagement depth of engagement. Does this answer your question? Yeah. Yeah. >> Um I it's something that again takes me back to what we were saying earlier about the protective effects of of lifelong learning and its implications on you know mental health and wellbeing and resilience. And there are you know maybe two things to note. The benefits we outlined are dose dependent and also cumulative. Right? you don't um you don't derive the same benefits if you dab in and out of interests and you don't do it in a sustained uh type of rigorous engagement. And I think at least the courses I've uh I've completed and the ones I'm I'm looking at now don't really allow for that type of entertainment involvement. You have to you have to apply yourself and again without that threat that can that can arise from you know to too high stakes like you said you pace yourself and there are micro wins and it comes with sheets and you can do you know you can do the exercises and then you can do the you can read the you do the assignments and um it it sort of requires a certain level of of depth um from the learner in terms of engagement that um underpins uh deep learning and the benefits that come with that. >> That's what I think. >> That's what I've noticed. >> Yeah. Good. Yeah. In in conversations with colleagues around here, you know, we we we are talking increasingly about how to how to complement that depth with like the right forms of engagement. um uh you know to have things be MIT good without you know right off the bat having them all be so hard [laughter] academically um uh colleagues over at the at the MIT Museum who are talking about this concept of depth on demand right where you where you meet people with you know really engaging things you know to sort of peique their curiosity but then be able to flow through and follow through with that uh feels like a really important um uh set of things to be developing over time and I look forward to uh us being able to get into that more and more. I think I think you know hard you know the the hardness difficulty is some something that people go for at least myself when I um when I looked at these courses I was actually quite happy that they're hard that I didn't understand because and it's it's normal I think for for periods of of of overwhelm and doubt and fatigue to occur because the courses are so so difficult and so rigorous but again if we look at it from from a neuroscient perspect perspective. It's that level of challenge and that limbic friction. We call it that friction, you know, that that sense of I'm I'm a bit overwhelmed and I'm a bit scared. But it's exactly that that sense of challenge that drives uh neuroplasticity and then helps with the motivation to stay on track. So I'm sure that um other people will agree um the reason why we approached these these courses is that they were well excellent right exquisite in terms of the quality of the material and how they're taught but also because they're just in that goldilock zone of of difficulty right if something is too easy the brain gets bored if something is too hard then those defense mechanisms we I mentioned earlier are titillated and the desire ire to keep going is is is dampened. But I think they're um you know they they're they're perfectly poised on that angle of the Goldilock zone of just above that level of competence and you know maybe a bit higher for motivation to keep you going. So I was happy that they're hard and you know some of them were so hard that I you I have chunks of them that I don't I couldn't approach fully >> uh professor ran Adams's uh quantum mechanics one god I got to the harmonic oscillator bit I still even now I have shivers down my spine and it took me quite a while to work my way out of that jungle in murky waters >> but uh I had a human study buddy and uh I was I think disciplined enough to keep going. Um, so yeah, I I kind of like uh the fact that they're, you know, just the, you know, they're a bit harder than than my uh muscles uh can fight. >> Okay. Well, that material is will always be there for you, so you can keep coming back to it. Yeah. So, I think we're uh we're about to draw to a close. Maybe I'll um pose this very briefly. One last question from our audience about, you know, any thoughts on sort of cultural or organizational practices that might help foster this sort of environment. For for me, for instance, that raises, you know, um something that we're very committed to, which is this sense of knowledge as a public good. That this this knowledge being out there and shared freely with the world and supporting that is a really important cultural practice that sets the stage for people such as yourself to have access to these materials. And if you know if any brief thought on a cultural practice that you would like to see supported more to help foster this sort of curiosity, I'd love to hear about it. >> The first thing that comes to mind and maybe not the most relevant one is linked is connected to what I said earlier, the the the sense of safety. >> Yeah. >> Um the sense of low stakes, right? the sense of looseness and and autonomy, the not always having to do something um for some extrinsic good, right? the sense of I'm doing this not because I'm judged and not because there's always a job down the line and I have to complete this course otherwise I won't keep the job and I have to complete this program in order to uh you know exceed to you know a better job and and whatn not to to to sometimes keep it low stakes and not with either a hatchet above one's head or with an immediate goal which is maybe not even related to the to the main interest in the first place. But to allow for for for curiosity and and supporting motivation to arise naturally to allow for more looseness um in people to to to move and and choose their areas of interest and uh then pursue it in a less judgmental way. um you know just people feeling more supported and and and lifted. I'm using dance tones rather than constantly you know evaluated and pushed u in a you know do this so you can grab the other type of way. Does that make sense? >> Yes, it sure does. I think that's a wonderful sort of way to to to wrap the conversation. you know, may we all find these safe uh inviting spaces to to to engage in learning in just that sort of way. Yeah, I really appreciate that. >> Yeah. All right. Well, this has been a wonderful conversation, Beia. So glad that you've been able to share your experiences and your perspectives and insights with us. You know, your drive to help others and yourself is is inspirational. So, thank you to everyone who's tuned in and joined this conversation. We welcome you to keep learning with MITx, with MIT Open Courseware, and with MIT Open Learning. We also welcome you to support our work by sharing our resources with your friends, colleagues, and families. Sharing your experiences and your stories of how you've used these free resources with us. Share us share those stories with us. And if you're in a position to do so, please do consider donating to support our efforts and the thousands of people who use our free resources every day. And until our next open conversation, I wish you a fond farewell. And uh thanks again, Beia, for joining us today.