! I want to take you all somewhere real quick if that's all right. I want you to close your eyes a sec and make a mental note of how you feel right now. You can be happy from the week, stressed, it is a Wednesday in the middle of the week, charmed already from my London accent, or annoyed by it. Just be honest, now close your eyes and open your ears. Hmm, how do you feel? Different, right? A bit better, maybe slightly more relaxed. I saw quite a few smiles playing across Feeville's faces. You were just transported to West Papua. That beautiful melody was a hooded butcher bird which, believe it or not, is coniferous. Didn't think predators could sing like that, right? So what's happened? Is it that you're all nature geeks like me? Maybe. But it's probably because we're all evolutionarily hardwired to nature's sonic language. See, we're so hardwired to it, so much so, the bird song, the choruses of bird song, the caution of insects, the symphony of amphibians has all been shown scientifically to trigger a parasympathetic nervous system, aka make you feel relaxed. You probably also noticed you were in a forest, and a tropical one at that. Might seem obvious to mention, but that was just from you using your ears. Look at you flexing your fluency already. It's possible the bird song makes us feel relaxed, because it's been a generous signal from mother nature that there's no predators around. But it can't be all relaxing. Hearing this from an unseen lioness near you in the dark, trust me, triggers a cascade of fear, a one that's also practical and proportionate. Every unusual silence does the same thing. It's no wonder that we're seeing a rise in anxiety and seas. We may be unknownly subjecting ourselves to an evolutionary stress. See, nature sounds does something to us, it's often hard to put into words, true, but our nervous system understands it like a remote control. Blindfold on, I bet I could put any one of you in a biodiverse environment, and you'd be able to tell me if it was dawn. The middle of the day. Dusk. Or nighttime. That call right there was a poo-toe, which is a crazy word worth looking at when you get home. Each of these were recorded in the exact same place in the Amazon rainforest. The more biodiverse, the easier it is. There's an even deeper level. There are still First Nations trackers alive today that can tell you there's an unseen predator moving through the forest in the northwest direction just from the change in birdsong. Our ancestors were polyglots of ecology. To listen was to know. Inattention was literally life-threatening. Our ancestral grandmothers and grandfathers lived in an attentive relationship to the songs of other species, contributing to conversations that span back millions of years. But that fluency is still in you. Why, for our entire evolution, listening has been a big part of our compass. But now we turn that off. It's no wonder that we lost our bearing. So what's this got to do with solving crises, Louis? I'm glad you asked. Now, my path to standing before you here today is an unusual one. I'm not exactly from a place abundant in natural triumphs. Born and raised in Grimey Old North London, more common to your sirens and music, good music, and my ad than birdsong. Growing up in ends, my love of music led me down the path to becoming a musician. But I'm standing here today as a massive nature geek. Nice to meet you. Even though I grew up in a city, I've always been fascinated by nature from day dot. Yet it was something that me and my friends had the least access to. Yet many of us had ancestry from nature-rich places. For a long time I felt that these two worlds had to keep separate. How would you market a rapper that can talk to you about the complexities of high amount of wealth with a full blown degree of zoology? But during COVID, my amazing mum and sister really persuaded me to combine the things, the damn things. A couple more swear words on my ad, but I won't say. See, sound was the common denominator between my two loves. Yet if there's over 55% of us humans living in cities and rising, we don't get to experience this. If I wanted people to reconnect to nature, I need to bring these sounds back. So I built these omnidirectional mics. These right here, that brings me wherever I go. When I'm not being mistaken for an alien with a probe, I record. The first time I did this, something crazy happened. I put my headphones on and I disappeared. Not literally, of course. But I wasn't an individual anymore. I was plugged into an overwhelming, highly synchronous chorus of aliveness. See, listening to these sounds didn't just tell me information. It made me feel like something like a soup of life, a language that my DNA knew that I fundamentally understood, not as Louis, but as a human. Surely this could be a new tool for people, particularly people from the diaspora, to reconnect to the places that we're from that are still abundant in nature there. See, remember, for a long history of colonialism, extractivism, the transatlantic slavery of diaspora have been pulled not just from the lands we're from, but from the nature there. Sounds as common as the rising sun to our ancestors and our extinct in our experience. But that's happening to all of us, wherever we're from. Reconnecting to nature is fundamental if we're to have a future on this planet, because planetary health and our health go hand in hand. See, nature sounds are so important to us as a species. We evolve not just to hear the information, but to have an emotional response to it. That's probably why music is so powerful for us. It transcends barriers, where words fail, adds meaning, it resonates. Many scientists believe music predated language in humans, inspired by mimicking the songs of Earth. But we're relatively new on the scene as musicians. Try telling a nightingale or humpback whale that we invented music. Mother Nature is the original artist. Going back to that hooded butcher bird, I can imagine that mimicking moment. Music plays What's crazy? As I did nothing to this, and I was recognized this, I was like, this is G Phrygian, which is C minor for those that ain't geeky in music like me. But let's check with the harmonies. Okay. I can imagine people hearing this and being inspired back in the day to get musical with it. But we've got to check the chords. Music plays And obviously, what is a song without bass? Bass. Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays Music plays And that's my theory of all my apology. So, it's not very common for somewhere I come from to get to go to a rainforest, let alone three in the space of a year, trust me. But I was lucky enough to be invited to West Papua, to Dominica, or White to Cibulia, as it's more correctly known, where one half of my family are from in the Caribbean. And a serriac donation deep in the heart of the Ecuadorian Amazon, with a morphocleptive. Each of these is an indigenously stewarded place, past and present, and a biodiversity hotspot because of it. When we were in the Amazon, the Kichwa people taught us about kaozak satchel. It means living forest. Now, it doesn't just mean the toucans, the jaguars, the tapirs, the many probes you can hear right now. Now, it means the trees, the rivers, rocks, the soil, the fungi, the air, everything. Just like the planet, the forest itself is a living organism, and we are like the organs singing our functions to each other. How good does nature sound without colonialism? See, listening to these beautiful sounds of thousands of lives and universes that inhabit, of course it's kaozak satchel. But of course, it's why it's so hard for us to connect in places devoid of these orchestras of life. We're in a climate crisis, a biodiversity crisis. There's wars, there's genocides, there's depression, anxiety on the rise. But at the heart of it all, we're in a crisis of inattention. We're like apples that have forgotten the tree we come from is alive. That not only is it alive, but it bears many other fruits. 8.7 million, to be exact. 8.7 million are the species that we share this planet with. This is a nightjar that sounds like a laser. How many songs and cultures and stories are we missing? We're not so neatly separable from nature, and listening to it doesn't just tell you that, it makes you feel it. Being more attentive to nature's sonic language might help us better exist with it because listening requires embodied respect. But we've stopped listening so much, we've almost not noticed we're making it silent. We run the risk of future generations thinking that silence is normal. That's a bit embarrassing. We've only just met, and I already owe you a lot of apology. Now I've hopefully helped you listen. I'm afraid you can't unhear. You'll go outside and you'll notice the beautiful birdsong, but you'll also notice the drilling, the beeping, the scraping, the burning, the silence. You can't unhear the symphony of nature, but you also can't unhear what we're doing to it. But that's okay, because noticing is the point. We don't just stand to be aware of what we might lose, but what we stand to gain in the nature-filled future. Awareness that nature ain't a luxury, it's a necessity. Our membership in life's conversation is not one just to be observed, but one we're part of. So go out there and change not how you see the world, but how you hear it. And changing how you hear it, hopefully you'll never see it the same again. Thank you.