 Hey, how's it going, my name's Ari, I'm going to give you a quick tour of anatomy bootcamp. Anatomy bootcamp is an all in one tool that your students can use to study anatomy while they're at home. You can click here, we broke out the entire body into different body regions, say you're studying the posterior arm, you can click over here. We have a set of notes, an atlas, a lot of video lectures that describe all the nerves, arteries, muscles, bones that your students will see in that area. The real magic is over here in the question banks. So we built a proprietary question bank system that uses real cadaver images, they're all super HD, and what happens is students can use this to review anatomy while they're at home. So this has been really helpful for some of the schools we partnered with due to COVID-19. Students can continue to access virtually the cadaver lab and keep practicing and learning human anatomy, even though they don't need to be in the lab as much. So you can click through all these, skip to the end, I'll submit this quiz, and the real magic of the program is that every question has a short video explanation. So this is kind of the moment when the TA is standing over the cadaver and explaining to the students what is what, how you can kind of like remember what the different structures are and how to recognize the different landmarks. They also come with a short text explanation. And additionally, the students can track how well they know all the information. So for example, if I got this question wrong, I thought it was super spinitis, it's actually the acrimony process. I can tag that information as learning. And when I tag it as learning, it comes up over here, it gets stored in the data. And if I ever come back to it later, I know that there is one question in here that I need to review again. If I got the question right, I would tag it as mastered, it will come out as green. And I know I already know that information. We also have lecture based questions. So if you have questions based on origins, insertions, blood supplies, innervations, nerve roots, we have all that also. And lastly, we also have review bank students absolutely love this feature. So those questions that I tagged as reviewing as I need to see them again, they're all stored right here and I can click on them. And there is that question so I can answer it again, see if I get it right or wrong and retag it. I'll move that over to mastered. Check it out. Let me know if you have any questions and hope to answer anything you got. Let me know.