 zetaeta, cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt cyt one layer deeper, then we start to see a few more muscles. So here we can see our pectoralis minor outlined here. And notice that this is attached to the coracoid process versus over here, this is the tendon of that pec major, and that tendon is attached to the humerus. So those have two very different attachment points at those extreme ends. So next we're going to talk about our serratus anterior. So this guy has its serrated edge, and it'll continue up underneath pec minor, but there's our serratus anterior. And lastly, just for funsies, we're going to throw in subclavius. So subclavius is this little skinny guy right here underneath the clavicle, hence subclavius. So those are pretty much all the muscles that we're going to talk about. And now we're going to cover some of the branches of the axillary artery. So first of all, what are the boundaries of the axillary artery? If we remember, actually we can see these black lines here are already outlining those boundaries a little bit for us. So the boundaries are going to be the lateral border of rib one, as well as the lateral border of teres major. So just to remember that, those are our boundaries. We hit these two guys right here. And let's just get those out of the way to kind of clear up this slide now. Okay, that's good enough. All right, so we're just going to talk about a few of the branches of axillary artery, and mainly just the ones that are most pertinent to the muscles of the pectoral region. So first of all, we have our superior thoracic artery. And I give this guy a little crown because he's superior or supreme. So think of like the supreme leader. And this guy's kind of interesting. So if we look right here, you'll see that tiny little artery. I'll do it one more time. That's going to be the superior thoracic artery. So I laugh at this one and give it a crown because he's first. And if this artery were a person, he'd be first in line, but he wouldn't really do very much. So that's because it's going to vascularize just a few things. It'll do first and second, excuse me, second, intercostal spaces, as well as a little bit of serratus anterior, like just the top portion. So it's really not doing all that much. And yet it still has the name of superior or supreme. It's really just because it's the first one it's and it's the highest of these arteries. Okay, so next, we're going to talk about the thoracochromial trunk. So that's going to be this trunk right here. And the thoracochromial trunk will have at least four branches. We'll just name four of them. I call these ones the DPAC branches for deltoid, pectoral, acromial, and clavicular. Today, we're only going to talk about two of them because they're the most important for this region. So first one is going to be our deltoid branch. And we'll see that this right here is our deltoid, which means that the artery going there. So I'll just circle it right here. That's going to be the deltoid branch of the thoracochromial trunk or artery. The next one is going to be the pectoral branch. And you can imagine where it's going. So I'm going to outline here what we see reflected here. Here's pec minor. It's been cut and reflected back. And then we can see I've cropped it out. But here's just kind of the beginning of pec major as it's been reflected back that way. So those are the pec muscles. And again, you can probably guess that then this artery, I'll just do the end right here. That artery is going to then be the pectoral branch of thoracochromial artery. Excuse me. So we're just going to talk about just those two branches for today. And what's important with these, you'll even notice like over here, you'll see this guy and you'll say, is that deltoid or is that going to this portion of pec major? It honestly doesn't matter because there can be a lot of different branches, especially when it comes to arteries and veins and nerves, they pretty much kind of just like do whatever they want. So what matters the most is that you just see where the terminal branches are, I suppose. They can kind of come off of wherever they want on the artery. So you just look, okay, where is this ultimately leading? What's it hitting at the end point? Yeah, so that's about it for those. And then our last one we're going to talk about is the lateral thoracic artery. So lateral thoracic is going to be this big guy right here going that way. So I'll just circle again, kind of like the end of it here. So this is our lateral thoracic. And you can see that this whole muscle right here, I'm just kind of scribbling it. So that whole muscle there is serratus anterior. And if you see an artery coming down off of axillary and it's decently thick, and it's just kind of heading in this like straight down, just right along the lateral side of the thorax, that's how you know that that's going to be lateral thoracic artery. So lateral thoracic is going to feed serratus anterior. Perfect. Okay, so we've got those. And if you want a final shot, I'll give that that kind of covers it up. I'll just give you the end of this tiny guy right here to kind of outline. So now you can kind of see each of these at the same time. All right, so those are the branches that we're going to talk about today for the axillary artery. And now we'll just talk about the veins. So veins are pretty straightforward. I'm kind of a stickler about little things like which direction is the blood flowing. So let's make sure that we remember that the blood flow is heading this direction. A lot of people get in the habit of saying, oh, this artery or this vein is going to come down and join up with this or split into this one. And that's not accurate because the blood flow is heading this direction towards the heart. So just get that practice in that when you talk about the veins, then we say, okay, cephalic vein is going to join up with axillary vein. And once those two veins come together, then they form subclavian vein that then can head towards the heart. So those are veins. They're pretty straightforward. Okay. Lastly, we're going to talk about nerves and specifically the brachial plexus. Today, we're going to have just kind of a soft intro to the brachial plexus, but I do want to get to the point where we make the brachial plexus a nice, enjoyable experience. Some people are like terrorized when it comes to the brachial plexus, but it doesn't have to be that way. Okay. So let's just talk about a few of the branches. And then specifically when we talk about our, I think an axillary in that chapter, in that region, we'll really dive into the brachial plexus as a whole and cover every piece of it. So we won't be doing a comprehensive review today. We're just going to focus on these ones that I've highlighted because they are specific to the pectoral region. Okay. So let's start with the most boring one. Let's get it out of the way. Nerve to subclavius. I just threw it in because we talked about the subclavian muscle or sorry. Yeah. Subclavius, the muscle. And so just here's a little nerve and it's the nerve to subclavius. It's really boring. If you don't ever see it, you won't die. It's okay. So let's talk next about the long thoracic nerve. This one's really fun. So long thoracic, we can see here, it gets contributions from multiple roots, as you can see, and long thoracic nerve is going to innervate serratus anterior. Okay. So the reason I have all these little things around it is that there's multiple things to talk about. So first of all, you'll notice that this is similar to the artery that is vascularizing the same muscle, but the name is different. So the artery is lateral thoracic artery, but the nerve is long thoracic nerve. So the only way that I can think of to keep track of which is which, because that will be important in a testing scenario is just say, you can say, Whitney took a long time to learn the brachial plexus or took a long time to learn these nerves. Don't say it was for you because it's easy for you, right? So it took me a long time to learn the nerves. So long nerve. And so if you remember that, then you just know the other one, the artery is lateral. Okay. And the other thing on that is I have a little butterfly with wings, of course. And that's just a fun clinical application because when the long thoracic nerve is damaged or when specifically the serratus anterior is damaged, either way, the clinical sign of that is called winged scapula. I'll write it in for fun in pink winged scapula. So if we were to like just straight up cut that nerve, then what would happen is you have someone push against the wall and on the side that's affected, their scapula will just like wing out from their body. It's no longer attached so much to their thorax or their rib cage or whatever. So that's fun. That's long thoracic nerve. Okay. Let's then move on to talking about some of the rest of our stuff. Ooh, hello. Okay. Let's get some of this distracting stuff out of the way. Now let's talk about our lateral pectoral and medial pectoral nerves. So I don't know why this picture has them connected here. They're not connected, but this is still a good picture. So ultimately you can guess that these are going to the pectoral muscles, right? So the only difference is having to remember what innervates what muscle. So let's write it out. We have our lateral pectoral is going to hit just pec major. So pec major is going to be lateral pectoral nerve. And then what's happening with medial is medial is going to hit major and minor. And minor. And what's interesting about this is that a lot of the times medial pectoral will actually pierce through the middle of pec minor on its way to also innervate pec major. So for this one, I drew a little ear with a piercing. So just to remember the differences, just think that medial, so like the middle child wants attention and goes out and gets a bunch of piercings. So it pierces through pec minor on its way to also do pec major versus lateral is only doing pec major. So that's the difference between those. Another thing that's important or that's easy to remember, honestly, is that lateral pectoral nerve is coming off of the lateral cord and the medial pectoral nerve is coming off of the medial cord. Not too wild, right? Last but not least is going to be our axillary nerve. That is this guy right, oops, sorry. This guy right here is our axillary nerve. And this muscle is going to innervate, I'll just do red. So axillary is going to hit deltoid as well as a few other smaller muscles. But the major one is going to be deltoid. So if you want some way to remember that, just think if I want to lift my shoulder to expose my axilla, if you're like going to go sniff your armpits or something, you'll need to use your deltoid to get your axillary region open and exposed for that. That's weird. Anyways, so that's everything we're going to cover on the brachial plexus just for this unit. Next, we're just going to quickly talk about branches of intercostal nerves. So anytime you talk about intercostal nerves, you'll see a crazy picture like this. It's not too wild, luckily. So here is a vertebrae. And then we have our spinal cord in there. And then from at each level, you'll have these intercostal, or at least at the thoracic level, right, where you have ribs, you'll have this intercostal nerve that runs between each rib, intercostal, between the costas. So all you need to know about this is that it will have little branches that come out and do cutaneous or skin innervation. So you'll see lateral cutaneous and some anterior cutaneous branches of intercostal nerves. So when you're looking at a cadaver like this, or at a picture, if you just see little, like little nerve branches that just kind of like stick out here, then you're going to know that these are those cutaneous branches. So just be aware that if you see tiny little nerves sticking out at those regular intervals in the thoracic region, that's what you're seeing. That's pretty much it for our nerves, as well as everything else that we're going to cover for this chapter. So the big thing now is just looking at just the outline without going back and looking at your notes or the pictures. Can you name the artery and the nerve that hit each muscle? So practice going through and saying this artery is going to hit this muscle, this nerve will hit this muscle, and things like that. So if you can do that, then you'll be very prepared and have really mastered everything in this chapter.