 ANOSINOSOTOSCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOSOTCOS out massively and you're probably also missing the point because animal movements like these, these crawls, these locomotive exercises, they can do so many wonderful things for you, not only building size and strength and endurance but athleticism and agility. In this video I'm going to talk you through some of the very most effective animal movements and crawls, how you can program them into your training and how you can get really tangible benefits from them no matter your experience and no matter your goals. We'll start with the bear crawl as that is really the fundamental building block that all other animal movements elaborate on. Here we learn contralateral movement, that means moving the left arm at the same time as the right foot and vice versa. This is a great pattern to learn for general dexterity and coordination as we commonly move in this way when running, walking, throwing or punching. You also want to keep the core engaged, no sagging at the waist. This is great practice for general movement and protecting the back. It's like a moving bird dog in that sense. And then you just crawl for time or for distance, however you want to program it. Obviously this is going to be great for training the shoulders to an extent, the pecs to an extent, the triceps. It's also surprisingly good at training the quads. Like, don't underestimate how effective this can be. I've explained why high rep calisthenics are so effective in several videos lately. And it's something that more and more people are waking up to. Doing these sorts of crawl exercises has all the same benefits, but it's also a little bit more fun because you're moving and you can spice it up and make it more interesting that way. And that is the crux of the issue. People dismiss these exercises as being too easy without treating them the same way they treat other exercises. They don't push themselves or use progressive overload. Try crawling for three sets of one minute with a 30 second break, and then tell me that's not going to build at least some muscle when your arms and legs are screaming at you. Not hard enough? Try two minutes or add some weight with a rucksack. You can also just crawl faster like a gallop. At the same time, it's also fantastic for cardio and endurance because it's a form of locomotion, just like jogging. It's just one that uses more of your body all at once. So there's really no reason to write this off. And if you're someone who avoids jogging because you don't like that as a form of cardio, then consider doing three sets of two, three minutes of crawls and just see how much your heart rate is going at the end, how much cardio you've got from that. I talk about this all the time. This is what we really need for functional performance. You don't exert your strength once as much as you can lift. You exert it over a long period of time, smaller amounts of strength. For example, when you're playing sports, when you're moving furniture, wrestling, playing with kids, literally anything, always also using endurance. So building them both at the same time makes so much sense. That's why kettlebells are great as well. I recently damaged my shoulder. That's one of the reasons I come out here to crawl. Brilliant way to rehab it. It doesn't hurt crawling and it just gets the blood going there over and over again, which is fantastic for repair and rehearsing those movements. Before we get on to the next exercise, I'd like to use this opportunity to quickly shout out today's sponsor, Vive Barefoot. Vive Barefoot make barefoot shoes or minimal shoes. These are shoes that are designed to let your feet work the way they were meant to. Regular shoes have large heels on the back that actually shorten your calf and means you can't get your foot fully flat on the ground. That means you're not getting the full stretch these movements are capable of and it means you're effectively cheating. Minimal shoes also let you use the muscles surrounding your feet more to stabilize. They let you feel the ground and grip onto it. I've been wearing Vive Barefoot shoes for years and I move better as a result. I feel a huge difference. They're also exceptionally well made. Use code BIONEERVEVO20 at checkout and you'll get 20% off a purchase. Thanks again to Vive Barefoot for sponsoring this video and now on with the show. If you do want something though that's going to be a bit more focused at building strength and muscle then consider the lizard crawl. Now you guys will know the lizard crawl if you watch this channel regularly which of course you do. Basically it's a crawl but much lower to the ground like so. This immediately places significantly more tension on the chest making it a more useful tool for pec hypertrophy and strength endurance. If you bob up and down slightly it starts to mimic a one-armed push-up. If you choose not to it becomes more of an isometric hold with a big mobility portion as well. You need to get your hips up and to the side and you need to get your arm more overhead so it's great for building mobility in the shoulders and in the hips at the same time. And at the same time it's great for thoracic rotation because you need to twist the body in order to get the leg up to the side. This will happen automatically as you're performing the movement. If you try the lizard crawl and you find it too awkward that isn't a cue to stop. You learning the movement is the gains. That is what's going to offer you the biggest benefit for your movement iq. And once you've done that then it becomes a powerful tool for muscle and work capacity. This makes it a great exercise for building strength and for building mobility. And if you can do this for a minute then you're really onto something quite impressive. So again I don't want to hear that doing crawls or animal movements is too easy doesn't do anything until you've done three sets of one minute lizard crawls. And if that's too easy then try two. But I don't think you'll probably need to. And of course you can also crawl faster for more challenge or you can crawl uphill for more glute activation or downhill for more shoulder activation. You can also turn this move into a more explosive movement by doing jumping lizard crawls. This also lets you incorporate the myotatic stretch response and if you check the work of I am longevity, I'll link to his youtube channel in the description down below, then you can see that these types of explosive movements might be the secret source for staying youthful in your movement. You also need to twist your body at the same time adding that nice thoracic rotation. In short the lizard crawl adds both frontal plane movement and rotational plane movement in one exercise and that additional rotation combined with the contralateral movement actually makes this an even greater coordination challenge that will help you to develop superior athleticism. Again this is how we use our bodies we rotate when we walk when we run and when we throw. Let's change lanes now and look for something more mobility focused the elephant crawl. Start from standing then go into pike position folding at the hips. Make sure this is a hip hinge and not rounding your back. Now walk out your hands as far as you need to in order to feel a slight stretch on your hamstrings and calves keeping your legs straight and feet flat on the ground. Again barefoot shoes are essential here. Now crawl. Now of course this is a way to train your hamstring mobility which can iron out so many problems and it's a way to train your overhead mobility for moves like handstands. What makes it so effective though is that it encourages you to train for mobility in a way that's easy and fun. The biggest mistake people make with their mobility in my opinion is often trying to force themselves to get results too quickly. They hold painful boring stretches which have a number of unwanted effects. It makes them not want to do it for one harming adherence but it also makes them tense up which makes stretching much harder and is completely counterproductive. My advice is to stretch gently and crawls are a brilliant way to do this. Finally crawls like these encourage you to move in those end ranges of motion and to thereby develop the control and confidence that will reassure your nervous system to ease up and let you get into those positions. With that in mind actually the elephant walk can also be used to describe a much more static version of this exercise where you get into a pike position and then walk your legs like that holding the stretch on the straightened leg and then switching but again you don't need to force it. If you want to do this at home and you don't have space to elephant walk around your living room then you can just find a raised platform and then do the same thing that way feeling a gentle stretch in the hamstrings and calves as you do it and again it's one that will make you go ah instead of ah you know that's the difference. This is something easy and relaxing you can do whilst you watch tv and building that hamstring mobility makes such a big difference. This is the philosophy behind my liquid motion mobility system. You can now finally check that out for yourself as it comes with my new training program and ebook super functional training 3 super mover. Super mover is my latest and greatest training program that is built around movement because when you can move well and athletically you develop a ripped and aesthetic physique and you become more functional in every walk of life. Faster, stronger, more explosive, more dynamic, more mobile. The program comes with a 200 plus page ebook and 26 instructional videos. It also comes with illustrated exercise cards featuring cool anime characters and I'm adding new stuff to it all the time. I only just added a complete full body workout using only these animal crawl movements. So this should be great for anyone who wants to see how you can program these crawls and make them effective. You can swap that for your full body day to mix things up as you please. It's back on discount right now for Black Friday so check it out in the link down below and get it for just $45. So we don't use elephant crawls for building strength as such although you can add a little push off your hands if you want to make this slightly more like a pike push-up. And the same goes for the next one, the crab crawl or tabletop crawl. Here you'll be crawling on your hands and feet but with your crotch thrust up to the sky, humping the heavens. This opens up the shoulders and it's actually great for building wrist mobility as well, an overlooked aspect of mobility that's important for moves like handstands. If you don't let your waist sag like this but instead fully extend it as a form of anti-flexion. Flexion being this, crunching towards the ground, extension being this. But arguably anti-flexion, avoiding bending forwards, is even more important as we use this to prevent folding over when we pick something up heavy in front of ourselves for example. The main thing about this and all these crawling movements is that they challenge this stability through movement. You're not just holding a position, you're keeping part of your body rigid while moving the rest. This is how stability is used in sports and in life and it's a far more dynamic challenge. And again that speaks to this training in general. With crawls every rep is different, making for more robust movement patterns, making you more prepared for whatever life throws at you. This is a great stretch on the hip flexors too and we've seen how important this is for a whole bunch of things like preventing back pain by relaxing the psoas. So much bang for your buck with these movements. But only if you focus on what they're for and how to get the most from them. Keep that crotch high and feel the stretch at the top of the legs. So that's a bunch of crawling movements and how you can incorporate them into your training. But not all animal movements, not all locomotion are crawls. There's a bunch of other exercises, a lot of walks you can do that will more specifically target the legs, both leg mobility and leg strength, explosiveness in just the same way, strength endurance. So in a future upcoming video I'll talk about those as well. But for now don't sleep on crawls, don't underestimate them and you can get some incredible results. But either way guys thank you so much for watching this one, I'll see you next time. It's so cold I can't take my fingers. Bye for now!