If I could choose just one piece of training equipment, it would always be dip bars. They're extremely versatile, easy to store, and very affordable. Because they stack next to each other, you can easily place them next to a wall, and they won't take up much space. Of course, dip bars let you perform dips. I use high repetition dips as one of my primary chest exercises, and I've gained a lot of strength and size doing that. It's so easy. I can just pull them out at the drop of a hat, pump out a bunch of reps, and put them back. If you want to build more strength with heavy training, you can do that by adding weight via a weight vest or even just a rucks sack filled with heavy books. That way, you can build serious strength from home with no gym required. Dip bars are also excellent for building lats and back with rows, levers, and body weight curls. All this can also be weighted. You can also use dip bars for training your abs with leg raises or even lsits and vsits. Other advanced calisthenics moves are also suitable with dip bars from plunchch training to tuck plunchch, even handstand, front levers. You can also use them to train mobility. You can use them to hang rings from and you can even use them to stabilize yourself during some more advanced leg exercises. Some people ask me why I don't recommend gymnastic rings instead. Well, while gymnastic rings are great, they are not as convenient to store or to use. You'll need a pull-up bar to use gymnastic rings, which not everyone has access to. Plus, unless you want to leave your doorway inaccessible, you'll still need to actually hang the rings each time you want to use them. With dip bars, I can just grab them and go. The other issue is that gymnastic rings are not as beginner friendly and have a much steeper learning curve. And while they're excellent for developing stability, functional strength, propriception, all that good stuff, you can't add additional weight as easily or safely, making them less suitable for strength training or hypertrophy. And I wouldn't fancy doing advanced calisthenics skills with gymnastic rings like PL training or handstands for that very same reason. So yeah, I love gymnastic rings, but dip bars are my top choice. And I genuinely think that buying dip bars could dramatically accelerate your progress by giving you easy access to serious strength training.