 this video is sponsored by Squarespace, the all-in-one website-building platform that makes it easy for anyone to get started with their own site. Stick around till the end of the video to learn more about a special deal that's making available through my channel. Leg trading, it's famously unpopular for many people. It's boring, it doesn't directly contribute to looking good with your shirt off, and it's often awkward, requiring setup and being very limited by technique and mobility. As a result, a lot of people sport very underdeveloped legs. This not only looks bad, it negatively impacts functional performance and can lead to pain and discomfort. Worse though is that many people also have terrible leg mobility. A lot of adults struggle to get into a deep squat with a heels flat on the floor, and a lot of people feel discomfort when squatting even partially that low. Knee pain, hip pain, and back pain are all common as a result of this. But what if I told you that you could develop athletic performance and significant mobility in your legs by just performing a series of bipedal exercises? Strange walks and hops that require no equipment or a lot of fun to do, and restore your natural lower body mobility, strength, and explosiveness. This is something I can test you personally. They've helped me to move more confidently low to the ground, to move more explosively and quickly, and generally to regain the mobility, power, and confidence in my legs that I had lost. Welcome to the Institute of Funny Walks for Gains. First up, gorilla walks for gentle and fun frontal plane mobility. This one is great for hip abduction, moving the legs out to the side, and for external hip rotation. You're basically getting into a kind of horse stance or wide squat, then leaning forward slightly to rest your weight on your hands or knuckles a little, then stepping out to the sides nice and wide, just enough to feel a slight stretch across the inner thigh. You then step the other leg in together and continue, moving both directions and vary the direction. Focus on preventing the knees from caving in as well to build that external rotation. This is all about easing into the stretch positions in a controlled and fun way, a much more enjoyable and sustainable form of mobility training. How about my new favorite, the squatting walk? Here you do air squats, but take a small step with each rep. This makes the movement more fun, more varied and slightly more explosive. You'll build strength, endurance, and mobility all at once. And since I've been doing these, again for three sets of one to two minutes, my legs have felt so much more powerful. I used to feel sore in my thighs at the bottom of the squat and feel awkward getting into it. Now I can slut drop with ease. And isn't that what we all aspire to? The other great thing about the squatting walk is how much of a pump it builds. By keeping that pressure on the legs, it creates a massive burn. Don't enough, this translates to extra size. It's the prison training approach to building legs and something very similar worked for Mike Tyson. Oh, and it builds tons of leg endurance too. Great for long-term athletic performance. Or how about the duck walk? Where you just get into that low squatting position and walk there. This is brilliant for not only creating an isometric hold that burns, try alternating between these two types of squat walk for a brutal leg workout, but also for testing mobility and stability as you take steps in those low positions. You can do this for time, you can do it for distance, you can hold something heavy in front of you to significantly increase the challenge. And if you pick up a kettlebell, a 20 kilogram kettlebell, walk around your garden in a duck walk position, this is an amazing leg exercise. There's more fun and accessible for a lot of people than just doing heavy squats in one spot. Or if you want something that will turn your legs into powerful springs for all kinds of athletic movement, try bunny hops. You're squatting down low here on your toes, then bouncing around keeping your legs nicely bent. This will strengthen your knees and your ankles, no end, and increase your elasticity. This is how we land from a big jump, this is how we spring off, this is how we squat down to play with our kids. This is intense for some and not recommended if you have bad knees, but start with gentle, small hops and build up to bigger movements and you'll develop extremely resilient legs that can act like spring coils. You can even use this stuff as part of your routine, tidying your living room. Then you can start integrating leaps and spins, maybe even some hop-hack if you want to showboat. So don't write them off, consider adding them into your routine and see where it takes you. And if you're looking for an upper body pulling equivalent, then what you're looking for my friend is break-iation. Would you like that in a future video? Bye for now. By the way guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anyone to get a website up and running. To do this, you can choose from one of their stunning, ready-made templates and then customize it to your precise specifications. Or you can use their AI tools that will guide you through a quick and easy bespoke setup. From there, you'll be ready to start posting content and promoting your ideas. But there are also endless other features you can add to extend the capabilities of your site. There's e-commerce for selling products online, appointment scheduling to let clients book your services, search engine optimization to ensure people can find your site on Google, a comment section and much more. In short, Squarespace will meet you where you're at with a website that's precisely built to fit your needs, which is why it's used by everyone from artists and hobbyists to some of the biggest brands on the web. To learn more, visit squarespace.com. When you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com. forward slash pioneer to get 10% off a website or domain. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to all of you who stuck around till the very end. And bye for now.