To many people, Bruce Lee represents the absolute peak in human physical performance and athleticism. He was renowned for his incredibly low body fat, which gave him this wicked looking physique. But what was much more impressive than the way his physique looked was what it could do. Bruce Lee was capable of some incredible feats of power. And he may well have been one of the strongest people alive pound-for-pound during his lifetime. So, let's take a look at the way Bruce Lee trained. see if we can learn something from his notes and see if perhaps we can apply some of the principles he used to our own training methods. The first thing that makes Bruce Lee unique among his contemporaries was the fact that he trained with weights at all. At the time, most martial artists believed that if they trained with weights, it would make their muscles big and bulky and slow, and this would make them less effective as fighters. Bruce Lee did the research, however, and he knew that he could use martial arts training in combination with bodybuilding and powerlifting type techniques in order to develop more explosive power through that fast twitch muscle fiber and that mind muscle connection. And that's what his training was all about. He wasn't really interested in building size. He was much more interested in building pure power. And so he used some quite unique training methods that um are slightly different from what you might be familiar with as a bodybuilder perhaps or just as a regular gym rat, but allowed him to build this kind of insane strength without packing on that much extra size. Recently only weighed about 135 lbs. So he's quite a small guy. But the stuff he could do with that, such as the one the two-finger push-up, such as apparently holding barbells out at arms length for long periods of time, weighing 40 kg. They demonstrate that he had an awful lot of power behind him. The first thing that really sets Bruce Lee apart is his philosophy and the emphasis he put on philosophy in his training. I've written recently about the importance of a training philosophy. And Bruce Lee epitomizes this idea. Bruce Lee didn't just train because he wanted to look good. Bruce Lee trained because he wanted to be a better fighter. And beyond that, he believed that martial arts were the perfect way to express yourself. He wanted to have the ability to be in full complete control of his body so that when he wanted to do something, it was right there so that he could be completely in sync with his emotions. He used to say when he wants to punch, you better believe he's going to punch you. So, he had to develop that speed and that power. And this was the driving force behind what he did. This is why he was so committed to training. It's why he truly believed in it. And that's why he was willing to put in so much work. He wasn't training for a goal. He was training for the love of training. He was like a real life Goku or something. always coming up with new ways to push the envelope. And that's the other thing about Bruce Lee. He didn't just settle for following a training program, hiring a personal trainer as you or I might. Instead, he was constantly experimenting with brand new techniques and pushing the envelope. Just as he developed Jeep Kundo, believing that he should do away with the classical mess of martial arts. He also didn't just follow conventional bodybuilding wisdom. He did the research. He looked into the studies and he tested on himself. In that way, he's very much like one of the earliest biohackers. He was constantly experimenting with new ways to not just gain incremental increases in strength, but to push the envelope and to actually exponentially unlock um entirely different kinds of power. And you're going to see some of the ways he did that in a second. So, in terms of just his general training program, Bruce Lee would do a fairly regular combination of compound movements, isolation movements, and CV. He did a lot of functional training. that means deadlifts and squats and um clean and presses because he believed that would give him more power. You see pictures of him doing one armed presses using the muscles in unison in order to make them more useful. But he did also do isolation training. There's lots of images and videos of him doing bicep curls. And I heard somewhere someone said if you think bicep curls aren't functional then you've obviously never wrestled. And clearly Bruce Lee agreed with that idea. On top of all that weightlifting, Bruce Lee would also do a lot of CV. Apparently, he would run nearly every single day when he could. And he was constantly adding progressive overload by running faster, doing tempo runs, trying to push his anorobic threshold, or even running with resistance, running with weights strapped to his back to make it more difficult. On top of this, he also did early interval training, which wasn't really a thing at the time. He did this in the same way that you might structure a boxing round. So, he'd do 2 minutes of intense training and then 1 minute rest, which would be the rest between rounds, and then he'd go again. Bruce Lee, like I said, was something of a pioneer, something of a da Vinci of the body, constantly discovering things ahead of his time, interval training being one of them. Now, many people recommend interval training, but like I said, he's also partial to a lot of CV and steady state CV. And the reason for this is that he believed it was better for his overall ability to continue to output energy for long periods of time. And he explained that if you're going to be a fighter, you really need this ability. It's no good to be able to punch and kick hard. If you're going to be out of breath after the third kick and then you have to lie down. He said something along the lines of if you don't have a good cardiovascular system, then you need to look into a more peaceful activity as your hobby. For that interval training, Bruce Lee would be using punches and kicks and jabs against a heavy bag, which makes sense as a martial artist. And he would also train each of his different strikes on different days, splitting them like a bodybuilder might split body parts. He'd do kicks on one days, punches on another day, etc. So when you combine all that, the running, the lifting, the striking, you realize Bruce Lee was just completely dedicated to his training, and it's no wonder that he had this incredibly low body fat and just looked like something out of a comic book because, you know, if you're going to train for those kinds of hours, then that's how you're going to end up looking. And like I said, Bruce Lee used some more interesting training methods as well. He didn't just do lifting. When he was doing his weight training, he thought a bit outside the box again. And this is where he came up with some really unique and interesting ideas. One of them being speed training. So on these days, Bruce Lee would try and increase the challenge of his workouts, but he wouldn't do it the way most of us do it by increasing the weight or by increasing the number of repetitions. Instead, he'd do it by increasing the speed at which he completed the workout. So the same workout, but try and complete it faster times. A little bit like something that CrossFitters are doing these days. But the reason this was interesting to Bruce Lee in particular is because when you use explosive fast movements, you're essentially engaging more fast twitch muscle fiber. You're telling the body it needs explosive force. And the body can't tell the difference between resistance and acceleration. Force is force. That's what it needs to generate to go fast. That's what it needs to generate to lift something heavy. So by lifting the same weights faster, as far as the muscles are concerned, it's the same thing as lifting them heavier. You'll engage more fast muscle fiber, but it probably won't result in quite the same muscle damage. and micro tears, meaning that he could potentially develop more strength without creating quite so much hypertrophy. Apart from anything else, this is just a great way to mix things up. And I recommend trying it, and you'll see right away that it definitely challenges you in a slightly different way to what you're perhaps used to. So, why not give that a go? Another thing Bruce Lee did that was quite different was he used a lot of isometric training. Isometric, of course, means that you're holding. It's the opposite of plyometric. Instead of explosive movement, you're holding one position. So, for instance, you might hold the bicep, you might hold the bicep curl position using dumbbells and then slowly allow them to drop as you completely use up all of your strength. Bruce Lee believed that because you're holding it in the point where there's the most resistance where it's the most difficult as opposed to having the arm straight or up here, you're engaging the most strength. However, at the same time, you're not going through the full range of motion. So, Bruce Lee knew that you need to combine this kind of training with regular training. what I just described there where you're holding the weight and letting it gradually fall. That's called yielding isometrics. That's where you're holding the weight and then letting yourself fatigue. But that's not the only type of isometric training Bruce Lee used. And it's also probably not the most interesting. The most interesting kind of isometrics that Bruce Lee would use was called overcoming isometrics. And here what he would do is he'd hold on to a really heavy weight that he literally couldn't lift. So, for instance, he'd lie under a bench press and he'd load up the bar to be 200 kg or 300, who knows what he can lift. And then he would just strain to try and push it. He did the same thing with squatting. He'd have a squat rack where the bar was on his neck, but it was locked in place. So, he just try and push up this bar that wasn't going anywhere. Likewise, he would do the same with curling by chaining a bar to the ground and then trying to curl it. Obviously, he could not. You hold that position for a few seconds, let it go, and try again. This is the definition of what happens when an unstoppable force meets an immovable object. Bruce Lee being that unstoppable force. I've actually talked about this kind of overcoming isometrics in the past. And again, what makes it interesting is its ability to recruit those faster twitch muscle fibers. when you're pushing against something that won't move or pulling against something that won't move. Again, your brain and your muscle fibers, they don't know the difference between something that's locked in place and something that's just really heavy. So, to begin with, you're just pulling and pushing as hard as you can, and you're recruiting all of the fast fast twitch muscle fibers. So, you're training your ability to exert maximum strength at a given time. Not only could this potentially strengthen those fast twitch fibers, but more importantly, it can strengthen the mind muscle connection. The mind muscle connection is a concept in bodybuilding that describes obviously the connection between the mind and the muscle through from the brain through down the nervous system through the neuromuscular junction and then to the muscle itself. When you tell yourself to move, you send the signal that travels there and then you recruit a certain amount of muscle when you need to. Different people have differing levels of muscle fiber recruitment and it tends to be anywhere between 30 and 50%. 50% being a highly trained athlete. So even a highly trained athlete can't call upon all of their muscle fibers at once because if they did they could cause injury to their tendons and ligaments and they could likewise completely fatigue themselves which in the wild would leave you completely vulnerable to predators. Dennis Rogers is a guy who can naturally by genetics call upon more muscle fiber. has been shown in studies and this gives him fantastic strength for his size. He's a small guy, but he may be currently one of the strongest men pound-for-pound. Look him up online. He does some incredible things. So, Bruce Lee was potentially training this kind of recruitment by doing overcoming isometrics by trying to encourage his body to recruit as much muscle fiber as possible. It's just the simple said principle, specific adaptations to impose demands. If you call upon your fast twitch muscle fiber, you will learn to be better at calling upon your fast twitch muscle fiber. Bruceley also trying this mind muscle connection in another way using something called isotension. That just means contracting the entire body. Following a workout, he would then stand up and contract the entire body. This is very similar to bodybuilders who might pull a pose straight after doing a set of curls, except for the difference being he wasn't just doing the bicep pose. he'd be doing an entire body most muscular kind of engaging the entire musculature. By doing this, he again made sure that he was constantly thinking about the role of all of his muscles in any movement. And if you try doing something like a press up or a pull-up, and you tense your entire body, you'll find it makes you much more rigid. This actually makes you better at performing those movements. This might be how Lucy was able to do his incredible two-finger push-up. If you think about it, when you're locked in place like this, you're rigid as opposed to letting your kind of waist sag and your arms and legs sag. And that means that there's it's much easier to move this rigid platform than it is to move something that's wobbling around. At the same time, Bruce Lee would tense all his muscles during the workout. So, whilst doing the curls, he'd be tensing the rest of his body. He believed that control came from tension. And this makes a lot of sense when you're doing an isolation movement because if you tense the rest of your body, it essentially removes any momentum and any possibility that you might be helping the target muscle. So, actually improves the isolation, allows you to train it much harder. On top of all this, Bruce Lee also was a firm believer in training abs and in training forearms. He trained his forearms and his grip every single day. And he trained his abs every single day. He believed that the forearms and the grip was were one of the keys to strength. And this is something that he shared with classic bodybuilders. He trained his forearms because he knew that strength in your hands gives you strength throughout your entire body. If you've got a firmer grip on something, you can lift more. And of course, in martial arts, it's very important. And yes, he trains his core every single day as well, because that's where you generate all your power in a martial arts strike. If you're punching someone, that punch doesn't just come from your arm and your shoulder. It comes from your entire waist, the torque that you can generate, your obliques, your legs. you're pushing through the ground like so. So, you it's crucial to build the core. And the core is also what's involved in everything else. We were talking about tensing the whole body so that you could do two-finger push-ups more easily. And again, that comes from having a strong, sturdy core. So, Brucey would train his core every single day. And of course, he's very famous for that exercise called the dragon flag, where he would lie with his upper shoulders touching the bench, but not the rest of his body. And he would lower his legs and raise them again. He was one for quite dynamic and impressive looking exercises. So there you go. I hope you found this interesting and useful. That's how Bruce Lee trained. As you could see, he took a very different approach to most people and he really was something of a innovator or a pioneer when it came to exercising. He was ahead of his time with many of the concepts he used, but a lot of them still aren't in wide use today. So try incorporating some of these ideas into your training if you're interested in performance over looks. if you're interested in learning to use your muscle as well as just show it. So, thanks very much for watching, guys. If you have liked this video, please consider liking, sharing, and subscribing. I hope it's been useful. I might be returning to the subject of Bruce Lee in future cuz there's a lot more we haven't touched on. I might go into his philosophy in a bit more depth, for instance. Let me know in the comments if that's something you'd like to see. And of course, I'll be having many more videos coming soon on topics ranging from fitness to strength to running to brain training to productivity to working online, all the usual stuff. So stay tuned and uh bye for now.