Training at the gym no doubt has a lot of advantages. You're comfortable indoors and you can precisely control each variable to measure progress, but it's also artificial and sterile. Getting outside means lifting logs and using branches. Every movement is different, building stronger tissue and grip. It means running on uneven terrain, building stability and propriception. And it means exposing your body to fresh air, sunlight, and stimulating vistas. It improves your skin, your breathing, your brain, your sleep. You'll need to navigate, endure different weather. In short, it trains the body like nothing else. It's how we evolved to move and to challenge ourselves, to let go of arbitrary numbers and embrace the chaos of the outdoors. What you're seeing now is the workout I just had. It was a ton of fun. So, here's how it went and how you can experience something similar. Hey there, guys. So, this is either going to be an epic workout or a terrible workout. What I've done is I've just turned up at a random spot. Didn't put the post code in properly because I'm an idiot, but apparently there's a nice woods around here. And my plan is to just go for a stroll, find stuff, and do a workout as I go. And the idea being that I can demonstrate how you can basically work out anywhere and why getting outside to train is just so good for you, but also so much fun. and also how to make it actually effective so that you're making gains. If I can get into those trees there, there's going to be tons of option and it looks kind of beautiful. So, I think that's the way I'm going to start. But like I say already lots of option and that's the first thing that I kind of wanted to to say is that when you train like this like it's an adventure like you're exploring. You know, I play games like Zelda. You know, at the moment I'm playing Tears of the Kingdom. And the great thing about that is the sense of exploration. You know, what you're going to find around every corner. So, yeah, I'm going to stroll down here for a bit and we're going to see if we can find an entry point to these trees. Failing that, I might hop over there because I am walking parallel to that nice uh country lane. Probably would have been better than being on the road, but there you go. And would you look at that? I think right away possible success. a gate and a way into the trees, but it's like so overgrown. Let's go. You know, and that's how Adam tore his scrot open. You know, I think I think that's not a path. That's just more long grass. That's fine. I'm gonna keep walking. Okay, things just got more interesting. I was just about to think I should get back in the car and turn around. Then I found this. This is more of an entry to a cool place to work out. And it's not covered in brambles, got lots of trees, might even have a path. And it's kind of beautiful. Now, what some people have said to me with this kind of training is they can't find a perfect tree to do pull-ups from. And that's true. It's not actually as easy to find a pull-up tree as you might think. Firstly, if you look around, you can almost always find something. More to the point, we're not looking for a perfect pull-up tree. We're actually looking for an imperfect pull-up tree because that way we're forced to then adapt to the environment, and that's what's giving the body that extra challenge. So, for example, I'm going to go with this one today. It's not a sticky out branch, not a horizontal branch. I'm going to grab the top of the tree and pull up from there. And this gives you so many benefits you don't get from conventional training because every time you do a pull-up like this, it's going to be slightly different. Every tree you grab, it's going to be at a slightly different angle. You're going to have one hand higher than the other. The width of the branch is going to vary. It's not just like doing a pull-up on the bar where it's always the same. So, you're going to be challenging your grip in new ways. You're going to be using your stabilizing muscles to try and keep your body straight even though you might be holding on not straight. And each rep even will be slightly different. And every time you do a different set, you're going to probably grab a different part of the tree. This kind of variety is fantastic for the brain for learning. It's what Nikolai Bernstein calls repetition without repetition. So you're not just cementing the same neural pathways over and over again and being rigid and unable to deal with different environments, but you're actually building that cognitive flexibility. And on top of that, also strengthening supporting muscles and the fascia just in ways that otherwise don't get trained. And the problem people have with this kind of training a lot of the time is they think that that's going to make it then not as intense, not intense enough to stimulate prop hypertrophy and muscle growth. But it does. As you're gonna see, I'm just going to do a regular three sets of 10 or whatever, probably less because it looks harder. Pull-ups on that branch. I'm going to go either side of the tree. And by doing that, I'm getting all the same benefits that I would normally, but then I'm getting these additional benefits on top. And because it's new, because you're training the muscle in a new way, you're shocking it every time. You know, when you try a new workout, for the first couple of weeks, it feels like it's absolutely working like nothing you've done before. You feel the burn and the pump. Well, when you do this, every workout is a new workout. You're still stimulating the same muscles, still stimulating the same areas, but you're getting such variety and training in such different ways that it's a novel stimulus every single time. That looks kind of inviting. See adventure. This was a rubbish adventure. Of course, you don't only have to use things that are naturally occurring on your travels. You can use park benches, railings, anything like that. I'm stopping here to do some exercises that I learned from watching Sundberg's channel, and I can't remember what he called them, but essentially they're like straight armed wall dips. So, what you're doing is going up and down, you know, doing dips with your arms on a single bar instead of on two. You're going to go all the way until you lock out the elbows and then protract through the scapula, but you don't need to be doing a full plunchch, so your legs aren't, you know, straight out behind you. This is an excellent exercise for straight arm strength, obviously, scapular control, and it's a brilliant progression up to the full PLCH or PLCH push-up because you're doing a lot of the same movement, just lowering the resistance by allowing the legs to dangle. Just doing two sets to failure here because this is quite a more uh heavy and intense movement. Uh but it's a brilliant thing you can do pretty much literally anywhere. I'd like to point out that the dent in the bar was there before I got here, but this is actually a really useful thing from a training perspective cuz again means that one hand is higher than the other and the wobbling of the gate even adds an additional stability challenge. So the reason that we come somewhere like this then is so that we can get that variety. So we can get that repetition without repetition that I talked about. But at the same time as well other benefits. For example, the very fact that you're in the sun, it's good for your body clock and your circadian rhythms. Helps you to sleep. Fresh air is good for you. Just the environment is so good for your mood. Whenever I've been extremely stressed, just going for a nice walk somewhere scenic, it's gamechanging, you know, it instantly lights up my mood. Okay, at this point I am absolutely spoiled for choice. Just found this cool looking path. There's a bunch more down that way. Proper forest paths. Yeah, with trees, space to walk, lots to see, and lots to climb on. So, let's go. Now, obviously, I do recognize uh that there are some practical limitations here. Now, for a lot of you, for example, you just don't have the time to come out somewhere like this, take the time to explore and find spots. You know, this has already been an hour for me, and I've done like three exercises. But the point is, I don't do this either. I only explore every now and then. find a good spot with some good trees or whatever and then you can just head there. You know, you guys probably know by now, you've probably noticed I'm training often at the very same spots in multiple videos. I know that a lot of people don't have the luxury of having lovely spaces like this around them. This was a 15-inute drive for me and I'm very lucky in that regard. But I've worked out in like, you know, the the few trees behind a housing estate. Like, you just need a few trees um or even just a patch of grass to get these kind of workouts in. And I'm not saying that you have to do this kind of training. I'm not trying to guilt anyone who doesn't train outdoors. All I'm trying to say is that this is an option A, it's a fun option, B. And see these principles that actually do improve your functionality, you know, like for example, the fact that every move is slightly different are things that we can acquire in different ways. You, for example, going to a rock climbing wall, that's a brilliant workout for a whole bunch of reasons. you know, going for a trail run, just running off the beaten path. As I've said before, there your ankles and the stabilizers in your lower legs and your hips and your knees all have to work to keep yourself nicely balanced and your brain is so much more engaged cuz you're not just doing the exact same stride on the exact same surface. This is why martial arts are good. The point is that we need variety. Now, some people are going to argue with me and say, "But Adam, you can't do progressive overload. you know, you're not going to see yourself improve. If every pull-up is different, then how can you see your pull-ups gradually go up with time? How can you gradually increase the number and progress that way? Well, there's a couple of answers to this. The first one is that if you're going to failure, if you're training, you know, to the point where your muscle is giving out, you're giving it like 100% or, you know, near enough technical failure at least, you're giving it your all. you're providing significant stimulus and you are going to grow the muscle somewhat. Maybe not as much as quickly and maybe you won't build as much max strength, but like I say, with the accompanying grip strength you'll get from this and all that connective tissue and the walking, which is good for burning fat, you're actually going to end up with a physique that's a little bit leaner and at the same time is actually more functionally strong and still like perfectly good. I say this is the takeaway really is to show that you can just do sets and reps just mix up the exercises and keep them more interesting and varied. The other point I'd like to make is like what's the hurry? Like everyone is so fussed with optimal this, optimizing that, you know, maximum gains. Like do you have to go 100% speed towards your goals or what about 80% speed but it's still loads of fun? Like unless you're a competitive bodybuilder or powerlifter or that's your goal, then what does it matter? Like fitness should be fitness. There's all these strict rules around it because people are so worried about ekking out that extra 5% progress, but it's 5% progress. If you find this more fun, then this is great. Now then probably would be a pretty good time for me to talk about, you know, respecting the environment and stuff. Obviously, don't break trees. Don't kick or hit trees. Does hurt them. Don't trample over nice flowers. Don't disturb animals. You know, all that stuff, but there is certainly a way you can do this without being destructive. Just bear that in mind. Also should probably touch on safety. There is, of course, a more inherent risk if you're going to be doing this sort of thing that you could fall and hurt yourself in the middle of nowhere, drop a log on your head. I've done all those things. But the point is that I mean you accept the risk if you want to train like this. There's obviously a massive risk in the gym as well. People drop heavy weights on themselves there and they break their knees when they're doing heavy squats and things. And in fact, when you're using that much heavy weight, it's in some ways more dangerous. Just make sure that you bring, you know, water and supplies with you. Someone knows where you're going. Uh don't go too far. Like I say, I'm only 15 minutes away. And uh bring a phone obviously and be aware of signal cuz it can be patchy and you might not realize it and if something goes wrong you could find yourself in trouble. Adam from the future here. I just remembered I should also mention that it's a good idea to wear longer trousers even if it's a bit hot. And the reason for that is firstly brambles and secondly ticks. And ticks in general is something you need to look out for. Make sure you check your body over when you get home. I think they cause a bigger problem if they're on you for longer. And if you're thinking that, you know, training outdoors like this isn't a good idea because of ticks, just want to point out that I did have a tick recently, but it actually wasn't from this day filming outdoors. I got it just walking around, I think, brushed up against a bush or something, which isn't to say it's not a problem. It's just to say again, it's a risk that's inherent to this kind of training, but you can't avoid all risk and it can happen anyway. Just make sure to take precautions. Obviously, it's also true that depending on where you are in the world, there could be other kind of animals and bugs and pests that you don't want, and I can't speak to all of that. Just make sure to do your research. And again, stay safe. But, you know, if you're too worried to go outside and do stuff, then I don't know, that's just not a good place to be. Today, I was doing balance squats. essentially just doing air squats but on a unstable narrower surface. Now, this was a more advanced move. Of course, I don't recommend you do the same thing elevated in the air like that. There's literally no benefit to do it elevated in the air. I just follow the rule of cool. You know, one of the reasons that I like training is cuz I like doing cool exercises, cool, unique exercises. You know, I was inspired by Jackie Chan for their own sake. I think that's a cool thing. I used to like that old uh that old beast moves website if you guys remember that. It's one of the things that uh inspired me early on. So, you don't need to do that. You can do the same thing on a you know just a log on the ground. Obviously, if you're doing it slowly like this uh with that full range of motion balancing, this isn't going to be for building strength or um size in the legs. But what you are going to do is build mobility and stability. If you can do a deep squat, that suggests you got a good amount of ankle and hip mobility. If you can do a deep squat on a bar, that's a whole another level. So, train train this if you want to build that mobility, that body awareness, etc. I highly recommend it. And that brings me as well to another clothing recommendation, which is today's sponsor, Vivo Barefoot. So, I recommend that you wear some form of barefoot shoe. Now, barefoot shoe is a form of minimal footwear. Basically means that it mimics the way we use our foot in real life. It's designed to get out of your way. Modern footwear on the whole is designed in such a way that it crams your feet in, crams your toes together, and doesn't give you wiggle room literally. At the same time, it elevates your heels off the ground. And this is actually, and this is actually a big deal because when your heels are elevated off the ground, it means you're literally using less range of motion for things like body weight squat. When you squat all the way down, if you've got elevated heels, you're not getting that full range of motion because your calves are shortened. At the same time, minimal footwear as opposed to modern shoes gives you much thinner soles, which means that you can feel the ground underneath and do things like balancing and squatting on a log. Something I wouldn't want to do uh if my sensation was covered from the ground by really thick soles. On top of that, I choose Vivo Barefoot specifically and have done for years even before they sponsored me because they make shoes that are extremely cool looking. You know, they're stylish. People compliment me on them. They don't look like a novelty footwear. They make shoes that last for ages. I've had some of my Viva barefoots for literal years during which time I've, you know, done the distance of marathons in them and they've still kept going and because they're so comfortable because they're so minimal that when I come home after a big day, I don't even want to throw them off right away. So, I think they're fantastic. And Bion viewers can get them at a lower price by using code bion 20 at checkout. Link in the description down below. Thanks again to Vivo for sponsoring this video. And now on with the show. Another classic woodland move is the landmine press. Now, I literally can feel that in my obliques and my sides where you so rarely get to feel anything working. Of course, any of your regular calisthenics moves will work just fine somewhere out here. just find a nice patch of ground. And again, you're still getting all those benefits because the ground's going to be slightly uneven. You'll find like one arm is slightly slightly elevated or, you know, your whole upper torso is slightly elevated or vice versa, it's it's declined. And when you do this again, you're training all these different parts of your body. And you can even use them to mix up the exercises like giving yourself a slight assist on your pistol squat or your one- arm push-up so you can pump out more repetitions. You're going to find those really subtle gradients all over the place. anywhere else. And >> of course, warming up and cardio, you got running, shadow boxing, bring a jump, right, literally anything you might normally do. Of course, with running, you have the added benefit of the ground being uneven, having to dodge out of the way of things, having way more to look at. you know, trail running is just a whole lot healthier as long as you're careful and ease into it. Um, again, I recommend barefoot shoes for this because although they don't give you over the top ankle support, that lets you use your ankles the way they're supposed to be used, responding to the shape of the ground. Just go slow to begin with and build up to places that are a little bit more unstable. Start with something a little bit flatter. Sprints are excellent anywhere. You're going to want a flatter floor for that to start with, but then you can do hill sprints. And again, something you can't train at a gym. Hill sprints are brilliant because they let you go full pelt with lesser impact, more ankle, dorsif flexion, all that good stuff. More glute drive. Yeah, hill sprints are brilliant. Again, this is all stuff that works best when you come somewhere like this and just train. Is this for me? What is happening right now? What is this actually meant to be for? Is it for bird watching? That's so cool. See, like adventure. Um, honestly, you find stuff like this all the time when you just go out exploring. And I say this is good for you in its own right. You know, having fun, being in fresh air, finding stuff. Like I say, I know I'm very privileged to be able to do this, but there are ways to inject this kind of spontaneity and creativity into your workouts and to get the big benefits. And especially when you sort of take your foot off the gas and decide to just enjoy fitness instead of making it a chore. I think this is a great spot to finish up and say to you guys, thanks for joining me on this slightly weird video. I hope you found it entertaining or interesting or useful. But uh either way, I had a good time and that's what matters. So yeah, if you like this kind of training that isn't just wrote and generic, then you might enjoy my ebook and training program, super functional training 2.0. It's a training program advised to build not only strength, but also endurance and mobility, even brain function, body awareness, all that good stuff. Because I think a balance is what will really enhance your performance. And again, it's more fun and interesting. Link to that in the description down below. But either way, thank you so much for watching this one, guys. And bye for now.