 When it comes to making faster gains and getting better results from training, we very often focus on the exercises we can do. More often though, it's actually about the programming. The reason you're not seeing results is that you're not programming your training correctly, leading to a lack of growth even if you're putting in tons of effort. Problem is, programming can be complicated and nuanced, and there's not as much information out there about it. In this video then, I aim to lay it out so that you can understand precisely what you need to know in order to get the very best results from your training. And if you get this right, the gains will come faster and easier than ever. So we should view programming a little bit like photography. In photography you have the exposure triangle, where you need to get three measurements correct and balanced to try and accomplish the best outcome. In photography, those are ISO, exposure and aperture. In programming it's similar that the three elements are frequency, intensity and volume. The key is finding the balance between these three things. Frequency is how often you train. Do you train daily? Do you train four days per week? Intensity is essentially effort. How far you push each exercise and how close you get to failure. Very often this is to do with the amount of weight you use, but it could also be about things like intensity techniques, like drop sets. If you have more intensity, you will need to lower your training volume. And volume is how long you're training for and how many reps in total. So that might mean doing things like high rep ranges, but it can also just mean doing lots of exercises per workout. If you increase one of these things, you need to reduce the others to find balance. If you train with massive intensity, so that you're pushing one rep maxes on every exercise or going to absolute mechanical failure, then you're going to need to reduce the volume and frequency. That is to say you will need a longer time to recover. But if you choose to reduce the intensity of your workouts, you can increase the amount of exercise you're doing. You can then choose to do a high volume per workout or simply workout more often. So how should you design your workouts? Well, which is right for you will be individual. It depends on what your body responds to most. It depends on your goals. Higher intensity can be good for max strength, whereas higher frequency can be better for skill acquisition. It also depends on your circumstances, your available time, your experience, your predisposition towards injury, etc. As I discussed in my recent video, there was a high chance that a lot of people are training too much and that's harming their gains. We tend to think that if a little is good, then tons will be even better. But the truth is that the body can only respond so quickly and can only recover so quickly. If you break down tissue before it's fully repaired, then you won't grow as fast as you could. And if you train heavy before your foot even covered, you won't be actively training the maximum output of your nervous system and muscles. If you hit a plateau, then try reducing either your frequency, your intensity or your total volume. I've had a lot of success personally training with brutal long workouts and then resting for a week after. But I've also had a lot of success training with high reps and light weights very frequently. And that's what I've been doing more recently. My slowest progress actually comes when I refuse to pick a lane, training with middling intensity say five times a week. To be clear, this can still work. It's just that I tend to grow better when I do one of those things. So if you're plateauing, then I recommend experimenting with one of these strategies. At the very least, the simple fact that it's a change from the norm and an impactful one can often be enough to have some noticeable effect. Just switching to a different method can stimulate the muscles in a different way. But as is my way, I often like to use both these strategies simultaneously. So for example, that might mean doing high repetition twice per week and high intensity twice per week. So on two days of the week, you could do super high rep push-ups or dips. Then on the other two days, you could do intensive handstand push-ups or very heavy weighted dips. Maybe heavy bench press even to mix up modalities. This can be extremely effective as the two different types of rep ranges build muscle through different pathways. The very heavy work will train the nervous system to produce maximum force through neural drive and body control. And it will force adaptation in the muscles and tendons, increasing fast twitch muscle fiber and building stronger tendons due to the higher mechanical tension. This sort of training requires a long rest as we've discussed in order to allow the nervous system to recover and the muscle to rebuild. In order to train that strength, you need to be fully recovered. But the high repetition work can slot in there nicely in between sessions. Because now you're encouraging muscle growth through metabolic stress. You're getting blood and nutrients to the muscles and tendons, helping to encourage growth and repair. But without placing a huge new strain on the nervous system. While the specifics are a point of contention online and people arguing about the phrasing, this appears to offer both myofibrillar adaptations and some sarcoplasmic expansion. The muscle is getting thicker and denser, but you're also increasing glycogen storage and swelling. Or to put it another way, from an aesthetics standpoint, you're growing the muscle in two separate ways simultaneously. And from a performance standpoint, you're increasing both your maximum strength output and your ability to exert strength over a prolonged period. By the way guys, this video was sponsored by NordVPN. You can check them out in the link in the description below. If you're the sort of person who understands the importance of carefully planning their training program, then you probably also recognize the importance of having a comprehensive approach to online privacy. NordVPN is a VPN, a virtual private network that helps you to browse the web with increased privacy by connecting to a remote server. This is useful when you want to browse privately for safely browsing using public wi-fi and protecting yourself against things like man-in-the-middle attacks. And it's useful for travelers who need to access content they're subscribed to in their country of residence while abroad. The list of uses is only getting longer and it's something I personally use nearly every day. NordVPN is highly secure thanks to its strict no logs policy. It also comes with a wide range of additional features such as threat protection pro, which can warn you if you're browsing a fake online shop, block phishing attempts, and much more. A VPN should be just one part of a comprehensive approach to internet privacy and it's important to do your own research. However, NordVPN is an excellent first step thanks to its many built-in features and just how quick and easy it is to use on a wide range of devices. Get an exclusive NordVPN deal and four months extra at NordVPN.com forward slash the Bionier. It's risk-free with Nord's 30-day money-back guarantee. Thanks again to NordVPN for sponsoring this video and now on with the show. The fact that you're hitting the same muscle group four times a week this way means you're getting a ton of frequency, but the way you're hitting it is different. So you're not creating too much noise or preventing your full recovery. Perhaps the best part is that while some people respond more to higher up training and some people respond more to high intensity, doing both means you're going to see some results, whichever type of responder you are. You will need a little autogenic adaptation here. That means you're going to need to listen to your body and adapt. If you're trying to get stronger and gain new skills, then prioritize your recovery and use the high rep stuff more lightly so as not to interfere. If you feel like you can do more though, then do more. Another point of course is that you can mix and match. Rather than using both strategies simultaneously for every muscle group or picking just one, you can instead try picking different strategies for different muscle groups or movement patterns. So for example, I'm training heavy for my shoulders right now with extremely elevated pike push-ups, practically wall handstand push-ups. I'm maxing out at around eight reps and then performing forced negatives to finish. I do this no more than twice per week, but I'm also doing goblet curls every single session. Curls are highly isolated, meaning they offer little neurological fatigue compared to compound movements. The biceps themselves recover quickly and are not required for posture or general movement. They are slightly fast twitch dominant and in terms of performance, they require more strength endurance rather than more strength for things like climbing, carrying and grappling. And it also just offers me an extremely quick and easy way to keep my arms looking bigger while I focus on other more technical areas that I want to progress. As you can see then, different muscle groups respond differently to different types of training, as do different movement patterns. And then there are the individual goals of the athlete. Even a little more complex when we introduce things like skills-based movements. That means things like hand balancing. Here you may wish to lower the intensity and the volume and increase the frequency in order to grease the groove and learn faster. Some calisthenics experts advocate for this style of training, keeping it light, doing it frequently. Other calisthenics teachers advocate for the two-set method with high intensity and forced negatives. And each will swear that their method is superior. But again, it's just not that clear-cut. It depends. It depends where the bottleneck is for you. If you're strong enough already and it's a technique issue, then you should increase frequency and decrease intensity. But if it's more of a strength issue, you should increase intensity. I'm building overhead strength at the moment to give myself more leeway for error, so I can catch myself and write myself without needing perfect balance. That will give me enough stability in a handstand to then practice with increased frequency. But once I'm at that level of strength and it's time to work more on balance, I'll reduce the intensity and increase the frequency. So don't listen to anyone telling you that any method is superior to any other. It always depends. Always. Of course, you can also use these ideas in a periodized manner, switching from one style of training to another, or cycling which muscle groups are targeted with the most intensity and effort. The options are limitless when you understand clearly what each style of programming is doing. That's the real take-home message. It's about sending the right signals to your body, telling it what kinds of adaptations you want. Bad programming is noisy and muddled, whereas good programming is clear, which is not to say you can't send multiple signals. And as ever, the most important point is to then send that message during each workout clearly, learning how to provide the right stimulus efficiently through good movement, so as to prompt the right adaptations. Although, keep in mind that not all your training has to be optimized. It's fine sometimes to just do training because it's fun and because movement is always good for you. But build an efficient program and you'll give yourself time to do exactly that. If you like the idea of training that way, and this all makes sense to you, then check out my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. That will provide you with workouts that balance high volume and high intensity, depending on the movement, and that offer a variety of traits from endurance to strength to technique to mobility to aesthetics. You'll build an athletic physique while having fun with a program that's designed to be efficient and minimal so that you still have time to do other things you enjoy. But either way, thanks very much for watching this one, and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.