 this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around after the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. When I finally started training for movement, instead of just muscle and strength, I reduced my aches and pains, increased my energy, and became more athletic. And ironically, my physique improved, too. Here's why a simple perspective shift is so transformative and how you can implement the same concepts directly into your own training for amazing results. The improvement I experienced makes sense when you consider that training like a bodybuilder was completely misaligned with my goal of looking and moving like a jacked anime protagonist. And it wasn't really supporting the lifestyle I was leading outside of the gym, cue the aches and pains and that slightly softer look. And there's a good chance that your current training is misaligned with your goals, too. Many people focus their training on strength and muscle above all else, even at the cost of mobility and endurance, even if that means ignoring nagging pains in their knees or their backs. And this is exactly why so many people remain stuck, unhealthy and uninspired, perhaps you should start training for movement first. When was the last time you elevated your heart rate for a sustained period of time? And you're surprised you're too tired to move? If you can't get into a deep squat or bend down and touch your toes, of course movement is going to feel like a chore, of course you feel stiff and achy. Most people actually don't want to look like powerlifters or bodybuilders. They want to look athletic, lean, capable, not Ronnie Coleman, but a swimmer or a gymnast. A jacked anime protagonist, maybe. You need cardio to get leaner and to show off that muscle. You need rotation to create that shredded look in your obliques, either side of the rexus abdomini. Not through a prescription of dull repetitive exercises, but by actually challenging your body in multiple planes and multiple domains. By using your fitness. And that's when training becomes fun again. I think a lot of people are afraid that if they focus on anything other than lifting weights, they're going to stop making progress and they won't get the body that they want. So how can you do this? How can you spend more time moving and playing and still build actual muscle and get the physique you want? Here are some key strategies. 1. Really consider your physique goals and what different physique will do for you. Don't fall into the trap of competing with people online to get the biggest biceps or bench press. If you're not interested in tree trunk legs or becoming a powerlifter, why are you so hell-bent on squatting more and more? If you do just want to be a mass monster, that's fine too of course. I just think that some people end up falling into that path without truly reflecting on whether it's what they actually want. Once you recognize how much online advice is geared towards a bodybuilding mentality, you can disregard much of it and you can probably start spending less time on building muscle specifically. A few hours a week at the gym should be plenty if it's combined with other types of movement. 2. Think about what it is you want to be able to do rather than how you want to look. Instead of thinking about muscles, think about actions or functions. This can mean trying to pull off cool stunts. Personally, I train because I'm inspired by people like Jackie Chan or by the comics I read, by computer games and anime. I love doing cool fitness moves that make me feel badass. So for me, my goals are things like improving my kicks and punches, fixing my handstands to be straighter, reinforcing my back as I get older and developing a physique that looks good whilst I'm doing this stuff. Your goals might be different but think about what you actually want to use your fitness for. Now we need to ask how our training can support those goals and whether we're actually practicing moving in those ways. 3. Try to get as much variety as you can in your movement diet. That means you should be lifting weight but also training endurance, also mobility. Rock climbing is amazing for your lats and your forearms and your body composition, but you'll be even more well rounded if you can also fit into martial arts training, even if that's just a couple of bag sessions on your own. My message has always been about integrating as many different training modalities as possible to get the best results. But I feel that can sound intimidating to some people, so if we frame it instead as simply training for movement, we'll find this happens naturally. Because movement requires strength, it requires mobility, it requires endurance, not as separate modalities but working in concert to produce dynamic and powerful action. And by the way, these ideas essentially form the entire concept behind my latest ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover. It's a training program that's designed to build a ripped and athletic physique as efficiently as possible, while purposefully leaving you with time and energy to incorporate mobility, endurance and even skills training. To develop that lean and capable physique we're discussing in a way that's fun and highly convenient and adaptable. Training that fits around your lifestyle and enhances it while making you look and feel awesome, so you can actually stick with it. It comes with 25 instructional training videos, multiple cheat sheets, anime inspired cue cards that you can save to your phone, a 200 plus page ebook and much more. It's currently on January sale for just a little bit longer, so check it out now in the description down below if you want to make use of that discount. 4. Start thinking strategically about how you're going to integrate things like mobility and cardio into your routine. You can, for example, stretch whilst watching TV or playing computer games. You've heard how I like to do kettlebell swings when the kettle's boiling, or try random handstands in the hall. And ever walk up the stairs, I always bound up them. You can also integrate mobility by training it during your rest times when strength training, if you select the right exercises. You can get more endurance by doing more strength endurance work, lifting weights at higher rep ranges. Stop thinking of movement as something you exclusively do at the gym. To make time for such a varied selection of activities, you need to start walking or jogging or cycling places. You could take up some more active hobbies, maybe get more proactive with playing with your kids. I'm not suggesting you force yourself to go for hour long runs, unless that's something you enjoy. But there are so many other fun things you can do that will provide that cardio and that can become part of your routine. 5. Increase your effort and efficiency. To accomplish all this, you can't leave yourself completely spent at the gym. That's where training smarter also becomes imperative, learning what your minimum effective dose is that the strength gains you need to support this more active lifestyle. That's why I encourage you to stop forcing yourself to grow as much as possible, as quick as possible, and to instead ask what's enough to help you reach your physique goals while still giving you energy to do everything else you want to do. If you can do this from home, even better. But this same logic also applies to your other activities. Again, you need to learn that stimulus so you can get results from whatever you're doing. As I said earlier, many people would be more than happy to have the physique of a swimmer, or a rock climber, or a surfer. But they're scared of training that way, and there are absolutely people who rock climb or swim regularly who are very skinny. The difference then, is how you train those things. When rock climbing becomes an intentional workout, and you apply the same muscle building knowledge to that activity, you can see some uniquely awesome results. And when you support that activity with workouts designed to emphasize those skills, while also offering balance to the rest of your body. These changes can seem daunting at first. But give it a try, and you might well feel and look better than you have done in years. With healthy, powerful, and free-flowing movement as your North Star. Bye for now. By the way guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace, as you likely already know, is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anyone to create their own website. You can have one up and running in minutes by using their AI tools to guide you through the process, or by selecting from one of their ready-made templates, and customizing it to your exact specifications. All of their websites are modern, fast, and reliable. So you know it will be up to whatever task you challenge it with. In fact, Squarespace already powers some of the biggest brands on the web. Once you have your website, you'll be able to customize it even further with a wide range of additional features and plugins. You can add a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes, appointment scheduling so that you can sell services online, search engine optimization to get your website to show up on Google, website analytics, and much more. To find out more, go to Squarespace.com, and when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace.com forward slash byoneer, and you'll get 10% off a domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys for sticking around until the end, and bye for now.