There are a lot of great reasons to get into health and fitness, but I'd say that building big muscles and getting six-pack abs probably don't break into the top three because we've got other things like reducing pain, increasing energy, and being able to do the things that we want to do better. But perhaps one of the most important benefits of exercise is improved mental health. Fitness is wonderful for improving confidence and mood and even improving outcomes for a number of mental health issues. But this is also a highly complex and nuanced topic and one that doesn't always receive the delicate treatment it demands here on YouTube. For fitness to have a beneficial impact on your mental health, it needs to be approached with that goal in mind. And likewise, it's very important that we recognize the limits of just what a fitness regime can do for us. In this video, I want to explore this topic in more depth and perhaps add a little more nuance to this important conversation. So, the main issue is with sweeping statements that frankly, and I'm sorry to say this, get my goat. All too often, I see fitness influencers claiming that working out can cure your depression. And with this also comes the implication that if you are depressed, it's because you're not working out hard enough, that it's somehow your fault. Without naming names, I get highly frustrated when I see YouTube videos telling people, "Of course you're depressed. You're overweight and lazy. You just need to pull yourself up by your bootstraps, start a training program, and gain confidence, an improved mood that will cure your malaise. As someone who has had indirect experience with depression, who has studied psychology at university, and who has been to therapy myself, I find this frankly dangerous and ignorant. I do understand that in many cases actually comes from the right place. We want to empower people to cure their own mental health and to get up and do something. And working out will certainly help with depression. It will improve your chances of recovery. and it can help with a number of other mental health issues as well. But likewise is a gross oversimplification that makes the terrible error of laying the blame at the feet of the afflicted. It also risks discouraging the viewer from seeking professional help. Remember, depression can be a life-threatening disease. There is still a lot of stigma surrounding it that can make it harder than necessary to seek help. Having someone tell you that you just need to work out and man up really isn't helpful in that scenario. The issue often comes from conflating depression with feeling a bit miserable. And to be fair, we all use the terms interchangeably from time to time. If you're just in a funk, then absolutely working out will help you to feel better. But if you have clinical depression, this is a far more complex condition and it can have a variety of causes, many of which we don't even fully understand. People telling you that it has been disproven in some way that a chemical imbalance may cause some cases of depression are simply misinformed on the subject. I also get extremely frustrated with this obsession with dopamine of hearing people explain depression as being a problem with the dopamine system. Again, this is a huge oversimplification and also largely nonsense. Dopamine has more to do with motivation and reward. There is no concrete evidence that using your mobile phone in any way breaks your dopamine system. The system itself is also far more complex than most videos would have you believe, with dopamine affecting the brain differently depending on which area of the brain it's being released in, having complex interplay with countless other neurotransmitters and hormones and being responsible for many more functions throughout the human body. Now, I could say something like, if you're feeling depressed, then you should probably watch some TV or something, but I mean that would be weak. So, I'm not going to do a fancy transition into the sponsor segment. I'm just going to say NordVPN is here. By the way guys, this video was sponsored by NordVPN. NordVPN is a VPN, that means it's a virtual private network, which is a tool you can use to protect your internet browsing. It works by letting you connect to a server located elsewhere, hiding your IP address and browsing activity from any near dowwells. One example of how this might protect your data is against a man-in-the-middle attack. This is an attack that can occur when you connect to a public Wi-Fi, like a coffee shop, and if someone nefarious happens to be connected to the same network, they can potentially listen in on your traffic. A VPN won't protect you from all kinds of snooping, but it can protect you from a lot. NordVPN can also be used to access region locked content or even to use timelimited services before the timer is up. And it comes with a host of additional features like threat protection, which automatically blocks malicious websites. And if you go to nordvpn.com/thebioner, you can get 4 months free on a 2-year plan and a 30-day money back guarantee. Generally, it is serotonin that is more implicated in cases of depression. Not only because it's linked with our mood, but also because it may help play a role in neuroplasticity and resistance to stress. Dopamine dysfunction is more closely related to anodonia and low motivation, which are symptoms associated with certain types of depression. But they are not depression itself. Gut brain interactions, inflammation, stress response, and more can all also play a role along with maladaptive thought patterns, genetics. Twin studies show us that some people are genetically more prone to depression, receptor sensitivity, trauma, the list goes on. So when someone tells you that your depression is definitely caused by low dopamine because of your modern lifestyle, this should immediately be a red flag that tells you they don't actually know what they're talking about. And if they then go on to tell you that using anti-depressants is a bad thing or that therapy can cause more harm than good and they feel they have the authority to say this because they what cured their own bad mood, watched a few YouTube videos that told them that or have big muscles. Those people need to stop talking. I'm not here telling you that I know everything about depression either. I'm just telling you that I know enough to know what I don't know and to know that you shouldn't take advice on mental health from fitness influencers other than to say get your advice from elsewhere. If it were that simple, then why do some people use social media and eat chips all day and still manage to be perfectly happy while others are rich and in immaculate shape and deal with severe depression? Just think about it for more than 2 minutes before making that short. Hm. People who make these claims have not experienced real depression, which is characterized by debilitating sadness, negative thoughts, extreme fatigue, low enthusiasm, and much more. I have not personally experienced depression myself, fortunately, but I have experienced intrusive thoughts and anxiety. When I was nine, I sadly lost my dad. Now I deal with some anxiety that a terrible event will once again come along and destroy the happy life that I've built. That's a fairly normal and understandable reaction, I would say. But what's less normal is the period I experienced where I would have intrusive thoughts. Thoughts of terrible things that could happen that would hit me when I least expected it and leave me emotionally roared. Now, I'm not telling you this as some kind of sob story. In all honesty, it didn't last that long. It wasn't that bad. Traces of it remaining, but on the whole are much better. On the whole, I'm a very happy guy and I'm very lucky. The reason I am saying this is because I want you to recognize the difference between a genuine mental health concern. That was my first experience with one and it made me realize it's not something you can just think your way out of or exercise your way out of. This is a real problem that needs to be treated as such. And I've seen others close to me struggle with issues of their own. Here are their full names. Jokes. Would exercise help in these cases? Yes, of course. Or at least it certainly wouldn't hurt. But to tell people that their mental health issues would be solved if only they would exercise shows a lack of empathy and understanding, and it's going to do a lot more harm than good. All this to say, if you're experiencing real depression, then yes, you should improve your health, but you should also speak with a professional. Now, I'm going to get to the bit where I say that fitness is amazing for mental health soon. I promise. I know I've been a bit of a Debbie Downer so far, but I also want to take this moment to say that fitness can actually have the opposite effect. And it can be very toxic, as I'm sure anyone who's been online is going to be all too aware. If you're training out of a disdain for your own body or appearance, if you place too much importance on getting a six-pack or getting to a three plate bench press, or if you pin all your hopes and dreams on getting the ideal body, that can do a number on your mental health. I always say on this channel that we should train to live and not live to train. And I think this is really important. Getting ripped won't win you the respect of the internet and your friends. It won't cure your low self-esteem or your confidence. Though, of course, it can help for sure. It won't turn you into a babe magnet. Honestly, the amount of respect you command usually has far more to do with your emotional intelligence and confidence than it does with abs. And anyone who needs to be respected all the time, who needs to be alpha, is exhausting. Don't be that guy. We talk about that guy behind his back. So, a lot of people have a knee-jerk reaction to body positivity. They think that it's celebrating mediocrity or even celebrating weakness. But this couldn't be further from the truth. It completely misses the point because having confidence in yourself and recognizing how truly remarkable your body is, no matter the case and what your unique strengths are, having your ego not so dependent on how often you get to the gym, this is a source of strength. What happens when you're injured or ill or you lose that physique? What happens when you meet someone stronger? What if you just have crappy gains? Because I'm sorry, some people are going to. If you're being told to grind and to train harder, to get that dream physique, that you should turn down nights out with friends, that you should never eat any junk food, that you should never skip the gym, that you should train when unwell or injured, that you should never enjoy a box of chocolates and a glass of wine with your wife on the sofa whilst watching goggle box one evening. I mean, to me, I have to ask, is that still health and fitness? Or is it sacrificing your own happiness and missing out on the very things that make life worth living for ultimately an arbitrary and temporary set of goals? And at this point, can you not see that a person who is already happy with their body is in many ways actually healthier in a lot of ways. Their fitness is not actively detracting from their experience, not dominating their every thought or their every waking moment. And I'm not saying that it's not a great thing. It's not noble to get into shape. I'm not saying that someone who's very out of shape or in bad health shouldn't do anything to improve themselves. I'm just saying that the people who we often hold up as the healthiest examples on the internet are often the ones who are the most deeply broken. And there's more to health than just how you look or even just how much you can bench. In the most extreme cases, this can lead to body dysmorphia. It can lead to eating disorders, bigexia, steroid abuse, or other harmful practices. If you take steroids, then you're literally destroying your health, risking death, even because you want to get more ripped or because you want to achieve some arbitrary goal at the gym that won't benefit you outside of bragging rights on forums. This isn't health. I wholeheartedly reject the notion that a little bit of testosterone is actually good for a lot of guys. Firstly, if you're not satisfied with what you can accomplish naturally, what makes you think you're going to be satisfied with being a mediocre steroid user? What's going to stop you just using more? It's just one cycle bro is a meme for a reason. Secondly, what using even a small amount of steroids or exogenous testosterone does is to alter the cycles of testosterone. It disrupts your hypothalamic pituitary gonadal access. Your body releases testosterone normally in response to various cues and in tandem with other cycles like your sleep wake cycle, your mood, eating, hunger, exercise. Exogenous testosterone flattens these natural peaks and troughs, which is why you might find yourself being angry at inappropriate times, struggling to sleep, and actually causing worse mental health issues, and doing long-term damage, even if it's just marginal. What you've lost is that nuance, that sensitivity, and those allimportant cycles. And this is why I said recently that steroids are bad for performance, that they're not truly performance-enhancing, that they're not functional, which is something that some angry viewers didn't fully understand. I'm saying if your natural cycles are completely disrupted, how are you claiming to be performing better? Surely, it's more important that your health just functions normally, then you can just lift slightly more on a specific lift. And unfortunately, our constant exposure to enhanced physiques and angry people telling us that benching free plates is average or whatever, it's just not helping at this point. They're just so far detached from reality. And I should take this moment to say that I'm again not saying that exogenous testosterone has no place for anyone. But before you buy it from dodgy Joe just because some guy with a red face told you on the internet that you should, you should consult with your doctor. Hormone replacement therapy is a useful treatment in some cases, but it should be considered as a last resort and it should certainly be done under the strict supervision of a professional. But now the good stuff because all these same points can be turned on their head and they can help to explain why exercise is so miraculous for our mental health when approached in the right way. Exercise, for example, does increase natural testosterone production in an endogenous way, meaning that your body is producing it and those natural cycles are enhanced, not disrupted. And this can reduce symptoms of depression in some cases for some guys, especially if you currently experience low testosterone. Exercise also helps you to sleep better, improving your mood and your body's natural rhythms in that way. And it encourages other positive health practices like a better diet, better hydration, better recovery. Exercise also increases dopamine, and seeing yourself progress at something you've stuck to is great for giving you a sense of purpose and of structure. In the short term, exercise also boosts endorphins. This is what we call the runner's high. But it also rapidly increases serotonin production, and it lowers stress hormones such as cortisol. Remember how I said that inflammation, gut health, and brain plasticity may also play roles in depression? Well, exercise has been shown to improve all those things. Exercise is particularly good for brain plasticity, for example, and exercise will give you a better physique, indirectly improving your confidence. You have more energy to do the things you want to do, reduced chronic pain. Fixing your body is one of the greatest ways then to help optimize your mind. But like all things, it works best in moderation and when you remove the insane pressure to measure up to internet weirdos. To be clear, benching three plates is incredibly impressive statistically. So, how do we get the very most from exercise in terms of our mental health? Well, exercise works best in this capacity when you make sure it's fun. When it's regular, but not so taxing as to leave you exhausted and broken. When you're doing it for you and enjoying the progress, but not to the point where you make ridiculous sacrifices. And you can get even more from a mental health perspective if you keep trying new things and experimenting with different sports and exercise styles and keep it varied. If you exercise with friends or play sports, even better if you get outside and if you use all of your senses in the context of an open skill. Exercise is amazing for your mental health. Just be normal about it. So guys, I hope you found that useful and interesting. Something a bit different as always. If you did, then please leave a like and share around. Subscribe if you want to see more. All helps me out massively. Let me know in the comments how exercise has helped your mental health and what you think. And I'll see you next time. Bye for now.