This video is sponsored by Squarespace, the powerful website building tool. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special offer they're making available through my channel. Fitness is for everybody. Whether you're an old lady who wants to reduce pain and improve mobility so that you can better play with your grandkids, or you're a young guy who wants to look like Superman. Heck, maybe you're an old lady who wants to look like Superman, in which case, nice. The point is, everyone can benefit from reducing pain, reducing the likelihood of illness, getting stronger, looking better, and having more physical freedom to experience more of life. That's why I love functional fitness as a concept. It's about training in a way that best supports your individual goals and lifestyle, something that only you can determine. Whoever you are, and whatever it is you want to do, it becomes better if you're fitter. if you can do it with more energy, more strength, more mobility. For parents, that might mean playing with the kids more, waking up less tired, leading by example. For artists and performers, it might mean expressing yourself through your body. For students, it might mean a sharper brain, better learning, and more vitality to enjoy life outside of studies. Fitness can help you age more gracefully, excel in your career, thrive in sports, build confidence, and have incredible adventures. It can even help you live longer. Sometimes people ask me why I don't do female superhero workouts on this channel. I haven't done Wonder Woman for the same reason I haven't done Superman. What would I talk about? How to fly? And I haven't done Catwoman because it would be the same as Batman. The rules of building muscle, speed, reflexes, and endurance don't change for men versus women. If a woman wants to, there's nothing to stop her from training like Batman. And I did. I made a Black Widow workout because there was an interesting angle there, the ballet stuff. But men can watch and enjoy that too by the very same ticket. And men can benefit just as much from ballet. It's an incredible workout. All of these videos are for everybody. I hope that's clear. I think that's something worth highlighting though. At the moment with algorithms working the way they do, there's a very particular kind of fitness influencer who tends to rise to the top and be constantly pushed in our faces. either the extremely muscular, good-looking guys or the petite women who are toned but not too muscular. There's nothing wrong with that, per se, but it's just one expression of fitness, one way you can be and it won't resonate with everyone. If we want to reach as many people as possible, we need to be explicit in saying fitness is for all of us and it can take any form you like. It should be for every kind of body. Nobody has the complete package. Nobody is perfect in every aspect of their health. And what matters most to each person is an individual choice. And the idea that someone should be afraid to go to the gym or share their progress online for the fear of being ashamed is entirely contrary to what the fitness community should be about. It should be about lifting each other up. That's why it's important we keep sending the message that fitness is for all of us and everyone is invited to the party. Whether you're big or small, man or woman, thin or fat, straight, gay, by, trans, non-binary, black, white, Asian, mixed race, rich, poor, able, disabled, young, old, Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist, neurotypical, neurode divergent, tall or short, whether you had a Sega Genesis growing up or a Super Nintendo. In fact, the only people who aren't welcome on my channel are the ones who would try and gatekeep fitness, the ones shaming others, the bigots. Those people, they can right off. Those people aren't strong. They are weak and insecure. Don't engage with them when you see them in the comments. Don't debate them. If you have to intellectualize your cruelty, and that's all it is, cruelty. Be strong enough to be kind. >> If you're going to be a hero, be a real hero. Don't be a Hollywood hero type with all the BS and all the yelling and screaming and trying to be tough. Be strong enough to be gentle. This video was at least partly inspired by some posts I saw from Coach Taran from different breed coaching where he discussed the open bigotry coming from some of the top creators in fitness with the biggest platforms. It's not everyone by any stretch, just a couple of bad actors. But it often goes unchallenged and this creates a trickle down effect that results in a more toxic attitude in comments and across social media fitness. That can make the fitness community feel like a hostile place, especially if you don't fit a certain mold. And all this means is that fewer people take up fitness. We need to balance that message out and set a better tone. And maybe point out the irony that that kind of behavior just looks so weak. They believe that strength and fitness is only for a certain type of person. They believe that being strong and athletic is about dominating other people. And really, strength and fitness is about freedom and expression. It belongs to everyone because movement is human. In fact, movement is life. Seems I'm having one of my pretentious days again. You should check out Taran's page, by the way. It's insanely cool, and his abilities put me to absolute shame. But here's the take-home message. If you're looking at fitness in YouTube and thinking that's not for me, then remember that's just one kind of fitness, just one kind of fitness that's not for you. If the gym doesn't feel like the most welcoming place, or you find lifting weights boring, remember that you don't need the gym. If you're a guy, you don't have to have a huge bench press. If you're a girl, you don't need to spend 90% of your workouts training just your glutes. Fitness can mean choosing to walk more, doing calisthenics from home, taking up a sport or a hobby you enjoy, dancing, juggling, learning hand balancing, yoga, or doing keepy ups with a football. It's a terrible shame that fitness has been painted to be this grueling, difficult, and intrinsically boring thing that has been linked to pushing yourself to your limits with repetitive movements with zero fun self-expression. Fitness should be play. Literally, sports are fitness and sports are play. Climbing and jumping is fitness. Playgrounds are just gyms. Gyms are just playgrounds. Don't run on a road for 30 minutes going so far and fast that you sweat an ache and your body is screaming to stop. Not if that's not what you want to do. Jogging can actually be really fun if you slow down the pace, look around as you go, explore new places, stop and climb things, or throw things. For more traditional fitness, there are countless exercises you can do that offer more fun and variety that can be done with zero equipment and that aren't punishingly difficult. If you can't do a push-up, try doing push-ups with your hands against the sofa or a wall. Find that too boring? Do it while watching TV. Or better yet, introduce some variety by bringing your knees up, altering the tempo, or moving along the sofa as you go. There should be no barriers to fitness. Just move your body. And for those of us a little further along in our fitness journey, our job is to help as many people discover the fun and freedom of fitness as we can. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. As you'll likely know by now, Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it easy for anyone to build a website and bring their ideas to life. To get started, you can pick from a wide range of templates and then customize them to your heart's content. The result is a fully functional website that you can build in minutes with no coding knowledge and one that looks modern and beautiful and that is optimized to work well on any device. From there, you can add countless additional features with ease. That includes e-commerce tools with inventory management, global shipping, and more. A fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes. Search engine optimization to get your website to the top of Google so more people can find it. Analytics to help you see who's viewing your pages and for how long. Social media integration, appointment scheduling for selling services, beautiful formatting tools, and so much more. If you want to find out more, then go to squarespace.com or go to squarespace.com/bioner to get 10% off a website or domain. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video and for their incredible support over the last several years. Bye for now.