Looking around YouTube, you tend to notice that it's the same exercises and the same concepts and ideas being shared time and time again. There's tutorials on how to squat properly, bench press, curling, running, losing weight, and this is all great stuff, but it's kind of tired at this point. There's only so many videos I can watch on how to build six-pack abs. And it's a shame when there are so many awesome exercises out there that in many cases are actually more fun and enjoyable and which can build types of strength and performance that often get overlooked. In particular, in this video then I want to share with you four exercises that no one ever talks about, you never really see shared, but which can build amazing performance, functional performance, turn you into a better athlete, a better mover in what I think are some profound ways. and they're fun and they still build strength and muscle. Bear crawl on a railing. So, crawling itself is a phenomenal exercise that I've discussed adnauseium on this channel. Not only do crawl variations train the core, shoulders, and even quads and glutes as you aim for distance. Not only do they develop better breathing and wrist mobility, they also build propriception, balance, and coordination. As contrateral movements, crawls require you to move your left arm and right foot simultaneously, a movement pattern that we need for countless other athletic endeavors. But if you want to take this to the next level, then try performing crawls on a narrow beam or railing. When you do this, you massively increase the stability challenge as you need to try and keep your body balanced on the narrow surface. You'll do this primarily by using your grip. You'll need to twist the bar left and right to prevent overbalancing. This is not just a bit of fun. Practice this for a while and your forearms will feel like they're on fire and you'll gain a tremendous pump in your arms. And that's what I really want to convey. You can try movements like this that are fun, challenging, and engaging and still get an amazing workout. You don't have to choose. Of course, you'll need to be even more aware of your body in space. You'll need to keep your arms and feet in line, and you should also try to focus on keeping your spine neutral and your body relaxed. It might seem counterintuitive, but the more you tense up, the more likely you are to fall off. Make sure you're safe when practicing this movement. Perform with a spotter, ideally, and start on something low and wide. You can actually purchase balance beams on Amazon or eBay, and these work perfect for this. And there are plenty of fun variations, too. Try going backwards for a real challenge, or standing up from the crawling position. And as you become more confident doing this, imagine what kind of balance, stability, and movement confidence you are developing. Crawling like this is a tool used by parkour athletes and the likes of Gores Haber and Ido Portal. It is one of the staples of movement training. Masai jumping. And now we take a trip to Kenya and northern Tanzania to visit the Masai tribe. This nomadic tribe is known for being able to jump extremely high and in some cases higher than even proathletes. This is thanks to a ceremonial dance they perform called adumu or iiggus. I'm probably saying that completely wrong. Also known as the jumping dance or masai jumping. I featured this movement recently in my video on leg training, but I wanted to come back to it as it's such a fascinating concept. Essentially, massage jumping involves leaping up and down on the spot, keeping the torso vertical, and only somewhat flexing at the knees and ankles. You're bending the ankles and the knees just enough to absorb impact, but without the usual amortization phase. You're not dipping down into deep squat and leaping up like we usually associate with vertical jumping. Better yet, if you can avoid doing an arm pump. The reason I wanted to come back to this is that it's actually a profoundly excellent form of training that deserves far more credit and I think widespread use. As functional coach JC Santana explains, being able to jump in sports is not about generating power from a deep squat. It's about being able to rebound energy from the ground. When we're playing sports, we jump off of one foot while running and we hardly flex at the knees at all. So it's not as much about being able to generate force from nothing as it is about translating power, translating energy upwards. And the same is true for sprinting. Studies show there is actually very little in the way of ankle dorsif flexion when we sprint. The foot stays pretty much still thanks to an isometric contraction in the calf and the energy comes from the ankle stiffness and the fascia rebounding off the ground. And that's exactly what you're training when you jump like this. People argued with me when I presented this, but just look at these guys. It speaks for itself. They are not doing heavy squats. They're not doing complicated Voshansky depth jumps. They're just bouncing up and down the spot. And they can jump so high it's borderline superhuman. And you can do this anywhere with no equipment. And it's fun. What's more is you'll be training a bunch of other stuff this way, too. It's great for your posture, for example. The impact will build massive amounts of bone density. Now, of course, leaping up and down like this without bending your legs is a lot of impact. And if you go straight into this, especially if you have any existing issues, then you'll possibly risk injury. I therefore recommend highly starting with smaller jumps. Jumping rope is a great option. And if you're more interested in the health benefits rather than the athletic effects, you can use rebounding on a small trampoline instead. Trust me on this. Otherwise, you're going to have sore shins and ankles for a while. I'm going to keep training with this one, and I'll let you know how it goes and if it makes any improvement. Something else you'll notice when watching the Messiah tribe is that they are practicing their jumping with bare feet. This increases the challenge, but means it's actually the tendons and the structure of the feet doing the work rather than springy soles. It's also actually safer as they're able to feel the ground underfoot and adjust the position of the ankle accordingly. This is why I always advocate for shoes that mimic going barefoot, like today's sponsor, Vivo Barefoot. Vivo Barefoot make what I think are the very best barefoot shoes around thanks to their awesome and varied designs, range of styles, durable materials, sustainable sourcing, and incredible comfort. I now only wear shoes from Vivo Barefoot because I know they'll let me move so much more athletically. I simply cannot balance on a railing anywhere near as well when I'm wearing regular shoes because there's practically a huge wedge of foam between my foot and the bar. Vivos feel significantly more comfortable than other shoes and I never feel like I need to take them off as soon as I get in. And I love knowing that any movements I perform are all me. I'm not relying on a huge heel lift to cheat my way into a deep squat or a pistol squat which leaves so many people with tight calves. Anything I can do in vivos I can do under any circumstances. And Bioner viewers can get 20% off a pair of Vivo Barefoot shoes by using code Bioner 20 at checkout. Thanks again to Vivo Barefoot for sponsoring this video. And now on with the show. Rope climbing. Here's another exercise I've discussed before, but a long time ago. Rope climbing is one of the most challenging and effective ways to build grip strength, bicep strength, core strength, and lat strength. It's also a ton of fun. There's a good reason you don't see this exercise that much, which is that it's not terribly convenient or practical for a lot of people. That said, it's also not quite as difficult to set up as you might think. You can find a short rope on Amazon easy enough. They're not expensive. And then use a knot or a carabiner to attach it to a pull-up bar or tree branch. Loop the rope through itself to secure it or attach it to an eyelet. You can even use towels or a bed sheet or a rope swing in the woods somewhere. I mean, this setup is far from perfect. It's not high enough from the ground. It's a bit close to the wall. Most people, if you have some kind of pull-up bar, it's probably going to give you a little bit more clearance. But even with this, you can make do. And if you take it out somewhere where there's a tree branch that you can trust, then you know, sky's is the limit. From there, the aim is to move one hand over the other as you climb. If you only have a short distance, you can climb just a little way up and then back down. Either way, you're maintaining constant pressure on the biceps and the grip while again using a lot of coordination. This will build massive strength, endurance, tendon strength, and grip strength, which both lend themselves to the kind of practical strength that translates to labor, rock climbing, grappling, and more. Train for time, and this also becomes a matter of energy and breath management. If you want to use your legs, you can experiment with using a hook grip or other methods. Or you can make this an arm only exercise. If you also lift the legs into an LSIT, it becomes more of a full body movement. If you only climb up and then drop down, it becomes a concentric only exercise. And likewise, if you only climb down and then jump up, it becomes a eccentric only exercise. What I really like to do is climb up to my pull-up bar, then climb around the pull-up bar, and then back down. It just challenges the body at so many more different angles as compared with just performing repetitive pull-ups. And again, it's a lot more fun. Again, be safe. You can use a spotter, and there's no need to go high off the ground to start with. Precision broad jump. The precision broad jump is another exercise I've touched on in the past, but never featured in depth. This is a forward leap with an added challenge, landing on a small target in front of you. I like to do this by placing two small towels opposite one another. This is an explosive exercise that once again builds a kind of jumping that we actually use as opposed to the artificial vertical leap. That's because very often we jump forwards rather than upwards, whether crossing a gap or jumping over an obstacle. This movement also works slightly different muscles as compared with jumping directly upwards. Specifically, it places more emphasis on the quads as you lean forwards more. Of course, you're not only building strength, but also challenging your precision, your ability to gauge power, and to aim for a landing. There are some specific tips to help you do this. For example, make sure that you try to land as quietly as possible by fully absorbing the impact with your legs. You should end up almost squatting. This will help you to avoid overbalancing. It will prevent jarring the knees and it will make this a more intense exercise. After each rep, jump up, spin round, and repeat in the opposite direction. Again, just like the crawl, this looks like a fun movement, but it is in fact a highly challenging exercise that will build strength and size. If you use it correctly, the key is to perform lots of reps and to keep landing softly into that position. All those squats on your toes build up and you start to really feel a decent burn by the end. Do three sets of 10 or three sets of 15 and you will feel this. And do the crawls after and you'll know all about it in the quads. There are countless variations on this movement too. From jumping onto a raised platform as you become more confident to continually jumping forward or how about jumping with a twist, maybe jumping between multiple targets in different directions. So there you go guys, there are some exercises that nobody talks about, but which can build incredible functional performance and build strength and muscle and which are a ton of One.