This video was sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. So, people in the comments have been asking me to make a video based on Guts from Berserk for a while now. I was reluctant at first because I hadn't actually read or watched Berserk, and I normally don't read things that are quite that dark, but with so many recommendations, I decided to give it a go. And I'm glad I did because not only is it a really deep dive into psychological trauma, a really disturbing but interesting world, one that has a lot of Dark Souls DNA in it. But Guts himself is also a perfect candidate for one of these videos because he's a really interesting physical specimen. He's a huge built thick tank-like man who swings a gigantic sword around his head. The dragon slayer. And I love when an artist intuitively understands what the physique should look like based on their functional performance. Guts doesn't have a skinny bodybuilder waist. He isn't petite in any regard. He has a thick waist with thick servitus muscles and obliques perfect for supporting such a huge weight and driving the momentum to swing it around his head. More than that, he's also a testament to human will, grit, and determination in the same way that Bruce Wayne is. So, in this video, I'm going to see what else we can learn from Guts and how you can train to get a physique that not only looks like Guts, but performs like him as well. I'm a serious man with children in the business. By the way, the first thing that's really interesting about Guts's performance profile is the way he swings around his gigantic sword, the Dragon Slayer. And as I learned by watching a video from Super Eye Patch Wolf, that sword actually has really interesting character significance that also teaches us a interesting training principle, that being progressive overload. Because you see, the reason that Guts swings around such a massive sword is because when he was being trained as a child by Gambino, who was a really bad man, he wasn't given the luxury of a sword to suit his size as a child. He was given an adult sword to train with. This showed just how little Gambino cared for Guts. But it was also what made him such a formidable warrior because of course learning to swing such a large sword gave him that superior strength. And as he got older, he maintained that progressive overload by continuing to get a larger and larger sword until he was swinging around something like this. a great symbol of his determination and a great example of how he can gradually increase resistance to increase our strength. And meanwhile, what we can also think of this as a great example of is specificity. If you want to get better at swinging really heavy things around your head, then you should swing really heavy things around your head. In our case, if you want to have functional real strength that transfers to movements like lifting heavy objects or swinging things around, throwing, fighting, hitting, then you really need to be moving in the rotational plane and ideally with some form of resistance. This is where so much of modern training really falls short. We constantly move in just the sagittal plane. That means straight up and straight down. It means forwards and backwards. We squat, we curl, we press, but we very rarely twist, turn, or do anything like that. And we add increasingly large amounts of axial load to our spines to the point where we actually become stiff and rigid in that plane of motion so that when we want to twist and rotate to generate that power, it's not there. Not only can we not generate that power, but we can't even move in that way. This is something I discovered when I switched to a more functional training style and it's something that lately Nima Inyang has been talking about an awful lot on his channel. He's an incredible example of this as a powerlifter who has added to his training things like rope flow, kettle bell flows, and now moves like liquid in all planes of motion. In one of his videos, he showed the stereotypical clip of a bodybuilder walking down the street with barely any swing in his hips, no contrlateral movement. And we all know this to be true. A lot of people fight against this because they don't want to think that their powerlifting careers, their bodybuilding careers, whatever else it is, haven't catered to every part of human performance, but that's not a dig on those endeavors. It's just to say that no one training modality does everything. So, if you truly want to move like guts, then you need to add these rotational movements. Now, I've been using things like kettle bells to do this. And this club bell, I'm pretty useless with the club bell. Highly recommend you go and watch Mark Wildman's channel for better advice on that. But I really like things like the Atlas swings and the windmills that let me swing things around and really feel the bracing in my core. But it's also about getting into flow, learning the positions you need to gain that structure, that leverage to wield such a heavy weight and control the momentum. So I actually don't recommend that most people do the clubbell windmill. It's definitely more advanced move. I'm not great at it. More to the point, if you accidentally hit your legs on the way around, you're going to really know about it. But it is a cool exercise if you do feel confident. And why I included it here was to demonstrate just what this kind of training does for your core. When you swing that massive thing around, you feel it throughout the entire cause. You have to prevent yourself prevent your ribs from flaring, your back from extending. You need to stop yourself moving side to side. There's so much tension in the core. And it's changing all the time. And it's actually a really great core workout. So this is what this kind of training can do for you. And there are many easier options. For example, with a kettle bell, you can do halos, which are pretty simple really. And again, you feel it in the core as you try and prevent your ribs from flaring as it goes around. And you feel it in the rotational and transverse planes, too. And it's a great stretch on the lats. You feel it in the triceps. And you can do it for high reps to build that wonderful strength endurance. Builds grip as well. Actually, Jack's Blade, my buddy, made a video on Guts training using a real dragon slayer sword. Obviously, not a real dragon slayer sword, but someone built for him a huge sword that looked like a dragon slayer and was actually heavy. And in some shorts, you can watch him training with it. And he actually says it trains muscles he didn't even know he had. And I think that's a perfect way to think about this sort of training. If you're not moving like this, you're not getting those sorts of benefits. So, start easy. Do halos. do at the swings with a kettle bell. You can't really get that too wrong. Make sure you're driving the movement with your glutes. There's loads and loads of options. Just make sure you're moving rotationally. Make sure you're lifting awkward objects that have momentum. As you can see, like I say, I'm no expert, but I still can benefit from these things. Those movements are technically pretty simple. Also, like the cross body kettle bell swing, but you can use things like sledgehammer training. You can use just martial arts practice. Hit a heavy bag. Of course, if you really want to move like guts, then you should actually learn sword fighting of some sort. You could do hammer, for example, or even roleplay. I know people like to put on armor and swing their swords around. I think today this is about as much roleplay as I'm willing to do. But the point is that if you really want to move like the character, then you should add those skills as well. And I'm actually a big advocate for this, for adding skills on top of your training. Martial arts training will get you a lot of the way. You know, striking practice and even grappling. Again, you're moving in those rotational planes, developing power that way and mobility and developing your footwork, which is also exceptionally important for a sword fighter. Pile off presses, even one arm push-up, wood chopper with a cable machine. There are so many movements you can do in the rotational plane. And at the very least, I recommend you do some mobility in the rotational plane. Things like one of my favorites, the crab reach. Fantastic for opening up the entire anterior chain, but also for getting that rotation movement in there. do this stuff and over time you'll be able to move powerfully in that rotational plane. One more point is that bodybuilders will actually intentionally not train like this sometimes. That's because they believe that training in the rotational plane this way is going to build big obliques given a thicker looking waist. They think that this is less aesthetic. I don't understand why what we have chosen as the male beauty standard is to have a petite little waist. It just doesn't seem to add up with the whole masculine aesthetic. Of course, look however you want. I'm all for that. But I do think that if you want to look powerful, it makes sense to have some of your most powerful muscles bulked up, not to intentionally keep some of them smaller. And if we're trying to look like guts, well then, yeah, like I said at the start of this video, he has a thick waist. And that's great because that's what you should look like if you want this kind of power and strength. I carried that kettle bell and that clubbell so far just to be able to do the exercises in front of this little castle. It's a big workout in itself. But carries, that's a great one for strengthening your grip and your core movement. I will say as well that you do need some endurance, some cardio. That's another reason why things like kettle bells are so good for us if we want to move functionally like these characters because they lend themselves so well to that kind of in between zone between strength and endurance where you're swinging or lifting something for a longer period of time for high high reps. And as I've said so many times on this channel, that's what you need if you want to move and perform like these characters. You know, Guts can't just be really strong for one swing. He got to carry that sword around all day and then he's got to have massive long fights with demons that keep getting back up every time he knocks them down. In real life, whatever the situation, you don't just need one burst of strength. You need strength endurance. Whether it's sports, whether it's labor, whether it's play, whatever it is, you need to be strong for a long period of time. So, don't forget that aspect of your training. And actually, carries, loaded carries are a perfect way to do this. I highly recommend picking up a kettle bell, picking up a club bell, just go for a walk down your road. Such an awesome way to train and you'll feel like Guts with his massive sword because a club bell isn't really that far removed. And then on top of this, you just add whatever your choice of strength training is, whether that's something like powerlifting, of course, bodybuilding, calisthenics, whatever it may be, so that you have that base of power and you still have that strength in those other planes. Don't forget frontal plane, moving side to side as well. Finally, the other aspect of Gut that's really interesting from a training standpoint is his iron will and determination. In the story, he goes through like just the worst stuff, but he always finds that resolve and that grit to carry on. I think that training helps us do this because it encourages us to keep on pushing when we start to feel fatigued, feel that discomfort, and especially when you're training with higher rep ranges with strength endurance type stuff, it really challenges you to keep on going and to quiet that voice telling you to stop. But the other aspect of Guts's psychology that becomes interesting later on is when he gets the berserk armor. This is a suit of armor that turns off the natural inhibitions that prevent us from tapping into our full strength, giving him access to more power, speed, athleticism. At the same time, it will literally pin together broken bones and joints and seal wounds so that he can keep fighting even when he should have stopped long ago, pushing past human limits. This is a really interesting concept because actually it might be based on real ideas. Of course, you've probably heard of the Viking warriors, the Berserkers, and they are thought to have done something similar, biting into their shields, ripping off their shirts, and fighting like lunatics with access to insane strength and power. Some people think they use some sort of hallucinogenic herb to get this way. Others think they used rituals and chants. But either way, it's very possible that something like this really happened. And we now hear urban legends of mothers lifting cars off of their trapped children. When you're in a real fight orflight situation, you can turn off those natural dampeners, those inhibitors, and access more strength, and you can numb pain. Adrenaline is known to do this, gain super focus. It's very possible that this is what was happening with those berserker warriors. And today we try and tap into something similar in the gym. Not necessarily by using hallucinogens or by biting our shields or throwing off our clothes, although I have been known to take my top off. Rather by using things like caffeine and stimulants. And this is how we can access a little bit more strength. But I want to end on a word of caution because of course like many of these things, guts isn't entirely an aspirational character. I mean, no one would want to trade places with guts. The point of the berserk armor is that it comes at a heavy cost to great price because when he uses it, he's putting his body at risk. The same thing kind of happens if you rely on huge doses of caffeine. You're pushing your body past the limit that it's supposed to have. And if you're feeling too tired and lethargic or achy or sore to train, maybe there's a good reason for that. If your one rep max is 130 and caffeine can get you to 135, maybe you don't need the caffeine. Maybe you're fine training at 130. Because in real life, optimal performance comes from being in the right state of mind at the right time. Being able to access that extra strength when you want it by focusing, by psying yourself up. This is what true mental performance is about when it comes to sports and athleticism. And at the same time to then be able to calm yourself down to get back into a parasympathetic state so that you can recover. This is where things like meditation can come in handy and self-t talk, metacognition. And this is far more powerful than using things like supplements and caffeine to get an egg. I guess what I'm saying is although it's fun to act stoic and moody and walk around a castle wearing a cape and a sword, we all do it, right? We also shouldn't glorify strife and misery. We shouldn't push ourselves for the sake of it. Sustainable training is far more important than forcing ourselves through hell for a few hours a week. And we certainly shouldn't judge others who aren't grinding for six-pack abs or whatever it is. It's fun as an aesthetic, but you aren't training to overcome horrors. You're training to support the things you want to do in life. And hopefully because it's fun. I mean, maybe you can tell. But I had a brilliant time filming this. For those of you calling me a hobbit in the comments, this isn't going to strengthen my case. I'm 5'8, guys. I'm not tiny. I'm not massive, but I'm not tiny. The lady doth the test too much. Anyways guys, thank you very much for watching this one. I hope you found it useful and interesting. I will be leaving a basic guts workout free to download in the description below. It's also flashing up on the screen now. Just want to screenshot that. Of course though, if you're really interested in training this way and getting all of these benefits, things like rotational strength, strength endurance, as well as things like max strength and mobility, then that's the point of my ebook and training program, Superfunctional Training 2.0. Basically, to train every aspect of your performance all at once in a single program, so you don't have to choose. Yeah. Now guys, there's also a big discount on Superfunctional Training 2.0. You can get it for just $15 in the summer sale. That'll be in the link in the description down below as well. By the way guys, thank you so much for watching this one and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. So Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get their own website up and running in a matter of minutes and with zero coding skills necessary. You can either use their new AI tools to have a completely bespoke website up and running in minutes with just a few prompts, or you can select from one of their ready-made templates and then customize it to your heart's content. Either way, the end result is a website that looks extremely modern, responsive, beautiful, and professional. And from there, you can start adding features and plugins to your heart's content. They have everything you possibly need. A fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes. They have e-commerce solutions with inventory management and global shipping. social media integration. They have search engine optimization so you can make sure your website gets to the top of Google and stays there so more people find your site. They have appointment scheduling so that if you sell a service, you can manage that for your website as well. Literally, the sky's is the limit. So, if you're interested, head to squarespace.com and when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/bioner and you'll get 10% off a website or domain. I highly recommend Squarespace. is the easiest way to get started with a website and I think everybody should have a website because it just opens up so many opportunities. Squarespace have been a fantastic sponsor for me over the years. So, a huge thanks to them. Another huge thanks to you guys.