 ect. As many of you know, I used to make a special video at the end of each year where I would break down how to train like Batman. And each year, this would represent the culmination of everything I'd learned so far, my attempt to optimize human performance through training based on all of the new things I'd discovered. A couple of years ago, I took that to the limit by teaming up with some of the biggest names in functional training to create an ultimate workout. Based on all of their ideas, we had contributions from J.C. Santana, Neezva Toes Guy, Jax Blade, Grant Stevens, Brett Contreras, Liam Ellis, I wasn't sure how to top that one, so I took some time away from the tradition. And I promised I'd make another Batman video when we reached 1 million subscribers. But I get comments daily asking for more. This is not that 1 million subscriber video, clearly, but it is a spin-off based on a spin-off Batman series, one that has had massive impact on the comics, one that takes the very concept of Batman to a whole other ridiculous level. Batman, only metal. It's time to learn how to train like absolute Batman. Graphic Batman is an alternative Batman story set in the absolute universe written by Scott Snyder. This version of Batman has a few key differences. Firstly, he and his world are far more brutal. There's far more graphic violence and he strikes fear into the hearts of his enemies by dismembering them, maiming them and injuring them for life. He's far more ruthless than regular Bruce Wayne. And this in some ways, I guess, is more realistic. At the same time, this version of Bruce Wayne wasn't born into wealth. He can't rely on his family's huge fortune in order to create any gadget he can dream of. That means he needs to be more resourceful, more tactical when taking out his opponents. He still has gadgets, like a giant axe, but they're far more rough and ready than the sorts of things we're used to seeing him using. Finally, this version of Batman is an absolute unit, pun intended. He's 6 foot 9 inches, which would put him in the top 0.01% of the population, if not even rarer. On top of this, he weighs 191kg and he's made of pretty much pure muscle. He doesn't have quite the extensive training as regular Batman, but he makes up for it with his brute size and brute strength. Now of course, it's going to change the way that he approaches training and this is actually reflected quite well in the story. In my previous videos, breaking down how he might train like Batman, I've always discussed how actually massive strength and size shouldn't be a number one priority. Far more important to things like endurance, tactical thinking and skills of course, like martial arts, parkour. Most people who set out to be Batman aren't going to struggle because they're not strong enough, they're going to struggle because they can't throw a punch, they can't climb onto a roof, they get cold quickly, they get tired quickly. However, we can't take that same approach here because with absolute Batman, there's no getting around the fact that he's all about strength and size. If we want to train like him, we're going to need to do the same. He has to adapt to his immutable traits and that's something that we all need to consider when deciding what kind of build we want to pursue. If you're really small, then obviously you're not going to become as big as absolute Batman, you might be better suited to becoming a sprinter or a more agile build. If you're really big, then you can lean into this kind of training. It's really up to you. Do you want to chase your weak points and bring them up and become that way more of an all-rounder or do you want to become a specialist by leaning on your natural advantages as Bruce Wayne has done here? Something I've always liked to do is to find someone who's a similar height and build to myself, who has a similar skill set to myself, but who's ahead of me and use that as an inspiration. That's an example of the best that I can be personally. For me, that's Jackie Chan. For some of you, six foot nine monsters out there, it's going to be absolute Bruce Wayne. With that said, the title of this video is Train Like Absolute Batman. So we're going to set out to build the kind of size and strength that absolute Bruce Wayne demonstrates while still having some functional performance. And that's where the challenge is really going to lie. So really, this is our challenge. How do we build a physique like Absolute Batman? How do we get that big and massive while still being able to run, jump across rooftops, kick high, punch fast, move fluidly? These are things he still needs to be able to do, and he certainly does in the comics. Thankfully, the answer lies within the law of Batman. So, see nearly every incarnation of Batman involves Bruce Wayne going away for a time and then returning to Gotham, having gone on a journey of self discovery and training. And it's during this window that can range from three to eight years that he becomes the Batman physically and mentally. In Absolute Batman, it's a little bit different. A lot of his training is done in Gotham. He trains martial arts with Waylon. He spends time in the criminal underworld in order to learn how it operates with Selena. He also spends time as a college football player. Very different from the classic Batman, but what we still have here is a timeline, a period of time in which to become the Batman. And this is what I'm interested in. It's periodized training, but on a larger scale. So many people start off training and they're interested in building some muscle and they want it as quickly as possible. So many people get impatient trying to build abs or trying to build biceps because it's going to take them months or maybe a year. But when training to become Batman, we need to think in terms of years, possibly even a decade, and it's going to be a lifetime of honing. And this is an attitude that we can bring to any training. What I'm interested in is spending a period of time, years, building massive strength, a period of time, years, building skills and performance, a period of time, building cardio and endurance. And this is what would allow us to actually build a physique like Batman. For example, if you just want to build the kind of strength and power of a power lifter, then of course any basic power lifting program will have you covered. That will give you the tree trunk legs, the powerful core and the grip strength and the neural drive to just generate force, especially if you're committed and you have lots of time to dedicate to your training recovery. But if you try and learn martial arts skills at the same time, you're going to struggle because you're going to run into the interference effect. The amount of effort you're going to need to put into your lifting at the start is going to mean you don't have much recovery capacity to then be able to kick high. Doing a day of heavy squats and then a day of roundhouse kicks to the head is practically impossible. And sequencing here is important. If you train for massive strength first and then try and do martial arts on top of that, you're going to find that that muscle, that bulk, makes it harder for you to move. You will have lost mobility. You'll have learned to move only one plane of motion. Some people get confused and think that building massive muscle means you can't run fast. You can't kick high. This isn't true if you can control your body. But the point is this is harder to learn when you've built lots of muscle, packed on lots of weight, and when you've learned to only move in one plane of motion. Conversely, if you learn the skills first and build the muscle on top, you're going to be able to add that strength and power on top of those already formidable skills. Look at someone like Jujimifu. He's able to do flips and high kicks and splits despite being absolutely massive. But I wager that's because he learned the tricking first. In the world of athletic coaching, we call this long-term athletic development or career-scale periodization. It means thinking not in terms of what you're going to look like in a year or two years or four years, but coming up with a plan to build a massive muscle and performance over the course of five years. That's how you're going to build the size and the strength whilst retaining those skills and that performance. But if you want to build absolute, loose, weighing scale, size and strength, we're going to need to try something even more advanced. But of course, not everybody has years to dedicate to their training. Not everyone is so committed to crime fighting that they can have entire year-long phases of martial arts training or power building. So of course, for the rest of you, I've developed a program called Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. I released it only a couple of months ago. It's getting an amazing reception. And basically, it's the closest thing you're going to get to this kind of training, but in a realistic manner that fits into your routine. It does this by focusing on movement, athletic, powerful, strong movement that will give you more body awareness, more power, and at the same time more agility, control and strength. You'll be building mobility, joint integrity, you'll reduce pain, you'll be able to run faster, jump higher, all of those good things just so that you can do more of what you want to be able to do. And it comes packaged with a whole bunch of extra stuff. You get a 200 plus page ebook, 26 instructional training videos, cool anime inspired workout cue cards that you can download to your phone to remind yourself what you're doing in the gym and tons of other cool stuff. If that sounds awesome, there's a link in the description down below. And it's just gone on Boxing Day sale, so now's the best time to grab yourself a copy. Thanks a ton for considering it. Either way, let's get on with the show. If you want to get as big and as strong as absolute Bruce Wayne in this time, we're going to need to use some even more advanced techniques to pack on that kind of size and strength. This is again, where sequencing can be really important. And it's something that people don't talk about all that often. Because actually, when you combine different types of training over a long time scale, they actually have compounding effects. They can magnify one another. Take for example, using isolated exercises that target specific muscle groups in a bodybuilding fashion. This can actually build the kind of size and strength in muscles that otherwise wouldn't be targeted by powerlifting. For example, targeting your biceps or perhaps your side delts, things that just won't get targeted to the same extent if you're only doing the big three lifts and perhaps some accessory lifts. So by doing bodybuilding first and then powerlifting, you can actually improve your physique, become much wider by building the stable, powerful core and frame that you get from powerlifting, as well as adding on all that extra muscle that you get from bodybuilding. What's more, though, is that the bodybuilding will have prepared you in many ways for the powerlifting, giving you, for example, a better mind muscle connection so you can feel when the correct muscles are working, giving you stronger joints and better blood supply. When you use things like drop sets, this is excellent for increasing vascularization, blood supply to the muscle. That blood supply can then increase hypertrophy when it's provided with other kinds of stimulus, like the mechanical tension you get from powerlifting. In other words, the powerlifting is highly effective and the bodybuilding is highly effective. But if you've had a bodybuilding career and you move into powerlifting in many ways, that's actually going to enhance your results because your body will be primed for growth. Think of this a bit like irrigating the soil before you sow your seeds and fertilize them. It's doing these things in the correct sequence that yields the best crops, or as I think farmers call it, yields the best plant gains. And if you've done some form of cardiovascular training before this, then you're also going to have the work capacity to do higher rep ranges to recover faster. So you see, by smartly planning our routine, we can actually build more size and power than we could by using any one of these things. But again, by thinking in terms of months and years and by having a singular focus, you can actually achieve some quite incredible things. So if I were planning a absolute Bruce Wayne workout, using these principles over the course of three to five years, I'd probably start with some form of athletic training. I'd focus on conditioning and getting a good work engine. I'd focus on joint integrity. And in absolute Batman, he did exactly that by spending time as a college football player. This also trained you to run fast, to change direction quickly, get you used to moving in multiple planes of motion. I might then add calisthenics to really build strong joints, to get lots of blood supply to the muscles and to train the body to start to build core strength and stability so that we can then handle heavier loads and subsequent training phases. On top of this, I'd add martial arts training, parkour and gymnastics. And we'd focus on just those things for several years. To the point where we're delivering crisp kicks and powerful punches and can do all sorts of acrobatic moves. Then I'd start adding in bodybuilding. And the bodybuilding would allow us to build extra muscle on top of that, to bring up to speed the areas that were perhaps overlooked. And on top of that, I'd then add the powerlifting or to build real brute power and strength. We'd still be practising a little bit of the martial arts, some of the acrobatic, some of the calisthenics skills, but the big focus now would be building pure power and size. Because our technique is now at such a high level, we can now direct that power and size into powerful punches, huge jumps, explosive sprinting. We can start to move like absolute Batman. You can then apply different advanced techniques to take your strength training even further, using things like the dynamic effort method from Louis Simmons to increase your starting strength and rate of force development. That means lowering the weight and increasing the bar speed. You could also use overcoming isometrics to develop a bit more limit strength and motor unit recruitment. You also want to add functional strength. We would have gotten a little bit of this just as a result of everything else we've been doing. But now we want to train with things like sandbags with Atlas stones, with unusual objects. We want to build real grip strength. We want to build rotational power. We want to build the supportive muscles, obliques, we want to learn to support more weight on one side when heaving something awkward. This is something that will allow absolute Batman to swing and act with the utmost power. And in our real world as well, it's important to train this kind of max strength, both in a linear fashion, but also in these more unpredictable vectors. And the final piece of the puzzle is to remember that maintenance takes far less effort and recovery than building muscle and size and skills in the first place. This is going to be key to not only keeping those skills and attributes we've developed going in the background, but also to allow absolute Bruce Wayne to go out on the streets of Gotham and to perform his duties while still maintaining that kind of size and muscle. If you're out all night fighting crime, you can't be lifting your heaviest repetitions every day at the gym. So at a certain point, absolute Batman would have to stop chasing bigger numbers and gains and instead be content with the strength he's built. Be content to maintain that, perhaps adding skills, but mostly focusing on doing his job. Knowing when enough is enough, knowing when one set of traits or attributes has been built to a satisfactory level so that we can then focus on other things that are important to us. It's not all about limitless growth, even for absolute Batman. By the way, guys, this video was sponsored by Vivo Barefoot. And the reason I wanted to talk about barefoot shoes in this video is because I actually think that they're the perfect fit for a kind of Batman loadout. I don't just wear barefoot shoes because I think they're healthier for your feet because they let you move more like we're supposed to, although that is why I wear them as well. I think having your heel on the floor so your calf isn't in a shortened position all the time can only be good for the way that you move. But the real reason I wear them is because they let me do things I couldn't do otherwise. Barefoot shoes let me feel the ground beneath my feet because they have a thinner sole. They let me contort my foot around bars and ledges when I'm balancing and running. I feel lighter and faster because the shoes are lighter, but at the same time, they're also immensely well made. They still provide that protection. Vivo Barefoot create a large number of different boots that offer more protection during winter months that protect your feet when you're hiking, also at the same time giving you all of that freedom and control that's good for your health and that lets you move faster and lighter. And Bionier viewers can get 15% off a purchase by using code BIONIERVIVO15 at checkout. So if you found this video useful and interesting guys, if you did then please leave a like and share it around. That would help me out immensely. Let me know how you think absolute Batman would train and will you be taking any of these concepts and applying them to your own training? Either way, thank you so much for watching this one and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.