This video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about Squarespace and to find out about a special offer they're making available through my channel. Now, over to Grant for today's presentation. What if your physique didn't just look powerful, but could actually do powerful things? Move with speed, agility, and explosiveness. After years of dedicated martial arts training, I set out on a new mission to build the lean, shredded, and powerful look seen in characters from popular anime, but without sacrificing speed, mobility, or skill. This video is a deep dive into how I've combined martial arts and resistance training to create what I call the functional aesthetic physique. The look and the ability. No gimmicks, just a sustainable hybrid method that turns you into a machine. What's up, guys? My name is Grant Stevens, and it's been absolutely ages since I've made a video on the Bioneer. And since I made my last video, quite a lot has changed, actually. So, if any of you follow me on my own social media channels, you know that I got into weightlifting coming up on for about 9 months now, and I've really fallen in love with the process. So, in this video, I'm going to be deep diving into all of the goals and methodologies that I've got around this type of training. And I'm also going to give an overview of my current training split, which involves all of these different elements, as well as give you guys some advice to follow so you can replicate something similar. Now, the reason I wanted to do this is although I've trained martial arts for absolutely years, it will always be my main passion. This just gave me really something else to do and really dive wholeheartedly into. And quite honestly, I wanted one of those anime type physiques to basically match and go with the skills in martial arts that I already had. And what I'm doing at the moment is kind of what a lot of people call a lean bulk. So, a slight caloric surplus for my activity level. And I've really fallen in love with the idea of sculpting your body and creating something and just when you know that if you keep along this path and keep progressing, you're going to see those results that you eventually want. And I think that's really exciting. And when I lock on to something like that, I get really obsessive and quite invested into it. And this feels for me like martial arts did when I was a kid when I was first getting into it and I was just really passionate about it. It was like I was pulled to go out and train rather than having to push and motivate myself to do it. And I think that's really key, you know, just having fun basically cuz if you're having to force yourself to go all the time, you're really not going to be able to sustain the journey and the amount of diligent effort it takes to actually create those results that you want. So, my goal has really been to develop my upper body muscularity a little bit more, particularly my chest, which I consider to be my weakest area, unless I've got a pump when it looks a little bit crazy. And I'd say my shoulders are probably my best muscle group, followed by my back. And both of those already had quite good development through martial arts anyway. And me and Adam have had quite a few discussions about this type of stuff, and we agreed that these types of physiques are becoming really desirable nowadays. There's a lot of stuff about the anime type body, and that really seems to reflect the old obsession that people have with Brad Pitt's body from Fight Club. I think it's quite a similar look, but the issue is that in order to achieve this, most people take to just traditional bodybuilding in order to do it when really these types of physiques are actually more about having well- definfined and lean muscles. And there's different genetic factors that you can't really control, like muscle insertions and that sort of stuff. But overall, it's really about being more lean than it is absolutely massive. And I think there's actually a big misconception when it comes to people that have this type of physique, although it is quite rare. People tend to think that they are a lot bigger than they actually are. And I think that's because most people have never been really lean and have no idea how different you can look under lighting and optimal conditions. Although some people consider it a bit douchy. When you're lean and you've got a pump and you flex your muscles in different poses, your body gives the impressions of the muscles swelling far more and it's way more noticeable than someone that's fluffier with higher body fat. And so to illustrate, this is me in the gym with a pump under good lighting. And now look at this picture of me that was taken in the morning with no pump and no lighting. You'd think the person in the second picture had gotten sick and lost all his muscle or something. And I personally have no qualms about showing things like that. You know, some people don't like to break the illusion that they're not always looking like they are in their best condition in the gym. But really, this is the reality of a lot of these fitness influencers that take crazy pictures with good lighting in the gym and then you see them in regular t-shirts and you might consider, do they even lift? But all that to say that if you're lean and in good condition, then a little bit of muscle goes a really long way. And falling in line with the philosophy that Adam's been speaking about on the channel as of late, you know, really the best way to achieve something like that can often be through practicing things like martial arts and sports, combined with some weightlifting to build muscle in certain areas and create that desired look. And this is why Adam was keen for me to make this video cuz he stated that he thought I was a really good example of it. When you train functionally or what is often now referred to as hybrid training, which basically just means somebody that lifts weights and does cardio, what a revelation. you end up hitting loads of other muscles that you would normally have to train in isolation, just incidentally through the training. And that's why choosing an activity like martial arts and then supplementing it with some resistance training can be such a killer combo. Then combine that with a pretty sensible diet, you're going to shed fat on top of that and also have a load of other cool skills. And that's what gives you a body that you can actually replicate and do some of the skills that these anime characters can. And not to name names, but I see so many fitness influencers posting pictures of their physique next to these characters like Toji or Omar Takita from Kanoshara. And number one, they're very rarely anywhere close to that physique in terms of conditioning. And each to their own, but I don't really think it's the same if you're comparing yourself to a martial artist like Omar Takita, but then trying to replicate that physique by only lifting heavy things than having to sit down on a bench for 2 minutes between your sets. Call me weird, but looking like those characters while actually being able to do skills similar to them is way cooler. It seems what many people fall victim to is training dogmatism, which is something that Adam's been very forthcomingly outspoken about on the channel as of late. You have to do this. you must train this way with this split and you must do a massive bulk to build muscle etc. And many people that hold those opinions often ignore other areas entirely like mobility, cardio, and don't pay any attention to things like rotational movements as well. And so I think the key really is to be open-minded because if you're so fixated on only one way of doing things, then you're going to filter out anything that might actually be more beneficial for you to achieve those goals in your physique and your performance that you really desire. And the same thing also comes to what you eat as well, which is obviously another crucial component of this stuff, especially because these types of physiques require you to be lean. As we've already said, again, having the open-mindedness to challenge the typical bodybuilding dogmatism, which says that you have to just do steadystate cardio or you're going to lose all your muscle. If you include a more cardio intensive activity like plyometric circuits into your regime, then you're going to get the added benefit of that afterburn effect on your metabolism. And this is still quite a polarizing topic and some people think that that doesn't exist. But in my experience, it's really incomparable to just doing steadyst state cardio because so many people are still under the belief system that you have to drastically limit your calories, go on a cut, and just do walking to burn fat. When I would heavily suggest a much more enjoyable way, is to just do more activity and eat lots like I do, which is in the region of 3,00 to 3,500 calories a day. But I'm doing something I really enjoy, not having to drag myself through yet another grueling workout of something you hate when you're already on chronically low calories. And this fitness influencer comes to mind who I'm not going to name on here, but I remember he was always talking about how he ate 1,500 calories. So essentially starving himself to kind of maintain a certain body fat percentage and eventually he just completely burned out and has stopped making YouTube content entirely. And don't get me wrong, I have no aversion to steady state cardio at all. And I actually do a ton of walking myself as well. I'm just highlighting something that I think is way more sustainable in terms of enjoyment and giving you that nutritional flexibility and all of that stuff. And I am always in this condition as well. I'm not doing a bulk or a cut, you know, and having to cycle between those two phases of trying to gain loads of weight and then completely switch my diet around and cut it all off, which I would just find really stressful. I just want to eat loads, train all the time and look like an anime character. Personally, I wish I'd started training this way years earlier. And by that, I mean lifting weights on top of the martial arts training I was doing. But I was just so hyperfixated on the goals I had in martial arts. And I also found the things I was doing to attain them more than gave me the results I was looking for in terms of speed, explosiveness, and everything that comes with it. And I admittedly was also under the assumption that adding more muscle to my frame would slow me down considerably. I'm quite an all or nothing person, and when I get locked into something, I can be quite obsessive. So, I wanted to be as fast and sharp as I physically could be. And in that pursuit, I would do everything I could to get there, such as trying to optimize my body for it and so on. And because of that, I deduced that having any unnecessary or show muscle would detract from things like speed and mobility. But I was wrong about that and I'm not ashamed to admit that just like with the bodybuilding stuff we're speaking about here, I held my own biases with regards to my goals. With that being said though, there is a large degree of nuance to that perspective which really depends on where you're at in your training. So for people who are already martial artists who might be looking to do something similar, I want to just offer some advice and perspective because there are a large proportion of martial artists that are quite new to training and are under the false belief that in order to develop power, you need to really work and develop your muscles. And to do that they always look to doing weight training as soon as possible. When I would suggest that a superior method to doing that would be number one practicing just the skills of martial arts repeated a hell of a lot engaging the said principle so the body adapts to that stimulus and number two plyometric and agility style training that I've also done other videos about on this channel. So you can find those if you're interested. And the reason for my opinion on that is as a martial artist your first priority should be skill acquisition. And the only way to achieve that is to just do an ungodly amount of repetitions moving through the competence hierarchy until you eventually reach something resembling unconscious competence and you no longer have to think about it any longer. So I would say if you're quite new to martial arts, you should be aiming for that really because another reason weight training could work against you in that case is it's going to leave your body in a sub-optimal state to practice the skill due to things like stress on the nervous system, muscle aches, and all that good stuff. And as I already stated, in order to develop that skill in martial arts, you need to do a ton of repetitions, ideally done every single day. Now, I say all that to highlight this is exactly what I did, which is why none of the extra muscle mass that I've acquired lately has had any effect on my techniques. And really, it's because those techniques aren't going anywhere in a hurry. And you know, I've done them for so long, it's so automatic that I'd actually have to put in hard work to undo that, even if I desired to. So, with that being said, I think it would be really beneficial to determine where you're at on your own journey and consider what your goals are. Are they martial art focused, then lean more heavily into the skill work, or are they more balanced? Kind of like where I am now, where I train martial arts often still, but now it's just kind of maintaining the skills I've got, which actually doesn't take much work at all to be honest. And it's still a really enjoyable activity for me. And if that's the case, then you're going to have to come to some sort of balance between the resistance training combined with the skill acquisition. But like I've said, if you were starting out, it might be quite difficult. So that's pretty much a overview of the methodology behind why I'm doing the things I'm doing. And I know some of my opinions of different things might be different to what you commonly hear. And I don't want to try and claim any method as superior or inferior, but just suggest something of an alternative approach that many probably wouldn't even consider because of that dogma in certain communities. And honestly, this is what kept me away personally from that type of training for a long time was the almost religious attitudes that a lot of people took that this is how you have to do everything. And I knew that that stuff they were saying really directly clashed with the goals I had in my other pursuits like my martial arts. So, not everyone has the same goals and you shouldn't feel pressured to try to follow somebody else's plan if it just doesn't resonate with you. And in the case of pursuing this anime physique, there are other options that are actually superior and more enjoyable or will produce you better results if your goal is to look something like that. All right, you're not going to look like Mr. Olympia with this type of training. But neither will 99% of people who preach that the traditional bodybuilding method is the only way you can develop a physique. And on that note, characters like Toji, for instance, who seems to have one of the most popular physiques nowadays, might look big, but in anime terms, he's definitely supposed to be more athletic and sportsmanlike. And I think there's just a big misnomer with this stuff. In Japan, where these shows obviously come from, it's not attractive to be big. And what's considered muscular for them would probably be skinny by most Western fitness influencer standards. And that physique is absolutely attainable naturally, just with consistency, good work ethic, and discipline. So now I'm going to talk about what I have dubbed the trifecta of functional aesthetics. And these would be my suggestions on the way to structure a training program to attain that type of physique. As Adam stated many times on the channel, there seems to be a big upward trend and desire for these types of physiques nowadays, but also with a huge gap in knowledge on how to get there. And in my personal experience, I've seen a lot of people coming to my gym who were admittedly needed bulking up a bit, who are quite skinny, but then go about training with really traditional methods, very slow movements, and absolutely no cardio. probably a lot of misconceptions about what they should be eating as well. Following popular notions like you need to eat everything in sight to gain muscle and then a few months down the line they've just gotten really chubby and soft and you have to ask the question, have you really gained any significant muscle mass under there? And if you were to cut down, you probably really wouldn't be any bigger. And the reason I say that is because I receive a lot of questions about how I've developed my physique and skills and then when I tell people the things I've done to do it, they just simply won't do it or they even disagree, which I just find really strange. So for those who do want to know, here's what I suggest. Number one, martial arts training puts muscle on you in all the right places. Incidentally, things like the serratus muscle, which is often called the boxer's muscle, as well as the back and shoulders, and just has an insane amount of benefits I really don't need to name. And this will help you to actually move like those characters, not just look like them. It gives you cool skills, insane body control, and it's an amazing tool to develop yourself and your character both in and out of the gym. Number two is explosive circuit training, which builds functional muscles, crazy core strength, and strips body fat simultaneously. These burn a lot of calories, so it gives you room to eat more food because, like I've already said, there's two ways of going about this. You can avoid doing anything that significantly spikes your heart rate to put you in a fat burning mode, which means you're going to have to eat really low calories to have any chance of getting shredded. And if you avoid calories, you also, unfortunately, avoid nutrients as well. Or you can do much more enjoyable activities and then you have much more flexibility with your nutrition. And before you ask, I've got you covered there as well. I've made videos about this stuff, including a follow-along workout on the channel. So if you want to have a look at that, you can find it in the description. And the last one is some resistance training to add muscle in those key areas like the back, shoulders, and chest. And I'm not doing any compound movements actually. I just use exercises to target those specific areas. And again, I want to restate that if martial arts is your primary focus, then this shouldn't really take precedence over your training. It's kind of like a supplement in your diet. You're just using it to fill in some of those deficits. And I think this would be a good time to segue into my current training split. And I'm not going to go into too much detail about all of the different exercises I'm doing because I'm going to make a video on my own channel about that coming up soon. So, if you'd like to see that, head to youtube.com/grant Stevensteven. That'll be coming soon. So, the different elements of my training program fall basically into two categories. And that's cardio and strength training. And I put martial arts in the cardio section because it definitely, you know, raises the heart rate. And I've got my circuit training in cardio as well, but it's kind of like in the middle really because there are elements of resistance training in there, but it's more with the body weight obviously, not using weights. So starting with Monday in the morning I'll do a 30 minute circuit and then in the evening I will do back and biceps. On Tuesday I will do a 30-minute circuit once again and then I will train martial arts in the evening. So that'll be pad bags, some sparring, training with friends, whatever. On Wednesday I tend to rest in the morning and then I will do chest in the evening. Thursday I'll do the 30-inut circuit again and then I will do martial arts in the evening. Friday I will do the circuit in the morning and then I will do shoulders and triceps in the evening. The day after that I will take a rest day Saturday on here but it can be any day really. And then Sunday I'll do the circuit in the morning and I'll do chest. So if you see I've got more chest sessions on here because like I said that's an area that I'm trying to target more than any others at the moment. And then I pretty much just follow this on repeat. So that's the current training split that I'm following at the moment. And you've probably noticed that there are no leg sessions on there because I very rarely train legs. I might throw in a session every couple of weeks or so because I already get a lot of stimulus on my legs through my martial arts training. And I find that when I've done really heavy leg sessions, it really takes away my ability to train effectively in my martial arts subsequently because of the recovery time. And again, this is an example of how you don't have to train a certain way. Everyone says you have to do legs, but people have different goals. I want to be a good martial artist as well and have those multi-kills. And nutrition is obviously a massive part of this equation as well, but I haven't got time to go into it into this video. But I also literally just made a full day of eating, a typical day of eating on my channel. So, if you want to see that again, you can head to my channel and view that. But I will say in terms of the calories in, calories out thing which is often spoken about, it technically is true, but when you eat predominantly whole foods, it's quite low in sodium. So you could technically eat low calories of McDonald's and lose weight, but you're still not going to look as sharp because of all the sodium holding on to water, it's going to cause you to still look a bit fluffy. So really, the quality of food and the types of food that you choose matter massively as well. So to finish this video up, I thought I would give a few final thoughts from my discussions with Adam about this stuff. Ultimately, problems tend to arise when you put all of your focus into just one metric. And it ultimately leads to a kind of self-destruction because you have to sacrifice all of these other things like speed, endurance, even your health and happiness. And then to win past a certain level, you have to take it stupidly far and use dangerous drugs to get even better. So, I really hope you enjoyed this video today, guys. I've got some cool things coming up that me and Adam have been planning together which are quite related to this topic in the coming months. So, look out for those. And please head to my channel, youtube.com/grantstephven. There's loads of other content I've created on there about the ways I like to train and the different methods I've used to get my skills to the level they're now at. Thank you very much for watching and I will see you next time I'm on the channel. Thanks Tom for that Grant. So today's video was sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace for those who don't know is a website building platform. Makes it extremely easy for anyone to get a website up and running in a matter of minutes. And I'm talking a website that's as professional and as fully featured as any on the web. In fact, some of the biggest brands on the web use Squarespace to power their business. To get started, you can either choose from a wide range of different templates and then customize them to your heart's content. Or you can use their AI website building tools to have something completely bespoke up and running even quicker. And from there, you can add as many features as you could possibly need. has comprehensive e-commerce solutions so that you can sell products from your site, track them globally, manage inventory. Has appointment scheduling if you want to sell services online. Gated members only content if you want to make money from your content directly. Has search engine optimization tools so you can make sure that your website is appearing at the top of Google bringing as much traffic as possible to your page. In-depth analytics so you can see what's working and what's not. Fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes. literally anything you could need. If you want to learn more, then go to squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/bioner and you'll get 10% off your first domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to Grant for making the video and thanks to you guys. Bye for now.