! Rires???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? and the time and energy commitment is very small in order to keep that size and strength going once you've built it. And I've come up with a system that I can use really reliably to do this, that will build strength, maintain my physique with minimal effort, time and thought on my part, just a few hours a week, sometimes even less, that I can then build on top of as I see fit. And that's what I want to share with you in this video. And I think this is where a lot of information on YouTube and fitness social media in general gets it all wrong. Worrying about optimising the very best lifts, the very best diet, when really none of this matters. Pushing yourself so hard in the gym so regularly that it becomes a gruelling nightmare just to try and gain a little bit extra size to compete with people that you're never going to meet. For some people, the goal might just be to find a training programme they can follow in a couple of hours a week, a few hours a week, to maintain a decent physique, look good, feel strong, so that they can then get on with life and just not worry about it anymore. So I want to share with you the technique that I recommend that most people do, that's worked really, really well for me. And it's adjacent to the high rep bodyweight training that I've been talking about a lot lately, but I wanted to simplify it even further because I know that's not for everybody. High rep bodyweight training works for a whole bunch of reasons I've talked about in a whole bunch of other videos. But basically, if you're taking a movement that's fairly targeted on a specific muscle group, like a closed chain exercise, like push-ups for the pecs or air squats for the legs, and then you take that to failure, you are going to provide sufficient stimulus in various forms to trigger some growth. You will build enough muscle and size and strength to do things well and to look good. The problem with it, of course, is that a lot of people don't like high rep calisthenics. They think it takes too long, even though it actually doesn't take that much longer than, you know, doing 8 to 12 reps if you're bashing out quickly. Or they think it's going to hurt their joints, which again, it shouldn't do if you're balancing your training properly and doing your mobility work. But again, fair enough. Some people think it's just junk reps, which I mean, have you ever heard of strength endurance? Again, not the point. The point is not everybody likes high rep calisthenics, and I get it. But the real reason that I default to high rep calisthenics is because I can do them anywhere and I can do them quickly. So no matter how streamlined and simple you keep your training, if you have to do it in a gym with expensive equipment, it's going to be a big time sink because you've got to travel to the gym, you've got to get changed. And just a quick aside, for those saying actually you should build a home gym because it's financially sensible, you know, compared to the ongoing cost of gym membership, keep in mind that cost isn't the only thing holding people back when it comes to this. For more people, it's probably space. That's what it is for me personally. I do not have space in my living room for a barbell. I keep it out here, it goes rusty. It's often cold and wet. So yeah, being able to train with your body weight is a huge advantage. So now what's this method that anyone can use that's not as grueling or as time consuming as high rep calisthenics? Well, of course, it's mechanical drop sets. So what you're going to do is you're going to find an exercise that you would use. So say we're going to do dips. I do 35 dips in a set now. That's a higher repetition target, which is going to be too much for a lot of people. So what you do instead with a drop set is you take a harder variation of the movement. You perform that first to failure and then you switch to the easier variation. And it's going to failure that's going to bring the stimulus. So now you're doing that twice. And you're doing it once with a kind of strength, skill related exercise. And you're doing it once with a more strength endurance related exercise. So one of these is going to provide, you know, the neurological stimulus. It's going to provide some mechanical tension, some, you know, body control. And one of them is going to provide more metabolic stress and a little bit of endurance and going to help you burn more calories. So the combination is actually deadly. And the great thing is that you don't have to do a super high number of repetitions. It doesn't take as long. And it's still something that anyone can do. And you can adjust it to any single level. So, for example, I keep pointing over here because that's where my dip bars are. So what you can do, if you're me anyways, is to do a few tuck planche dips, maybe four or five. Then to drop immediately to regular dips. And then to finish the set like that. And then you might only be able to do ten. There's no rest in between. This is a drop set. So you're going immediately from the heavier, more challenging exercise to the easier exercise. So you've got a much shorter rep range. You don't have to worry about repetitive strain injury. Again, even though you shouldn't really worry about that anyways. But you don't have to worry about it at all now. And it's something that anyone can do and adapt to any level. So for a lot of people, doing just dips is challenging. And if that's the case for you, then you can do, you know, two or three, five, ten dips. And then finish on push-ups. If you're someone who finds push-ups challenging, you can perform push-ups to failure. And then you can do push-ups on your knees or standing and leaning against the wall. So as you can see, it's very easy to drop set this. And there's a bunch of different ways to do this for a bunch of different exercises. For most people, pull-ups is already challenging enough. But if you prefer, you can do one-armed pull-ups and then regular pull-ups. Or regular pull-ups and in bodyweight rows. Or bodyweight rows and then bent leg bodyweight rows. There's just so many options for this. And that means that anybody can take themselves to failure using bodyweight from the comfort of their home. And train that very, very quickly. There are so many great mechanical drop sets you can do with bodyweight training. And I've had a blast over the years training with so many of them. There are so many things that you can do with bodyweight training. It's day two and I've realized some of you are probably thinking, why bother with the drop set at all? You're probably thinking, why do you need to go to failure with the high repetition stuff if you've just gone to failure with the more challenging variation? Well, there's a couple of reasons for that. The first one that I think is really important is that the high repetition stuff allows you to get a lot of metabolic stress. It allows you to go to those higher rep ranges, create a lot of blood flow. And I think this is one of the key stimulants for muscle growth. Not everybody will agree with this, but in my experience, it makes a big difference. The other reason, and one I think that anyone can agree with, is that a lot of the more challenging progressions in calisthenics, things like your tuck planche dips, things like your one-arm push-ups, they are more challenging, but they're also more compound. They're less closed chain usually, and they're not as isolated in many cases. What I'm trying to say is that when you do lots and lots of push-ups and go to failure, you're probably failing because your pecs have been taken almost all the way to exhaustion. However, when you fail at tuck planche dips, you're probably failing because you can no longer control your body through that range of motion. It might be to do with your pecs, but it might also be to do with your shoulders, or your scapular control, or your straight arm strength, or your core even, holding your body in that position. Same thing for one-arm push-ups. It might be to do with your pushing strength, yeah, but it could also be to do with your core, as you try not to rotate yourself in that direction. Most likely, it's to do with the combined strength of all those things together failing you. So you haven't really taken the target muscle to failure. And this is why a lot of people, I think, struggle to build really impressive physiques, even if they can do higher-level calisthenic skills. By combining these two, we get the benefits of both types of training. You get all the strength and the neurological adaptations from the harder progressions, and then you get the pump and the muscle growth from the easier variations. That's why. And, of course, you can just do this with regular drop sets, not mechanical drop sets. That just means that you're going from a heavier weight to a lighter weight. This will be useful for things like, you know, biceps, where you can grab a kettlebell, for example, do a bunch of goblet curls, and then lower the weight and do a bunch more. And, by the way, if you want to see this in action, then you can try my e-book and training program, Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover. The main program is built around high-rep calisthenics combined with skill training, and then drop sets is an alternative version if you don't like the idea of doing high-rep calisthenics. But don't worry, because I make it fun, I make it accessible, it's something you can do anywhere, and the movements are very much more mentally stimulating and engaging, make you feel like you're having fun, even though you don't need any equipment, and it's suitable for any level. That comes with a 200-plus page e-book, cool anime-inspired illustrations, and cue cards so you can see your workouts quickly, carry it around on your phone. 26 exercise tutorial videos, and I'm adding new stuff to it all the time. There's a link in the description down below if you want to check it out. But either way, this is something that you can build yourself, just find a hard variation of the exercise that you can do for maybe 4 or 5 reps in the strength rep range, and then choose an easier version of that exercise that you could normally do for, say, 20 repetitions, but you're not going to be able to do that many as part of a drop set. Then you can do it for 2 or 3 sets, give it a minute rest in between, and then this, once you've built some strength from this, and you will, you can just keep this going, and you can up it or lower it as the situation demands, but this is going to be enough for most people to build strength, as long as you're targeting every body part, this is going to be enough for most people to build strength from home, build a bit of size from home, and then keep it going, relatively easily. But there's one more really important piece of the puzzle that ultimately makes all of this work, and which will mean that you can get better results from anything you do, and that's learning to feel what that stimulus feels like. You can get it from heavy weight training, you can get it from going to failure on drop sets, you can get it from doing a nice stretch under resistance, but the point is, after training long enough, you learn to feel what it's like when the target muscle is getting the stimulus it needs to grow. And at that point, training becomes so simple, if your goal is to maintain a decent level of strength and physique, because you can feel whether it's worked or not, you can feel the point at which you've had that minimal effective dose. What you realise then as well is that you can really make anything work. So when you do the high repetition push-ups or dips, as long as you're feeling that tension remaining on the pecs where you want it, then you know they're going to grow because you can feel the right stimulus. Sometimes though, when I'm doing dips, I'll just make sure to get into that really nice stretched deep position there, and I can literally feel that stimulus right away, and I know that's going to trigger growth. You don't need a study to tell you. Not to harp on about this, but with experience, you learn to feel what isn't working, what is the good type of pain versus the oh no type of pain, and you only get there by repeatedly exercising. And as you do it more and more, you can become more and more efficient and get your workouts done in less and less time. And yeah, just this simplicity allows me to fit it in around my lifestyle, even as a busy parent, business owner, someone who also wants to train a whole bunch of other stuff. And I think that's what I really want you to learn. And this kind of training is a great way to do that because as you go to failure with those closed chain movements, push-ups and dips and pull-ups and rows, you will learn what it feels like, and then you'll learn how to chase that feeling in future. By the way, thank you so much for watching this one, guys. I really appreciate it. If you enjoyed it, then please leave a like and share it around. It helps me out immensely. And I'll see you next time. Bye for now.