Hey there guys. So, I've got something a little bit different for you guys today. I've got a full conversation with none other than Benpatrick, knees over toes guy. If you've been living under a fitness rock, I have no idea what a fitness rock would be. And you don't know who Ben Patrick is. He's essentially the guy who's been championing bringing knees over toes in squats and other movements, demonstrating how actually placing a little bit of pressure on the knee joint isn't going to instantly blow out your knees. In fact, it's what builds the resilience to ensure that they don't blow out. and he has helped thousands of people to recover from knee injuries. He's helped athletes train to do incredible things. He himself bounced back from multiple knee injuries to being able to dunk and do incredible things like leaping off a ladder into a city squat and what have you. [music] But his ideas go far beyond just strengthening the knees. They also apply to strengthening the shoulders, the back. essentially created a system, the ATG system that can be applied to any aspect of your performance, any joint to not only build resilience and prevent injury to help encourage recovery, but also [music] to massively improve performance to make you more explosive, elastic, stronger. And yeah, he just has a lot of really insightful ideas when it comes to exercise selection and ways to train. And in this conversation, he shared tons of that with me and was really open and generous with his time and knowledge. Not only did he outline basically how you can approach this kind of training for any part of your body using a progression system to make sure you ease gently into it, but he also discussed how he would apply that to other aspects of his training. He talked about his own personal goals and I think it might surprise some of you actually to learn what he's training for next. It certainly did me. So yeah, it's definitely worth the watch. I'll put timestamps in the description so you can jump around to the bits that interest you. And I'll leave links in the description as well to all of his stuff if you want to check that out. Thanks again to Knees Over Toes Guy for appearing this video and I hope you find it really enlightening as I did. It doesn't really tie into the theme of the video, but I did want to ask you about sort of managing your your work life balance and and training because that's that's the other thing you got to train do your own training on top of the filming on top of the being the dad. And I don't know about you personally, but for me, like getting um back like when I get into the office, there's norally so much I have to do. That's also actually when I train that and at night time, but even then you're like, do I edit this video a bit more? Do I do my workout? Like, and if you don't do the workout, that's kind of what the video is about. So, you can't just have you found it a challenge since you've got Yeah. So, I I always do my workout first. So every video you ever see me do, I already did my workout. So yeah, so it forces me to get it done. And also, if I'm going to be demonstrating something, I don't want to only be able to do that if I'm perfectly fresh on the first set. Like I want to be able to do it even when I'm tired after a workout. Yeah. But if I But if I didn't if I didn't do the workout first, Yeah. I would just work, forget about my own workout, and it would mess the whole thing up. So, yeah. No, that that's it because it's it's so easy to sort of push that till later and then later doesn't come otherwise. And that's an interesting point you said about trying to do it when you're already a bit fatigued because that's that's something I've like found to be challenging is especially because my videos are all on different like I mean yours are as well like on such different topics. So, one day I'll be doing like almost entirely push-ups or I'll be doing it almost entirely some kind of squat and like that's not a normal workout and it actually gets quite tired when doing all the different camera angles and everything and you've you say if you've just done a workout as well. How about how about Nordic hamstring curls and you're on your 20th thing. But that's my philosophy is like I like to um think of things with a long-term view. So, my view is, all right, if I'm shooting a Nordic hamstring curl video, I'm going to do my workout, then I'm going to start shooting the video, and if I mess up my line, yeah, great. Rest, repeat, more gains in the long run. That's how I do it. So, so it's almost like the filming actually makes me work out uh the filming forces me to work out even harder. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, some days some days it's tougher than others when you're doing something like where you know where you have extreme soreness or something. Yeah, because there's some Yeah, you can only do once or I can like the Nordic hamstring. I I can't do that. Well, I can't do a full Nordic hamstring curl at all. But if I could, I'd be able to do it once that day. So that would be the one I'd want to film. I wouldn't want to. So it just makes yours even more impressive that you're doing that when you're already uh fatigued. Well, you but you end up making more gains. So, by by forcing myself to film it today, [music] then six months from now it's even easier and a year from now even easier. But, um you know that that works for me. I would recommend that for content creators. Don't start filming until you did your workout, your program, so you actually live your product and then and then think of the shoot as just part of a longterm process. And if you mess up your line and now you have to do another handstand or another stretch or another Nordic curl or whatever, great, [music] more gains. Actually, that's that's really good advice. And I think that's that that comes down to leaving your ego at the door as well because which is you I preach, but I should practice a bit more because I I I don't want to um Yeah, I want people to see my good handstand on the or I always feel like every video has to like have one move where I demonstrate I can do at least something decent, you know? So, I kind of want to get it in there. But yeah, you're right. If I have learned recently that actually lowering the weight when I'm demonstrating means I do a better demonstration and [music] you don't have like I'm not like the top athlete anyways. I don't know why I feel the need to demonstrate that. It's just because you want some kind of credibility really. I guess you want to you want people to think he can lift a lot. So, well, you're you're demonstrating competence and as a as a creator, [sighs and snorts] people want to follow a path that actually works. Like, if it works, it should work. So, If I'm going to tell someone to jump higher, I should be able to go up and dunk. And if I mess up my line, I should be able to go do it again. And if I mess up again, I should be able to go do it again. So, it's just part of the journey. And that way, instead of being so stressed about this video now, today, you're you're treating yourself as part of the journey, and now you're going to get better in the long run. It gets easier and easier. Yeah. No, I think I'm gonna I might I might adopt that approach myself. It's It's good advice. But yeah, it's it's it's also a funny thing where where you you want to be advertise your own product. And I don't think necessarily that every trainer you'd meet in the gym, certainly not to your extent like you you can be coached by a football coach who who isn't good at football or you know is older or but you know for you you're not only preaching it, you're also demonstrating it to like such a high standard which I think is part of the reason you've stood out so much. Yeah. Same same with your channel. Oh thanks. say you always spot your own your own mistakes and flaws, don't you? So, it's Yeah. Yeah. But it's great because by us treating ourselves with that kind of gain that we need to be able to demonstrate these things, we need to be a product of the [music] product. Well, then you get much better at helping other people. If I say, "Well, naturally, I just have less flexible hamstrings." Well, then how effective am I at helping someone? No. I'm I want no weak links, no tight links anywhere. I want to be fast. I want to jump high. I want to I don't want I don't want there to be anything that I couldn't help someone else through. And that's more pressure now and it's harder to face the ego now. But then you get really good at it. You know, as a coach, you can figure things out. You can figure out a route. You can bring up your weak point. So that's that's really made me is is having that level of responsibility that even if I'm not good at something now, I'm not going to run from that. I'm going to figure it out so then I can be a better coach. Yeah, that's awesome. Yeah. And it is it's the setbacks and the challenges I think you learn the most from. Don't you? In fact, you know, starting out when I was younger, it was the stuff that I found really came really easily. That was where I was actually giving maybe slightly bad advice to people who didn't find it. So, you know, in particular, I've always had like a good bench press. I've been good at doing, you know, so I'd kind of like when I started out, I'd train people with really high volume like drop sets and stuff and expect them to respond the same way I did, which they obviously didn't always. and then you know but it whereas I've had more issues with like my back in the past and things and and certain aspects of mobility and and that's what's taught me much more that I've been able to then pass on to other people and it's way more valuable than the stuff that came easily actually. So yeah, you're right. Yeah, it is what it is. But like I never could have become the knee coach I am if I hadn't gone through knee surgeries on one knee and even the fact that I tore more stuff in the other knee and that was after I had so like my left knee had surgical alterations. So by the time I was tearing stuff in my right knee I was already just like I'm not going to have more surgeries. So really like I couldn't have become as good of a knee coach if I didn't have this weird like one knee untreated with torn stuff. The other knee super stiff from the surgeries like whatever that's that's part of the journey and and really wherever someone's weakest link is is probably where they have the most room to improve their total performance and also to become a better coach. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, you you're like such a living proof of that. Like that's such a drastic. You took the like the biggest weakness and made it into like such a strength. It's uh yeah, it's very inspiring as well. Appreciate that. So um like obviously a question to follow on from that then is like what are you what are you focusing on right now out of interest? Is there any area where like you see weakness in yourself that you're working on? Obviously don't have to share if you plan not to. What obviously yeah if you'd rather not not say that's cool but um no no definitely. So um I believe in something called structural balance and someone could interpret that for themsel but the idea is just that you can essentially get stronger anywhere in your body in relative ratios. Yeah. So for me I was so focused on my knees for so long that my shoulders in general from upper pec to shoulder to upper back relatively is actually weaker than my legs and my knees. Yeah. And so, so I've been in my own training really trying to treat myself as a client who wants that symmetry. And the way that I go about that is not by avoiding my knees or my leg. Like the idea is not to then let go of something else. The idea is to actually keep getting stronger ankles, stronger knees, stronger hamstrings, stronger back, but then give my, you know, push myself [music] to get my upper pec, my shoulder, my upper back muscles proportionately as strong. So, I've been I've been uh the last six months or so, I've been really treating myself as a client, not not just sticking with my strong points only. Um, so I make I'm making good consistent progress, but I'm I'm not balanced yet. And based on the numbers of my legs, I do think I'll be be able to do stuff like like a full full range of motion handstand push-up. I think that will kind of rep I think that will kind of represent just based on the numbers that I'm looking at. The the clues I use for the numbers come from Charles Polloquin. I don't know if you've heard of Charles Poquin. Yeah. So he would use like uh say a front squat and then you could compare that to uh an incline bench press. Yeah. And and so he would use this with Olympic athletes. And you know if you want to be a a hurdler or a high jumper or a javelin thrower then you can kind of use these clues to build the body. So for for me and my goals, which is uh for basketball, speed, jumping, um but I still want to have the aesthetic and it's still a contact sport. So it's not football, but there's no doubt that if that if I stay balanced and and my legs keep getting stronger, but my shoulders get up to par, I'll really be even more explosive on the court. And and theoretically theoretically, I'll run even faster. If you look at a look at 100 meter sprinters, they're pretty jacked. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. But then their hamstrings are crazy jacked. So they're still balanced. So I think I think for me essentially essentially overhead pressing like strict overhead pressing my own body weight andor full range of motion handstand push-up. I think that will represent me being balanced. And I and I can't do either of those things right now. So for me, I like to have it really measurable. So that's for me that's like That's like a weak point. Keep getting my legs as strong as possible, my hamstrings as strong as possible, ankles as strong as possible while being able to overhead press my own body. That would be my best body I've had. What about you? Oh, well, actually, um, handstand push-up is is is one of the things I I'm kind of working on at the moment, too. Like freeze freeze standing. I can do like on a good day, I can do one or two like not full range of motion, but there's no guarantee I'm not going to fall over. So, I do want to be able to like balance it in full range of motion and um yeah, so I I'm kind of like working on lots of things at once. That's one of the like um criticisms I get is that, you know, I'm scattershot and I'm like working on too many things at once as opposed to, you know, focus v, you know, tunnel vision on one thing. Um to me, that's that's kind of fun and like I'm not in a huge rush. I always say that the the traits are more important than the skills. So, like I'd love to do a handstand push-up, but more important is the shoulder strength and the core stability and the propriception. So, as long as they're improving, it almost doesn't matter if I get to the skill. I'd obviously love get to the skill, but that's kind of like at the moment though, that's a taking a backseat. And I'm really working on on PLCH. I can do the um advanced tuck plunchch, but I can't get to a full PLCH yet. And that's something that I'm I'm really interested in just because it's or in particular, the straight arm strength is something I'm I'm really interested in. Is that something you've looked into at all? Straight armed, Trish? No. being so tendon focused, that's actually quite um I'd say maybe quite relevant to what you're doing. Yeah, I mean I mean maybe I'll maybe I'll then get interested in those things. Um in terms of the exact measurable for me, it would be pressing my own body weight, strict overhead press, but but I I think it's a really cool physical demonstration to do the handstand push-up. Um, yeah, it is. I I currently do two weeks with weights and then and then I take a D load week, but my D load week is all body weightight training. So, it almost gives a little more nervous system for stuff like Nordic hamstring curls and and things of that nature. Um, you do curls on your on your D load week. Nice. Well, I don't I don't ever like to de lo. So, by every third week just doing body weight training. Yeah. Yeah, it kind of it forces a de lo in a way. Yeah, changes are good as a break like they say. Yeah, but I'm with you. I I actually think that uh you know if someone is going for just the ego of checking off certain accomplishments, that's also its own game. Like if someone just wants to deadlift 600 pounds or something of that nature, but I still treat myself as an athlete. Anything I do in the gym has no bearing on my happiness. It's how it's how good it feels to go out and do my sport and jump and run and cut and and those kind of things. So So for me, I pursue 28 different goals all at the same time. I see. So quite similar in that regard. Yeah. So I have 28 different physical like I've added up all the different things. Oh, it's literally 28. That wasn't that literally 28. Wow. Right. like like I don't want to not be training the strength of my calf in a straightlegged and a bent knee position. I don't want to not be training hip extension and knee flexion. I don't So So for me, what's worked best is training 28 different goals at once. If I can whittle that down to less than 28, I will. But for me right now, there's 28 different things in my body that I want to be improving and working on all at the same time. So, I break the Yeah, I break it up on average. Um, I hit those 28 things over a two-eek period and then I do a week of body weight training. Um, so, so 28 things over 10 sessions. So, I'm really not working that many things in a session. Usually three to four exercises in a session. Um, but but yeah, so I don't someone could if someone criticize you for saying you're doing too much at once. Well, if you look at the the richest athletes in the world, yeah, it is from having it is from the well-roundedness of the capabilities. Meaning like Cristiano Ronaldo is not going to be able to win a gold medal in anything in the Olympics. Nothing. He wouldn't he wouldn't win high jump, but he jumps like a [\h__\h] kangaroo on a soccer field. He wouldn't win 100 meters, but he's fast. He wouldn't he wouldn't win anything at the Olympics. And most Olympic athletes Yeah. are struggling and have to have sponsors just to put food on the table. Yeah. Yet a guy making hundreds of millions of dollars is a specialist in nothing. Yeah. No, that's true. Yeah. That's a good I I always use arguments like, you know, for example, most of us aren't ever going to be the fastest or the strongest, but I'd much rather be like faster than 90 99% of people and stronger than 99% of people, which actually relatively easy to do because so many people don't train that you don't actually you don't have to be like you don't have to be doing crazy numbers to already be like really competent. So as long as you're at that level like for most people then you and I have got like an interest in particular on going a little bit further than than necessary perhaps but like particularly for the average Joe who like can get too too focused I think on one thing and and and you know obviously we've both been able to make progress in multiple areas at once like it might for me it's been slower than it would be if I just focused on one thing but you know recently my PLCH has improved gotten slightly better with my uh with my boxing and things you know all all at the same time improve my mobility So yeah um for me that's more fun as well like it's um it's a passion rather than a than a job in that sense. Totally. Yeah. So and it's also it's not a criticism if someone does want to be the fastest 100 meter sprinter. Yeah. Of course. Yeah. That makes sense. If someone wants to be the best arm wrestler, but do you think do you think Conor McGregor would win anything at the Olympics? No. He'd be pathetic in every single event. But if you add it up, he's pretty mobile. Yeah, exactly. And MMA is a really good example of that. That benefits. So that's I think that's why a lot of people lot of people who are into MMA watch my channel and just because it demands so many different traits at once. You can't Yeah. just be good at one thing if you want to get particularly MMA, any martial art really, but MMA because you're doing the wrestling and the punching, you need to be powerful, have good endurance, even mobility. And he trained with Portal, didn't he? Um, which is out there, but Yeah. But cool. Exactly. Exactly. So that that's my take on is for for me in in sports and in longevity, which those are my two goals. So I love the fact that I can go out and dump. For me, it's surreal having grown up not even be able to grab the rim. Like it doesn't even seem real, but I want to be able to do that when I'm 40, 45, 50 years old when my kids jump. Like that's the that's the epitome. So I need the I need the sports ability and the longevity. And to me, for sports and longevity, the secret weapon is having no weak or tight links. To me, that's the secret weapon. And then it's easy to keep everything. It's easy to run faster. You don't have the setback that you're like, well, I would have run faster except I pulled my hamstring. So, so for me, that is the to have no weak or tight links. And then to not let any one quality get ahead of the other qualities. To me, that is the the secret weapon. Yeah. Well, when I'm doing like hundreds of push-ups, people say, "Oh, you're going to get repetitive strain injury." And to me, I'm like, "Not if I'm also doing body weight rows because like you're canceling it out." The issue isn't like your body doesn't have a set number of reps, but rather it's the imbalance that's that's the issue. So, exactly. When you're when you're like pursuing all these different goals, do you apply the same ATG system across the board? So, like to do handstand push-ups, are you taking the same principles that you use when you're training your knees and essentially applying it there? And is it is it a very because I I figured that you're you have a very strong focus on the tendons in particular. Um so does that also apply to the handstand push-up and how for that with that example, how would you apply that there? Yeah, I I can tell you exactly how I would apply it. So, uh you mentioned the balance. So I if if pressing overhead is one zone of pressing, I'm working that once every three weeks. Mhm. I'm also once every three weeks working with dumbbells pressing overhead to keep some balance between sides. Yeah. I'm also once every three weeks working an incined bench press for that zone just kind of underneath the shoulder press. a dip. So I'm I'm quite literally working from and I'm working a neck press. So I'm working a neck press once a week. I train upper body twice a week. Yeah. So, I have I have uh neck press once every three weeks. I have uh handstand push-up once every three weeks, dumbbell once every three weeks, incline once every three weeks, dip once every three weeks. So, um so I'm just I'm quite literally training the whole range of pressing. And then we look at if we look at the opposite side of that, I'm doing a trap three raise, which is actually like imagine you're on a 45 degree uh back extension and then with straight arms in a Vshape, you're having to raise your arms and I'm working on an incline bench on a pow raise. So I'm here. And then working on an external rotation. So I'm here and the external rotation is done once every three weeks with dumbbell and then once every three week with a band where it's there's no tension here and the tension is there and I'm doing body weight rows and I'm doing chin up. So I'm also and I'm doing pullovers. So you have a you have a you have a neck press but I also have a trap raise getting stronger that way and a pullover getting more mobile and stronger that way. So it's that so for me it's not the secret is that there is no secret. Yeah. And the and the the best chance of results and resiliency and athleticism for me is having literally no weaker tight links. So my So that's my that's my strategy to a handstand push-up is that plus literally everything else in balance to that. So that's really like really quite different from like what you'll see from most calisthenics athletes as their main um like what they say to do. But I also it makes like perfect sense because in that scenario if you slightly get out of alignment you're strong in that position to catch yourself and and control yourself and yeah particularly when when you you mentioned the um coming all the way down to there because most people handstand push-up isn't straight up and straight down is it? It's kind of like this motion when you do the full range of motion. So, but and what's also and what's also like stands out, not only you attacking every single angle, but I also you also go into a greater range of motion than your typical um like uh athlete, don't you? That's, you know, like neck press and things a lot of people stay away from. And I I heard you say I think on um Mark Bell's channel that when you're doing your dips, you go extremely deep and things like this, which which looks alarming to people, but that's again where you're where you're training those tendons and and like those positions that you can get into and it pays to be strong in those positions. So essentially the theory exactly a shortsighted view is oh that looks like it would hurt me. That's probably what you need to be able to do. Like it shouldn't. Yeah. When I see it, it doesn't look like it would hurt me and I don't have any shoulder pains or problems. But you could overdo any range. So if someone sees So when I do a a dip, it means the the shoulder has to go below the elbow. It's a very simple everything has some kind of a simple measurable form. So the dip Yeah. The shoulder goes below the elbow. And if I went to the local gym and someone didn't recognize me, someone might walk up and say, "Oh, watch out. You're going to hurt your shoulder." Well, yeah. Yeah. Not if I'm doing that at my level once every three weeks. Not if you realize that that regresses by doing a full range of motion push-up, which even regresses by being on your knees and doing a full range of motion push-up. So my mother my mother has rings in her garage and she uses the rings and walks out of it and does full range of motion push-up with the rings. So I don't believe there's any such thing as a bad human motion. I believe you could you could someone could wrangle a body out of a natural motion. But if if you're doing a natural human motion, I don't believe there's any such thing as a wrong human motion. And I believe and my only fear is the imbalances and the motions that I can't do. So if someone said with a shoulder, if someone was was very weak pressing behind the neck relative to a flat bench press, to me that is what I then see is the person having shoulder surgeries, not the person who can do it. And if you can't do it, we'll then be addressing that and fixing why. Yeah. Yeah. No, it makes sense because like why would you be able to get into a position that that would hurt you? Like I mean I always like I think my wife in particular is always like stop talking about us in the wild but the the truth is in the wild we we wouldn't know not to get into this position because it causes impingement or whatever only press this way. You would press so like theoretically the most uh the healthiest shoulder if you had a twin brother Yeah. would be, you know, if one only did a flat bench press, never worked the rotator cuff muscles, never worked the opposite with the row, never worked pressing from every angle. So, it's to that to me that is the secret is that there's literally no secret. And it's you want to be you want to be balanced in at every angle. the one one of the I always think that a potential approach that I've been sort of mulling over lately is is to like if you if you instead of like trying to address every single thing individually if you just provide yourself with enough of like a chaotic stimulus so that you so that you're swinging so that you're climbing obviously it could be dangerous because you know you need to prepare yourself for that but like eventually like you can I wonder if you can address everything just almost by osmosis for example like like from rock climbing because you're going into every position without thinking about it. Oh, I need to do this angle and this angle and that angle, but it's happening, you know, as a byproduct of what you're doing. That's so it's kind of like AI mean, I think um I think there's a lot of truth in that because then when we see like the number one most shoulder surgery producing activity is pitching a baseball. Yeah. You're taking you're taking a ball that weighs less than a pound. And that throwing a ball that weighs less than a pound is the number one activity you can do if you want to wind up in a hospital for a shoulder surgery. Yeah. But you're only throwing in one way with one arm and then you're doing it so much more than you would do like you said in the wild. Yes. Yeah. Now, if the pitcher then worked the exact like the three things I described, the trap three rays, the Powell rays, and the external rotation, those are all the opposite of throwing. So, my my strength system is usually just addressing areas that are commonly imbalanced or tight or weak. And so, and then you would have and then you have two arms. So, like if I was trying to take a a young athlete and make them a professional pitcher, I would try to have them the strongest of any of their peers in the exact opposite of throwing. And I would have them do an equal amount of training with right arm and left arm. Not even for the sake of using it in the game, but just to keep the body more balanced because sometimes you'll see like quadratus lumborum muscles, muscles in like on either side of the spine. Yeah. that are so imbalanced and one side is super flexible and the other side is super stiff and then you wonder and now you have a pitcher with mysterious back problems who can't even pitch. So, but but you get back and you get these wild imbalances in the body. Like the body was made to work, right? It wasn't designed that we're going to have to take painkillers for your back to hunt and put food on the table. So, but if you're a pitcher in baseball, you probably have terrible imbalances. If you're a basketball player, you have probably put so much more pressures into certain angles in your knee. Sure. Never bending the knee for a full range of motion. So, if you take a basketball player who's already putting so much more force than the amount of actual strength that's there for the knee. Yeah. Yeah. And then in your training, you're saying, "Well, because of the knee, we're going to avoid it even more." That's quite literally how you produce an epidemic of knee surgeries. Like, if you wanted to produce an epidemic of surgery for an area of the body, you would overuse the crap out of it and then avoid fortifying it. Yeah. There you go. There's which Yeah. Which what what people do. Obviously, all these extreme ranges of motion that you get into, you wouldn't recommend that as far as I'm aware for someone who's just starting out. Um, but you you tend to build them up to that as as anyone would. And from my understanding, this is where the short range motion and the long range motion comes in. And is that right? And could you explain a little bit about that? Yeah, I was thinking about the best way to describe that. So, um, we've already established that my opinion is that you basically want no weak or tight links. So, it's not about which angle is best to press from or which angle is best. We want to be strong at all the angles. So if we take the knee as an example, the knee is the biggest joint in the body and it's got some pretty big tendons on either side and that does appear to be the number one like tendonitis is like tendon pain in the knee. Sure. So if you were to move that through a full range of motion, but if that hurts, then we're probably doing a little bit more breakdown than you might be able to realistically recover from. So it does seem like it could work [music] to just force it. Yeah. But I think the sweet spot is quote unquote regressing an exercise to a level where you don't have any pain. Yeah. But if you look at something like the knee, you can often take someone who currently has bad knees and thinks they couldn't go through a full range of motion. But then let's say we take a very small range of motion of the knee over the toe and then we gradually put in a lot of reps at that and build that. Yeah, that would be considered short range training. Okay. So, so short range training is particularly advantageous to getting a lot of circulation and a lot of blood flow. Like, like the toughest thing on a tendon would be like on a cold day trying to do a [\h__\h] squat out of nowhere. That might be like the toughest thing on a tendon. But then something like dragging a sled backward for 10 minutes straight has quite literally got thousands of people off painkillers for the knee. But that is not how you bulletproof your knees. It it is it is building to the fullest range, the fullest quote unquote pressure that you can take a joint. That is actually how you make it more resilient. So it's understanding that any exercise is on a scale of range of motion. So so if we look at the knee and if we think about doing a sled backward or doing a reverse step up, that's another one that you can scale to really really easy levels. So compared to just don't let your knee over your toe versus finding a short range of motion with the knee over the toe, building up strength. Yeah. Now, you start to find that some of those longer range exercises all of a sudden don't hurt as much. Yeah. And and there's been multiple uh points of research done on reverse step-ups where you're you are driving the knee over the toe. And these were not done on big high steps. We're talking low steps. And it also pierced that a low step with a slant like with an angle. And you actually can develop and build [music] tendon. So the first no knees over toes thing came from a finding out that when your knee goes over your toe, there's more pressure on your knee. So it's actually finding those points of of pressure which is where we can potentially stimulate the tendon to grow. Yeah. So if you can get someone into a short range of motion, but they can really pump up and get absurd circulation, yeah, that's going to carry over even though it seems like a short range of motion, that's going to carry over then in your efforts to deeper range of motion. So then if you looked at um like what I credit as my favorite exercise, the ask to grass split squat because you're one knee at a time because the the imbalance but from one knee to the other is a huge factor in knee problems. Like it's not just a weak knee or a strong knee. The amount of people who have a stronger left or right knee than the other or different mobility is staggering, particularly with people with with knee problems. Yeah. Yeah. So, the reverse step up, one side at a time, that that's like my classic short range exercise. And I use to show how simple it is. Um, I use a a rubber wedge. Mhm. Because a slant board can definitely work, but to put a slantboard on something can be a bit tricky. It can be the slant board can kind of slide. So, someone can get someone can get an industrial-sized doors stop. So, that's what I use is industrial. So, so this is not some fancy invention. It's just it's just a bigger it's just a bigger door stop. Yeah. Um so this this elevates the heel so the ball of the foot is down. By assisting yourself you can get just about anyone into this because we're talking about uh less than the amount of strength needed to go down the stairs. So it's it's you're turning going down the stairs and going back up the stairs backward. You're turning that into a precisely measurable strength exercise done for a higher number of repetitions over time. That's like your foundational short range knee exercise. Now imagine you have a twin. One of them avoids knees over toes. The other one builds up strength in that short range. You now have more muscle tissue. You have more tendon tissue. You're getting more circulation to heal old injuries. Now, when you start to progress into a full range of motion split squat, there's less chance of pain. There's more strength there. So, those two exercises alone, finding the level you can do without pain, progressing then to turning those into strength exercises, those would be my two classic short range Yeah. and long range knee exercises. the short range more for the healing and stability and building a base. Like theoretically, maybe you don't need to do short range training. Theoretically, maybe you just do the full range of motion and you would be fine. However, it seems to funnel to it and it seems to help balance it out and prevent overtraining. So, like I do each one of those one day a week. One day I do the short range, one day I do the long range. And if you looked at most people's leg training, you would usually find that they're usually training just in mid ranges. So most people are used to a lot of mid ranges and are never like a normal lunge. You're you're in like a mid-range. Yeah. You're not really working the short range. You're not really working the long range. But someone with pain on lunges can do short and long range training, develop the muscles and the tendons, and then they find that now the mid-range is more potentiated. And so sports is more of a mid-range activity. Um, and then there's still another range though. All right. There's still one more range which is outer range. Yeah. So something like a [\h__\h] squat that the most bulletproof of the bulletproof of knees can do. That's really getting into an outer range. It's not just a long range. Like when you do a full range of motion squat or split squat, you hit a resting point. Like it stops. That's a long range. It stops. But when you do a [\h__\h] squat, it doesn't really stop. It actually is almost like you're at like the limit of like stretch that can occur. That's an outer range. Like for the back, I would consider like like a Jefferson curl to be like an outer range exercise. Whereas a Romanian deadlift with the stretch in the hamstring going as deep as you can with the back strong. I would consider that a long range exercise. Okay. And then imagine a back extension working getting an old person. I got my my wife's mother is in her 70s walking around with a limp. I got her doing the basics of short range training. walking backward and doing back extensions with her hands on it. So just working a short range. So that's able to build up strength. So a back extension, the top of back extension would be a short range. A Romanian deadlift would be a long range or a seated good morning would be a long range with bent knees. But then a Jefferson curl would be like outer range. So a Jefferson curl, a stissy squat, those are like outer range. And I personally think that for upper level bulletproofing those become valid exercises. So is the the purpose of the outer range to place even more pressure and strain on the tendons to give them an even greater stimulus because you you can't use the muscle at that point to to prevent it because it's it you know that full stretch. Exactly. Exactly. So So usually without a range you're thinking much much much much lighter weights much more reasonable. not something you would do like 10 sets of a movement or something like that. Um but then in the short so at the short range level you have very fast recovery time like imagine imagine if you just went on a back extension and you just held that position just to get some strengthening for someone who was very very weak and immobile. They could probably do that multiple times a day. The the backward sled is shown that you recover within like three hours. Like you could theoretically be doing that multiple times a day. But then something on the far end by by the time you get to the outer range, I only advise that like once every other week, like once every 14 days. Yeah. Yeah. Because it's quite interesting you're saying you train these things once every three weeks in some cases as well. And and that's that offers enough stimulus to to still progress. Yeah. Because each range because each movement is carrying over to the other movement. So I'm not saying train your hamstrings once every three weeks. I train my hamstrings twice a week. Three three weeks in a row. So, I train my hamstrings six times over a three-week period, but six different ways. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And when you're doing the short range, would you say that um high volume is a is a particularly important aspect of it? Because when you're doing your backwards walking, you're doing many many more steps. Obviously, you would you would do a lot more of that than you would do, you know, some a [\h__\h] squat, which you might do for Yeah. Exactly. Like I do I do a like if I'm doing a circuit of exercises, I do a hundred steps of the backward sled. Yeah, that's a lot of reps. So, it's it doesn't mean that short range can only be done for high reps. You could do like [clears throat] the reverse step up I'm talking about. You could do that to a one rep max if you wanted to. Yeah. But the to me the advantage the advantage of short range is being able to pump circulation in such a safe manner. Being able to build base strength in such a safe manner. So I [music] so on a scale I tend to do higher reps more frequently in a short range exercise and then less total volume less frequently in a longer range exercise. And so for and for those short range exercises well would you is it also working would you say like almost as a form of occlusion because you're maintaining the contraction. Is that one of the ways that you're funneling more blood to the to the tendon? It's it's very possible. I keep things like in layman's terms like I don't I I don't go [music] um someone could take it to much further scientific depths, but the idea of essentially if you look at a knee, training it through its entire [music] possible range of training and then just applying common sense. So pump pump that [\h__\h] up in the short range. Yeah. pump it up and then gradually build resilience through longer ranges and the whole thing always working at a level without pain and and now you have a very powerful system. So even though it it seems like common sense because it is common sense. Oh, what's the secret to knee tendons is being capable having ability through the knee tendons entire capabilities their entire so [music] your quad tendon on top and your patellar tendon on bottom having great pain-free capability through their entire areas that they could be stimulated that's very common sense but at the same time we're having doctors of physical therapy around the country reaching out saying how now they're integrating some of these simple things and their patients are making much faster recovery. So it really talk to everyone I talk to now is just like oh yeah I got this from knees over toes. It's like it's like an epidemic. Um a guy who comes on my channel fairly regularly you might have seen if you watched Liam Ellis. He's a parkour athlete. He had terrible knee problems and he credits his recovery entirely to your system. So like and then I went went to train at a gym across the road and started like talking to this guy and he's he's doing your coaching program. like it's just everywhere. People I meet in the gym, you see them doing 80 g like squats like you know we're across the pond as well but it it's it's spread and I think it it is cuz it's to me the the short range stuff in particular it it really speaks to me because in my experience I think there's like a there is a particular benefit to doing really high repetition and just getting that blood flowing and also maintaining the contraction even because some I say I always I do these high rep push-ups when I was a kid. I started working out because I was watching action movies and I started doing high high rep push-ups, but they were terrible form push-ups because I was doing this really short range of motion. But I think as a result of that, and then I went into the gym and just from like pure this feels good, I was doing like really deep um flies, which again is something that a lot of people advise against, but I've since learned that Anie used stuff like that to grow his pecs. But I think because I'd pumped the pecs so much and like the vascularization, I've since learned, you know, is is permanent. you get a permanent greater blood flow or at least chronic, you know, greater blood flow so it can recover better. It's less likely to tear. So, I think I was a by combining those things, I think I was able to like bring my pecs up much further than the rest of my body by sheer accident. And and since then, I've I've applied similar principles like with with bicep curls, I do these like as a test, I wanted to see if I could have a similar effect. I just did like crazy um mechanical drop sets. So, and and drop sets, but I do you lots and lots of reps and then I switch to a different angle, switch to a different angle, you know, that I could carry on with and or lower the weight. And I found that this Yeah, I it seems like a lot of people frown on high high repetition and bodybuilding style training, but I actually think if you combine that because then the bodybuilders can have poor range of motion if that's all they're doing. But I think if you combine that with with greater range of motion, which is exactly what you're doing, I think that's like AI think yeah, it's like a secret source because you you're covering both ends of the spectrum. Um, yeah. And I think so by doing those short range of motion exercises, it would makes loads of sense that then you'd be able to safely progress to those really long range motions and then do things that appear superhuman, but you're able to do it because you you've built yourself your way up there, which um Yeah. And it's just awesome. Yeah, that's right. And it it's it's it's it almost seems weird. And to someone I could totally understand if they heard it and they're like, "That makes no sense." But the secret is that there literally isn't a secret. And it's it's the zone that you're missing out on. It's the zone that you're not training that could be, you know, what's holding things back. Um, so like you went and instinctively worked through this long range of motion, but maybe if a beginner who didn't have a base tried to just get into that. Yeah. Or what if you had stuck only with a short range of motion? Or what if someone only did a long range of motion? So you you have these only sides that are kind of missing the point, which is it's not about like a study doesn't need to determine which is better, short range or long range. like it's going to be you're probably going to have exponential benefits by doing both. They used to test this with jumping like what's better jumping or lifting? And they found actually like an exponential amount of jumprease by getting stronger and jumping versus only jumping or only getting strong. But but it's like it's and that's where it's it's it's hard for me to even want to be a part of the side of things that does studies because if you really take your time and read hundreds of studies, you come to this conclusion that we didn't even need any of the studies because it was just it was just common sense. The point is that when you when you learn so much about a subject, it almost then becomes insanely simple and it's like whoa. So now it's like when people ask about the back or something, I instantly know that they they have a weak or tight link or some imbalanced area or they're doing some activity out of balance to the rest and we have to correct those things. Does that mean does that mean that now they get to walk on clouds and float and escape physics? No. They're going to die just like all the rest of us and all the rest of us. No matter how bulletproof I get my knees, I can't jump off a six-story house at land. Like, it's so we have these human limits, but human life has been whittleled down quite deep into thinking how many surgeries and drugs and just to get by. Sorry, there's a trash guys going by right now. It's super loud. But I I can I can sense you sense your frustration, but it's you say it's common sense, but it but I don't know why it's not. But it but it's it it wasn't like you've Yeah. I I I don't understand either how it got to that point because like like you say, people discovered that when you put your knee past your toes, it puts more pressure on the joint. But picking up a dumbbell puts more pressure on your bicep. And does that mean you shouldn't do it? like why why there specific areas isn't it where people have been really afraid to and and and the back but like it is obvious but it it did need someone to say it and I think that's where your stuff is like been so breakthrough and then beyond that like the the specific you keep coming up with these exercises or dis rediscovering exercises in some cases that have been overlooked like I I'm definitely going to start integrating your seated good mornings because I think I that's the only problem is is finding where that imbalance is because I I clearly have number one missing link. So in in training so many people that exercise is the number one most likely to be to be the missing link in the back because we never get that is the closest actually that the thigh comes in relationship to the torso without the lower back uh losing its its strength. So that's that is the most likely missing range. But yeah, so like I I I I think it could do me a world of good. I've done everything to try and fortify my back. It runs in my family a bit of a a back issue and I I've fixed it for like a year and a half and it's not the end of the world. It's just a strain, but I'm just like, why is that still my weak link? You know, I did it the other day and it's it's 90% better now. But I I just it's very frustrating when you've you've done everything that you think you can to strengthen it and then it still happens. But it's just another avenue to explore. I think actually I need maybe a bit more hip mobility as well. Um and and strength to help. The hip mobility can help. And um if you look at the if you look at the seated Good morning. This is and you would start with dumbbells, but this is the thigh and the torso. This is the low. This is the closest they come into contact. So basically every everything you do with your back from that exercise, everything else is going to be uh that much more protected. It's it's the um my favorite for the knee is the ATG split squat in the sense of the general stability that you're not going to have some freak accident and hurt your knee. And for the back, it's the seated. Good morning. Yeah. So, I think I'm going to be integrating that on top of all my bridges and my everything else. But, yeah, I think that's that's you know, you you've discovered this thing that you say is obvious, but no one else was saying it. You've also found like so many great exercises, great ways to train. And again, when you say them, you're like, I saw you do one as well with a cable machine. That's genius. Like, why aren't more people doing that? Like, but you know, it's uh yeah, you've definitely got a gift for this sort of thing. I appreciate that. But yeah, it's it's it's just trying to address the full range of motion with common sense of, you know, how much and how gently and how to get into the the whole thing. So, um, and you know, I was kind of saying how I don't like to go along with the crowd of like research and studies, but I should give some I should give some background on that really quick. Yeah. So if we think about um that it was that it was a study in 1978 that scared everyone away from these overtoes. Yeah. Only for it to be found later that training the overtoe returns athlete to sport faster builds the tendon. Yeah. only to only still find that even a full range of motion squat, contrary to popular concern, actually makes you less likely to have a knee injury, strengthens your lower body. But now, what's my favorite exercise? One side at a time, full range of motion squat. Yeah. Do we really need to do a study on that if we've already determined that being imbalanced increases knee injury [music] and training a full range of motion reduces knee injury? So, no wonder it's my f like even though so I get attacked for being unscientific, but I would argue I'm being the most scientific. Yeah, I would argue that I would argue that the ATG split squat my conclusion that that is number one. I would argue that's the most scientific conclusion that a person could come to based on the actual research. But Men's Health did an article. I cited my sources. Yeah. And then they pretended that there's no evidence. And they tried to make it a the title of the article was um controversial. And then they interviewed people with PhDs who said, "Oh, we don't know any evidence about this." Even though I cited the literal evidence done by people with PhDs. So they want they they don't want to be responsible for like an accident someone might have if they were to do it too quickly, too soon, with too much weight. And that's that's that's why people are so reluctant to say it, but by by covering their own backs they're actually doing people a disservice which um you know again you've sort of been brave to come out and say which it shouldn't be brave to say like you say you put your knees over your toes when you go down the stairs. It's not like it's not this isn't crazy stuff, but um like I can't can't remember the Yeah, studies can be infuriating because they'll take something so out of context like when they're looking at, you know, the difference between like I've seen studies looking at the difference between frequency and volume in training, but they'll like, you know, they'll take the same volume of training and put it across the frequency and then say, you know, it didn't work. And it's like well you can't say that frequency doesn't work when you you should be doing more volume or like it's a bad example but the point is they they they they often it can be useful if it's well designed and if you then take it in the context of other things but so often people they take this really unlikely scenario. They compare two things precisely and they forget that you know in the real world you might also be doing this or they might be trained athletes or they should have done their prep you know they should have strengthened that area first or of course then that's yeah and then and then at the end of all that and reading every study and everything my conclusion is that none of them were necessary it because it's all it's all common sense and it's all it's all based on much more fundamental science that doesn't require any studies physiology of how things work. Like you don't have to have a study to to feel that when you do backward sled correctly that you're pumping up the area. Yeah. And totally. So I like to approach it like that and I like to try to explain things in a way that doesn't require telling someone you have to believe this because a study says you have to believe it. because that approach took the entire field of knees totally backward and knee surgeries skyrocketed when they removed knees over toes. So So that's the good I think the good news at the end of it is that when you go to a real master in results on any subject, they're actually going to help make it simpler for you. And so that's my conclusion on on on knees and on any joint is that you want to have ability for the full range. And the longer the range, probably the more time you're going to need to recover and so on. It doesn't mean you couldn't it doesn't mean you couldn't do the exercise every day or try to do it super heavy or whatever, but it's just a a general common sense that the less range you can pump up more and you can recover faster. And then the deeper the range, the more potential resilience you can gain from it, but also the more precise the form would have. Like how precise does the form have to be on a backwards sled? If you think about the weight on the sled, you could put a,000 pounds on it. It just wouldn't move. Yeah. So I could put I could put my mom who's 68 years old and I could give her bad form on a backward sled and she'd still be fine. But you put a,000 pounds on an asterass foot squat and grandma's dead. Yeah. Yeah. So it's so you have so the the greater range you go the greater potential reward but the more you have to master the form the more you have to recover and then the shorter the range the more you can get pumping and get going. Yeah. It's just like um it's just like the equivalent of doing a massive one rep max like a beginner shouldn't do a squat with twice the body weight. Doesn't mean you can't do it. It won't make you stronger but you got to build up to it and you need perfect form if you're going to be doing that kind of stuff. and you know, yeah, it it's just it it maybe doesn't look like a lot of weight, but because the range of motion is so extreme, you got to treat it, you know, in that in that way. But I'm I'm afraid I'm going to have to um sign off in a second, but just want to say like thank you so much for this. Like I'm I massively appreciate it. Um it's like genuine honor to speak to you. I've been watching you for a long time and yeah, really appreciate you taking the time out to talk to me. Same. you are the number one most appreciated and recommended life-changing channel that I see because YouTube is so active in the comments and so people give me a lot of feedback and um you know hopefully this could be the the first of of many and we can we can help each other out as like-minded people. So so very well done to you on being the number one channel that that people recommend on my channel. Well, thank you very much. Well, yeah, ditto. So, I say like literally everyone I speak to, you're like a an epidemic. So, there you have it. I think we have loads to dig into there. Thank you so much again to Ben for being so generous with this time and knowledge. Do remember to check out those links down below if you want to learn more about Ben and the ATG system. Either way, thank you so much for watching and bye for