Picking stuff up off the floor is one of the most functional and useful movements that you can possibly practice. It's one of the functional movements I actually use in my real life. Whether it's picking up compost when my wife goes shopping at the garden center, whether it's picking up my child when he's fallen out of bed repeatedly, whatever the case, you often find yourself picking stuff up off the floor. This is why deadlifts and other hip hinge movements are so important to incorporate into your training. I'm often tempted to go 99% body weight training, cuz I love body weightight training. But one of the things that would be missing from that style of training if that's all I did would be picking things up off the floor. There are ways I can train a hip hinge. There are ways I can train my glutes. But picking stuff up off the floor is different because you need to brace your core in a way that you just don't do when you're doing, for example, reverse hypers. And that's why I think that a complete functional training program will always need to involve some kind of weightlifting. But I also think that the deadlift isn't quite enough in this capacity. Because whilst the deadlift is an excellent movement, it doesn't that closely mimic the many different ways you can end up picking something up off the floor. When you drop something on the ground, you don't perform a perfect deadlift with a straight back and hip hinge to pick it up off the ground. Again, often you'll need to pick up something that's much lower. You'll need to round the back a little bit. Often you'll have one foot in front of the other. Often you'll be on an uneven surface. Often you'll have your feet staggered a little bit. And that's why even if you're someone who has an incredible deadlift, you can still end up hurting your back trying to pick up something really small like a sock. And as we're going to see, mobility and endurance also play a really big role in this. So, if you're training in order to pick stuff off the ground in a useful, practical manner outside of the gym, or whether you're hoping it's going to transfer optimally to things like jumping height and that kind of stuff, then you're going to want to stick around and learn some of the other methods you can use to train this important ability. And what's more is that some of these methods don't require huge amounts of weight in the same way that practicing a deadlift does, which to me is always a big bonus cuz it means you can train it from home. So, yeah, one of the first and biggest misconceptions when it comes to picking stuff up off the floor is that in order to prevent yourself getting injured, in order to get really good at this, what you're going to need is max strength and max strength alone. Now, obviously, max strength is going to massively help you with lifting things up off the ground. It's going to allow you to lift more things up, and it's going to give you a huge kind of buffer, this massive capacity. You'll be so strong in all your supporting muscles, you'll be so good at bracing, etc., that a small miscalculation is less likely to injure you. It will fortify you against injury, but it's only one part of the equation because what's also important is endurance. In the real world, outside the gym, you very, very rarely have to pick up your one rep maximum. In fact, I'd wager that you likely never will have to. What you will have to do, though, is pick up something frequently, repeatedly, a lot, after a long day of doing other stuff without a proper warm-up sometimes. And this is when things can go wrong. This is when one of those small stabilizing muscles can give out leading to massive back spasms and other issues. So, for example, one time I put my back out was after carrying my daughter on my back all day, picking her up, putting her back down, picking her up, putting her back down, and then eventually it just went out. I think I was goofing around, sprinting with her on my back, and it just went out. It's because it was tired. It's not because she's too heavy for me. I can very easily pick up that amount of weight. So, just getting stronger and stronger clearly isn't the issue. What you want to do then is train with some endurance so that you get used to using these muscles for longer duration so they get better at recovery so they have more blood supply so that you can ingrain positive movement patterns so that even when you're tired you're still moving correctly. So for example that's where something like the kettle bell swing comes in so handy. This is an exercise designed to be performed for those higher rep ranges. Meaning you're training yourself to not gas out and to maintain proper structure and form even as you get more tired. Another way you should be training strength endurance in this way is by picking stuff up but then walking with it as well because again when we actually pick up things outside of the gym, we don't put them straight back down. That's almost always going to be completely pointless. So what we do instead is we pick up something and we walk with it some distance. Whether we're moving furniture, whether we're gardening, playing with the kids, whatever it is, we're going to move that stuff a distance. So again, this is what you want to be training. We all know the many, many benefits of loaded carries of the various different ways you can load yourself on one side like a briefcase carry or both sides or even overhead. So combining this with lifting, you can even walk a distance, put it down, pick it up, walk a distance, put it down, pick it up. These are great ways to train real functional strength. What you're going to find here is, of course, you're going to be working with a lighter weight, but for longer, rather than a much heavier weight, but for a shorter amount of time. And again, this is how you use weights. We use lighter weights for longer far more frequently than we use very, very heavy weights for not as long. And the other benefit of the Cbell swing is, of course, that it's ballistic. It's an explosive movement. You're swinging the weight up using that hip hinge, but in a manner that almost mimics jumping. And this is why it can be so effective for improving sprinting and jumping. Deadlifting a heavy weight is exceptionally good for increasing jump height and running speed. This is something that Liam Ellis, the parkour athlete who contributes to this channel, talks about and it's something that's been shown in countless studies. This is absolutely something you should train, but it also has diminishing returns once you reach a certain point. And we also know that kettle bell swings in a very similar way will also build that same explosiveness that translates to athletic performance. So of course, what am I going to say? The best answer, as always, is to do both. And again, the benefit with Cbell swings is you can do this in your garden. So, as you can see, when picking stuff up off the floor, we don't just want to train max strength. We want to train endurance and explosiveness as well. But that's still not the complete package. We're also going to need chaos training or ecological training. Basically, we're going to need to introduce unexpected variables so that our body needs to adapt and so that we learn to be strong in a whole variety of different positions. Very rarely do you pick something up that's completely flat, raised just slightly off the ground so you can get your hands under it from a flat floor in nice weightlifting shoes in perfect conditions. If you're picking up furniture, you're going to need to get your fingers underneath it, meaning you're probably going to need to round your back to get much closer to the ground. If you're lifting up a rock or a log, you need to grab it at some odd unusual angle. You're going to do this very often on an uneven ground or perhaps where the floor is squishy under one foot and not so much under the other. You might have to be at a staggered stance depending on what you're doing. You might need to avoid some kind of other object that's in the way. You might have to twist your body. All of these things. If you don't train for this stuff, then the smaller stabilizing muscles in those positions aren't going to be strong enough to cope. If you never round your back, then when you do need to round your back, they're not going to be strong enough to cope. Now, obviously, I'm not saying you should go to the gym and lift a really heavy barbell with a round back or with one foot stuck out behind you because you're not ready for that position. you know, intuitively that's going to cause an injury. What you need to do is build up the same kind of capacity and strength to endure those positions. You're likely never going to lift at an awkward angle quite as much as you would do with perfect technique. But that's not the goal here. Is to fortify yourself in as many positions as possible, as much as is possible. This means letting go of your ego and reducing the weight slightly and picking up some stuff that doesn't want to be picked up. It also means introducing a few different exercises. So, one really obvious option that you saw me just doing there is to load just one side and pick that up off the ground. Pick something off the ground with just your left hand or your right hand. Make sure to train both sides. You're going to need to use stabilizing muscles in the other side of your torso. A really great one I saw from Wild Hunt Conditioning was the gladiator deadlift. This is a deadlift where you literally put two kettle bells, one either side of your body, whatever weight you want to use. Dumbbells works too, and then you rotate the body to pick one up and rotate the body to pick the other one up. This includes rotation in that picking up off the ground movement, which again is something that we very often have to do or at least we do it intuitively without thinking. So strengthening yourself in this position is a really good idea. And again, using lighter loads because you're not going to have as much capacity there and then building up to higher rep ranges to build that endurance so that you can handle doing this even when you're feeling tired. Then there's one that I've been using for ages, which is the kickstand deadlift. This is a deadlift where you're going to put one foot out slightly behind you so that more of the weight goes through the front leg and the back leg acts more just like a stabilizer. And it builds that single leg strength, building stabilization and power through one leg. And it lets you take on a proportionately larger load through each leg, even if you don't have as much weight to work with at home. But beyond this, the kickstand deadlift is also a really good option to learn if you do have back pain and you still want to lift weights. This is something I intuitively did when I hurt my back as a way to pick things up in a more safe manner. It was only later that I learned I was doing a kickstand deadlift. So, first of all, this lets you squat down more, even in a narrower space, meaning that you can do more of a squat when picking up a bar, similar to the way you might do for a trap bar deadlift. At the same time, that staggered stance actually locks the pelvis in place slightly, meaning you're less likely to round your back. So, if that's where the injuries are happening, this is actually a safe way to pick weights up off the ground. And I often will use it when I'm going around the gym picking stuff up. All of these combined with just lifting unusually shaped objects in the woods on uneven terrain will prepare you for all those unexpected positions. And they do come up. Literally just now I had to lift the kettle bells out of the uh footwell in the passenger seat in the car. That is no lift you've ever heard of. Bending round, pulling the weight out like this. Those are the situations you find yourself in. Now, of course, I couldn't make this part of the video without also talking about sandbag training. Sandbag training takes this whole concept one step further because not only are you lifting from an unusual position to begin with, but the way it's actually moving around as you lift it. Again, very similar to lifting a child or in a more life or death situation, lifting a person that doesn't want to cooperate because they're injured or whatever. This is going to challenge you in an entirely different way. And I highly recommend checking out the channel, The Stone Circle. He's got loads of content on sandbag lifting. He's a genuinely awesome creator. Lots of other cool stuff, too. Training in the wild, training calisthenics, all my favorite stuff. But either way, check out his channel for proper instruction on how to do sandbag lifts. Also, uh, Strength Side just did a great video with Enma, which was really, really good on sandbags. I decided to give them a go myself. I've been putting it off for years, and the reason being I did have one of those structured sandbags, which I used to train with a fair bit, but the reason I put off doing it with proper sandbags, was because I didn't know where I was going to store it. They're big and heavy, and I don't have any space in my shed. It's a complete mess. I could just leave it outside in my garden, but I'm worried it's going to get ruined by the weather. I actually used to leave all my barbells and dumbbells outside on the patio. You guys all tried to tell me that was a bad idea. And well done. You were right. They've all rusted. Okay, you're happy now. I can't use them. I ruined my barbells. So, that's where we are. But I don't have anywhere to store this stuff. So, yeah, I decided to do it anyways. I've bought a sandbag and I'm giving it a go right now as you can see on the screen. I I'm recording this before I did it. So, be interesting to see how I get on. It's 50 kg. And as you can see, most likely the whole point of this is it's really difficult to get it into position. You need to use your pecs to squeeze it as you lift it. Your biceps to an extent. You want to keep them locked in that flexed position at certain points. Lifting it is going to be slightly different every single time, which just prepares you again for that kind of thing. And you have to learn to brace your core with the valalva maneuver, with generally good breathing, all of that good stuff. You're going to need to round your back a little bit. So, yes, there's a whole different level of picking up unusual objects. It will fortify you and prepare you against so much more than just barbell lifting. Again, barbell lifting has its place. You can lift much heavier weight, but the sandbag is so good for challenging you because it doesn't want to cooperate. I will say though, there's something I've already thought of that would be interesting would be to try and pick up the sandbag as delicately as possible. Because if you were picking up a person, you'd passed out. You can't squeeze them as hard as you can from the top and the bottom, especially if they might have injured their back. You should never move an injured person. I'm not giving medical advice. Point is, there's so many different ways to pick up stuff. I think anyone who's been lifting for a while will know what actually happens when you go to pick something up off the ground that's a weird angle or position is what you'll tend to do is just kind of ho your pelvis into the correct position to flatten the back before you lift. This kind of happens almost unconsciously. You can do it from different angles. And so that's what we really want to learn. Not only how to do this, we want to get to the point where we can do it from any angle and where it feels just as stable and just as intuitive. One thing you'll find when you're doing some of these lifts as well is that they're great for evening out imbalances. Like I often found that my right glute would fire more than my left during certain exercises. Often found that I had, you know, tighter hips on one side. By doing these single-legged movements or these offset movements, this can help to alleviate some of that so that you're in a more stable position when you lift. Again, meaning that your body doesn't go into that freezing, spasming state because it thinks you're going to injure yourself because everything is nice and stable. That kind of brings me to my last point and the last piece of this puzzle, arguably the most important piece, which is mobility. If you guys watch my video on the sewers, you're going to know that this can have a big impact on your posture, on the way that you stand, on your pelvic tilt. If it's too tight, it's going to be pulling your pelvis forwards, creating that kind of Donald Duck butt. Look, got the very pronounced curvature in the lower spine. What this then kind of means is that you're essentially doing a deadlift all day with your spinal erectors. They're trying to keep your back straight whilst your so whatever other tight muscles you've got there are pulling on you to try and bend you forwards. This of course means you're going to be far more fatigued just from everyday life. So that when you come to lift the weight, you're far more likely to then give out and injure yourself, especially if you're adding loads to a problem you already have, a weakness you already have. And you can have a similar issue if you've got one side that's tighter than the other. Again, similar to me. So, in that scenario, it wouldn't matter how big and strong your deadlift was, you'd still be prone to injury because you're moving poorly. You're using poor biomechanics because you're so tight because you can't relax the muscles you need to relax. This is where a mobility drill can come in really handy. Using these unusual lifts, using these slightly offset lifts will help to an extent because you're going to learn to stabilize in all those different positions, but at the same time, you need to be able to move free and easily without injuring yourself. Another thing to keep in mind in terms of mobility is your ankle mobility. Because if you're squatting or deadlifting down to the ground and you've got big heels on your shoes, then that's actually going to stop you from getting into a full stretch. Essentially, your calf is always shortened. Meaning that whilst you might train and be able to pick things up off the floor when you're wearing your weightlifting shoes or even just your regular trainers, that won't necessarily mean you have the mobility to do it safely when you're in barefoot. And sometimes we pick stuff up when we're in barefoot. And that's and one of the many reasons that I love wearing barefoot shoes. Minimal footwear from the likes of today's sponsor, Vivo Barefoot. Here they are. Vivo Barefoot make minimal footwear, meaning that it's designed to get out your way and act just like your foot would without a shoe. That means a really thin sole so you can actually feel the ground underneath your foot. You I wouldn't be doing pistol squat jumps onto a bench, not with these shoes on because I wouldn't be able to feel the floor underneath and I'd be more likely to slip and fall. It means that they give you space for your toes to wiggle around, all that good stuff. And Vivo Barefoot make my favorite barefoot shoes because they're just so high quality, so wellmade. They last for so long. They feel super comfortable and they also look great. And I genuinely get compliments on them from people who don't know anything about barefoot shoes. So yeah, I highly recommend Viv Barefoot. And if you guys want to check them out, you can use code Bioner 20 at checkout and you get 20% off a purchase. So again, it comes down to dropping the ego. might really want to go to the gym and lift really really heavy weights, but if you're interested in performance, you also need to do the mobility stuff, but there are fun ways you can do this. Like gorilla walks are brilliant for opening up the hips. I like elephant walks as well, martial arts, kicking, that kind of thing. All this stuff is going to build that mobility. Vsits, lsits, you know, we don't just need to be doing boring static poses. We can train our mobility in a really interesting and dynamic way, even weighted. Whether you're doing a sumo squat or a horse stance squat, that's a real thing. So many different options. And again, as always, the ultimate performance and durability will come from using all these things so you're ready for literally any situation. It just makes common sense. So yeah, pick stuff up off the ground, but make sure to do it in lots of different ways. And if you like the sounds of this, if you're interested in training in ways that go beyond just the typical lifts, if you're interested in training your strength, mobility, endurance, even propriception, and brain functional together as a single package, then you might like my ebook and training program, Superfunctional Training 2.0. Comes with an 80 plus page ebook. It comes with over 2 hours of instructional training video. It's all easy stuff you can do from home, which progresses and scales all the way up to some really challenging stuff that uh, you know, will keep you going for a long time. So, if you're interested, check that out. But either way, guys, thank you so much for watching this one, and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.