

=== FILE: Bipedal Exercises Are a Powerful Alternative to Heavy Squats You Can Use Anywhere [9Uk-rE2S21k].txt ===

 this video is sponsored by Squarespace, the all-in-one website-building platform that makes it easy for anyone to get started with their own site. Stick around till the end of the video to learn more about a special deal that's making available through my channel. Leg trading, it's famously unpopular for many people. It's boring, it doesn't directly contribute to looking good with your shirt off, and it's often awkward, requiring setup and being very limited by technique and mobility. As a result, a lot of people sport very underdeveloped legs. This not only looks bad, it negatively impacts functional performance and can lead to pain and discomfort. Worse though is that many people also have terrible leg mobility. A lot of adults struggle to get into a deep squat with a heels flat on the floor, and a lot of people feel discomfort when squatting even partially that low. Knee pain, hip pain, and back pain are all common as a result of this. But what if I told you that you could develop athletic performance and significant mobility in your legs by just performing a series of bipedal exercises? Strange walks and hops that require no equipment or a lot of fun to do, and restore your natural lower body mobility, strength, and explosiveness. This is something I can test you personally. They've helped me to move more confidently low to the ground, to move more explosively and quickly, and generally to regain the mobility, power, and confidence in my legs that I had lost. Welcome to the Institute of Funny Walks for Gains. First up, gorilla walks for gentle and fun frontal plane mobility. This one is great for hip abduction, moving the legs out to the side, and for external hip rotation. You're basically getting into a kind of horse stance or wide squat, then leaning forward slightly to rest your weight on your hands or knuckles a little, then stepping out to the sides nice and wide, just enough to feel a slight stretch across the inner thigh. You then step the other leg in together and continue, moving both directions and vary the direction. Focus on preventing the knees from caving in as well to build that external rotation. This is all about easing into the stretch positions in a controlled and fun way, a much more enjoyable and sustainable form of mobility training. How about my new favorite, the squatting walk? Here you do air squats, but take a small step with each rep. This makes the movement more fun, more varied and slightly more explosive. You'll build strength, endurance, and mobility all at once. And since I've been doing these, again for three sets of one to two minutes, my legs have felt so much more powerful. I used to feel sore in my thighs at the bottom of the squat and feel awkward getting into it. Now I can slut drop with ease. And isn't that what we all aspire to? The other great thing about the squatting walk is how much of a pump it builds. By keeping that pressure on the legs, it creates a massive burn. Don't enough, this translates to extra size. It's the prison training approach to building legs and something very similar worked for Mike Tyson. Oh, and it builds tons of leg endurance too. Great for long-term athletic performance. Or how about the duck walk? Where you just get into that low squatting position and walk there. This is brilliant for not only creating an isometric hold that burns, try alternating between these two types of squat walk for a brutal leg workout, but also for testing mobility and stability as you take steps in those low positions. You can do this for time, you can do it for distance, you can hold something heavy in front of you to significantly increase the challenge. And if you pick up a kettlebell, a 20 kilogram kettlebell, walk around your garden in a duck walk position, this is an amazing leg exercise. There's more fun and accessible for a lot of people than just doing heavy squats in one spot. Or if you want something that will turn your legs into powerful springs for all kinds of athletic movement, try bunny hops. You're squatting down low here on your toes, then bouncing around keeping your legs nicely bent. This will strengthen your knees and your ankles, no end, and increase your elasticity. This is how we land from a big jump, this is how we spring off, this is how we squat down to play with our kids. This is intense for some and not recommended if you have bad knees, but start with gentle, small hops and build up to bigger movements and you'll develop extremely resilient legs that can act like spring coils. You can even use this stuff as part of your routine, tidying your living room. Then you can start integrating leaps and spins, maybe even some hop-hack if you want to showboat. So don't write them off, consider adding them into your routine and see where it takes you. And if you're looking for an upper body pulling equivalent, then what you're looking for my friend is break-iation. Would you like that in a future video? Bye for now. By the way guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anyone to get a website up and running. To do this, you can choose from one of their stunning, ready-made templates and then customize it to your precise specifications. Or you can use their AI tools that will guide you through a quick and easy bespoke setup. From there, you'll be ready to start posting content and promoting your ideas. But there are also endless other features you can add to extend the capabilities of your site. There's e-commerce for selling products online, appointment scheduling to let clients book your services, search engine optimization to ensure people can find your site on Google, a comment section and much more. In short, Squarespace will meet you where you're at with a website that's precisely built to fit your needs, which is why it's used by everyone from artists and hobbyists to some of the biggest brands on the web. To learn more, visit squarespace.com. When you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com. forward slash pioneer to get 10% off a website or domain. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to all of you who stuck around till the very end. And bye for now.

=== FILE: Change Your Training Program Like THIS and the Gains Will Come Faster and Easier! [G6wvoezJSaw].txt ===

 When it comes to making faster gains and getting better results from training, we very often focus on the exercises we can do. More often though, it's actually about the programming. The reason you're not seeing results is that you're not programming your training correctly, leading to a lack of growth even if you're putting in tons of effort. Problem is, programming can be complicated and nuanced, and there's not as much information out there about it. In this video then, I aim to lay it out so that you can understand precisely what you need to know in order to get the very best results from your training. And if you get this right, the gains will come faster and easier than ever. So we should view programming a little bit like photography. In photography you have the exposure triangle, where you need to get three measurements correct and balanced to try and accomplish the best outcome. In photography, those are ISO, exposure and aperture. In programming it's similar that the three elements are frequency, intensity and volume. The key is finding the balance between these three things. Frequency is how often you train. Do you train daily? Do you train four days per week? Intensity is essentially effort. How far you push each exercise and how close you get to failure. Very often this is to do with the amount of weight you use, but it could also be about things like intensity techniques, like drop sets. If you have more intensity, you will need to lower your training volume. And volume is how long you're training for and how many reps in total. So that might mean doing things like high rep ranges, but it can also just mean doing lots of exercises per workout. If you increase one of these things, you need to reduce the others to find balance. If you train with massive intensity, so that you're pushing one rep maxes on every exercise or going to absolute mechanical failure, then you're going to need to reduce the volume and frequency. That is to say you will need a longer time to recover. But if you choose to reduce the intensity of your workouts, you can increase the amount of exercise you're doing. You can then choose to do a high volume per workout or simply workout more often. So how should you design your workouts? Well, which is right for you will be individual. It depends on what your body responds to most. It depends on your goals. Higher intensity can be good for max strength, whereas higher frequency can be better for skill acquisition. It also depends on your circumstances, your available time, your experience, your predisposition towards injury, etc. As I discussed in my recent video, there was a high chance that a lot of people are training too much and that's harming their gains. We tend to think that if a little is good, then tons will be even better. But the truth is that the body can only respond so quickly and can only recover so quickly. If you break down tissue before it's fully repaired, then you won't grow as fast as you could. And if you train heavy before your foot even covered, you won't be actively training the maximum output of your nervous system and muscles. If you hit a plateau, then try reducing either your frequency, your intensity or your total volume. I've had a lot of success personally training with brutal long workouts and then resting for a week after. But I've also had a lot of success training with high reps and light weights very frequently. And that's what I've been doing more recently. My slowest progress actually comes when I refuse to pick a lane, training with middling intensity say five times a week. To be clear, this can still work. It's just that I tend to grow better when I do one of those things. So if you're plateauing, then I recommend experimenting with one of these strategies. At the very least, the simple fact that it's a change from the norm and an impactful one can often be enough to have some noticeable effect. Just switching to a different method can stimulate the muscles in a different way. But as is my way, I often like to use both these strategies simultaneously. So for example, that might mean doing high repetition twice per week and high intensity twice per week. So on two days of the week, you could do super high rep push-ups or dips. Then on the other two days, you could do intensive handstand push-ups or very heavy weighted dips. Maybe heavy bench press even to mix up modalities. This can be extremely effective as the two different types of rep ranges build muscle through different pathways. The very heavy work will train the nervous system to produce maximum force through neural drive and body control. And it will force adaptation in the muscles and tendons, increasing fast twitch muscle fiber and building stronger tendons due to the higher mechanical tension. This sort of training requires a long rest as we've discussed in order to allow the nervous system to recover and the muscle to rebuild. In order to train that strength, you need to be fully recovered. But the high repetition work can slot in there nicely in between sessions. Because now you're encouraging muscle growth through metabolic stress. You're getting blood and nutrients to the muscles and tendons, helping to encourage growth and repair. But without placing a huge new strain on the nervous system. While the specifics are a point of contention online and people arguing about the phrasing, this appears to offer both myofibrillar adaptations and some sarcoplasmic expansion. The muscle is getting thicker and denser, but you're also increasing glycogen storage and swelling. Or to put it another way, from an aesthetics standpoint, you're growing the muscle in two separate ways simultaneously. And from a performance standpoint, you're increasing both your maximum strength output and your ability to exert strength over a prolonged period. By the way guys, this video was sponsored by NordVPN. You can check them out in the link in the description below. If you're the sort of person who understands the importance of carefully planning their training program, then you probably also recognize the importance of having a comprehensive approach to online privacy. NordVPN is a VPN, a virtual private network that helps you to browse the web with increased privacy by connecting to a remote server. This is useful when you want to browse privately for safely browsing using public wi-fi and protecting yourself against things like man-in-the-middle attacks. And it's useful for travelers who need to access content they're subscribed to in their country of residence while abroad. The list of uses is only getting longer and it's something I personally use nearly every day. NordVPN is highly secure thanks to its strict no logs policy. It also comes with a wide range of additional features such as threat protection pro, which can warn you if you're browsing a fake online shop, block phishing attempts, and much more. A VPN should be just one part of a comprehensive approach to internet privacy and it's important to do your own research. However, NordVPN is an excellent first step thanks to its many built-in features and just how quick and easy it is to use on a wide range of devices. Get an exclusive NordVPN deal and four months extra at NordVPN.com forward slash the Bionier. It's risk-free with Nord's 30-day money-back guarantee. Thanks again to NordVPN for sponsoring this video and now on with the show. The fact that you're hitting the same muscle group four times a week this way means you're getting a ton of frequency, but the way you're hitting it is different. So you're not creating too much noise or preventing your full recovery. Perhaps the best part is that while some people respond more to higher up training and some people respond more to high intensity, doing both means you're going to see some results, whichever type of responder you are. You will need a little autogenic adaptation here. That means you're going to need to listen to your body and adapt. If you're trying to get stronger and gain new skills, then prioritize your recovery and use the high rep stuff more lightly so as not to interfere. If you feel like you can do more though, then do more. Another point of course is that you can mix and match. Rather than using both strategies simultaneously for every muscle group or picking just one, you can instead try picking different strategies for different muscle groups or movement patterns. So for example, I'm training heavy for my shoulders right now with extremely elevated pike push-ups, practically wall handstand push-ups. I'm maxing out at around eight reps and then performing forced negatives to finish. I do this no more than twice per week, but I'm also doing goblet curls every single session. Curls are highly isolated, meaning they offer little neurological fatigue compared to compound movements. The biceps themselves recover quickly and are not required for posture or general movement. They are slightly fast twitch dominant and in terms of performance, they require more strength endurance rather than more strength for things like climbing, carrying and grappling. And it also just offers me an extremely quick and easy way to keep my arms looking bigger while I focus on other more technical areas that I want to progress. As you can see then, different muscle groups respond differently to different types of training, as do different movement patterns. And then there are the individual goals of the athlete. Even a little more complex when we introduce things like skills-based movements. That means things like hand balancing. Here you may wish to lower the intensity and the volume and increase the frequency in order to grease the groove and learn faster. Some calisthenics experts advocate for this style of training, keeping it light, doing it frequently. Other calisthenics teachers advocate for the two-set method with high intensity and forced negatives. And each will swear that their method is superior. But again, it's just not that clear-cut. It depends. It depends where the bottleneck is for you. If you're strong enough already and it's a technique issue, then you should increase frequency and decrease intensity. But if it's more of a strength issue, you should increase intensity. I'm building overhead strength at the moment to give myself more leeway for error, so I can catch myself and write myself without needing perfect balance. That will give me enough stability in a handstand to then practice with increased frequency. But once I'm at that level of strength and it's time to work more on balance, I'll reduce the intensity and increase the frequency. So don't listen to anyone telling you that any method is superior to any other. It always depends. Always. Of course, you can also use these ideas in a periodized manner, switching from one style of training to another, or cycling which muscle groups are targeted with the most intensity and effort. The options are limitless when you understand clearly what each style of programming is doing. That's the real take-home message. It's about sending the right signals to your body, telling it what kinds of adaptations you want. Bad programming is noisy and muddled, whereas good programming is clear, which is not to say you can't send multiple signals. And as ever, the most important point is to then send that message during each workout clearly, learning how to provide the right stimulus efficiently through good movement, so as to prompt the right adaptations. Although, keep in mind that not all your training has to be optimized. It's fine sometimes to just do training because it's fun and because movement is always good for you. But build an efficient program and you'll give yourself time to do exactly that. If you like the idea of training that way, and this all makes sense to you, then check out my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. That will provide you with workouts that balance high volume and high intensity, depending on the movement, and that offer a variety of traits from endurance to strength to technique to mobility to aesthetics. You'll build an athletic physique while having fun with a program that's designed to be efficient and minimal so that you still have time to do other things you enjoy. But either way, thanks very much for watching this one, and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.

=== FILE: Everything Changed When I Finally Started Training for MOVEMENT - Not Muscle [YcNci7ZUNMk].txt ===

 this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around after the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. When I finally started training for movement, instead of just muscle and strength, I reduced my aches and pains, increased my energy, and became more athletic. And ironically, my physique improved, too. Here's why a simple perspective shift is so transformative and how you can implement the same concepts directly into your own training for amazing results. The improvement I experienced makes sense when you consider that training like a bodybuilder was completely misaligned with my goal of looking and moving like a jacked anime protagonist. And it wasn't really supporting the lifestyle I was leading outside of the gym, cue the aches and pains and that slightly softer look. And there's a good chance that your current training is misaligned with your goals, too. Many people focus their training on strength and muscle above all else, even at the cost of mobility and endurance, even if that means ignoring nagging pains in their knees or their backs. And this is exactly why so many people remain stuck, unhealthy and uninspired, perhaps you should start training for movement first. When was the last time you elevated your heart rate for a sustained period of time? And you're surprised you're too tired to move? If you can't get into a deep squat or bend down and touch your toes, of course movement is going to feel like a chore, of course you feel stiff and achy. Most people actually don't want to look like powerlifters or bodybuilders. They want to look athletic, lean, capable, not Ronnie Coleman, but a swimmer or a gymnast. A jacked anime protagonist, maybe. You need cardio to get leaner and to show off that muscle. You need rotation to create that shredded look in your obliques, either side of the rexus abdomini. Not through a prescription of dull repetitive exercises, but by actually challenging your body in multiple planes and multiple domains. By using your fitness. And that's when training becomes fun again. I think a lot of people are afraid that if they focus on anything other than lifting weights, they're going to stop making progress and they won't get the body that they want. So how can you do this? How can you spend more time moving and playing and still build actual muscle and get the physique you want? Here are some key strategies. 1. Really consider your physique goals and what different physique will do for you. Don't fall into the trap of competing with people online to get the biggest biceps or bench press. If you're not interested in tree trunk legs or becoming a powerlifter, why are you so hell-bent on squatting more and more? If you do just want to be a mass monster, that's fine too of course. I just think that some people end up falling into that path without truly reflecting on whether it's what they actually want. Once you recognize how much online advice is geared towards a bodybuilding mentality, you can disregard much of it and you can probably start spending less time on building muscle specifically. A few hours a week at the gym should be plenty if it's combined with other types of movement. 2. Think about what it is you want to be able to do rather than how you want to look. Instead of thinking about muscles, think about actions or functions. This can mean trying to pull off cool stunts. Personally, I train because I'm inspired by people like Jackie Chan or by the comics I read, by computer games and anime. I love doing cool fitness moves that make me feel badass. So for me, my goals are things like improving my kicks and punches, fixing my handstands to be straighter, reinforcing my back as I get older and developing a physique that looks good whilst I'm doing this stuff. Your goals might be different but think about what you actually want to use your fitness for. Now we need to ask how our training can support those goals and whether we're actually practicing moving in those ways. 3. Try to get as much variety as you can in your movement diet. That means you should be lifting weight but also training endurance, also mobility. Rock climbing is amazing for your lats and your forearms and your body composition, but you'll be even more well rounded if you can also fit into martial arts training, even if that's just a couple of bag sessions on your own. My message has always been about integrating as many different training modalities as possible to get the best results. But I feel that can sound intimidating to some people, so if we frame it instead as simply training for movement, we'll find this happens naturally. Because movement requires strength, it requires mobility, it requires endurance, not as separate modalities but working in concert to produce dynamic and powerful action. And by the way, these ideas essentially form the entire concept behind my latest ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover. It's a training program that's designed to build a ripped and athletic physique as efficiently as possible, while purposefully leaving you with time and energy to incorporate mobility, endurance and even skills training. To develop that lean and capable physique we're discussing in a way that's fun and highly convenient and adaptable. Training that fits around your lifestyle and enhances it while making you look and feel awesome, so you can actually stick with it. It comes with 25 instructional training videos, multiple cheat sheets, anime inspired cue cards that you can save to your phone, a 200 plus page ebook and much more. It's currently on January sale for just a little bit longer, so check it out now in the description down below if you want to make use of that discount. 4. Start thinking strategically about how you're going to integrate things like mobility and cardio into your routine. You can, for example, stretch whilst watching TV or playing computer games. You've heard how I like to do kettlebell swings when the kettle's boiling, or try random handstands in the hall. And ever walk up the stairs, I always bound up them. You can also integrate mobility by training it during your rest times when strength training, if you select the right exercises. You can get more endurance by doing more strength endurance work, lifting weights at higher rep ranges. Stop thinking of movement as something you exclusively do at the gym. To make time for such a varied selection of activities, you need to start walking or jogging or cycling places. You could take up some more active hobbies, maybe get more proactive with playing with your kids. I'm not suggesting you force yourself to go for hour long runs, unless that's something you enjoy. But there are so many other fun things you can do that will provide that cardio and that can become part of your routine. 5. Increase your effort and efficiency. To accomplish all this, you can't leave yourself completely spent at the gym. That's where training smarter also becomes imperative, learning what your minimum effective dose is that the strength gains you need to support this more active lifestyle. That's why I encourage you to stop forcing yourself to grow as much as possible, as quick as possible, and to instead ask what's enough to help you reach your physique goals while still giving you energy to do everything else you want to do. If you can do this from home, even better. But this same logic also applies to your other activities. Again, you need to learn that stimulus so you can get results from whatever you're doing. As I said earlier, many people would be more than happy to have the physique of a swimmer, or a rock climber, or a surfer. But they're scared of training that way, and there are absolutely people who rock climb or swim regularly who are very skinny. The difference then, is how you train those things. When rock climbing becomes an intentional workout, and you apply the same muscle building knowledge to that activity, you can see some uniquely awesome results. And when you support that activity with workouts designed to emphasize those skills, while also offering balance to the rest of your body. These changes can seem daunting at first. But give it a try, and you might well feel and look better than you have done in years. With healthy, powerful, and free-flowing movement as your North Star. Bye for now. By the way guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace, as you likely already know, is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anyone to create their own website. You can have one up and running in minutes by using their AI tools to guide you through the process, or by selecting from one of their ready-made templates, and customizing it to your exact specifications. All of their websites are modern, fast, and reliable. So you know it will be up to whatever task you challenge it with. In fact, Squarespace already powers some of the biggest brands on the web. Once you have your website, you'll be able to customize it even further with a wide range of additional features and plugins. You can add a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes, appointment scheduling so that you can sell services online, search engine optimization to get your website to show up on Google, website analytics, and much more. To find out more, go to Squarespace.com, and when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace.com forward slash byoneer, and you'll get 10% off a domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys for sticking around until the end, and bye for now.

=== FILE: How to Train Like Absolute Batman - BRUTAL Strength, Guerilla Tactics [RpyqDmVXEXw].txt ===

 ect. As many of you know, I used to make a special video at the end of each year where I would break down how to train like Batman. And each year, this would represent the culmination of everything I'd learned so far, my attempt to optimize human performance through training based on all of the new things I'd discovered. A couple of years ago, I took that to the limit by teaming up with some of the biggest names in functional training to create an ultimate workout. Based on all of their ideas, we had contributions from J.C. Santana, Neezva Toes Guy, Jax Blade, Grant Stevens, Brett Contreras, Liam Ellis, I wasn't sure how to top that one, so I took some time away from the tradition. And I promised I'd make another Batman video when we reached 1 million subscribers. But I get comments daily asking for more. This is not that 1 million subscriber video, clearly, but it is a spin-off based on a spin-off Batman series, one that has had massive impact on the comics, one that takes the very concept of Batman to a whole other ridiculous level. Batman, only metal. It's time to learn how to train like absolute Batman. Graphic Batman is an alternative Batman story set in the absolute universe written by Scott Snyder. This version of Batman has a few key differences. Firstly, he and his world are far more brutal. There's far more graphic violence and he strikes fear into the hearts of his enemies by dismembering them, maiming them and injuring them for life. He's far more ruthless than regular Bruce Wayne. And this in some ways, I guess, is more realistic. At the same time, this version of Bruce Wayne wasn't born into wealth. He can't rely on his family's huge fortune in order to create any gadget he can dream of. That means he needs to be more resourceful, more tactical when taking out his opponents. He still has gadgets, like a giant axe, but they're far more rough and ready than the sorts of things we're used to seeing him using. Finally, this version of Batman is an absolute unit, pun intended. He's 6 foot 9 inches, which would put him in the top 0.01% of the population, if not even rarer. On top of this, he weighs 191kg and he's made of pretty much pure muscle. He doesn't have quite the extensive training as regular Batman, but he makes up for it with his brute size and brute strength. Now of course, it's going to change the way that he approaches training and this is actually reflected quite well in the story. In my previous videos, breaking down how he might train like Batman, I've always discussed how actually massive strength and size shouldn't be a number one priority. Far more important to things like endurance, tactical thinking and skills of course, like martial arts, parkour. Most people who set out to be Batman aren't going to struggle because they're not strong enough, they're going to struggle because they can't throw a punch, they can't climb onto a roof, they get cold quickly, they get tired quickly. However, we can't take that same approach here because with absolute Batman, there's no getting around the fact that he's all about strength and size. If we want to train like him, we're going to need to do the same. He has to adapt to his immutable traits and that's something that we all need to consider when deciding what kind of build we want to pursue. If you're really small, then obviously you're not going to become as big as absolute Batman, you might be better suited to becoming a sprinter or a more agile build. If you're really big, then you can lean into this kind of training. It's really up to you. Do you want to chase your weak points and bring them up and become that way more of an all-rounder or do you want to become a specialist by leaning on your natural advantages as Bruce Wayne has done here? Something I've always liked to do is to find someone who's a similar height and build to myself, who has a similar skill set to myself, but who's ahead of me and use that as an inspiration. That's an example of the best that I can be personally. For me, that's Jackie Chan. For some of you, six foot nine monsters out there, it's going to be absolute Bruce Wayne. With that said, the title of this video is Train Like Absolute Batman. So we're going to set out to build the kind of size and strength that absolute Bruce Wayne demonstrates while still having some functional performance. And that's where the challenge is really going to lie. So really, this is our challenge. How do we build a physique like Absolute Batman? How do we get that big and massive while still being able to run, jump across rooftops, kick high, punch fast, move fluidly? These are things he still needs to be able to do, and he certainly does in the comics. Thankfully, the answer lies within the law of Batman. So, see nearly every incarnation of Batman involves Bruce Wayne going away for a time and then returning to Gotham, having gone on a journey of self discovery and training. And it's during this window that can range from three to eight years that he becomes the Batman physically and mentally. In Absolute Batman, it's a little bit different. A lot of his training is done in Gotham. He trains martial arts with Waylon. He spends time in the criminal underworld in order to learn how it operates with Selena. He also spends time as a college football player. Very different from the classic Batman, but what we still have here is a timeline, a period of time in which to become the Batman. And this is what I'm interested in. It's periodized training, but on a larger scale. So many people start off training and they're interested in building some muscle and they want it as quickly as possible. So many people get impatient trying to build abs or trying to build biceps because it's going to take them months or maybe a year. But when training to become Batman, we need to think in terms of years, possibly even a decade, and it's going to be a lifetime of honing. And this is an attitude that we can bring to any training. What I'm interested in is spending a period of time, years, building massive strength, a period of time, years, building skills and performance, a period of time, building cardio and endurance. And this is what would allow us to actually build a physique like Batman. For example, if you just want to build the kind of strength and power of a power lifter, then of course any basic power lifting program will have you covered. That will give you the tree trunk legs, the powerful core and the grip strength and the neural drive to just generate force, especially if you're committed and you have lots of time to dedicate to your training recovery. But if you try and learn martial arts skills at the same time, you're going to struggle because you're going to run into the interference effect. The amount of effort you're going to need to put into your lifting at the start is going to mean you don't have much recovery capacity to then be able to kick high. Doing a day of heavy squats and then a day of roundhouse kicks to the head is practically impossible. And sequencing here is important. If you train for massive strength first and then try and do martial arts on top of that, you're going to find that that muscle, that bulk, makes it harder for you to move. You will have lost mobility. You'll have learned to move only one plane of motion. Some people get confused and think that building massive muscle means you can't run fast. You can't kick high. This isn't true if you can control your body. But the point is this is harder to learn when you've built lots of muscle, packed on lots of weight, and when you've learned to only move in one plane of motion. Conversely, if you learn the skills first and build the muscle on top, you're going to be able to add that strength and power on top of those already formidable skills. Look at someone like Jujimifu. He's able to do flips and high kicks and splits despite being absolutely massive. But I wager that's because he learned the tricking first. In the world of athletic coaching, we call this long-term athletic development or career-scale periodization. It means thinking not in terms of what you're going to look like in a year or two years or four years, but coming up with a plan to build a massive muscle and performance over the course of five years. That's how you're going to build the size and the strength whilst retaining those skills and that performance. But if you want to build absolute, loose, weighing scale, size and strength, we're going to need to try something even more advanced. But of course, not everybody has years to dedicate to their training. Not everyone is so committed to crime fighting that they can have entire year-long phases of martial arts training or power building. So of course, for the rest of you, I've developed a program called Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. I released it only a couple of months ago. It's getting an amazing reception. And basically, it's the closest thing you're going to get to this kind of training, but in a realistic manner that fits into your routine. It does this by focusing on movement, athletic, powerful, strong movement that will give you more body awareness, more power, and at the same time more agility, control and strength. You'll be building mobility, joint integrity, you'll reduce pain, you'll be able to run faster, jump higher, all of those good things just so that you can do more of what you want to be able to do. And it comes packaged with a whole bunch of extra stuff. You get a 200 plus page ebook, 26 instructional training videos, cool anime inspired workout cue cards that you can download to your phone to remind yourself what you're doing in the gym and tons of other cool stuff. If that sounds awesome, there's a link in the description down below. And it's just gone on Boxing Day sale, so now's the best time to grab yourself a copy. Thanks a ton for considering it. Either way, let's get on with the show. If you want to get as big and as strong as absolute Bruce Wayne in this time, we're going to need to use some even more advanced techniques to pack on that kind of size and strength. This is again, where sequencing can be really important. And it's something that people don't talk about all that often. Because actually, when you combine different types of training over a long time scale, they actually have compounding effects. They can magnify one another. Take for example, using isolated exercises that target specific muscle groups in a bodybuilding fashion. This can actually build the kind of size and strength in muscles that otherwise wouldn't be targeted by powerlifting. For example, targeting your biceps or perhaps your side delts, things that just won't get targeted to the same extent if you're only doing the big three lifts and perhaps some accessory lifts. So by doing bodybuilding first and then powerlifting, you can actually improve your physique, become much wider by building the stable, powerful core and frame that you get from powerlifting, as well as adding on all that extra muscle that you get from bodybuilding. What's more, though, is that the bodybuilding will have prepared you in many ways for the powerlifting, giving you, for example, a better mind muscle connection so you can feel when the correct muscles are working, giving you stronger joints and better blood supply. When you use things like drop sets, this is excellent for increasing vascularization, blood supply to the muscle. That blood supply can then increase hypertrophy when it's provided with other kinds of stimulus, like the mechanical tension you get from powerlifting. In other words, the powerlifting is highly effective and the bodybuilding is highly effective. But if you've had a bodybuilding career and you move into powerlifting in many ways, that's actually going to enhance your results because your body will be primed for growth. Think of this a bit like irrigating the soil before you sow your seeds and fertilize them. It's doing these things in the correct sequence that yields the best crops, or as I think farmers call it, yields the best plant gains. And if you've done some form of cardiovascular training before this, then you're also going to have the work capacity to do higher rep ranges to recover faster. So you see, by smartly planning our routine, we can actually build more size and power than we could by using any one of these things. But again, by thinking in terms of months and years and by having a singular focus, you can actually achieve some quite incredible things. So if I were planning a absolute Bruce Wayne workout, using these principles over the course of three to five years, I'd probably start with some form of athletic training. I'd focus on conditioning and getting a good work engine. I'd focus on joint integrity. And in absolute Batman, he did exactly that by spending time as a college football player. This also trained you to run fast, to change direction quickly, get you used to moving in multiple planes of motion. I might then add calisthenics to really build strong joints, to get lots of blood supply to the muscles and to train the body to start to build core strength and stability so that we can then handle heavier loads and subsequent training phases. On top of this, I'd add martial arts training, parkour and gymnastics. And we'd focus on just those things for several years. To the point where we're delivering crisp kicks and powerful punches and can do all sorts of acrobatic moves. Then I'd start adding in bodybuilding. And the bodybuilding would allow us to build extra muscle on top of that, to bring up to speed the areas that were perhaps overlooked. And on top of that, I'd then add the powerlifting or to build real brute power and strength. We'd still be practising a little bit of the martial arts, some of the acrobatic, some of the calisthenics skills, but the big focus now would be building pure power and size. Because our technique is now at such a high level, we can now direct that power and size into powerful punches, huge jumps, explosive sprinting. We can start to move like absolute Batman. You can then apply different advanced techniques to take your strength training even further, using things like the dynamic effort method from Louis Simmons to increase your starting strength and rate of force development. That means lowering the weight and increasing the bar speed. You could also use overcoming isometrics to develop a bit more limit strength and motor unit recruitment. You also want to add functional strength. We would have gotten a little bit of this just as a result of everything else we've been doing. But now we want to train with things like sandbags with Atlas stones, with unusual objects. We want to build real grip strength. We want to build rotational power. We want to build the supportive muscles, obliques, we want to learn to support more weight on one side when heaving something awkward. This is something that will allow absolute Batman to swing and act with the utmost power. And in our real world as well, it's important to train this kind of max strength, both in a linear fashion, but also in these more unpredictable vectors. And the final piece of the puzzle is to remember that maintenance takes far less effort and recovery than building muscle and size and skills in the first place. This is going to be key to not only keeping those skills and attributes we've developed going in the background, but also to allow absolute Bruce Wayne to go out on the streets of Gotham and to perform his duties while still maintaining that kind of size and muscle. If you're out all night fighting crime, you can't be lifting your heaviest repetitions every day at the gym. So at a certain point, absolute Batman would have to stop chasing bigger numbers and gains and instead be content with the strength he's built. Be content to maintain that, perhaps adding skills, but mostly focusing on doing his job. Knowing when enough is enough, knowing when one set of traits or attributes has been built to a satisfactory level so that we can then focus on other things that are important to us. It's not all about limitless growth, even for absolute Batman. By the way, guys, this video was sponsored by Vivo Barefoot. And the reason I wanted to talk about barefoot shoes in this video is because I actually think that they're the perfect fit for a kind of Batman loadout. I don't just wear barefoot shoes because I think they're healthier for your feet because they let you move more like we're supposed to, although that is why I wear them as well. I think having your heel on the floor so your calf isn't in a shortened position all the time can only be good for the way that you move. But the real reason I wear them is because they let me do things I couldn't do otherwise. Barefoot shoes let me feel the ground beneath my feet because they have a thinner sole. They let me contort my foot around bars and ledges when I'm balancing and running. I feel lighter and faster because the shoes are lighter, but at the same time, they're also immensely well made. They still provide that protection. Vivo Barefoot create a large number of different boots that offer more protection during winter months that protect your feet when you're hiking, also at the same time giving you all of that freedom and control that's good for your health and that lets you move faster and lighter. And Bionier viewers can get 15% off a purchase by using code BIONIERVIVO15 at checkout. So if you found this video useful and interesting guys, if you did then please leave a like and share it around. That would help me out immensely. Let me know how you think absolute Batman would train and will you be taking any of these concepts and applying them to your own training? Either way, thank you so much for watching this one and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.

=== FILE: Micro Cardio： The Surprising Benefits of 5 Minute Cardio [2HMEvlUw6nQ].txt ===

 nangodinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate, Short, 4-10 minute cardio sessions might just be the missing switch your body needs to start improving your fitness. Now I'm not claiming that these micro-cardio sessions will give you the body of a Greek god. This is not a secret hack, it won't give you a ripped six-pack. What it could be is a return to a more natural way of integrating movement into our lifestyles, It helps to improve circulation, energy levels, mindset and bodily rhythms so that everything else falls into place. And it can give you so much more energy and motivation in everything that you do. And it's obvious when you really think about it. Many people look at cardio as being detrimental to muscle growth and only somewhat useful for weight loss. Those that aren't in the habit of demonizing cardio meanwhile will often act like it's only useful if you're dripping piles of sweat at the end. Micro Wave But cardio has countless other benefits and one of the most potent is what it can do for your energy levels, both in the short term and in the long term. If you're someone who comes home from work and collapses on the couch, who intends to work out but finds themselves making excuses because they just feel too tired, then you might need this. Just doing just 5 minutes of light cardio is enough to turn your evening around entirely. This could be 5 minutes of jump rope in the garden, 5 minutes of shadow boxing or even just bouncing on the spot gently or dancing around the kitchen. Very often what we think of as being very tired or exhausted even is actually just lethargy. We're tired because we've been inactive, not because we've exhausted ourselves. And that has its own kind of momentum. This may or may not coincide with reduced mood and motivation even. 5 minutes of jump rope though can change that instantly by increasing cerebral blood flow, getting blood and oxygen to your brain and thereby increasing focus and alertness. It will also raise your core temperature and alertness is known to track very closely to temperature. It will put you in a slightly more sympathetic state meaning you'll increase the production of excitatory neurotransmitters like norepinephrine and dopamine. This alongside feel good neurotransmitters like serotonin. It will also wake up the muscles and joints eradicating somersetho sensory amnesia and lubricating the joints so you don't feel stiff and slow. You'll be in a slightly more fight or flight state but crucially you won't overshoot it. Just 5 minutes of gentle cardio will ensure you don't end up more exhausted than you started. It's like a mini warm up for whatever it is you want to do. Not necessarily exercise but you know cooking or reading. Likewise these small doses are more palatable. Even if you're really tired you should be able to bring yourself to do just a bit of light jump rope or to throw a few punches for 5 minutes. The barrier is very low but following that you'll have far more energy to direct towards exercising fully later. I highly recommend doing this whenever you feel that slump in energy and motivation. This change, activity throughout the day, is what has made me more energetic and productive as a parent on a constant sleep deficit than I was when I was young and carefree. And when a key added benefit of these shorter workouts is that you don't sweat too much. If you do 5 minutes of light jump rope outside or with your top off you can do this without having to get changed or shower. All this can massively improve adherence. And there are lots of ways you can fit in this kind of training into your lifestyle. Unlike a 40 minute run you don't need to leave the house for an hour or buy a treadmill. You can just jog on the spot for example or do skater hops. You can also dance for 5 minutes or do shadow boxing, something that's also great for mobility and proprioception. Kettlebell swings are a brilliant option and even high rep calisthenics can work this way. Two sets of 100 push ups will ramp up the heart rate. Plus you're getting some muscle building benefits as well. But the method I'm showcasing here and the one I recommend, perhaps most highly, is jump rope. Jump rope is easy for anyone. It's fun, it can be done in your front garden and it offers other benefits like skill development, timing, ankle hysteresis and more. I'm using ropes from today's sponsor CrossRope. CrossRope make extremely high quality ropes that feel incredible in the hand thanks to their advanced spin mechanics and perfectly ergonomic handles. They're durable and last forever and you don't need to worry about them getting tangled up. But there's way more to CrossRope than that. Thanks to their quick release button you can easily swap out different ropes. Choosing weighted ropes for example that will increase energy expenditure and add a little extra resistance for your upper body. This also impacts on the speed of the rope with the heavier options giving you more breathing room to learn cool tricks if that's your jam. Then there's the amp handles that integrate with the mobile app to count your jumps, track your progress and guide you through workouts. This is perfect for gamifying the process and helping you see improvements over time. I tried getting into jumping rope for years but it was my first set of CrossRopes that really got me into it thanks to how great they feel to use and how this improves the whole experience. Get your own at the link below and use code BIONEAR to get 15% off your order. Micro Pig But like I say, any form of cardio can do the job and you can even mix it up. One of the simplest things I like to do is jog mostly anywhere that I have to walk. So will these short bursts of cardio make you ripped? No, not directly. I don't want to make any wild claims here. You'll use around 40 calories per micro session and if you manage to do 3 of them in a day that's 120 calories total. Over the course of the week it adds up to 840 calories. Not a lot but not inconsequential either. Epoch or post exercise oxygen consumption will also be higher than doing a single longer cardio session. This is the extra calories that you use after you've finished exercising while your heart rate is still elevated. Doing 3 sessions instead of 1 means this happens 3 times instead of once. Now you're only likely to be using extra calories in single digits post-workout but I think it still points to why this stuff is so beneficial. Because each time you'll also be increasing insulin sensitivity. You'll be increasing muscle glucose uptake. If there's a strength element you'll be slightly stimulating protein synthesis too. And again we're keeping it short enough to avoid significant glycogen depletion, cortisol elevation or fatigue that might interfere with other workouts later on. Micro. Penis. These short sessions wake up the body in other words after long bouts of sitting. If you're inactive for large periods of the day you're going to struggle to see effects from just 1 hour of compartmentalised exercise. This is the missing piece of the puzzle for many people struggling with body recomposition. When I did personal training I specifically remember coaching someone who was restricting calories from her diet and getting lots of exercise but just wasn't losing weight. Eventually we realised that the issue was that she was entirely inactive the rest of the day. She caught the train from just outside her door and got dropped off right outside her office where she would then sit for hours on end. Diet and working out can only do so much to counteract an entirely sedentary lifestyle. More important in many ways is how active we are the rest of the time. When walking, taking the stairs, playing with kids, dancing around the kitchen. The great thing about microcardio is that it emulates a more active lifestyle. It's more natural to be moving a little throughout the day than to barely move all day apart from one extremely intense bout. This makes it actually useful for body recomposition. Not enough to be completely transformative on its own but a wonderful tool that will augment diet and exercise. And it could well be the catalyst that gives you the energy and drive to achieve your other fitness goals. And it's through these same mechanisms that we see amazing long term benefits from short bouts of cardio too, especially when it comes to general health. Many of us only move if we're explicitly exercising. That sucks guys. Micro. Nuss prime. Again our body is meant to be moving sporadically throughout the day and by having these short bouts of exercise we develop a great kind of cardio readiness. We train ourselves through practice to respond better to a sudden increase in activity and to recover better from that training. Heart rate kinetics refers to how quickly the heart rate rises when we start exercising and how quickly it falls after. Developing this is associated with better cardiovascular efficiency and a lower perceived exertion during tasks. This could have positive knock on effects for heart rate variability. So it's not just exercising that's good for us, it's starting exercise and if you split your workouts into smaller chunks you're starting exercise more often. You may see improved vascular responsiveness and endothelial function, increased vascularization. You could also see improved VO2 kinetics, the ability to rapidly increase oxygen uptake to meet demand. That's not the same as VO2 max. You won't massively improve your VO2 max or be able to run marathons as a result of this, but I hope I've demonstrated that this isn't the only benefit of cardio. And this more precisely mimics the kinds of tasks that we're faced with every day. Short bouts of activity. From cold, whether it's running for the bus, playing with kids, fixing the fence or carrying the shopping. It even echoes the way we move in team based sports, running for short periods before hanging back. It's your ability to ramp up your system and calm it back down that will make you more focused and energized during these sorts of tasks. And it's exactly what we're training here. All that and better health that may translate to more longevity. Short duration cardio performed five times, three times or even once a day can make a noticeable difference in that regard. Micro. Machines. And when if you're looking for a training program that is all about moving more and feeling better through healthy exercise, you should check out my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. This program is built around short body weight sessions that build a muscle and performance while still leaving you enough energy to practice skills and sports. It incorporates cardio and keeps you moving in ways that are fun and healthy. It will make you look and feel more athletic and powerful. You can find it in the link below and it's currently on discount for January. But whatever you decide, the main takeaway is to keep moving throughout the day. And to recognize the value of even small amounts of cardio. It's like S Club 7 said. Don't stop moving. Find your own way to it. Deep stuff. Bye for now. Micro. Cardio.

=== FILE: Practice These Exercises And You'll Excel at Most Physical Tasks [TsC34qi9vAc].txt ===

 This video is sponsored by Squarespace, the website building platform that makes it easy for anybody to build a website in a matter of minutes. Stick around till the end of the video to learn more about a special deal that's making available through my channel. I've personally always hated the idea of being incapable. I don't know why that is, it's probably some deep-rooted psychological issues, but I never wanted to be the guy who no one asks to help them move. I never wanted anyone to scoff at the idea of me being able to help lift something. I never wanted to be the guy who gets out of breath on the hike or the bike ride, or who gets injured playing football, or who gets picked last. I hate the idea of people being careful with me as I get older, or of not being able to keep up with my kids when playing. And I really hate the idea that I might be completely useless in an emergency. That's probably one of the reasons that I run this channel that I've always been interested in functional fitness, so that I can perform well at any task. But it seems that I'm quite alone on this. This isn't really a focus of training for a lot of people. Today it seems like more people are interested in looking good for Instagram, even if that means actually destroying their bodies, becoming less functional, with stupid diets, or even drugs. They might look cool, but if you ask them to do something, it's just kind of lame. So, to help offer an alternative, I thought I'd create a really basic training program that would double as a kind of fitness test. If you practice these very straightforward exercises, then once you become fundamentally capable in those areas, you should find yourself ready to perform most physical tasks with at least some confidence. To the point where any limitations you continue to face will be things that you just can't overcome, or that you're working towards, or things that are based on skill and technique at the higher levels. You'll have that baseline to apply to any situation. If somebody's going to be able to achieve these things, if you're above a certain age, or if you're physically disabled, then running for 20 minutes, spoilers, might be out of reach. However, you can still use this as a basic framework and build towards each of these elements as much as is possible for you. And in so doing, you'll become increasingly equipped to deal with whatever life throws at you. So this isn't supposed to be like, are you good enough? This person's better than you. It's not about that. It's about training in order to be more capable of all the things you want to be able to do within your capacity. You're not choosing to be able to do things well, at least hypothetically, so that you have more options, more freedom, and so that you can enjoy life to the fullest. I'm also going to include a super functional standard though, just for those that want to take things to the next level. So the first is a 20 minute continuous jog. Practice this until you can go at a moderate pace, so that you can still talk with a little difficulty, and maintain that the entire time. Once you can do this, you'll be able to run away from danger. You'll be able to play most sports without becoming badly out of breath. You'll be able to go hiking for long distances, play with your kids. Don't underestimate the value of steady state cardio. So many people write it off because it doesn't build aesthetic muscle, when actually getting out of breath is the thing that's going to stop you doing the most things you want to do. And this isn't as hard to achieve as you might think. If you're not interested in becoming a professional runner, then a little bit of running is more than enough, and especially when that's on top of other things that are already training your aerobic capacity. If you wanted to take this to the more super functional level though, then practice until you complete 10 kilometers in around an hour, and you'll have vast reserves of extra cardio to handle nearly any task with energy to spare. The next, a two minute loaded carry with 20 kilograms. Now the loaded carry is one of the most functional exercises that there is. You're picking something up and then walking with it some distance, which is exactly what we do when we're carrying our children, carrying shopping, moving furniture, or perhaps if we need to carry something in an emergency. We're going to build up to being able to walk with 20 kilograms, carried however you like, for two continuous minutes. 20 kilograms is a great real world weight, as it's roughly the weight of a small child, a heavy bag of shopping, or a suitcase. I toyed with the idea of making this relative to your weight, but the truth is the world doesn't change weight as you get stronger or weaker. So this might be harder for some and easier for others. Why not heavier? If you're walking a distance, you're not normally going to be carrying something that heavy. While it might sound cool to be able to carry an injured friend down a mountain, this isn't realistic. Not only is it much harder to carry a human, you also probably wouldn't want to move them in a situation where they're so seriously injured that they can't walk. You'd be more likely to want to support that person partially, making this more of an endurance challenge. But either way, this will build grip strength, postural stability, gait mechanics, and grip. It'll also build mental resilience. And to take this to the super functional level, you're going to aim to carry that same 20 kilogram weight for half a mile. Next up is just four pull-ups. This will be very achievable for many of the people who watch this channel regularly, but it could be a significant challenge for the average person. However, it's very much worth being able to pull your own body weight confidently. Of course, for climbing up onto ledges, hanging onto things, and also pulling other objects, if you want to do well in a tug of war, or if you're wrestling, or if you're trying to pull someone out of trouble. Being able to do four pull-ups will also naturally mean that you're able to hang, which is another very important capability. And the super functional version of this is being able to climb a rope with no legs for five meters. If you can do this, then you'll be able to climb your way out of most situations. Next is 20 push-ups. We have our pulling strength. We also need pushing strength. And I chose push-ups here as the target because it demonstrates a good amount of strength, strength to weight ratio, and strength endurance. You should be able to press at least your body weight, and you should be able to do this for a good number of repetitions. Very rarely do we ever need to press more than our body weight, and when we do, we find that our core strength is usually the limiting factor. The super functional version of this, then, is to be able to perform 100 push-ups. This is going to give you strength, endurance, and power generation in your pecs to spare. You generally won't need more than this. Next up is one minute of kettlebell swings with 10 kilograms. Kettlebell swings perfectly challenge the hip hinge movement pattern, and require a sustained but short burst of exertion, power endurance. This is the same type of effort we need when sprinting for short bursts in a sport, for example, when running for the bus or when fighting for rounds. It's also a ballistic exercise. Kettlebell swings will train explosive extension for jumping and other athletic movements, and in short, this ability will translate to better lifting, running, and explosive movement. Whilst it's only 10 kilograms, being able to do this repeatedly will build some strength, so you will be able to lift fairly heavy things off the ground. And for the super functional criteria, the challenges increase to a two minute 20 kilogram swing. In the same vein, next up is 20 air squats. We have a push now, we have a pull, and we have a hinge, so we need a squat. Everybody should be able to squat their body weight 20 reps. We'll ensure a basic level of leg strength and endurance for athletic movements and power generation. For the super functional goal, we're going for 100 squats. If you can pump those out on the spot in one go, you're going to have plenty of leg power, strength, and endurance for sports, life, fighting, etc. Now, some people will wonder why not replace this with a back squat goal? You know, being able to squat your body weight or two times body weight, and they understand that impulse, but again, you simply don't need to lift that much on your back in most real world scenarios, and certainly not to repeatedly squat with it. The back squat is a technical, equipment dependent movement that excludes many body types, and ultimately isn't required for most everyday activities. Same reason I chose kettlebell swings over the deadlift. And whilst you don't need to lift very heavy things on your back very often, you do need to be able to squat your own body weight repeatedly and confidently. This will build knee, hip, work capacity, joint integrity, lactate tolerance, strength to weight ratio, general athleticism. When it comes to real world performance, movement is king. Finally, we're going to do a suite of basic mobility drills. Basic mobility is an absolute must for anybody that wants to be able to perform well at most tasks. So you should aim to be able to bend over and touch the ground with your legs straight, deep squat with heels flat on the ground, and reach your hands overhead with your back straight. Whilst these three don't cover every aspect of mobility, they do cover the main areas that you need for the vast majority of movements and basic injury prevention. Combined with the push-ups, you'll be able to get up off the floor or squat down low to play with your kids, and you won't be limited in reaching objects, climbing, dancing or fighting. And the super functional standard adds four more movements to this sequence. They are a T-spine rotation, so you're going to stand on the spot, turn at the torso, not the waist, in order to touch a wall directly behind you. This is a fairly easy test for anyone who is active in the rotational plane. You should also be able to do full bridge, ideally, deep front splits, not necessarily the complete splits, but split nicely in that direction, and deep middle splits. Again, you don't have to necessarily go astagrass, but you should be able to splay your legs. This additional layer of mobility will be sufficient for a wealth of activities from delivering high kicks to wielding weapons. Practice these exercises, and once you can meet every requirement of the basic standard, you can rest assured that you will be able to handle nearly any task. From basic labour, to playing sports, to hiking, to playing with kids, to dancing and more. You should feel like you have plenty of energy for whatever life throws at you, and you should be less prone to injury or getting out of breath. Hopefully, you'll be able to retain that as you get older, so that you don't start losing capabilities. Of course, no test can be truly comprehensive, but I feel this is a very good standard to aim for, a very good starting point. And the best part is that in order to build these capacities, you simply need to practice the exercises in a circuit. This will be enough to build that capacity over time, so this is both an assessment and a full body routine. And if you want to see what this actually looks like as a training routine, then you check out my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover. I've just added an additional full body routine to actually, based on these standards, based on the basic capability test and the super functional capability test. That comes with cheat sheets that you can download and put on your phone, and it will plug into the main Super Mover workout, meaning that you can swap out the main full body day and try this instead. The main Super Mover routine itself does build all of these capabilities. The Super Mover program focuses on movement, on building movement capacity, so that you will become functional for most things you want to do, whether that's performing athletically, whether it's just moving through life, whether it's doing cool calyphthonic stunts, or that's just performing basic exercises. It's available now for just $55. It comes with a full training plan, a 200 plus page ebook, cool anime inspired cue cards to motivate your training, 26 tutorial videos, more than 100 alternative exercise options, and tons of alternative routines like this one, you can swap in and out to keep your training fresh. If that sounds cool, then check out the link down below. Costs just $55. Either way, I'd love to hear what you guys think of this. How do you manage it? Can you do all of these things? I just struggle a little bit when we get to the super functional mobility. What would you change? Would you add anything? Take anything out? I'd love to hear your thoughts. Thank you so much for watching this one guys. I'll see you next time. Bye for now. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys for watching till the end, and bye for now.

=== FILE: Train LESS for MORE Muscle and Performance Gains - Why it Can Work [ifySaIqI5Rs].txt ===

 I think a lot of people assume that I'm literally training all the time with insane intensity. I make videos with titles like SPAM Daily Reps and Why You Should Train Every Day, I'm constantly lifting weights, running, doing all these different things. But the truth is, I actually don't train a crazy amount. What I do is I train frequently, but I don't train insanely intensely during those workouts, and my workouts themselves, I keep nice and short. In fact, if you add it all up, I actually don't train for that many hours per week, maybe three to four hours total, divided into 20, 30 and 40 minute sessions, and I think that's really important to understand if you are trying to do lots of things and you have a life outside of the gym. So how does this actually work? How can you train less and actually get more results, and how can you implement this into your lifestyle and routine in order to see the results that you want? So first we need to define what I mean by training less, because like I say, I'm not actually saying that you should train just two or three times a week. What I'm actually saying is that many people could benefit from making their workouts drastically shorter, and there's a few ways that you can do this. One is to break your workouts into smaller modules, so instead of doing one one hour workout, you instead do two 30 minute workouts. You might alternatively have a couple of bigger workouts and then smaller modules that you do throughout the week, and this is what I do personally. You can do it by using fewer exercises per workout. I think bodybuilding culture has made many of us think that we need 10 different exercises to target the biceps, 10 different exercises to target the shoulders, and this is what I used to believe as well. But if you're just interested in a certain amount of strength and performance and size, often you can do with just one per body part. Another option is to reduce the number of sets you do per exercise. This is an idea that's becoming increasingly popular, and again it depends on your goals. If it's strength endurance, then maybe you want more sets. But if your main goal is size and strength, then two is often enough, and in fact in some cases it can be superior. And finally you need to recognise when you've provided yourself with the necessary stimulus. You need to learn to recognise that stimulus and then get out of the gym and call it a day. And again of course all of this is going to depend on your goals. Some of these things are going to apply to you, some won't. So you have to decide what works best for you. But in many cases you're going to find that there's a lot of fat that can be cut from your routine without losing much value at all. And this has certainly been true for me. I've drastically reduced the number of exercises I do per workout, drastically reduced the number of sets I do per workout, and I've just seen better results thanks to that. This is one of the main ideas behind Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover, which actually just uses four to five exercises per workout in many cases. And some of those are only done for two sets. And again a lot of it comes down to so much of YouTube content being geared towards high-level bodybuilders, high-level powerlifters, maybe people using performance enhancing drugs, or at least people who want to be in those brackets. There's a law of diminishing returns. You can do one really good set for your pecs and you can see growth. And if you're not in a hurry and if you don't need to look like Arnold Schwarzenegger, that's going to be enough for most people. It's only when you want to be competing at the highest level that it then makes sense to do bench press, pec flies, incline press, decline press. All in the same workout. So it comes down to remembering precisely what your goals are and being laser focused on those. One of the things I struggle with when trying to do this is that I want to train everything. Single leg strength, rotation, frontal plane movement, grip strength. I think it's important not to leave out whole planes of motion just because they're not as glamorous. But you can still do all this and include fewer exercises than you would do if you hit every single one of the mirror muscles from five different angles. And plus you can get around it to a large extent by using bang for your buck movements that do lots of things at once. And by getting some of these benefits from other parts of your routine, hobbies and things. I've started worrying less about rotation, for example, since I've been doing more martial arts training. And if you want to compete at that highest level, know that those top influencers, know that those competitors, they've designed their entire lifestyle around this. So they have the time to recover from that kind of intensity. So they don't have lots of other demands. They're eating a huge amount. Unless you're willing to be that committed to your training, and many of us just didn't have that option, then actually makes sense to be a lot more streamlined in what you're doing and to acknowledge that you don't have as much time to recover as some of those people. And if you try and follow those routines and you don't give yourself that recovery, you don't eat enough food, etc. Then you're going to fail. And that's why doing less often leads to better results. It's better to have a more rudimentary program that you stick to than an extremely elaborate one that's just out of bounds for you. And for an aesthetics angle, you actually don't need huge muscle to look great. Most people are going to look much better if they build a certain amount of muscle, then cut back on the fat in order to give themselves that definition. You need to look proportionate, you need to train the muscles that often get missed. If you do that, you're going to look fantastic without having to become this mass monster. By the way guys, if you want to grab Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover, it's on discount until the end of January. So now's the best time to get it. There's a link in the description down below. It aims to build a more athletic body that looks great and moves better in short, efficient workouts, whilst also leaving space for all the fun stuff so that you can learn skills, pursue hobbies, etc. There's 25 instructional videos, a 200 plus page ebook, loads of other stuff, so check it out, link in the description down below. Like I say, on discount for just a little bit longer. But as she goes beyond this, it's not just about being able to stick to a program, it's also about how this kind of lower intensity frequency can benefit your body. For example, because you're training for fewer hours, you're not going to build up the same amount of fatigue. And because that cumulative fatigue stays lower, you won't be carrying that fatigue into each exercises. This is the right way to do strength training as it lets you utilize your maximum strength during each repetition and to rehearse correct technique. And like I say, by training with short workouts, you will allow yourself to train with greater frequency. And by hitting your workouts more often, you're going to be keeping the body active, spiking protein synthesis more regularly, benefiting from things like spaced learning, greasing the groove, all of that good stuff. You're constantly elevating your heart rate, you're constantly improving blood circulation. And even at the higher level, many people subscribe to high intensity training, training with massive intensity, often just for a single set per exercise, or at least a single set per body part, and then leave lots of time to recover. And at the other end of the spectrum, high rep calisthenics often benefits from short workouts with short rest times, then higher frequency, which keeps feeding the muscles and allows them to grow. So whatever strategy you want to use, there's plenty of evidence out there, plenty to support that reducing your workout duration can support faster and better gains. And another benefit of these shorter workouts for training muscles is that you can then add in more stuff. I'm always talking in my videos about how you need more cardio, how you need mobility, skills training. I always talk about training like Batman. I want to be not just strong, but fast, and endurance, have cool skills. That might seem outside the realms of possibility if you're training, you know, six hours in total, heavy weightlifting. But if you streamline it, you can have much more time, much more energy to spend on other things, whether it's running, whether it's practising martial arts, whether it's improving your mobility. And that's what's going to make you a far more well rounded athlete. Strength and size are not the only things that matter, despite what YouTube tells you, and not everyone should be chasing strength, strength, and strength alone at the expense of everything else. And one of the things that allows me to train so frequently wherever I am, whatever I'm doing is today's sponsor, Vivo Barefoot. So Vivo Barefoot, as many of you might know, make minimal footwear. That means shoes that are designed to get out your way and let your foot move and work the way it's intended to. These shoes don't have big heels lifting off the ground, for instance, so that when you squat to train mobility, you're actually squatting and training mobility. The lack of a thick padded sole means you can feel the ground underneath your foot, means that your foot can work the way it's meant to, to stabilise you during exercises and movements, meaning you get that proprioceptive feedback. All these things make these great shoes for training in, plus the lightness, plus how convenient they are. But they're also comfortable shoes that are really good looking that you can wear all day. So the great thing about Vivo Barefoot is that I can be wearing the same shoes to the office, then just drop and do a bunch of squats. I genuinely find these shoes to be quite game changing for my lifestyle, my comfort and my training. So if you want to check them out, then head to the link in the description down below. And if you use code BIONEERVIVO15, then you get 15% off of a purchase. And the final piece of the puzzle, and possibly the most important, is to work on that efficiency. Because there are short workouts and there's short workouts. If you can be truly efficient with your training, if you can create the stimulus in a short amount of time, then you can be in and out of the gym really quickly. If you're just curling weights like this, letting them rest on your joints, if you're just going through the motions, then yeah, you're going to need to spend ages at the gym. And it's not necessarily just about intensity, it's just about making the exercises work for you. That means having that my muscle connection, feeling them target the correct part of your body that you want to train, feeling some kind of stimulus that will lead later than to growth. If you can learn to do that, then you can spend less time in the gym. Unfortunately, this just comes mainly through time, practice and experience. Which, obviously, you can't cheat. And so this is something to strive towards with your training. Not just becoming stronger, not just getting better at the exercises, but getting better at working out, at recognizing the signals and at being efficient with your workouts. If you emphasize that and really think about it, then there's no reason you can't start training a lot less by shortening your workouts so that you actually stick with them. Let me know what you guys think. Have you had better results by reducing the amount of time you spend in the gym? Let me know in the comments down below. If you enjoyed this video, then please leave a like and share around. That helps me out immensely. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one. And bye for now.

=== FILE: What Caffeine Actually Does to Your Nervous System： Focus, Strength, Brain Fog [h5TGZbEL0o8].txt ===

 This video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around after the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. I think it's probably fair to say that caffeine is the most popular performance-enhancing drug in the world. Many of us use it every single day in order to feel more awake and alert, to get us up in the mornings. Many of us use it in the gym, in massive doses, to help us get better workouts. And for the most part, it seems to work. But is caffeine really the total win without caveat that we tend to assume it is? Well, when you look at it a bit more deeply, it turns out probably not. Which pains me as much as you because I love my caffeine. But it actually turns out that in some cases, taking extra caffeine for performance could be the very worst thing that you can do. We should start by looking at precisely how caffeine affects us and what it does. So throughout the day, a neurotransmitter called adenosine builds up in the brain. This neurotransmitter causes us to feel groggy and tired by inhibiting the activity of brain cells. This is one of the factors that contributes to the weight of sleep that makes us feel as though we need to hit the hay. Caffeine mimics this adenosine molecule as a similar structure and so it's a very simple and effective way to get rid of it. In other words, it prevents adenosine from having its usual effect by taking its place. This is how caffeine can help us to feel more awake and alert by reducing that substance that makes us feel tired. But something important to understand about the brain is that nothing happens in isolation. You cannot only change one neurotransmitter, there are always downstream effects. Same goes for hormones, same goes for everything else. In this case, we do not only reduce adenosine activity, we also increase other excitatory neurotransmitters, ones that light the brain up like a Christmas tree, things like glutamate, cortisol and adrenaline, by preventing adenosine from binding and thereby increasing neuronal activity across the brain and specifically in certain brain regions. Caffeine has the knock-on effect of causing other excitatory neurotransmitters to get released in all of that activity. But suffice to say that these effects make you feel more alert and more switched on, and this confesably helps you to perform better at work and even improve learning through enhanced long-term potentiation. And this aids with gym performance too, because now you're in a more sympathetic state, a more fight-or-flight state, rather than rest and digest. You'll find that it's easier to recruit more motor units with a stronger neural drive. And this is why caffeine supplementation prior to workouts can help you to increase your maximal strength by anything from 2 to 7%, depending on the study. But that's not all, because sympathetic activation increases pain tolerance and heart rate, if you're running from a lion in the wild you don't want to be feeling too much pain, this also improves muscular endurance, such that you can perform more reps in a set. You might find you can focus more on the movements, this might help you to create more of a mind-muscle connection. It increases heart rate and gets the blood to your muscles faster, and finally, if you're feeling tired and little motivation, you might find that caffeine can give you that extra push to get you into the gym, thereby improving adherence and long-term outcomes. So talking increased focus, better memory, more wakefulness, more strength at the gym, what's the catch? What's the problem here? Well, what I've essentially just described is really stress in a cup, and as you know, stress isn't always a good thing. For example, increased activation of your motor units, your muscle fibres, is of course a really good thing at the gym if you want to lift more. But this also comes along with increased co-contraction of antagonist muscles. That is to say that the tension is kind of global throughout the body, so the muscle that you want to use is contracting, but so is the one that's fighting against the movement that you're trying to achieve. This isn't enough to cause an issue with something like a bench press, for example, where it's all just about strength, but it is enough to make you a little bit stiffer, a little bit more awkward when you're trying to perform movements that require flow or agility, when you're doing parkour or gymnastics or anything like that. Hey guys, editing Adam from the future here. I just wanted to make sure I'm being very precise by saying there isn't actually direct evidence for increased global tension or co-contraction as a direct result of caffeine use. This is my interpretation, and I don't want to make any bold, unfounded claims. To be more specific, caffeine can increase motor noise, and we see this with the onset of slight tremors and reduced performance in tasks requiring a high level of dexterity, dose dependent, of course. Large doses can create tremors. Caffeine can increase calcium availability, which can, yes, improve contraction strength, but also increases passive stiffness and slows muscle relaxation. Suffice to say, there are mechanisms through which this can harm fluid movement at high doses, and depending on the individual, potentially. I'll link my article with studies in the description. Caffeine can also become an issue for big lifts. For example, when it comes to the yips or the jitters, anyone who's ever tried to go for a really big lift will know that this can be a surprisingly psychological endeavour. It's very easy to get in your own head and choke as you worry about dropping the weight on yourself, blowing out of the knee, or whatever else. Caffeine can obviously make this worse, and this is only exacerbated in activities that do require a lot more focus. Did you know that being very stressed actually reduces activation of the prefrontal cortex? I've heard extreme stress sometimes described as a prefrontal lobotomy. It's a little extreme to say that caffeine would have an equivalent effect, but it certainly wouldn't help. So if you're feeling nervous before an interview or a presentation, or even a sporting event like darts, then having a big jug of coffee could tip you over the edge and leave you grasping for what you had planned to say. Overanalyzing your movements can also be detrimental to performance. This is one of the reasons why many of us will find down the pub we experience that U-shaped bell curve when we drink alcohol. For me personally, for example, a couple of drinks in, I actually do much better at darts and pool, and then it starts to go downhill. So I don't recommend caffeine as a tool for getting through tests and interviews. I definitely don't recommend it as a tool for parkour sessions. This is something that Liam Ellis actually made a great video about ages ago. I'll link that in the description. But in reality, the pros probably outweigh the cons for powerlifting and bodybuilding, at least when it comes to performance on your specific lifts. Because I do take issues with the notion of using caffeine to get through a workout that you don't want to do. If you feel tired and sluggish and not capable of giving it 110% at the gym, well here's a crazy thought. Maybe you should just listen to that signal from your body. So I'm just back from a gym session and I'm only on one cup of tea that I had this morning with my breakfast. We can then look back at the workout and think where would caffeine have been helpful and where wouldn't it? So I started off doing incline dumbbell pressing. Last night I had like four or five hours sleep. As my own fault, I stayed up late because I got enthusiastic writing this script actually. I also did some plant training yesterday so I wasn't coming at it at my best. Now maybe having some extra caffeine, maybe a pre-workout or a strong coffee in the morning could have helped me to get like one more rep. But then we've got to go back and revisit that. I was over tired, probably under recovered. Why would I use caffeine to push myself to do another rep? Now the only scenario where I think there would be any use at all is if I had a meet or a competition or something and I really had to perform my very best, maybe if I'm filming with a crew or something. But under any other circumstances, I just don't think that's a good idea. And especially not in the long term, repeatedly not allowing yourself to fully recover, not listening to what your body is actually telling you. Later on in the workout, I did some roundhouse kicks and some punching. This was already again not my best because I'd already done dumbbell curls and repressing, which you shouldn't do before your martial arts technique if you want it to be clean. You know, I was rigid and stiff already. But again, caffeine would only have made me far more stiff and rigid. So again, it's very individual but there's definitely enough of a limit. And I think taking 200 milligrams right before a workout. I mean, ignoring the fact that it can give you headaches, it can cause anxiety, jitters, stomach pain. I just don't think it's a really good idea in most cases. That said, a coffee or a cup of tea for a lot of people can be a useful thing. You really need to think about your individual biology and the circumstances. And between rounds, if your heart rate is really high, you've got to try and bring it back down so you can regain that fluidity so that you can go again. This is going to be harder if you've got stimulants in your system ramping up your heart rate. Maybe you'll get stronger a little quicker, but it doesn't strike me as being super sustainable. And really, what's the rush? Another effect we see in a fight or flight state is tunnel vision. We find that our vision narrows when we lose awareness of the periphery. From an evolutionary perspective, this serves to keep us focused on the dangerous situation at hand and remove its distractions. But you don't need me to tell you how this could be a bad thing in many athletic endeavors, where you in fact need to be aware of what's going on around you, tracking your teammates, the opposition, the position of the ball. This is further exacerbated by the fact that caffeine use, in fact, may negatively impact working memory. I've talked about working memory a lot on this channel. It's essentially the little notepad our brain uses to store information temporarily while we work on it. We use this during calculations or when trying to remember a phone number while looking for a pen. It's not stuff that you'll remember in a week's time, it's just stuff you need to hold in your mind for a few moments. Working memory is closely related to focus as we need to focus internally to keep that information present. This is why in lab settings, caffeine may sometimes be observed to aid with working memory performance with things like dual-endback tests. And it's why it might well be useful for certain types of activity, examination, etc. However, working memory is about much more than that outside of the lab. We are constantly holding on to multiple forms of mental constructs and updating them in real time. In conversation, we use working memory to remember what someone has said to us so far, and to continually update that information as they say more. We use it to maintain a general map of our surroundings in a new location without having to constantly look at them. That information is fluid and it needs constantly updating. In real-world settings, we don't have the luxury to sit still and maintain our image of the world around us. During sports, we may need to do this whilst running, planning and tracking a ball. If arousal narrows your focus too much, you may well lose that information that you are trying to hold on to. Likewise, if we focus our attention internally with too much vigilance, we may miss information from our senses that should have been integrated into an updated model. To do this efficiently, we need the right amount of arousal. Not too much and not too little. This is likely why studies now show that caffeine can actually impair working memory function in specific circumstances and in some domains. It seems especially bad for spatial working memory, perhaps for many of the reasons that I've discussed. These effects may well be worse in some individuals than others. As someone who's very wired, I find it doesn't take much for me to feel overstimulated, to the point that if I have too much coffee, I can end up feeling floaty and detached from the world around me. Starey. Turns out I'm not alone in this, but it took me way too long to recognise the pattern, that the reason I was spacey was because I'd had too much caffeine. But of course, if you're someone who's not as excitable, you might find that using a little caffeine is just what you need to be brought up to a baseline. While we're getting into the weeds of cognitive performance, we should also consider that high anxiety and excessive arousal are anathemas to creativity, at least according to the research and from personal experience. We come up with more creative ideas when we allow the mind to wonder and form new connections between disparate ideas. This can't happen when we're laser-focused. Then there's the fact that elevated dopamine in the thalamus, one potential indirect outcome of caffeine consumption, can increase signal filtering and network switching. Increasing dopamine in this area could thereby increase cognitive rigidity, and the filtering out of potentially interesting ideas not deemed salient to the current situation. This goes some way to explaining why caffeine may help to improve convergent thinking, but may also impair divergent thinking. So taking your own neuro-type and the situation into account, you might choose to use caffeine only for tasks that require a lot of focus and not much creativity, maybe inputting data into a spreadsheet. But the thing is, increasing focus using caffeine means artificially shifting into that more aroused state. In some cases, this may hamper your ability to then downshift as the situation demands. Had you used mental discipline to direct your attention to the task, by maybe reminding your system why it's important, you'd still be able to increase your attention and focus, but then also be able to ramp down that signal as needed to relax on your break. In other words, caffeine might make it harder for you to flow in and out of that focused, anxious state. That flow is what true cognitive performance is all about. It's adaptability, especially given that many tasks require a combination of seemingly opposite states and cognitive skills. Consider inventing a story, for example. This is a task that requires you to be able to use your brain to understand what is happening, and also to be able to create a story. This is a task that requires you to think creatively, while also holding all the characters' information and world building in your mind, updating that information as you do so, using focus. So it requires divergent creative thinking, but also attention and vigilance. And while divergent thinking is useful for exploring crazy ideas, it's convergent thinking that helps us to pick only the ideas that are present in a narrative structure that would be appealing, that are logical. It's just like the world of fitness, where people insist on separating things like strength and endurance, like we can have one without the other, like there are any kind of strict categories defining these labels. This is short-sighted, as, broadly speaking, the body uses all systems at all times. There are no categories and labels, it's all spectrums. Techniques can be learned that will allow you to increase your focus and to relax as needed. Cognitive restructuring, meditation, stress inoculation training, and simply being more aware of your own mental state is a great first step. Look, I'm not saying never use caffeine, that it has no place. I love coffee, personally, and I often feel great after one cup in the morning. We've seen that it has a lot of benefits and there are more that we haven't discussed here. There's a good amount of evidence that it's neuroprotective, for example. But it's time to stop thinking of it as purely a cognitive enhancer. As ever, the brain, when functioning in a healthy manner, is balanced the way it is for a reason. I've noticed this when hearing people talk about the use of neurotropics or smart drugs. People using supplements to try and improve their cognitive performance often expect there to be some kind of noticeable, tangible effect. They want to feel more alert and more buzzing. Truth is, though, that's not what optimal cognitive performance should feel like. You shouldn't feel on, you shouldn't feel different, you shouldn't feel wired. You should just feel like you on a good day. And this is why a lot of these different things, a lot of these different supplements and nootropics are actually doing more harm than good. As ever, the brain, when functioning in a healthy manner, is balanced the way it is for a reason. Just like the body, true mastery comes from turning your focus inwards, not looking for shortcuts. And unless you're trying to smash your PR on the bench press, most people can safely steer clear of pre-workouts packed with 200 milligrams and more of caffeine. They are, in my opinion, mostly a scam. And then, of course, there are the individual differences and the different situations. So just be more considered in the way you use caffeine. Use it with more intention. Let me know in the comments what you think, guys. Do you like caffeine? Does any of this make sense to you? Have you ever felt yourself feeling swimmy after drinking too much caffeine? Do you use it at the gym or, like me, does it make you want to shit yourself? Let me know. Let's talk about it. If you enjoyed this video and found it interesting, then please leave a like and share it around. That helps me out immensely. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one, guys. And I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. For those of you that don't know, Squarespace is a website-building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get started with their own website. You can do this in a matter of minutes by using tools that guide you through the process or by selecting from one of their many ready-made templates and then customizing them to your heart's content. But either way, the result is a website that's ready to go in minutes that looks highly modern, responsive, beautiful and professional. In fact, many of the biggest brands on the web use Squarespace. And you can then add as many different features as you want, and there's a wide, wide range of features to choose from. There's e-commerce features for selling products. There's appointment scheduling for selling services online. There's social media integration and integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies and likes. There's search engine optimization so that you can make sure people can find your website on Google. There's analytics so that you can see who's visiting your website, what's working, where your traffic's coming from. I think Squarespace are fantastic. They're also a brilliant sponsor who have been so loyal to this channel over the years. I can't thank them enough. So if you want to find out more, then go to Squarespace.com. When you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace.com forward slash pioneer and you'll get 10% off a website or domain. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one, guys. I'll see you next time. Bye for now.

=== FILE: Why Bodyweight Partials Build More Muscle [IWEpPqpWyr0].txt ===

 So I've been accused of lying. Specifically, I've seen here on my channel, as well as elsewhere, people saying that I've lied about building my physique using higher-up calisthenics. And to that I say two things. Firstly, I never claimed that I built this physique using purely calisthenics. In fact, the whole ethos of this channel going back has always been to train cross-modally. But with that said, it is actually true that I built the majority of my physique early on using calisthenics. And it is true that I've barely been to the gym for the past year due to the demands of parenting and running a business, etc. I've had to switch back to using the higher-up calisthenics that I predominantly used at the start of my training journey. And actually at the very start, I saw gains. I saw myself get bigger, not smaller, and I've maintained that extra size since then. If you go back to the earliest videos on my channel, they're almost all about bodyweight training. And usually, high-repetition bodyweight training. Basically, for this one, just go lunge on each step. If you don't have anything to stand on, just tuck one foot behind the other one, and then go up on your tiptoes like so. And if you do, maybe 30 reps of that, I know it's a lot, but it's not very heavy. And that'll really start to burn your cart as well, be that for three sets. So when people say I didn't build my physique using higher-up calisthenics, it's kind of doubly annoying because A, I didn't say I did. And B, I've maintained it this way, and I sort of could have done. The internet is so annoying sometimes. I'm cool. I'm chill. But I do have a little bit more sympathy for that angle, because I understand where they're coming from. I saw comments saying things like, people have been doing the one-punch-man workout for years and seeing no results. And I get that. I can imagine that happening. And it's because it's not about specifically the exercises you're doing or the type of training you're doing. It's more about the way you do it and how effective you make it. And one of the key things about body weight training that I want to focus on in today's video, if you're doing it for building size, is that you want to be using partial reps, or at least something akin to partial reps, we'll get into it more in a moment. This is one of the keys to making this work. I'm going to show you the exact difference between, you know, higher-up push-ups that will build you muscle and higher-up push-ups that won't. I also want to carry it this as always by saying this isn't the only way to build muscle. It's not some optimal secret method that's going to build you more muscle than anything else. It's actually inferior to bodybuilding for putting on muscle size. Otherwise, that's what bodybuilders would do. It's inferior to powerlifting for building strength. But the reason that I'm sharing it, and the reason I think that this is really taken off and lots of people want to hear about it, is because it's so convenient and it builds you enough strength and enough size. You can do it in your front garden, you can do it in your living room, and you don't need to buy lots of equipment, you don't need to go to the gym, and you can do it really, really quickly. You're going to see that it doesn't take much to get rid of good stimulus. So come with me over to the bio-arena, which is the cool name for the square of cold concrete over here, and we're going to look at the difference between doing push-ups with partial rep ranges and full rep ranges, and why partials work well in this instance. Because also, just to caveat again, you have to be so careful these days. To caveat again, full range of motion is really important and useful for things like mobility, for things like strength through that full range of motion. It's all about using the right targeted system for the gains, for the results that you want to get. So anyways, come with me, enough waffling. Okay, so I'm going to show you now the difference between higher-up calisthenics, the work for building muscle, and higher-up calisthenics, that won't. So this is what a lot of people understandably think they should be doing if they want to build, you know, big pecs with push-ups. Proper form, arms closer together, lowering down, pushing up, locking out, lowering down, pushing up, locking out. That's a proper push-up. That's the kind of push-up that counts when you're trying to set records and things. What I'm recommending you do is widen your grip slightly and then bounce. Using far more momentum, using far more elastic recoil, going much faster, and I say, spreading your arms out. Let's start with spreading your arms out. The reason I'm spreading my arms out here is because I'm isolating my pecs a little bit more by doing so, taking some of the focus away from the triceps and slightly increasing the stretch, getting into a deeper stretch on the pecs. Some people are going to tell you already that this is a bad idea and that it's going to cause you to injure your shoulders. That's not correct. The problem is when you do your arms up here, when it's further than the T, as long as it's slightly in arrow, as long as your arms are slightly pointing down, you're not going to injure shoulders, even with super high repetition, but by slightly widening my grip, which people tell me not to do in the comments, who don't know what I'm trying to accomplish, I'm putting more focus on my chest and getting more of a stretch. But what's even more important here is those partial reps going, so I'm kind of, it looks almost like a full rep, but this is all momentum. I'm throwing myself up and this does so many potential things. We've seen this kind of training work anecdotally for loads of people across YouTube. There's lots of videos on this. We've seen it work for loads of people, you know, in prison settings. That's the big anecdote. I don't want to base my claims just on anecdotes. Obviously it's worked great for me. I've trained other people in the same way and we can also hypothesize as to why this works so well. So you see, when I'm doing those really full ranges of motion, a few things are happening. Firstly, the slow cadence combined with my lighter body weight compared to say a bench press, means that I'm not recruiting my largest fastest muscle fibers. You'll start with these smaller motor units, the slower twitch muscle fibers, because your body weight isn't that heavy and because you're not pushing that hard or that fast, you just don't need that much force and your nervous system will always recruit the smallest motor units first and only add the bigger ones as they're needed. That means not building that maximum strength and you're not going to get as much growth. I've discussed using high rep ranges in order to fatigue those slower, smaller motor units so that you then need the bigger motor units. They'll kick in when there's nothing else left, even with a lighter load, but only if you're sending the neural drive to go quickly and powerfully. It's kind of like pushing really lightly against the wall and expecting that to eventually engage your fastest motor units. It won't. And there's loads of other functional reasons I like this kind of training too. There's so many good reasons to be moving quickly, to maintain that kind of elastic recoil, especially as we get older, as we become slower. This is the kind of training that's going to keep you youthful, springy and athletic. If you want to start moving slowly and doddery, Lee, then stop moving quickly. I set my glass down for like a minute and it throws to the table. It's how cold it is. In many ways it's actually working similar to a plyometric. Obviously doing these fast push-ups makes me very good at plyometrics. It's working kind of like a plyometric, but a plyometric doesn't build muscle because the amount of time you're actually contracting the muscle so small in the exercise. It doesn't provide enough opportunity for cross bridging. However, when you do it like this, it's kind of still explosive, but there's not really enough time for it to disengage. I'm maintaining that tension on the muscle and moving explosively, which of course is going to produce some kind of beneficial result compared to these really nice, slow, careful, do it properly push-ups. But we can also hypothesize lots of other reasons that the shorter rep ranges might be good for building muscle. The most obvious and commonly pointed to explanation is that if I'm doing a push-up like this, then I'm actually locking out at the top. I'm not using any muscle at this point in the exercise. What I'm doing is resting on my joints and my bones, so this isn't doing anything, but actually it gets a bit worse than that even, because when I do this, this also isn't doing much. This is a really easy range of motion. I can probably do a billion of these. This is the hard part. So by focusing more on the hard part, you're going to grow more muscle. There's another reason that maintaining tension on the muscle like this can produce superior results as well, and that's to do with occlusion. Basically what happens is that when you're contracting the muscle over and over again, you're sending blood to that muscle, because it's staying contracted for such a long time, because there's so much continuous time under tension, not just time under tension, that means that you're pooling that area with blood. It can't escape. This has a bunch of effects. For one, it causes hypoxia, because new oxygen isn't able to get to the muscles in the same way. This means that you're forced to use the fast-twitch muscle fibers even more so, because they're not as reliant on oxygen. At the same time, this also means that you're going to encourage your body to learn to deliver more blood and oxygen to the muscles. You're going to improve your strength and endurance this way, which is a really nice functional benefit, but you're also going to get improved blood supply to the muscle, which encourages further hypertrophy and growth at rest when you're recovering. It gives you more performance in the gym, a better work capacity, so you can do more and get better results, and it gives you better blood supply subsequently. But you're not getting this effect if you use those really slow full range of motion repetitions the way that most people do it. And of course, it's not just push-ups that this works for. You can apply it to pretty much any exercise. This is how I do my dips. They're bouncy. They're fast. This is how I do my squats. I use a full range of motion on the squats, actually, but again, it's mostly momentum, most of the way. The actual power at the bottom is occurring very quickly and repeatedly. You can, of course, use a short range of motion for your squats, just squat in the bottom, but this is actually in some ways counterproductive because now you're going to have to intentionally use less power so as not to send yourself all the way up. You just need to focus on doing it quickly, I find, if you want to get the best results. The goblet curls I've talked about so much, that I like so much for building muscle, they work great because they have that short range of motion. Your body actually stops the weight and allows you to very quickly and easily pull it straight back up without needing to swing your body into it. It's just really conducive to this kind of training. Again, this doesn't even only apply to body weight training. It's just particularly effective with things that aren't your max lift or close to it, things where you're doing 10, 20 or 30 repetitions. That's why and how you can use body weight training to build muscle. That's why it works. It's why it also gives you functionality in the form of strength, endurance and explosiveness. It's something that you can do anywhere relatively easily with a minimum fatigue and that's why I love it and that's why I've returned to it because the current demands of my lifestyle mean that it's harder for me to get into the gym. Of course, we're all different. Different people are going to get different results based on their distribution of muscle fibro types, based on even limb length and muscle insertions. I think that if you have shorter arms, you're going to get better results from this than if you have longer arms and the same for your legs. There's lots of different factors. All I'm saying is that there's a good reason this works and if you're not getting the results you want, it's probably because you're not feeling the tension and that's what it really comes down to. That's the important thing because that's what's also going to allow you to get the best results from whatever other kind of training you do. When you learn to feel the tension, you can feel the same results from this as you do from a bench press and you'll know when you're done. It comes with practice and time, so stick at it. Don't get too worried about what other people are saying is correct form or the only way to do things. Listen to your body. Let me know if this makes sense to you. Let me know if you use shorter rep ranges when you're doing your high-rep calisthenics and of course if you're looking for a training program that's based around this style of training, then look no further than my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. It's currently on discount for January. Link in the description down below. It comes with full workouts based on body weight movements, functional exercises, cool and fun explosive movements balancing, but it's all adaptable to any level, doesn't require any equipment. It comes with a 200 plus page ebook, 26 instructional videos, lots of alternative exercises and workouts that you can do, so yeah, link in the description down below. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one guys and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. For those who aren't familiar, Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get started with their own website. You can do this in literally a matter of minutes by using either their AI tools to have something built for you bespoke very quickly or by selecting from one of their ready-made templates and then customizing them to your heart's content. This way you'll have something that looks modern, that has all of the features you could want and you can add more features from a huge variety that are available through Squarespace. Things like a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies and likes, things like e-commerce with inventory management and tracking, things like appointment scheduling for booking appointments with clients and selling your services online, gated members only content if you want to make money that way, search engine optimization for making sure that your website is visible in Google, analytics for seeing who's coming to your website and for how long, what's working and so much more. So if you want to find out more then go to Squarespace.com and when you're ready to launch go to Squarespace.com forward slash pioneer and you get 10% off a domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thank you so much to you guys who stick around till the end and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.

=== FILE: You Can Build An Awesome Physique With ONLY Dip Bars [5qrtnDUXzK0].txt ===

 this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special deal that's making available through my channel. If you can only get one piece of equipment to train with, then I'd probably recommend dip bars. But this isn't a super common take. In fact, I don't hear people talking about dip bars all that much at all. But actually, with a pair of dip bars, you can get an entire full-body workout that's actually fun, really effective, won't cost a whole lot, and doesn't take up loads of space. Because they stack like this, I mean, they only are going to ever be the width of the base here, or the depth, which means that if you need to stack them in, say, your kitchen, like I do, or when you're bettering more, or whatever else, you can just tuck them against the wall like this. It won't take up much space at all. You can even put more things underneath them to make proper use of that space. And like I say, they're not expensive. This set costs me 30 quid, and I bought them like 15 years ago. They're actually branded men's health. I don't think they make them anymore. So when people ask me in the comments what I've got my dip bars, I'm afraid I don't think you can get them. But literally, Argos, Amazon, the Sports Shop, Daniel Road, anywhere will sell them. They're very affordable. And I mean, as long as they're safe, which they practically all are due to the design, you're going to be fine. There's not any way to get dip bars wrong. You want to make sure it's really nice and stable, obviously. Nice wide base. You want to get dip bars that feel comfortable in the hand. Mine have got like a nice bit of padded foam, but you can always add that later. And I guess the only other thing to consider is the height. A taller dip bar is generally going to give you more options for things, you know, like pulling movements, because you can more easily do like an L-sit pull up. And if you don't have dip bars, then you can just use two chairs pushed opposite each other or the corner of a kitchen unit, for example, two tables in the meantime, even some trees can lend themselves to doing certain dip exercises. Should probably talk a little bit about what you can actually do with them. And as you might imagine, the first and main use for dip bars is to perform dips. The great thing about dip bars, as opposed to, you know, the body weight power stations you get at the gym, is that you can actually change the angle, change the distance apart to perfectly suit you. So if you find one position uncomfortable, you can adjust them slightly in order to find a spot that works for you. Dips are a fantastic exercise for building the pecs, for building the triceps and the shoulders. I like using really high repetition dips. I've made videos on that. You can also add weight. You can get a weight belt and add weight that way. You can even just wear a backpack with a bunch of books in it. And using this method, you can build the same kind of big and strong pecs you might be used to building at the gym with a bench press, but from the comfort of your home. And because you can add weight, it's practically limitless. And there are also variations on the dips that you can do, even if you don't have access to additional weight. For example, in a previous video, I talked about tuck dips like this. There's plenty of ways to make them harder, giving you limitless options for building your chest. Conversely, if you're so many times dips difficult, you can touch your feet lightly on the ground and give yourself the option of doing assisted dips like that. Grab a single bar and now you can do wall dips, great for parkour athletes. Turn the hands around, lock out at the top and you can train your straight arm strength like this. See, pec exercise, which is also good for the biceps tendon, scapula control, traps. And of course, one of the more obvious options is to elevate your legs. Form push-ups and use these in order to allow yourself to get deeper into that bottom push-up position. In plant training, you can do any plant exercises on a pair of dip bars. You can do tuck plant dips, you can do pseudo plant, you can do pseudo plant push-ups, full plant. Obviously, if you can do those things, you can do them on dip bars. But it's not just pushing exercises that make the dip bars so great. They also offer tons of pulling exercises and in many ways, I think that's actually their greatest asset. You see, not everybody actually has space in their home for pull-up bar. Even the ones that fit into the doorframe without a drill, they still damage the doorframe. If you're renting, for example, or you're just house proud, you might not want to install one of those. They're also a bit rickety. A bit rickety. A bit new thing is that if you're doing horizontal type rows, then dip bars have you covered. You can obviously do body weight rows. These are brilliant for training the lats, but also training scapular retraction, building a really nice defined back. And not enough people do horizontal pulling in the first place. There's also the perfect counter to all the horizontal pushing that so many of us do. At the same time, you have countless variations of this movement. Obviously, you can add weight again. You can elevate your legs to make it harder. You can lower your legs to make it easier. You can use one bar or two bars. You've got a neutral grip, overhand grip, underhand grip, whichever you prefer. You can bend your knees if you want to make the movement easier or if you're doing something like a drop set. And if you want to get really advanced, you can build all the way up to things like a front lever or front lever pulls. But if you do want a more vertical pull or if you want to focus on your biceps more, then there are ways you could adjust your positioning to achieve those ends as well. For example, you can just, well, you can support your legs and do what are effectively chin-ups. If you're feeling really fancy, you can do something like L-sit chin-ups. But you can also really nicely isolate the biceps by using more of an arc movement. Stretching out the biceps, then curling yourself in like this. These are body weight curls and they're fantastic. If you want to target the triceps more, obviously dips are already really good for triceps, but you can also do body weight tricep extensions. These are fantastic. These are also great for keeping your body nice and rigid, training core stability, training the hollow body position, and in fact, many of these exercises are including the body weight row. And speaking of core and building your abs, of course, you've also got leg raises. Probably one of the easiest and most convenient ways to train your abs at home. You've also got L-sit. And the easier variation, frog kicks. And of course, you can hold something between your legs, between your feet, if you want to increase the challenge by adding more resistance that way. And if you really want to target the shoulders more, then of course you can do things like handstand push-ups, using these like parallettes against the wall. I don't massively recommend you do that because, well, it's a bit dangerous, which is why my next recommendation for a piece of exercise equipment would be parallettes. They're pretty awesome too. If you want me to make a video on parallettes in future, then I most assuredly will. There's so much else that you can do with dip bars as well. I don't want to make this video like 10 hours long, so I'll just reel some stuff off here. They're great for mobility, whether you can hang from them to open up your shoulders, whether you're going to put your leg on them to stretch your hamstrings. They can be used to support your weight when performing one-legged bodyweight exercises, for example. You can also actually hang bands off them. You can hang gymnastics rings off them if you want to do push-ups with a little bit more instability. The options are so endless when it comes to dip bars. If you want to train from home and you're looking for a piece of equipment that's going to make a huge difference, then I highly recommend dip bars. They're really just an entire gym in one piece of equipment. If you're looking for a routine that you can use with your dip bars, then I recommend my own training program, an e-book, of course. It's a functional training 3 Super Mover. That's a training program built predominantly around calisthenics, but also other forms of exercise like running, martial arts, kettlebell training. You don't need any equipment, but if you have it, you can use it. Either way, it's going to build a more functional physique, one that looks athletic, one that lets you run and jump and climb and have fun doing it. Not a massive bodybuilder physique, but one that looks like a lean, mean movement machine. So if that sounds cool, then check it out. Link in the description down below. Either way, I hope you've enjoyed this video, guys. Thanks a ton for watching, and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. So for those who aren't familiar, Squarespace is a website building platform. They mostly are extremely easy for anybody to get a website up and running. A website that looks professional, that's highly responsive and modern, that does everything you could possibly need it to do. Suitable for a hobbyist who just wants to share their work online, have somewhere to write, all the way up to big businesses, and some of the biggest brands on the web already use Squarespace to power their websites. Squarespace makes things extremely easy to get started. You can pick from a wide range of different ready-made templates and then customize them to your heart's content, or you can get guided through the process by their AI features that will build you something bespoke from scratch. Either way, it takes minutes to have your website up and running, and from there, you can start adding as many features you could possibly need. That means things like a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes. E-commerce solutions. Appointment scheduling if you want to sell a service online. Has social media integration. Search engine optimization so that you can get your website to the top of Google so that more people find it. Analytics so that you can see what's working, who's coming to your website, when, etc. All that and much, much more, whatever you could possibly need. I highly rate Squarespace and I highly recommend them to anyone who wants to get started with the website. If you want to learn more, then go to Squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace.com. forward slash by one year, and you'll get 10% off a website or domain. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys for sticking around till the end. And by for now. You guys get the second by for now. So you're the ones who are really in the know.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.381256Z ===
