 nangodinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate,łość-alpha, fibrinoxal-5-phosphate, Short, 4-10 minute cardio sessions might just be the missing switch your body needs to start improving your fitness. Now I'm not claiming that these micro-cardio sessions will give you the body of a Greek god. This is not a secret hack, it won't give you a ripped six-pack. What it could be is a return to a more natural way of integrating movement into our lifestyles, It helps to improve circulation, energy levels, mindset and bodily rhythms so that everything else falls into place. And it can give you so much more energy and motivation in everything that you do. And it's obvious when you really think about it. Many people look at cardio as being detrimental to muscle growth and only somewhat useful for weight loss. Those that aren't in the habit of demonizing cardio meanwhile will often act like it's only useful if you're dripping piles of sweat at the end. Micro Wave But cardio has countless other benefits and one of the most potent is what it can do for your energy levels, both in the short term and in the long term. If you're someone who comes home from work and collapses on the couch, who intends to work out but finds themselves making excuses because they just feel too tired, then you might need this. Just doing just 5 minutes of light cardio is enough to turn your evening around entirely. This could be 5 minutes of jump rope in the garden, 5 minutes of shadow boxing or even just bouncing on the spot gently or dancing around the kitchen. Very often what we think of as being very tired or exhausted even is actually just lethargy. We're tired because we've been inactive, not because we've exhausted ourselves. And that has its own kind of momentum. This may or may not coincide with reduced mood and motivation even. 5 minutes of jump rope though can change that instantly by increasing cerebral blood flow, getting blood and oxygen to your brain and thereby increasing focus and alertness. It will also raise your core temperature and alertness is known to track very closely to temperature. It will put you in a slightly more sympathetic state meaning you'll increase the production of excitatory neurotransmitters like norepinephrine and dopamine. This alongside feel good neurotransmitters like serotonin. It will also wake up the muscles and joints eradicating somersetho sensory amnesia and lubricating the joints so you don't feel stiff and slow. You'll be in a slightly more fight or flight state but crucially you won't overshoot it. Just 5 minutes of gentle cardio will ensure you don't end up more exhausted than you started. It's like a mini warm up for whatever it is you want to do. Not necessarily exercise but you know cooking or reading. Likewise these small doses are more palatable. Even if you're really tired you should be able to bring yourself to do just a bit of light jump rope or to throw a few punches for 5 minutes. The barrier is very low but following that you'll have far more energy to direct towards exercising fully later. I highly recommend doing this whenever you feel that slump in energy and motivation. This change, activity throughout the day, is what has made me more energetic and productive as a parent on a constant sleep deficit than I was when I was young and carefree. And when a key added benefit of these shorter workouts is that you don't sweat too much. If you do 5 minutes of light jump rope outside or with your top off you can do this without having to get changed or shower. All this can massively improve adherence. And there are lots of ways you can fit in this kind of training into your lifestyle. Unlike a 40 minute run you don't need to leave the house for an hour or buy a treadmill. You can just jog on the spot for example or do skater hops. You can also dance for 5 minutes or do shadow boxing, something that's also great for mobility and proprioception. Kettlebell swings are a brilliant option and even high rep calisthenics can work this way. Two sets of 100 push ups will ramp up the heart rate. Plus you're getting some muscle building benefits as well. But the method I'm showcasing here and the one I recommend, perhaps most highly, is jump rope. Jump rope is easy for anyone. It's fun, it can be done in your front garden and it offers other benefits like skill development, timing, ankle hysteresis and more. I'm using ropes from today's sponsor CrossRope. CrossRope make extremely high quality ropes that feel incredible in the hand thanks to their advanced spin mechanics and perfectly ergonomic handles. They're durable and last forever and you don't need to worry about them getting tangled up. But there's way more to CrossRope than that. Thanks to their quick release button you can easily swap out different ropes. Choosing weighted ropes for example that will increase energy expenditure and add a little extra resistance for your upper body. This also impacts on the speed of the rope with the heavier options giving you more breathing room to learn cool tricks if that's your jam. Then there's the amp handles that integrate with the mobile app to count your jumps, track your progress and guide you through workouts. This is perfect for gamifying the process and helping you see improvements over time. I tried getting into jumping rope for years but it was my first set of CrossRopes that really got me into it thanks to how great they feel to use and how this improves the whole experience. Get your own at the link below and use code BIONEAR to get 15% off your order. Micro Pig But like I say, any form of cardio can do the job and you can even mix it up. One of the simplest things I like to do is jog mostly anywhere that I have to walk. So will these short bursts of cardio make you ripped? No, not directly. I don't want to make any wild claims here. You'll use around 40 calories per micro session and if you manage to do 3 of them in a day that's 120 calories total. Over the course of the week it adds up to 840 calories. Not a lot but not inconsequential either. Epoch or post exercise oxygen consumption will also be higher than doing a single longer cardio session. This is the extra calories that you use after you've finished exercising while your heart rate is still elevated. Doing 3 sessions instead of 1 means this happens 3 times instead of once. Now you're only likely to be using extra calories in single digits post-workout but I think it still points to why this stuff is so beneficial. Because each time you'll also be increasing insulin sensitivity. You'll be increasing muscle glucose uptake. If there's a strength element you'll be slightly stimulating protein synthesis too. And again we're keeping it short enough to avoid significant glycogen depletion, cortisol elevation or fatigue that might interfere with other workouts later on. Micro. Penis. These short sessions wake up the body in other words after long bouts of sitting. If you're inactive for large periods of the day you're going to struggle to see effects from just 1 hour of compartmentalised exercise. This is the missing piece of the puzzle for many people struggling with body recomposition. When I did personal training I specifically remember coaching someone who was restricting calories from her diet and getting lots of exercise but just wasn't losing weight. Eventually we realised that the issue was that she was entirely inactive the rest of the day. She caught the train from just outside her door and got dropped off right outside her office where she would then sit for hours on end. Diet and working out can only do so much to counteract an entirely sedentary lifestyle. More important in many ways is how active we are the rest of the time. When walking, taking the stairs, playing with kids, dancing around the kitchen. The great thing about microcardio is that it emulates a more active lifestyle. It's more natural to be moving a little throughout the day than to barely move all day apart from one extremely intense bout. This makes it actually useful for body recomposition. Not enough to be completely transformative on its own but a wonderful tool that will augment diet and exercise. And it could well be the catalyst that gives you the energy and drive to achieve your other fitness goals. And it's through these same mechanisms that we see amazing long term benefits from short bouts of cardio too, especially when it comes to general health. Many of us only move if we're explicitly exercising. That sucks guys. Micro. Nuss prime. Again our body is meant to be moving sporadically throughout the day and by having these short bouts of exercise we develop a great kind of cardio readiness. We train ourselves through practice to respond better to a sudden increase in activity and to recover better from that training. Heart rate kinetics refers to how quickly the heart rate rises when we start exercising and how quickly it falls after. Developing this is associated with better cardiovascular efficiency and a lower perceived exertion during tasks. This could have positive knock on effects for heart rate variability. So it's not just exercising that's good for us, it's starting exercise and if you split your workouts into smaller chunks you're starting exercise more often. You may see improved vascular responsiveness and endothelial function, increased vascularization. You could also see improved VO2 kinetics, the ability to rapidly increase oxygen uptake to meet demand. That's not the same as VO2 max. You won't massively improve your VO2 max or be able to run marathons as a result of this, but I hope I've demonstrated that this isn't the only benefit of cardio. And this more precisely mimics the kinds of tasks that we're faced with every day. Short bouts of activity. From cold, whether it's running for the bus, playing with kids, fixing the fence or carrying the shopping. It even echoes the way we move in team based sports, running for short periods before hanging back. It's your ability to ramp up your system and calm it back down that will make you more focused and energized during these sorts of tasks. And it's exactly what we're training here. All that and better health that may translate to more longevity. Short duration cardio performed five times, three times or even once a day can make a noticeable difference in that regard. Micro. Machines. And when if you're looking for a training program that is all about moving more and feeling better through healthy exercise, you should check out my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. This program is built around short body weight sessions that build a muscle and performance while still leaving you enough energy to practice skills and sports. It incorporates cardio and keeps you moving in ways that are fun and healthy. It will make you look and feel more athletic and powerful. You can find it in the link below and it's currently on discount for January. But whatever you decide, the main takeaway is to keep moving throughout the day. And to recognize the value of even small amounts of cardio. It's like S Club 7 said. Don't stop moving. Find your own way to it. Deep stuff. Bye for now. Micro. Cardio.