This video is proudly sponsored by Squarespace. Hello and welcome back to When Fitness Turns Bad. Last time we talked about how pushing yourself too hard at the gym to achieve impossible body standards could lead not only to injury and neglecting aspects of your life in itself, but could even take you down a dark path towards steroids. Today, we're going to get even a little more controversial. We'll be looking at the ways that fitness can make us elitist, lacking in empathy, before exploring the problematic worlds of red pill fitness and the manosphere. So, strap yourselves in. Fitness can turn bad when it turns you into an And unfortunately, I think we're seeing a lot more of that, particularly online, as well. And I'm talking specifically about people who think that they're superior to others because of their fitness. They think that fitness makes them morally superior. That choosing not to be in Adonis shape makes you somehow a weak person or a bad person. And I think this is just awful. For starters, you have no idea what's going on in those people's lives. There's a million reasons that they might be overweight. And it doesn't even necessarily mean that they're less healthy than you. Maybe they've got better mental health. Maybe they are actually pretty strong. Maybe they've got good mobility. Take a look at someone like Samo Hung. There's plenty of ways to be healthy. I call this a lack of empathy because that's precisely what it is. The reasoning goes that if I managed to lose weight, avoid becoming overweight in the first place, or build lots of strength, then everyone else should be able to do the same. Completely missing the point that everyone is different and that everyone's circumstances are different. Completely missing that this might be a personal choice on that person's part. Completely ignoring any shortcomings that we might still have ourselves. Being strong and a good weight is a single metric of health and fitness. Even can you touch your toes? How's your cardio? Why is your definition of fitness the yard stick by which everyone should be measured? And no, criticism and hurtful comments do not serve as a good motivation for those that aren't as fit as you. Not according to the science and not according to common decency. And unfortunately, this lack of empathy, this attitude of man up and pull yourself together actually goes deeper than just physical fitness. One of the most serious examples of this lack of empathy, comes from the narrative around mental health. I've lost track of the number of times a fitness influencer has told me that you can cure your depression by working out and taking care of yourself. The notion that you can cure depression by working harder is not only completely lacking in empathy, it's also completely ignorant. I have a degree in psychology and I don't consider myself at all qualified to speak on this subject. Depression is a real and serious illness that can have a vast range of causes from chemical imbalances to brain injuries to developmental issues to yes in some cases acute circumstances. But for every one person helped by this advice, there will be 10 that are harmed seriously by it. And don't come at me saying that the situation or the thoughts caused the chemical imbalances. I'm well aware that this is a complex issue. Like I said, I studied this. It's also a life-threatening illness, and you should seek professional help. If you're experiencing real depression, you won't be able to simply get your act together, just like you can't get your act together if you have pneumonia. Blaming people for their depression and offering asinine solutions is irresponsible and moronic, but this comes up in my shorts alongside tips on how to squat properly. Ultimately, this is often motivated by the notion that there's some moral imperative to work out and to be stoic and strong, that it's necessary to fulfill a masculine role. Anything else is weakness. Convenient, isn't it, that the thing you have to do to be a good man is the stuff you already enjoyed doing, not, you know, helping to change nappies at 3:00 a.m. People saying that being strong is important to make them more masculine or so that they can be useful members of society. Again, this just annoys me. When was the last time that you being really strong made you a useful member of society? If you're going around digging snow off of people's drives, then sure, and helping them with their bins. But for the most part, there are plenty of different ways to be a productive member of society and to be helpful and to be kind. People saying that they need to be in great shape so they can protect their family. Again, I think this is nonsense. Not only is this a very rare scenario, but there's plenty of other important ways to protect your family as well. For example, learning emergency first aid would be a better first port of call for most people who genuinely want to be there for their family. Being there emotionally and helping them through hard times is just as important. I just want to make it very crystal clear once again that I'm not saying that being strong and being able to protect your family is a bad thing. I think it's a great thing. But what I am saying is that feeling that you can then look down on other people who didn't choose to go that route is a bad thing because there are so many ways to be a useful and helpful individual that have nothing to do with masculinity. Just like they shouldn't look down on you because you're not giving half of your money to charity or not, you know, part of the school committee. There are so many different ways to be useful and helpful. Being physically stronger or physically fitter doesn't make you better than somebody who chooses not to be. Basically, if you're someone who's perfect in every aspect of your life, then sure, maybe you're in a position to criticize. Still kind of makes you an though. Otherwise, get down off that high horse. If I'm coming across a bit animated about all this, it's because I've noticed more and more red pill and hustle culture content slipping into fitness on social media lately. I'm someone who actively doesn't like this content and yet the various algorithms keep dishing it up to me. It's as though fitness has become a gateway drug to this stuff. You start out searching for videos on how to get into shape so that you can feel better and move better. The next thing you know, you're learning which muscles women most respond to. The next thing you're learning how you need to become a high value man, how if things aren't quite going the way you want them to, it must be because you're not working hard enough in life or in the gym. In this way, fitness has become just an extension of hustle culture, which, news flash, is not healthy. Then you learn that the only reason women aren't responding to your attempts is that they've been brainwashed by society into acting outside of their natural roles. There's no way that some women just decided they wanted to, you know, do other stuff. We hear that societyy's been feminized and we're trying to get rid of masculinity. Misogyny and a us vs them narrative is the next step from this and it can lead to some pretty dark places. That's why we get guys like Andrew Tate who members of the fitness community actively defend because he aligns with some of their principles. I've seen this on so many podcasts. I'm told that if I dislike him, it must be because I'm a sheep or some such. I must be brainwashed. Because after all, he does occasionally encourage men to better themselves. The slightest gesture towards doing something worthwhile. Never mind that he also says things like the quote you're seeing on the screen right now. It's not okay and it has no place in fitness. He teaches them that they should have women that are loyal to them while they can sleep with as many as they want. Some say he's playing an act. And while I doubt that's totally true, it doesn't really matter. The fact is he's influencing young men this way knowingly, whatever the case. What do you think those men feel when their lives don't live up to the examples he set? Angry and entitled? That maybe the world is wrong and the Matrix is out to get them. Jordan Peterson is another one. You don't need to spend long at all on self-improvement YouTube before he starts getting served up to you. And I think it's pertinent to bring him up because so many people defend his points. That's because he seems reasonable on the surface and he has given some useful advice that's helped a lot of young men. But if we look a bit deeper and if we read the subtext, there's definitely some red flags here. Again, if you disagree, you must be brainwashed by the woke media. Funny how that works. The very people championing freedom of speech are the most keen to discredit those that disagree with them. Peterson seems reasonable and is well spoken. From what I gather, he doesn't much like Tate, but he is very much part of the same problem. Though he claims to be neutral and to believe in a balance of chaos and order, he clearly has an agenda to push. And frankly, the intellectual dark web is just a step removed from the manosphere and the red pill movement. Take his stance against Bill C16 that initially brought him notoriety. He vehemently denied that this had anything to do with transgender issues and was entirely about compelled speech except that the amendment actually had nothing to do with compelled speech and nothing to do with pronouns. The amendment was simply about protecting transgender people from discrimination in the same way that other minorities already were. Peterson was clearly aware that this was a mischaracterization, and that became all the more clear when he told Kyle Kolins that the reason he opposed the bill was because he could see that it would lead to confusion about gender identity. So, kind of flip-flopped there, but this is reflective of his strategies overall. He claims he's innocently sparking debate on difficult topics, but he only ever does this in a way that encourages hysteria and props up the status quo. as we see his explanation flip-flop here. We see this in action. It was never about freedom of speech. Other common strategies include making sweeping statements or referencing facts without giving sources. Of course, Peterson doesn't like it if you read into his implications because he's not political. He'll tell you that these are all the uncomfortable conversations that we need to have, but we can't have a civil discussion. Except we've been talking about these things for decades. Most of Peterson's ideas seem to come from KL Young and Nze. Nze being the one philosopher that everyone has read to try and look edgy and philosophical. There are other philosophers, guys. Carl Young being Freud's protege, whose ideas have never been taken seriously by psychologists, even back in their psychonamic heyday. Peterson is also wellknown for using a study on lobsters to demonstrate the importance of hierarchies in social structures. But even this argument is based on a complete misunderstanding of how serotonin works differently in lobsters and humans. And I bring this up again partly because people put Peterson on this pedestal because he's a doctor. Not actually questioning his sources or his reasoning. And why am I telling you this? Have I completely lost the thread? No, it's because once again, fitness and self-improvement content leads people, especially young men, down a dark path. See, Jordan Peterson claims that he's out to protect young men. He says that they're being demoralized and essentially targeted just for being male. He says that we're scarring the youth with horror stories about climate change. Is it any wonder so many men are disenfranchised and lost? Again, this sounds like a noble cause. It sounds great until you ask, how exactly are men being demoralized? I'm not saying there aren't issues facing young men, but nobody has explicitly accused young men, especially young men, of anything. His implication is that feminism and wokeism are attacks on hedgemony. Like so many, he intentionally conflates the term toxic masculinity to pretend it's a denouncement of all male traits. He denies the existence of a patriarchy, a gender pay gap. Simply saying that other groups deserve equal rights is in no way demoralizing, or at least it shouldn't be. Saying certain power structures favor certain groups more than others is in no way an attack on masculinity. This is nothing but a straw man argument and one that serves to create outrage and further resentment. By using the rhetoric he does, he is greatly increasing division online. He claims that's the fault of the media. But terms like postmodern neo-Marxist are intentionally loaded and unfounded with the explicit purpose of fueling fear and hate. That's a technically inaccurate term used for no other reason than to generate hysteria, preventing a proper discourse. Random attacks on swimsuit models and transitioning celebrities on Twitter again only serve to create controversy and vitriol and to reveal his true nature. And while it might be nice to pretend climate change isn't happening, it's the younger generations that will suffer if we get this wrong. Peterson makes wild sweeping statements about climate change, just like he does about so many things, which have all been debunked by people far more educated on the matter than him. what happened to the difficult conversations we need to have. But I would argue that it's precisely this narrative and others like it that's making guys feel like they're being attacked, making them feel marginalized, creating this US vs them narrative. So I'd argue that on the whole he's doing far more damage to the mental health of young men and to the, you know, civil discourse among society than he is doing good. Guess what? Buzz Lightyear featuring a gay kiss has absolutely nothing to do with why you aren't wealthy or why women don't throw themselves at incelss. You aren't striking out at the bar because feminism. Exposing white privilege isn't an attack on you or your earning potential. You aren't feeling lonely because the world has turned on white males. That's the demographic that still has by far the most opportunities. That's not to say that you personally aren't struggling or that there aren't issues that face young men. In fact, there absolutely are. in particular. Everyone is kind of struggling right now. None of this is to take away from the very real challenges you might be dealing with. Challenges that may well be unfair. But don't blame the wrong people. Young men are being taught to blame other struggling groups. Minorities that are likewise just trying to get a bit of representation. And fitness on social media is working as a recruitment drive for these ideologies. It's a direct path to just the right kinds of disenfranchised guys. The tech pros are also often only a few steps removed from this kind of content, too. I'm not saying that they're malicious or even wrong necessarily, but often peddling easy solutions to all your problems that are often entirely disconnected from reality for most people. And the other reason this is all relevant is that we need to remember that there is an epidemic of steroid abuse, including many underage individuals. People are destroying their health and risking their lives because that's what a lot of this content is telling them they need to do in order to be accepted in order to make it to the top. The statistics vary, but it's estimated that somewhere in the region of half a million to a million young men in the UK are taking this route. And it's terrible that fitness is what got them into this. Now, we can just tell young people not to do steroids. We can warn them of the dangers, but we shouldn't underestimate the promise of becoming an alpha male. They'll keep doing it as they have been. and doesn't help when they have an echo chamber of other people telling them that this is the way to get to the top. Instead, then we should unpack the ideologies behind this. The notion that we can and should get to the top by embodying that hegemonic ideal. The truth is that this won't work and has never worked because it's just transparently desperate. You can't just decide you want to be more alpha. Think about the nerdy kid that you knew at school. Imagine he one day comes in wearing a leather jacket and smoking. Do you think he now gets bullied less or more? And do you think he suddenly gets all the girls? Guys trying to become high value, trying to become alpha male, reek of that same desperation. They are that nerdy kid wearing a leather jacket thinking they're the fonds. And then they wonder why girls don't want them. And if you feel like a loser, so you start taking steroids, then you're not suddenly going to become a gigachad. You're just going to be a loser now with tits, you know, or dead. The truth is, of course, that you were never a loser. You just needed to find a way to become the most awesome version of whoever you are through genuine self-expression because people can see the difference. And honestly, what's far more important for success when it comes to dating, gaining the respect of other men, and even progressing through your career is emotional intelligence. It's self-awareness. It's understanding how you appear to others, and being mindful of what you say. Now, these aren't things that are easy to just learn either. But focusing your time on emotional intelligence and self-awareness will serve you a lot better than all this alpha male BS. And a lot of this starts by just learning to relax and laugh at yourself. By easing up and just having a bit of fun. Taking yourself too seriously is such a turnoff. The hierarchies are arbitrary and you are not entitled to anything, nor should you want to be. You don't need to measure your success by anyone else's yard stick. Certainly not Andrew Tates or Jordan Peterson's. So where does fitness fit into all this? Well, seeing as I don't think fitness has anything to do with a moral imperative or being a man and not to compete with others or to push yourself harder and harder to become the best, it stops being a grind. Instead, we can use fitness to simply move better and to feel better and to accomplish the things that we want to accomplish. It becomes a genuine form of self-expression and freedom as you learn to craft the body that you want and to use it to achieve the things that you want to achieve. We do this by combining aspects of different fitness modalities, not getting into that tribal mindset, not ignoring other aspects of our fitness just because we're so wed to one school of thought. Likewise, I think that fitness itself best serves us as part of a balanced lifestyle. Just like I think that we should train by using a combination of different training styles, I likewise think that fitness itself should only be part of a broader lifestyle. Yeah, it's great to work on side projects or side hustles, but they likewise shouldn't be dominating our time and our thoughts. Not to the point that we're foregoing social experiences whilst we're still young, whilst we can still enjoy them. We should be exercising, yes. Working on projects, yes. Pursuing a career, yes. But also enjoying ourselves, spending time with loved ones and family and friends, traveling, and just relaxing and unwinding and not always feeling the pressure to achieve and to push. I'm well aware this is probably going to upset some people, rub some people up the wrong way. I'm well aware it's probably career suicide. I'm not going to dwell on this stuff a lot in future videos. You can rest assured we'll be back to the regular programming soon. It's just that with so many videos out there promoting these ideologies, I think it's important that we occasionally create videos like this to provide the alternate perspective to hopefully balance things out a little bit. It's just something I felt I needed to do. It's something I'm passionate about. I care about fitness and about the fitness community and I just wanted to put in my two cents. I hope you guys will forgive me. And you know what? If you find yourself obsessing about this stuff too much to the point you think it's unhealthy, then consider getting some therapy or some psychological help. Certainly no shame in that. It's bodybuilding for the brain, it's really good for you. It'll help you to optimize yourself in more ways than you can imagine, and it could save you from some really dark stuff. Anyways, guys, I'd love to know your thoughts down below. Let me know in the comments what you think. How else can fitness turn dangerous, turn damaging? I'm sure it could lead to some interesting discussion, and I look forward to reading it. Either way guys, thank you so much for watching this one and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. If you're looking for a new project, consider building a website. Whether you're building a website to further your career, promote your business, or simply to express yourself, this is a fantastic way to put yourself out there and hone new skills. Thanks to Squarespace, today's sponsor. This is something that anyone can try. Squarespace makes it extremely simple to build a website in a matter of minutes. You'll start by selecting the template you want and then drag and drop elements to customize it how you see fit. There's no coding required and it's extremely intuitive. While you can have something modern and professional up and running in minutes though, you can go on to further customize and grow your site as you see fit. Squarespace comes with all the tools you could possibly need to do this builtin. That includes advanced formatting tools that let you create and share beautiful blog posts or schedule them for later. It includes an in-built commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes. It includes member management, e-commerce, gated membersonly content, and much more. And thanks to the thousands of available plugins, you can take this even further, adding things like global shipping and inventory management for your e-commerce solution. The sky is truly the limit. So, if you want to find out more, head to squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/bioner for 10% off your first domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. And bye for now.