Short bouts of cardio for just 5 minutes could be the catalyst you need to start getting the results you want from your training. Here's why. Many people only think of cardio in terms of losing fat, perhaps improving their running times, and maybe even how it can harm their muscle. But that's a mistake because there are so many benefits to cardio. Cardio is essential for your health and fitness and improves your heart health, your metabolism, your circulation, your aerobic system, your mental health, and much more. And by doing just 5 minutes of cardio, you can actually increase your energy levels and improve your focus. You increase blood flow to your brain. You produce more awakening excitatory neurotransmitters, and you warm up your body temperature. All this can stop you feeling lethargic, and that gives you the energy you need to then attack another workout or just engage in whatever other task it is you want to perform. Because it's so short, there's a relatively low psychological barrier, and you're not going to leave yourself feeling spent and tired after the fact. And while these short bouts of cardio won't use lots of calories in themselves, they can support other weight loss strategies by providing small bursts of activity throughout the day. And at a time when many of us are largely sedentary for large portions of the day, this can be extremely valuable. Microc cardio can also be extremely beneficial from a performance perspective. If you do this a couple of times a day, it's not just about performing the cardio. It's about starting and finishing the cardio, ramping your heart rate up, and then bringing it back down to normal. This can improve your heart rate kinetics and that will make you more responsive to a wider variety of tasks with a minimal preparation. In short, making you more ready for whatever it is you want to do at any point during the day and helping you to recover from your training more effectively. For all these reasons, despite not seeming like much, microcardio can actually be highly effective. Ow! Bulls!