 shikik. Hikogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogog examples of things that we once knew but went on to forget. This is certainly the case in the world of fitness where we've forgotten just as much powerful information as we've learned. An old-time strongman training is a perfect example of this. Old-time strongmen could perform incredible feats that many of us struggle to even fathom today exploring frontiers of the human body that we still don't fully understand. In this video I'm going to break down some of the most interesting and fascinating concepts from old-time strongman training that we can apply to our modern training today. I think what primarily appeals to me about old-time strongmen, most of all, is that they weren't just building surface-level strength. Read their books and listen to them talk and they seem far more interested in developing full-body mastery and control. They wanted to be strong everywhere, inside and out. And we see this with some of the more unusual areas they would focus on in their training. Neck training, for example, was common with moves like the wrestler's bridge, supporting their weight on their neck in a bridge position. This one's somewhat controversial. Some people say it's bad for your neck. Some people say it's wonderful. A lot of wrestlers swear by it and haven't had any issues with it. It's obviously more of an advanced exercise and I wouldn't say it's necessary for most people. There are certainly other options. And another common drill was to get a partner to push against your head whilst you braced against it. The neck bridge is a little controversial these days, but the idea of neck training has actually gained a lot of popularity lately. The old-time strongmen saw this as a bridge between the mind and the body and a sign of virility and power. Finger training was also common. Feats included driving the fingers through objects, like you might see from Shaolin Kung Fu, and performing movements like one-finger pull-ups and push-ups. Rib cage training and breath control was also really popular, and this stuff is fascinating. Many strongmen believed that they could develop a more powerful-looking frame by expanding their rib cage, but they also believed they could develop greater self-control, energy and thoracic mobility through the same methods. And whilst this might seem a little bit obscure today, it's actually linked with costal breathing, or breathing from the upper chest. Theoretically, by strengthening the intercostal muscles, the ones between the ribs, you can create more space in the chest to let in more air, and we do know that these muscles respond to progressive training. We actually engage in more costal breathing during breathlessness, when we're short of oxygen, which is what occurs when we're exerting ourselves during a heavy lift, for example. And this is how they would train these muscles, taking deep breaths and sometimes using sweeping overhead movements in between the heavy lifts. The breathing squat was a particularly brutal exercise that involves taking deep breaths through the mouth and expanding the chest as much as possible in between heavy squat reps. You might do three to five breaths deeply before performing your next rep. The dumbbell pullover was a particularly popular exercise to use this way as well, as the position itself opens up the chest to a big degree. Dumbbell flies are also great for this, as you can imagine, as is the chest expander, which is where it gets its name. And this is also fantastic for developing the upper back. The ab vacuum could be used in conjunction with this. This not only, you know, forces you to breathe from the chest because you're suppressing that abdominal cavity, but it also does a bunch of other stuff. Otto Arco, for example, would use extreme ab vacuums, not only for aesthetics and posing, but also because he believed it could strengthen the core and the transverse abdomini and massage the organs to improve digestion. Again, we see similarities here with Shaolin Kung Fu and Qi Gong. And while the usefulness of this internal organ massaging is debatable, we do know that this can mechanically stimulate organs like the liver and intestines, and we'll see another interesting use for this in a moment. Such feats would also allow old-time strongmen to increase intra-abdominal pressure, thereby stabilizing themselves during difficult lifts. It would allow for more oxygen turnover during strenuous exertion, and it would allow more awareness of the inner workings of the body. In other words, they were going beyond just the surface level, just the mirror muscles, way before functional training, and they were training deep internal aspects of their physicality. Grip and forearm training were also particularly of focus for old-time strongmen. One of the favourite stunts of old-time strongmen was to lift an incredibly heavy barbell and then invite a member of the audience up on stage to try and attempt the same thing. This, of course, was a rather risky gambit. If the audience member managed to lift the same weight, it would immediately undermine their entire act. So how could they be sure that they weren't going to get shown up or the answer is simple, with a really strong grip. Often these barbells and dumbbells featured much thicker bars, which meant that the typical person would be unable to lift it even if they had the strength because they couldn't get strong enough of a grip on it, and very few people would train their grip. There was even an impossible dumbbell, which was apparently really hard to lift for that very reason. Allow me to present the famous Inch Challenge Dumbbell. Over a period of 40 years, the bell has never been raised an inch from off the ground by any strongman, although thousands have tried. So is this just a trick then? Well, not at all, really, because it's a legitimate demonstration of superior strength. Maybe not strength in the lift that you're thinking of, but strength that can be used outside of the gym when dealing with objects that aren't designed to be readily liftable. If you can lift a super-thick dumbbell, then you might stand a better chance of lifting a heavy log, for example, or gripping onto a ledge when you're climbing, or grabbing onto someone's arm to restrain them when you're wrestling. Another cool old-time strongman move was the hub lift. This is a heavy lift that challenges you to use a pinch grip to lift a plate off the ground. It's brutal and completely different from the kind of thing we usually do in the gym today. Plank snatches were also popular, performing snatches with a plank of wood and a pinch grip. Levers were also popular, holding longer objects from one end and then letting them tilt to create a longer lever arm. You could do this, say, with a steel mace, challenging the forearm tremendously in the process. If you've ever tried lifting a chair up by one leg, it's surprisingly difficult. And perhaps the most amazing demonstration of this was from Joe Holton, who would catch cannonballs with his bare hands. One day he did lose some fingers, but then he just carried on doing it with fewer fingers. These guys were something else. If you want to try something similar, then you can wrap a cloth around a dumbbell to make it thicker, or use something like fat grips, exercises like the rope climb, or even doing pull-ups from a tree branch, actually have that grip training built in. Lifting unusual objects also works well. For example, it was common to lift barrels, and George F. Jowett believed that this was one of the best ways to develop forearms. You might not have access to a barrel, but many of us have access to plant pots and bins. You can fill them with water or sand. Then there's the bending and the twisting and the unusual angles. A lot of the old-time strongman lifts involve bending and twisting the body in unusual positions that we just don't see with modern lifts today. See the Arthur press, the side press, the bent press, which is also very similar to the kettlebell windmill. Movements like the windmill and the bent press ask you to twist and bend the body, getting underneath the weight and then standing up with it, involving the obliques and the QL muscles in ways that other lifts simply don't touch. A testament to this fact is that Arthur Saxon actually still holds the world record for the bent press, though some say this was matched by Eugene Sandow, but this once again demonstrates just how little we actually train this stuff these days. Because this is important, once again, for actual functional strength. A lot of the movements we need in real life involve twisting or bending, whether it's squatting down to get something off the floor while carrying your child, throwing a ball, heaving a piece of heavy furniture across the ground, ensuring that you're strong from every angle, and also developing the kind of thick and powerful-looking core that some people still find quite cool. Myself included. To be clear, I'm not an expert on any of these weird lifts. The bent press, the side press, even the kettlebell windmill. I just enjoy learning about them and experimenting with them. If you want to learn how to do these movements properly, then I highly recommend checking out some other channels. James Fuller, for example, has catalogued a bunch of these movements over on his Instagram account. I highly recommend that. He's done some great videos with Juji as well that you should check out. I also recommend if you want to learn more about the theory, check out GoldenEraBookWorm. He archives all sorts of this and makes it really interesting and accessible. I recommend the No Limit Squad if you're interested in overcoming isometrics in particular. And also just go to the source. You can get a lot of these books completely for free. Download them on Kindle. A lot of them are in the public domain. So yeah, all this information is out there and it's really fascinating stuff. And what's interesting too is that the techniques were more malleable back then. While there were competitions with strict rules, watching videos of strongmen performing these lifts would often reveal a huge amount of variation. Or to put it less delicately, they're all over the place. But at least moves like the bent press and the side press were somewhat codified and repeatable. Other movements like the anyhow lift have no rules at all. The anyhow lift is exactly what it sounds like. It's whatever method you want to use to lift the most weight off the ground. It's like saying, who can lift this up? I don't care how you do it. We might cringe today asserting that lifting as heavy possible with no discernible technique should be a recipe for injury. But of course, that is kind of the point. Because outside of the gym, you do need to lift things at strange angles with imperfect technique. If you want to pick a log up off the ground, you can't do that with perfect deadlift form. And the same thing goes for loading the pushchair into the back of the car or lifting a kid out of a deep cot. As long as you start with light and manageable loads, then training these weaker positions will make them stronger. And that way, you're less likely to injure yourself when you inevitably get into those positions during your everyday movements. Instability was also common for old-time strongmen. Those barrels and kegs are often filled with water or other substances that would, of course, slosh and move around inside during the lift. And of course, the globe barbells, the barbells with the big circles on the end, would be filled with shot, making them similarly unpredictable during movement. Again, it comes down to total body strength and control. This kind of strength is harder to measure. You can't compete in the same way because every lift is different. And that's why we don't see it that much anymore. But it's also far more complete, more comprehensive, leaving no stone unturned, no weak links in that kinetic chain. To do all this, old-time strongmen would need to brace and focus a lot during their lifts. They were known for squeezing weights as they lifted them, particularly squeezing the grips. However, they were also known to focus on squeezing the target muscles, contracting the biceps during a bicep curl, for example. You've probably seen the Zotman curls, which was actually developed by strongman George Zotman. And to do it correctly, you should be squeezing consciously the bicep as hard as you can at the top of the curl before pronating the hands. Eugene Sandow even invented a special type of dumbbell called the new grip dumbbell, which he unveiled in 1899. This featured a steel spring that could be squeezed together during lifts like curls and presses. And this would not only train the grip, as a kind of nice aside, but it would also develop a more comprehensive strength, closing those energy links and strengthening the surrounding muscles through irradiation. He also believed it was possible to build surprising strength and size with very light weight, as long as you were maximally contracting the muscles during the movements. And going further, we would see total body tension as a key component in the teachings of many old-time strongmen. Eugene Sandow talked about complete tension and said that the entire body should assist in any given lift. He said that there should be no loose or idle muscle. This is no small thing. Contracting the entire body during movements makes you hard as steel, so that there are no weak links in that kinetic chain that could make you vulnerable. It also helps you to remain present and focused on the movements, rather than letting the mind wander and not really putting in the proper effort or control. This was something that Eugene would demonstrate during his muscle display and pose holds. He would maintain extreme contractions through the body with an ab vacuum and believe that it not only looked good, but that it would develop greater muscle control. Isometric training was often used to support this kind of training too, with static poses being commonly employed by George Hackenschmidt and others. They also used overcoming isometrics in the form of bending steel. Essentially, that means pushing against that immovable object, using as much fiber as possible until eventually it bent. We can see a direct relationship between these techniques and the training methods of Bruce Lee, which is really interesting. Again, isometrics are just a tool to allow them to really isolate and hone in and focus on specific muscle groups that often would get overlooked to develop not only the intermuscular coordination, but also the intramuscular coordination, meaning they could engage not only specific muscles, but more of those specific muscles, a greater percentage of them. And the logical conclusion of this line of thinking is muscle control. Because these old-time lifters believed in developing direct control over as many of their muscles as possible, sometimes even focusing on deep internal muscles. I'm not going to harp on this too long because I've talked about it before, but people like Maxik could move muscles in their core, or in their back, or in their forearm. He called this technique Maxolding, and he was among several practitioners to teach similar things at the time. I actually learned to flex individual muscles in my forearm. I can flex tendons and stuff. And I did say I'd make a video telling you how to do that in future, which I haven't forgotten. Pester me and I'll make that video soon. But then someone like Maxik would talk about parlaying that into his lifts, contracting only the muscles necessary for the movement, and using others to assist rather than hinder. But this stuff has a lot of untapped potential as well. Fascinatingly, other physical culturists and performers at the time used the same technique to achieve a variety of other effects. Among those was Harry Houdini, who learned the technique from the mighty Atom, and then he applied that to the muscles regulating his digestion through incredible control of his diaphragm, esophagus and stomach muscles, and perhaps a little bit of trickery. He was able to pull off, for example, some amazing but disgusting feats of swallowing and regurgitation. And I actually know how to do this one too. Anyone interested in that? No? So to finish off, what's really impressive to me about old-time strongmen is that they were not just interested in lifting the most amount of weight under strict rules or in building the biggest muscles. They were showmen. And so this instead became about mastering the body in order to pull off incredible and logic-defying feats. It was about the showmanship and the mystique and the excitement of seeing what the human body can do. And this is so appealing to me. I get so bored watching people talk about the minutiae of squats and deadlifts. I don't care who can lift the most, but I love seeing people do new things with the body. Old-time strongmen trained to be masters of the body. A lot of the lifts, like the squatting press or the bent press, demonstrate mastery over the weights and control. Not just throwing them up and lowering them, but moving around them and manipulating them in ways that were, you know, expressive and eye-catching. Many of them, like Otto Arco, could likewise perform handstands and flips and acrobatics. They could contract individual supportive muscles, controlling their breathing and move at angles where others would be weak. There is so much to learn from these guys, so much that we can apply to our own training. But to get back to that, we need to start worrying less about competing with others or about constantly growing, so that we can start to focus instead on expression and exploration. And to me, the ultimate achievement, the ultimate compliment to these guys, wouldn't just be to copy what they've done to perform the same feats, but rather to come up with new feats, new ways to push the body, new frontiers to explore. But until then, bye for now. And I'm so sorry I didn't say bye for now in my last video. Trust me, no one is more disappointed in me than me. By the way, guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely simple for anyone to get started with their own website. You can either use their advanced AI tools to create a website from scratch, or you can choose from one of their countless beautiful and modern templates, then customize those to your heart's content. Either way, you'll have a website up and running in minutes, and from there, you can begin adding all the features you could possibly need. Anything from fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes, to appointment scheduling so that you can make bookings and sell your services online, to search engine optimization and analytics so that you can help more people to find your site through Google and then track your performance metrics over time. Squarespace is easy to pick up for anyone looking to start expressing themselves online, and it has all of the power and advanced features, making it suitable for big businesses too. In fact, it's already used by some of the very biggest brands on the web. To learn more, go to squarespace.com, and when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com forward slash Bioneer, you can get 10% off your first domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys again, and again, bye for now.