Hey there guys. In this video, I'm going to show you a method, a system that I've been using to build mobility that's been far more effective than anything I've ever tried before. And that has brought me visible noticeable improvements in the space of weeks. And another great thing about it is it only takes about 3 minutes per body part and you only need to do that two to three times per week. So, just to give you an idea of what I'm talking about, I used to be someone embarrassingly who until fairly recently couldn't bend over and touch the floor with my hands. I couldn't touch my toes without slightly bending my legs. This is like basic mobility. So, that was a big glaring emission in my functional performance. Whereas now, it's actually relatively straightforward for me to do so. So, as you can see, a big improvement. And this was a great revelation for me because I think it's something that a lot of people can relate to. Working really hard to improve mobility because you know that's something that you should be doing, but feeling like you're not getting anywhere. Trying all these methods and ultimately just spinning your wheels and not seeing any progress. But if you can't do basic movement patterns, you can't really say that you're athletic, at least in my opinion. without beating around the bush anymore. Basically, what we're going to be doing is a combination of PNF stretching with greater intensity, which I'll describe in a moment. And then on top of that, you're going to be adding what I call the liquid motion system, which you guys might have heard me talk about on the channel before, which is basically very gentle movements. And what we're essentially doing here is that we're forcing our nervous system to relax, to allow ourselves to get into these greater ranges of motion, and then we're reinforcing that. We're practicing that position and gaining control over it so that it becomes ingrained and it becomes as easy as anything to get into that position. This is how it's going to look. As many of you are probably aware by now, your limitations in mobility aren't due to a physical constraint. It's not like your bones in the way in most cases. It's not like your tendons are too short. You know, people often talk about how if you can raise your leg like that and if you can raise your leg like that, then clearly you should be able to do a middle split. You can't because it's not actually your body's structure stopping you. It's your nervous system. What's happening is you're getting into a position where the body feels weak and some kind of reflex is kicking in causing guarding. Your muscles are contracting. The antagonist muscles are contracting and this is preventing you from getting deeper into the stretch. So, what mobility training is really about is training your nervous system to relax when you're in those end ranges of motion. And to do that, there's lots of different techniques we can use. One of which is PNF. And what you do here is you get into your position. So if we're doing an overhead stretch, let's say I'm like this. I'm going down. Now that's a passive stretch. That's your regular stretch. Kasite stretching my shoulders in my lats and my pecs. Now if I'm going to do a PNF stretch, what I want to do is apply contraction. I'm going to contract the target muscles. And I'm going to do this by essentially trying to push my hands down through the bar whilst my torso doesn't let me. So I'm pushing down with my torso, opening up the joint, but I'm also pushing down with my arms trying to close the joint angle. So I'm trying to reverse the stretch. You should feel a strong tension that might be quite uncomfortable in the target muscle, not pain at the joint. I'm going to hold this for 6 to 10 seconds. So, not very long. Essentially, is working in a very similar manner to an overcoming isometric. And this then means that your body's going to feel practiced and rehearsed in that position. It's going to know it can bail out of that position basically and thereby it'll ease up and let you get into that position more easily in future. A protocol people often use is to get into the passive stretch first. Then apply the pressure for the 10 seconds. So it should be a little bit painful. Then you relax for 2 to 3 seconds. Completely relax the muscle because then your muscle will be more relaxed than it was to start with in theory. And you can then get deeper into that initial passive stretch. And that basically is PNF stretching. And for many people, this has been a silver bullet. Lots of people swear by PNF who have had no luck with regular stretching, passive stretching, say that this works for them. It didn't work for me. And there's a couple of reasons. I'll tell you why. Just want to move a bit closer to the camera now and finish with the demonstration. The first is that for me, the instruction wasn't super clear. They said to get into position and then contract the muscle. Well, this is a muscle contraction at a at a fixed joint angle, but this isn't what we're talking about. What we're talking about is this. So, contraction with intent to move the joint. This is the key point. So, as I said before, I'm trying to push myself out of the stretch with the lats. I'm preventing myself from leaving the stretch by putting my body into it, but I'm trying to escape the stretch with the contraction. It's not just a passive contraction. It's a contraction with intent. Like I say, in this case, the intent being to close the joint angle again because this is what's going to give you the strength to do that and give your nervous system the confidence it needs to escape that position. This was something that was lost on me. So, the word contraction is just vague. That intention is super important. The other reason I don't think it worked for me is because I think, you know, 20 to 30 40 50% is way too low in terms of intensity. For me personally, going higher has been much more effective. And I've heard anecdotally a lot of people say the same. There's good reason to think that starting more gently would be better because it's going to prevent things like co- contraction or muscle radiation, prevent guarding behavior, but I think it just builds more strength more quickly. You're sending that stronger neural drive to the muscle that you're targeting. It's in this way acting more like an overcoming isometric. See what works for you, but for me, what made the big difference was using more force. And when I use this close to an overcoming isometric, I like to call it overcoming mobility. And there's actually other ways you can use overcoming isometrics for your mobility, too. But that's been much more effective for me personally. I will say though that there's a couple of words of caution when doing this because you need to have the confidence to properly target the muscle that you're targeting. If you're using the wrong position, if you're engaging the wrong muscles, this could cause injury. So I would consider truly overcoming mobility to be more of an advanced technique. So if you're not confident that you can isolate the correct target area, not only is it going to be not effective, it might cause you injury. So go carefully, ease into it slowly. Don't go straight away for the highest level and listen to your body. Like I say, it should be tension in the target muscle. It shouldn't be pain in the joints. Whenever you do any form of mobility training, I think you should always be wearing barefoot shoes, minimal shoes, or just be barefoot. And the reason for that is that if you get into a deep stretch and you're wearing regular shoes with a big thick heel, well, you're often not actually in as deep a stretch as you think you are. I mean, if you do a pancake stretch or if you get into a deep squat and your heel is literally lifted off the floor, then your calf is now in a shortened position relative to what it would be if your heel was flat. So, you might think that you can do these things, but actually you can't. And you're not in as deep a stretch or as effective a stretch as you would be if you were wearing minimal shoes with no heel. Which is why I'm really glad to say that today's sponsor is Vivo Barefoot. And I wear them for all my mobility training unless I'm just doing it in the living room because they got a bunch of other benefits, too. Things like, you know, the thin sole that makes it much easier to feel the ground beneath your feet. Then there's things like the fact they're just so light, which means that when I'm doing, you know, lsits, whatever else, I'm not being held back by the shoes. And Vivo Barefoot make what I think are the best barefoot shoes in the business. They're extremely durable, I think. Really cool. I love this design. And this is their new Motus 2 shoe. It's the latest version of the shoe they make specifically for people who work out, who go to the gym. So, me and you, basically. It has greater support and durability to protect you in the gym, but at the same time, this generation in particular has been designed with movement in mind specifically. This nice rib design means the shoe bends particularly easily, meaning it's also great for calisthenics athletes for mobility for this video essentially. If you want to check them out, then head to the link in description down below and use code bionia vivo5 and you'll get 15% off your purchase. Thanks again to Vivo Barefoot for sponsoring this video. On with the show. Like I say, there's actually two parts to this system and the other part is the liquid motion system. So, for those of you who've missed my previous videos in this topic, this is basically another method I've been using to build mobility with quite a lot of success. It, for example, is how I got this nice deep um resting squat, which now feels relaxing for me as opposed to painful. I say at one point I would just fall over when I did this. And I'm not even talking all that long ago. Basically, what you're going to be doing here is getting into your end range of motion and then just moving gently. You let gravity take you all the way down. You raise yourself slightly, lower yourself slightly. And what you're doing here is a combination of things. Firstly, letting gravity lower you into the position or just naturally get into the position means that your nervous system is relaxed. You're minimizing any of that guarding. You're not forcing yourself into position and getting, you know, a lot of tension. But at the same time by moving gradually in the area you further sort of build trust with your nervous system that will allow you to get a little bit deeper and deeper and at the same time you're building up all the control all of the you know neuromuscular control or the propriception and even strength in those areas to control yourself in that position so that you can actually use the positions that you want to get into. And here's the magic bit. Because we're combining this with the overcoming mobility, the PNF stretching, however you want to do it, you're basically turning off the guarding mechanism to a degree. You're allowing yourself to get into that easier position. And then you're exploring it and utilizing it immediately afterwards, thereby really cementing that idea, thereby learning to control that mobility that you've temporarily borrowed, so that it becomes increasingly easy to get into that position in future. You're learning how to get into that position and not just how to get into it, but how to control it. It's kind of like over speed training. Training at a higher level than you usually be capable of so that it becomes second nature and you can do it more easily and so that the steps above become even even easier. Now you're not just able to get into those positions. You're strong in those positions, confident in those positions, able to control those positions. With the liquid motion system, you can use this more frequently if you want to. It's not as intensive for the nervous system and greasing the groove here is actually desirable. That's the great thing about it. You can just explore those deep squat positions or whatever else it is you want to do in your spare time as you go around the house. You know, if you're reading a book, why not be in a deep squat, for example. But I say moving in the deep squat and controlling that position, learning to control that position. That said though, if you're doing this after the PNF stuff, then you can do it for 30 seconds following each one of those stretches and do it twice just as you're doing two sets of the PNF stuff. You can do this then just as part of your mobility routine two to three times a week. And I think you might well find that you have drastically improved results from this combination than you would have done from either one on their own. At least that's been the case for me. So for me now, the goal is going to be to apply these same principles in a more targeted way towards some of the areas where I'm still really lacking. For me, my overhead mobility I still want better. I mean, it's better than it was, still needs work. I also really want to improve my um middle splits, my hip mobility in that direction. I can do a really nice deep cosac squat, but I can't do anything close to a middle split. So, yeah, that's an area to work on. And that's one of the big tips, by the way, when it comes to mobility training is to be a little bit more intentional. A lot of people set out to improve their mobility, but they have no real end goal that they're interested in. They just want to get more flexible and then they get bored and they give up. What you should do instead is focus on a few key skills that you'd like to learn that require mobility or a few positions that you know are demonstrations of mobility that you like the looks of. So for me, for example, I wanted to be able to pistol squat early on and this is one of the motivations for me to get my deep resting squat because there's a lot of mobility involved in a pistol squat. You know, 5 years ago, couldn't do that move. these days I can pump out a few consecutively. So, you know, that motivation drove me to do that. The same thing with my overhead mobility, which still needs work. I'm working on that because I want to uh improve my handstands. This, by the way, is the uh liquid motion equivalent for overhead mobility. Just exploring those end ranges in a mobile and controlled manner. I also really want to improve my kicks. And this is something I recommend to anyone, anyone who, you know, thinks maybe even that stretching is a little bit, you know, foof foo. It's not very um exciting or explosive who just want to lift heavy stuff and run fast and who wants to be able to touch their toes. If that's the case, then I recommend that you integrate some kind of kicking training into your routine because this is an example of where having great hip mobility can directly improve power and performance and give you a really cool skill that's, you know, undeniably awesome. And you know the drill by now, guys. If you like this kind of training, then you might want to check out my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover. It combines strength training, endurance, mobility with cool skills and balance and propreception, all in a simple package that's relatively easy to fit into your routine alongside other types of training if you want to. It includes the full liquid motion system and a whole section on this overcoming mobility stuff for the more advanced readers out there. and basically gives you specific exercises that follow these principles for every body part. So yeah, if you want to try it out, also shows you how to integrate it into your workout along with all the other stuff. Comes with an ebook that's over 200 pages long. Comes with 25 instructional videos, a whole bunch of extra stuff including Q cards you can download to your phone for easy reference. So if you're interested, links in the description down below. But otherwise, you can integrate it easily enough using these instructions and just using a bit of common sense to apply it to each body part that interests you. So there you go, guys. That's how I've been handling my mobility lately and it's had a world of difference for me. So let me know what you think of this method. Do you do anything similar? Have you tried anything like this? And what do you think? If so, if not, what other methods have you used? And is there anything like that you'd like me to tackle in a future video? Thanks so much for watching this one, guys. I truly appreciate it. If you could consider subscribing if you've gotten anything out of this video, it would really mean the world to me. The channel is doing fine enough, but my subscriber count has grown to a halt. We're never going to get to that 1 million Batman video at this rate. So yeah, if you're one of those people who watches regularly and haven't subscribed, please consider doing so. It massively helps me out. But yes, anyways, that's enough begging from me, enough degrading myself. I'll see you next time. Thanks so much for watching this one. Bye for now.