 I've always been fascinated with the idea of brain training, of training your brain the same way you train your body, in order to become smarter, more creative, to improve your reflexes, quick thinking, etc. This, of course, though, is a very complex topic, and more so than a lot of people make it out to be. And a lot of brain training content doesn't really hit the mark for me. And a big part of that is that it's not all that applicable to, like, everyday life. You know, it's not that useful for me to be able to memorise a pack of cards. So I'm more interested in examples of specific things we can do to improve specific aspects of our cognitive performance. And one great example of this is how we can use cursive, that's joined-up handwriting, to potentially improve our verbal fluency, our ability to speak clearly and articulately without stumbling over our words, our ability to think of words quickly when writing or being otherwise creative. This is something that can open doors for you in the real world, something that can have real technology, tangible benefits for you, tangible benefits for you, tangible benefits for you, tangible benefits for you, make you feel more confident, make you more effective socially, better at persuading people, better at being creative and making things. That's the kind of brain training I'm interested in. So the question is, does this really work? Can you improve your ability to speak, to think quickly, and to then put those thoughts into words by just simply practising handwriting? This might seem a little bit far-fetched at first until you unpack it and look at it more closely, because what you're doing when you're doing when you're doing handwriting, especially joined-up, is you're practising a very fine motor skill. You're practising doing something that requires really precise control over your fingers and your hands, concentration, steadiness, and for many of us, this could end up being the only form of dexterity that we actually consciously practice. Unless you're someone who happens to sew or make Lego sculptures, many of us just don't practice that kind of fine motor control. We've seen a lot of studies linking our ability to control our body, our proprioception, our body awareness, to things like working memory and other aspects of cognitive performance. So simply for that reason alone, practising handwriting, cursive, can be like catnip for the brain, just because it involves so much attention and focus and so much fine motor control. People like Daniel Walpert talk about the way that the brain potentially is evolved to control our movement, and that all our other cognitive abilities kind of stem from that. He talks about how the most advanced robotics and AI might be able to beat us at chess, but they pale in comparison to even a toddler when it comes to that kind of manual dexterity. You know, show me a robot that can peel an orange the same way that even a child can. The cursive has something else going for it. It has more specificity. And the reason for this is that it actually links that fine motor control with language. It makes a direct connection between the two, and strengthening these pathways might be what lead to us eventually speaking and writing better. To end the book, The Brain That Changes Itself, by Norman Doidge, there's a case study of a boy who was once struggling with language. Not only writing and producing words, but also reading and even speaking. He would stumble over his words, he'd get muddled up, and he wasn't performing at the level he was expected to for his age. So he attended a school called the Arrowsmith School, set up by Barbara Arrowsmith, the purpose of which was to help children with learning disabilities. And what they had him do was simply practice joined-up handwriting cursive. What they found was that it improved not only his ability to write, which is a kind of direct consequence, but also his ability to read, his ability to speak. And then they demonstrated this again with several other students. Now, of course, this is a case study, several case studies, it's fairly anecdotal, but when we look at the research and the potential mechanisms behind it, it makes an awful lot of sense. And the reason that this is the case is that speech is also an activity that requires a lot of fine motor control. We don't think about it, it comes naturally, but you actually have a lot of pre-planning and organisation to move your mouth and your tongue in the correct way, and to prepare for the next word in the sentence. This is handled by the premotor and motor cortices, like other movements, but also Broca's area. This is a brain region adjacent to the premotor cortex that specialises in handling the production of language specifically. Crucially, this region is used both in speech and in writing. And of course, with both speech and written language, you're also going to engage other brain areas for choosing what you're going to say. This word generation occurs within Wernicke's area, the brain region responsible for comprehension and more often associated with reading or understanding language. Then a thick bundle of fibres connects Broca's area to Wernicke's area. This bundle of fibres is called the arcuate fasciculus, we're going to call it AF, along with other areas of the brain that also get involved. For example, Geshwin's territory. So this pattern of activity in the brain, this network, comprises a kind of language circuit. Handwriting then provides us with a way to rehearse these specific pathways, this specific pattern of activation, and to strengthen that. And brain imaging studies back this up. They show a far greater pattern of activity across the brain when writing by hand versus when typing. And cursive, joined up writing, is simply a more involved process. It requires more fine dexterity, more fine motor control. And it also requires whole word thinking. One of the reasons you make more mistakes when writing joined up is because you have to flow from one letter to the next. You need to plan the next letter and the letter after that as you're writing the previous one. You get into that flow, you connect those words. So you need to think of the whole word ahead. This whole word thinking, again, is more similar to the way we speak because when we speak we need to move our mouths from the last letter to the next one. And it's probably for similar reasons that we also see handwriting practice correlate with a whole host of other positive cognitive traits in the classroom and beyond. Things like focus and attention, comprehension and recall, even creativity. This has been shown to apply to children and there's a high likelihood that it would also apply to adults and grown-ups. You can teach an old dog new tricks. You can still train your brain. We now know that you can create new neural connections. You can birth new brain cells. There's no reason to stop training the brain just like there's no reason to stop training the body. If you want to become more focused, more creative, better at speaking, then you need to practice it and handwriting is a great way to do so. A lot of schools these days are actually phasing out cursive and handwriting practice simply because we spend so much time writing on the computer. It might seem like an unnecessary waste of time. As we can see, this is potentially a big mistake as it can be so formative for children, especially who lack fine motor control originally. They might never develop that kind of fine motor control and that link with language if they don't practice this. Thankfully, my daughter's school hasn't taken this approach and they are teaching her to write with joined up writing. And so I took it upon myself with no real reason to try and do the same thing and, you know, show some support that way. So when I'm writing in her reading diary, for example, writing about what books we've been reading together, I will write with joined up writing as well. But I actually think this might have improved my verbal fluency. See, I actually have quite bad verbal fluency. I am someone who struggles a little bit when it comes to speaking to people, speaking in public. I stumble over my words. My brain moves faster than my mouth can. And I also get het up in social situations and kind of freeze. I often end up starting a sentence, being unable to finish it, and then just feeling like an idiot. I've always said that I'm smart slowly. But this, I think, did help because I noticed that my verbal fluency was improving. And it was only when I actually found this old article on my website that was unfinished that I've recently published there that I made that connection. I thought, huh, the reason that my speech might have improved could be because I've been practicing this joined up handwriting. And you actually notice it when you start, because when you start practicing handwriting, when you start practicing cursive again, you'll find you make many more mistakes than you do when you write with print. And you almost feel kind of muddled up as you're doing it. It is a form of training. I have a similar thing when I practice writing with my left hand, which also has a lot of benefits. I've made content on that in the past. When I practice writing with my left hand, I likewise make spelling mistakes I otherwise wouldn't make. So it's training the brain, and you can actually feel it training the brain. And I say, I'm pretty sure even just this little bit of handwriting practice might have improved my verbal fluency. Again, this is a case study. I'm a sample of one. It might be a placebo effect. However, to me, it feels like it's actually made a difference. And so I'm hardly going to change that now, am I? And you can tie this in with a whole host of other positive practices, whether it's journaling, whether it's writing down your ideas, whether it's just keeping a notepad on you. This is something you can easily fit into your everyday life. And one last tip is that when you're practicing this, try and write as neatly and as quickly and as smoothly as you can. This is one of my ultimate brain training tips. And that is to apply your best effort to everything, because then everything becomes brain training. If you try and write as neatly and as quickly as you can simultaneously, then you're pushing yourself to do better, which is going to create more of a response in the brain. You can apply this same logic to literally everything. And I've also done it when reading to my daughter, which actually improved my ability to speak to you guys when I first started doing it. I would practice reading stories, doing the best delivery I could with pauses in the right place with all the voices. And it might seem silly or embarrassing, but she loved it. And because I was practicing doing my very best work, I was actually getting some training out of it and becoming better at performing, which directly benefited my work. If you want to read more about this and if you want to see some studies on it, then head over to the link in the description down below, because I'm going to put a link to my website there. I've recently redesigned my website and built it up to be bigger and better than ever before. It's more modern. It's quicker. I think it looks better. And I'm adding a lot more content on there, and I'm going to endeavor to keep doing so. I want to make this a great place you can go to get tons of free articles. It's not covered in ads. You'll see the occasional reminder that I have an e-book. But beyond that, there's no Google AdSense, nothing like that. It's just articles like the Internet used to be. All the usual stuff on fitness and calisthenics and kettlebells and functional training. But beyond that, also things like this on brain training, things on productivity, on creativity, deep dives into the human condition and biology. So if that sounds interesting, I say check it out. It's all free and I'd love you to see it. That said, I've also improved my payment system. I now accept more payment types from more locations. So if you did want to buy my e-book and training programs, then you can head over there. And if you've had problems in the past, then it might work for you now. Let me know what you think. I'd love to get your feedback on the new web design. And let me know what you think about more content like this. You know, I used to always make brain training content and I want to start doing it again. You know, just diversify what's available on the channel. But I don't want to alienate those of you who are only interested in, you know, fitness in my back garden. So let me know what you think. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR UR U