 This video is sponsored by Squarespace, the website building platform, the website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get a website up and running in no time at all. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. In a recent video I said that ab rollouts were the most powerful exercise for building an athletic and powerful core. But while I stand by that, it doesn't mean that they're the most efficient for those who just want to build a great six pack and strong abs. There is a move out there that has a lower barrier to entry that's easier for those who just want to build a great six pack and strong abs. There is a move out there that has a lower barrier to entry that's easier for those who just want to build a great six pack and strong abs. for more people to perform doesn't require any equipment, doesn't require any equipment, can be done anywhere, and that will build you a really strong and powerful six pack in a short amount of time that looks great. You can spam this movement, you can do it very frequently with minimal recovery cost, there's a fantastic stimulus to fatigue ratio, and most people will get brilliant results in a really short amount of time. But I know what you're thinking, because I know what you're like, you're a contrarian. And you're thinking, Adam, the leg raise is more of a hip hinge than it is a crunch. It doesn't really involve the abs so much as the hip flexors. Well, whilst this might be true to an extent, it's this kind of blatant propaganda that I think has turned so many people off the leg raise, and as a result, prevented them from getting great abs. Maybe we could live in a world where more people have six packs because they don't write off leg raises. It's almost serious. And of course, I'm going to explain exactly why the leg raise is so effective for building abs and how you can do it a little bit differently in order to get the very best results. First of all, let's remind ourselves of what a leg raise is. Didn't think this through, did I? First of all, you're going to support yourself on dip bars, or maybe two chairs opposite each other, anything else like that, you can alternatively hang yourself in a bar, then all you're going to do is raise your legs. And as we do so, you're going to try and keep them mostly straight, but not stress about it too much. That's a leg raise. Now, as you can see, yes, this is utilising my hip flexors predominantly. But there are three, at least three reasons, this is also a really good core exercise. And you know it is because if you pump out a bunch of these, you're going to feel it strongly in your core. Firstly, when you perform a leg raise, you can see that you do have a little bit of curvature of the lower spine. You can't do this whilst keeping the back completely straight, unless you're some kind of god, you know, even with the best will in the world, you are going to have a little bit of flexion in the core. And you're training against the weight of your legs, right at the bottom. This is a significant stimulus. And of course, the great thing is you can intentionally exaggerate that core flexion if you want to make it an even more targeted ab exercise. And if you have the strength to do so, and if you don't have any back issues, you can build all the way up to a progression like the toes to bar, which obviously involves touching your toes on the bar. And now you're getting a lot more core flexion. Tell me that's not an ab exercise. Secondly, you're also engaging the rectus abdomini, the six pack muscles, in order to cause a slight posterior pelvic tilt. You can't perform this movement with your butt up like that. It needs to be tilted the other way. That involves the core. And when you do this, and lift your legs, you have the weight of your legs acting like a lever, placing again, quite a significant amount of resistance through the core. Essentially, your abs are stabilizing your core during this movement. You know, proximal stiffness causes distal athleticism and all that. You need to create that stiffness in the core with the abs, also with the transverse abdomini in order to be able to raise your legs in an efficient way. So again, you're engaging your abs and building a six pack that way. And finally, thirdly, and this is something I don't really hear people talking about at all, performing leg raises does involve a slight mobility challenge. Because when you get to this point, if you're trying to keep your legs generally straight, it doesn't matter if they bend a little bit, but you are going to find that your hamstrings begin to limit your movement. And so in order to get past this sticking point, you do need to engage the core a little bit more and utilize what gymnastic strength training refers to as compressive strength, the ability to compress your body when you hinge down that way. So this actually requires strength in the core to overcome that resistance provided by your own body. Not only is this going to further contribute to building stronger abs, but it's also great for general functional performance. And as an added bonus, especially if you do it hanging from a pull-up bar or something, when you do a leg raise, you're also adding a little bit of a stretch to your core. Because you're hanging and you're holding the weight of your legs, just those, and I can feel it in my abs. So don't let someone tell you that this isn't an ab exercise. It's a multiple things exercise, including the abs. Now this still isn't as intense as something like an ab rollout. It's still not requiring quite the same amount of bracing of the core. But that's not necessarily a bad thing, depending on your goals. What this does do is it targets the abs and the core in a slightly more isolated way. It removes a lot of the coordination challenge. You know, with something like an ab rollout, it's such a compound movement requiring so many stabilizing muscles, all working at once, and so much coordination that you're likely to fail not just due to the strength of your core, and that's if you can do it at all. Whereas a leg raise, that's something that you can now do anywhere, and that you can pump out higher repetitions of with less of a recovery cost, meaning you can end a workout with two sets of 10, 20, 30 leg raises, until you feel that stimulus, that sensation in the abs that tells you you've effectively trained them. And you can do this really frequently, and you're not going to feel it for days after. So the first few times you do this, you're going to feel it for the next couple of days. But once you get used to doing this in higher volume, higher repetition, it becomes something that you can use frequently, like I say, just like those higher repetition goblet curls and things. By the way, guys, if you like this kind of training, using, you know, calisthenics and a few odd tools to build strength and performance in a way that's practical, that fits into your lifestyle, that's quick and highly efficient, then you might enjoy my e-book and training program, Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover. This is built around movements like this, like the goblet curl, like higher repetition dips, like bodyweight rows. And by utilizing these, you can build an athletic-looking physique that also performs really well in a way that fits into your lifestyle, that lets you pursue other hobbies and interests. If you want to check it out, it comes with a 200-plus page e-book. It comes with downloadable cue cards with cool anime illustrations of what the exercises look like, so you can refer to them on your phone. It comes with 25 instructional videos and much, much more. And right now it's in spring sale, and you can get it for a significantly discounted price, just $35, which is the cheapest it's ever been, and it's not going to be like this for long. So check out in the description down below if you're interested. But either way, on with the show. This also allows you to build strength endurance. Like I say, it's not all about max strength. In fact, your core in particular needs strength endurance because it holds you up all day. But I actually use a variation of the leg raise that I find is even more effective. So the variation that I really like to use is called a frog kick. And basically, I don't know why, it doesn't really look like a frog, but that aside, what you're basically going to do is grab the dip bars, and then just instead of raising your legs straight up in front of you, you're going to bend and just bring the knees straight up instead. And you can add a slight extra flexion of the core if you want to, like that. But you don't have to. You're getting all the same benefits. It's just that you're now removing that mobility limitation. So if you are someone who's got tight hamstrings, that's not going to make it more difficult for you. This is also going to slightly reduce any strain you might feel on the lower back. So if someone with back problems, this becomes more viable. And it's just a simpler movement that's even better suited to higher up ranges. And yeah, the resistance is going to be slightly less because now you've got less leverage coming from the long legs. But you can get around this by just doing higher up ranges or by making it slightly more difficult in a different way. If I have a med ball or anything else that's a little bit heavy, grab it between your knees. You're going to need to squeeze and then raise it up like that. This is a new med ball and it's actually a bit slippy for the job. It would be easier in shorts. What you can do is to do as many of those as you can to failure, then drop it and finish off with regular ones without the added weight. You can do the same thing. You can do a drop set using the legs out and then do a mechanical drop set. Make it easier by switching to frog kicks. So leg raises to failure. Frog kicks to failure. So I think this is actually the superior calisthenics tool for building a great six pack, strong abs and great performance. Whilst something like the sit-up is ubiquitous, very easy to perform, this is also largely a hip hinge and it can also play strain on the back. Whereas something like a frog kick, especially weighted, is simpler. It's easier for a lot of people. There's less that can go wrong. If anything, there's more flexion of the core. You're also stabilizing the core in a way that just doesn't happen with a sit-up. And at the same time, you're adding extra weight to the movement, increasing the resistance and thereby gaining more strength, more muscle, more size. Then if you just combine this with the right diet and or some cardio, something to burn some calories so you can strip down your body fat, then you will get visible abs, a visible six pack. And actually, to be honest, even if you're still carrying a bit of fat, if you thicken up the abs, if you build them stronger by using some actual resistance like this, then they can poke through and you can still get quite a visible six pack. If you don't believe me, go and take a look in the mirror now, contract your abs and that's basically what they would look like if they were thicker. That's basically how you could look if you do more of these exercises, especially with the added resistance of something like a medicine ball. But let me know what you think in the comments down below, guys. Do you like this exercise? Do you think it's a good option for building abs? And if not, what do you prefer to use? But either way, thanks so much for watching this one and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. For those of you who don't know, Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get started with their own website. You can build a fully functional website in a matter of minutes, either by selecting from one of their ready-made templates and then customizing them to your own specification or by using their automated tools that will walk you through the process and give you something completely bespoke. Either way, what you're left with is a website that you can rely on that's going to look fantastic, be responsive to any different type of display and it's going to load quickly, present the information you want it to, surface in Google. This is why some of the biggest brands on the web trust Squarespace with their business and it's why it's perfect for little indie creators and hobbyists as well. Once you have your website up and running, there are tons of additional features and plugins you can take advantage of. Things like e-commerce solutions so you can sell products online, appointment scheduling if you want to book appointments with your clients and sell a service that way, gated members-only content if you want to sell your content even, you've got search engine optimization for making sure that you're getting to the top of Google so that people can find your website, you've got analytics so you can see what's working, what isn't, and so much more. If you want to learn more, then go to squarespace.com. When you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com forward slash bioneer and you'll get 10% off your first domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys and bye for now.