This video was sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. Hey guys. So, I think I've worked out pretty much a new mechanism for building a lot of muscle and performance in a really efficient way. It's not exactly a new technique as such, but it explains another reason that the high rep calisthenics and big drop sets that I've been doing work so well. And by understanding this, I've been able to target it specifically and get even better results. It's so good that, as the saying goes, it genuinely feels like cheating. That's been my experience returning to this style of training more recently. Now that I'm armed with this new knowledge, I'm training less than before and my workouts are shorter, but I'm seeing my muscles grow faster and I'm improving my performance as an athlete. I'm lifting more, running faster, and doing more impressive moves. And all with fewer injuries and less recovery time, to boot. And I'm not the only one. Tons of comments from people who have tried this method reflect the same thing. People are shocked at how effective it can be. with just a few hours of working out per week. Because this is actually tapping into something that conventional training can't. It actually allows you to train more muscle fiber. Muscle fiber that other forms of lifting just can't reach. And I don't hear anybody else talking about this. If it sounds a bit crazy, then please just hear me out. And for this one, guys, I'm just going to throw up some older clips of me training using this method. I'm actually working on a really big project right now that's taking up all of my time. So, I hope you don't mind the kind of slap dash approach, but also I think it's a good way of demonstrating what I'm talking about. And I think on this occasion, hopefully the information speaks for itself. Here's what you need to know. So, as most of you are aware already, we have slow twitch muscle fiber that are weaker but have better endurance and fast twitch muscle fibers that are stronger and bigger but have less endurance. These muscle fibers are grouped together as motor units. These are the smallest usable units of muscle, each controlled by an individual nerve and each containing entirely just one type of fiber. So when you send a signal to the muscle to contract, it innovates that particular group of muscle fibers via a specific motor neuron. Now, most weight training focuses on the larger motor units that contain the fast twitch muscle fiber. These are the most involved in strength after all, and they're larger, meaning they theoretically contribute more to size. So that makes sense on paper, and this is why so many people believe that you need heavy weights to build muscle. Due to a law called Henman's size principle, we know that the body only uses the smallest and weakest muscle fiber that it needs to in order to complete a given task. It's just more efficient and it gives you more control. It then adds larger motor units as the task requires more strength and power. So, an example, if you want to lift a spoon to your mouth or to gently pet a cat, you'll only use a few smaller motor units that contain slow twitch muscle fiber. Otherwise, if you use the big ones, you'd launch the spoon into the ceiling or crush the cat, which is not what you want. When you lift a heavy weight though, you still use those same slow twitch muscle fibers, but then you add more fast twitch ones on top of that to increase the total power output. That's the part I want you to focus on here, and that's the part that no one talks about. The body never only uses the large motor units. While it can use only slow twitch muscle fibers to execute small, gentle movements, it can never only use fast twitch muscle fibers. And the easy way to understand this is that when you contract your muscle, you can only send a weak signal or a strong signal. And any signal that's strong enough to engage the bigger motor units must also engage the smaller ones. Now, as I've explained before, when we train a failure with low weight, we eventually fatigue and exhaust the slow twitch muscle fiber. At that point, we need to make more effort. So, we send a stronger signal, and this recruits the fast twitch muscle fiber to take over. This is how we can engage the fast twitch muscle fibers even with lightweight because they are all that's left. So, it is still possible to build muscle size and strength with light weight as long as you're going to failure. But, we know this. This is established and I've discussed it a whole lot on the channel already. The really interesting part and the thing that people are missing is that this style of training using light weight to failure actually does something else. Something that heavy weight training can't do. And that is it trains the slow twitch muscle fibers to failure as well as the fast twitch fibers. So, when you lift a very heavy weight, you engage the slow and fast twitch fibers, as we've discussed, but the fast twitch fibers are doing all the work. And when those fast twitch muscle fibers give up, the slow twitch fibers that remain aren't going to be enough to keep on working. So, you instantly fail and stop the movement. Let's use a real world example. When you finish a super heavy bench press, you do so because the fast twitch fiber has fatigued and given up. Even though the slow twitch fiber is relatively untouched. Put simply, you're too tired to complete another 100 kg rep, but you probably could still do a bunch of push-ups. In a sense, then you have some power left in the tank. You haven't completely trained every muscle fiber in the muscle to failure. Compare this to finishing 239 push-ups and collapsing in a heap. You now can't do a single additional push-up. In that regard, you fatigued a greater proportion of all the muscle. You wore out all of the slow twitch fibers and then all of the fast twitch ones. That's what I mean when I say this trains every muscle fiber in the muscle. Now, of course, it doesn't really. You still have the extremely slow and small motor units, you know, that you use for things like picking up a spoon. Otherwise, you wouldn't be able to move at all, which the body doesn't want. But in a practical sense, you have trained every muscle fiber that you could need to in that muscle. And coincidentally, this is why this kind of training is so efficient, why you can get away with doing just a couple of sets per body part. Oh, and before someone tells me that the studies show that high reps aren't as effective, no, they don't. Firstly, there are lots of studies showing that high rep lightweight can achieve similar results. It's just that the results do vary across studies. Moreover, though, the way these studies are conducted usually just isn't the same. Of course, if I rep out 20 light reps of something, just going through the motions, I'm not going to get the same results. You need to feel that constant tension and you need to push yourself to failure. Being sure to maintain constant tension on the muscles, using a rapid cadence, and often using drop sets. But before anyone gets mad with me, I'm not claiming this is a replacement for very heavy weight training. I'm not saying this is the one true way. Heavy lifting still offers unique benefits of its own. And in an ideal world, you'd still do both. And there's other stuff you need, too, like proper cardio and doing full range of motion mobility work, too. But with that said, depending on your goals, this might be a great option. And I think anyone can benefit from integrating this approach. But hang on a moment. Does hitting every muscle fiber like this really matter? Yeah. Firstly, because slow twitch muscle fiber still contributes to powerful movement as we've seen. It's like having a tugofwar with adults and kids. The adults being the fast twitch fibers and the kids being the slow twitch. In that tugof-war, if you have stronger kids, that will still make your team stronger overall, even if their contribution is lesser. So, in this sense, training the slow twitch muscle fiber still makes you stronger. And especially now that we know that slow twitch fiber is involved in everything from sprinting to lifting heavy weights. Not only that, but although the slow twitch muscle fibers are smaller, there's also more of them. So you actually have a roughly equivalent surface area. If you aren't training them sufficiently, then you're missing out on all that hypertrophy. You're just making the big fibers bigger, but there's only a few of them instead of making all of those smaller ones bigger as well. And this is partly why people who train with high rep body weight training have a very full look like an all day pump. That and all the other good stuff they get like glycogen storage and capillarization. Finally, these slow twitch muscle fibers are really important for endurance. And in truth, muscle fibers exist more on a spectrum rather than strict categories. Some muscle fibers are faster and some are slower. Those in between ones are the ones that let you exert strength for a significant period of time, which is exactly how we use our strength in the real world, not for single lifts. If you want to be functionally strong, whether in wrestling or doing manual labor or playing sports, you can't guess out after a few minutes. There's actually many more reasons this works so well and is so important, but I promised we'd keep this short. But that's essentially why the goblet curls I featured in a recent video work so well. That was curling a light weight for 20 to 30 reps using a rapid tempo and continuous tension. That bit's important. The kettle bell hand position just lends itself well to this rhythmic movement and prevents the swinging that you can get with hammer curls. So many people came back to that video and told me how well it worked in a short time frame. My own experience was profound. Check out my biceps before and after introducing this kind of training. For those put off by the idea of super high reps, don't worry. There are actually other ways to get the same effect, specifically with drop sets or mechanical drop sets. Going to failure with a weight and then immediately lowering the weight before going to failure again. You do this a few times and you'll once again train every muscle fiber in that muscle group that you could possibly need to train. This way you get a similar result but without the crazy high reps. And this is one of the guiding principles of my training program superfunctional training 2.0. It uses mechanical drop sets to target all the muscle fibers in a way that's efficient and I think fun. If you want a full body routine to apply these principles and get the size, endurance, strength, and explosiveness that comes with that, then check it out. It has over 2 hours of instructional videos and an 85 plus page ebook. And it's designed to adapt to all levels and use minimal equipment, mostly body weight. Link in the description down below. Or you can just use the moves I've been recommending lately on this channel. High rep push-ups, pull-ups, goblet curls, those big hammer curl drop sets, chest press drop sets, air squats, squat walking, kettle bell halos, etc. Don't knock it until you try it. I think a lot of you will be pleasantly surprised. Don't just target the big fast twitch muscle fibers. Target all of them. And bye for now. By the way, guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. For those of you who aren't familiar, Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anyone to get a website up and running in a matter of minutes. You don't need any coding knowledge. Rather, you can just pick from one of their many ready-made templates and then customize them to your heart's content. Or you can use their new comprehensive AI tools to build something completely bespoke in just a couple of minutes. From there, you can start adding features and plugins to enhance your website in a vast number of ways. That includes things like search engine optimization, so you can get your site to the top of Google search results so more people find it. You can make money with appointment scheduling if you sell a service or with gated membersonly content. You can sell products with the many e-commerce features. Track products globally or manage your inventory. Has a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes. Beautiful formatting tools for quickly creating stunning blog posts. Social media integration. literally anything you could need. And it's all extremely easy to access. This is what makes Squarespace perfect whether you're a beginner, a hobbyist, or a big business. And indeed, Squarespace powers some of the biggest brands on the web. If you want to find out more, then go to squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/bioneria and you'll get 10% off your first domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks again to you guys and once again, bye for now.