 This video is sponsored by Squarespace, stick around after the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. FOX NEXT FOX NEXT Leon S. Kennedy is the ultimate zombie outbreak survivor. Here's a guy who can leap from a clock tower, land and do a roll without taking any full damage, and then deliver a roundhouse kick to a zombie's face so powerful that its head explodes. So in this video, we're going to break down how you can train from home in order to be able to look, move and perform like Leon Kennedy. Pretty sure this TV isn't 120 hertz. So to start with, let's take a look at Leon's performance profile. Taking a look at his physique, first of all, he looks relatively slim, toned, athletic, but he does have some muscle on those biceps. Certainly not a bodybuilder by any means. And of course, he is very athletic. Leon exhibits incredible endurance. He's able to fight wave after wave of zombies without tiring out. He can run fast, jump high, so he's got fantastic breakfalls, and he uses a range of different martial arts in order to defeat his enemies in up-close combat. And of course, he's a fantastic marksman with brilliant aim, reflexes, a steady hand. He started with police training and then went on to special operations training with the government, where he learned a host of different techniques and martial arts. I was asked later to join a top-secret government program. Not that I had a choice. And whilst they don't delve into these martial arts in too much detail, we can figure them out a little bit by watching the way he moves. He uses a lot of kicks, from tornado kicks and spinning hook kicks to jumping side kicks, and of course, his famous roundhouse kick. And these can all come from a range of martial arts, but the way he performs them seems to have the most in common with taekwondo. On top of that, he likes knife fighting, hurling various blades. He might have a little bit of experience, therefore, in something like Kali or Silat. I just found this. Holy crap, lights out. Power's down. That wasn't scripted. Where am I? It's sharp as well. He uses a number of takedowns that are reminiscent of jiu-jitsu, but of course, he also demonstrates some wrestling. In particular, with his suplex, which also explodes heads. And this is perfect, because it really exemplifies the kind of thing I like to do on this channel. A lot of people get into fitness, get into strength training, because they want to look and perform like whatever character on TV or in a video game. Often, that's going to be someone very athletic who can perform well, who's got a lean and toned physique, and of course, all the charisma that comes with that. The problem is that when they go online to get training advice, often what they find is geared 99% towards bodybuilding and then powerlifting. And while these are fantastic sports and very, very useful, there is a disconnect here. If you want to look and move like Leon Kennedy, you don't want to train like a bodybuilder or a powerlifter. Likewise, you don't need to go all in on bodybuilding to get the kind of aesthetic that Leon shows. You don't need to massively increase your calories. In fact, you might want to lower them. And the thing is, you can actually develop a physique like this fairly easily with a combination of calisthenics, maybe some light weights, and then athletic training and or martial arts. This is all stuff that you can do from home, all stuff you can do without access to a gym. And it's very easy and very fun. Leon wasn't a Navy SEAL. He wasn't in the military. But his training was military adjacent. And there's a reason that military training involves calisthenics, because it builds a great strength to weight ratio. Higher reps build strength endurance, meaning you can perform for a long period of time. And because it can be done anywhere, with no need for specialist equipment or specific tutelage on how to perform heavy lifts. If you want to get biceps like Leon that look good in a t-shirt, then all you genuinely need is chin-ups. That'll completely do the job. If you want to add some dumbbell curls in there as well, or my favourite, the goblet curls, that'll obviously get you there a little bit faster. Then you can build abs and chest and even your legs training from home. So the routine is going to include things like push-ups. It's going to include things like bodyweight rows, chin-ups, pull-ups, leg raises for the abs, because you know that Leon's got a great six-pack under there. And when it comes to the legs, we can do things like air squats. But actually what I'm more interested in here is athletic training. I think this is a really great combination actually. And this video was a great opportunity to talk about that. I've been combining calisthenics for your upper body with athletic training for the lower body. And by athletic training, I mean things like sprint drills. I mean things like explosive box jumps, maybe box jumps with a kettlebell. And now as well, of course, for this video, I'm talking about kick drills. Kicking a bag, performing high kicks. This is going to give you legs that, yeah, they don't look like tree trunks, but they look toned. They've got some muscle on them. But more importantly, they can still run fast to jump high, kick high. Things like heavy squat, like a deadlift, they will give you powerful legs that translate to faster running and jumping, but only to a point. And when you start to add too much weight, it just begins to slow you down. Or at least you're spending too much time in the gym, hammering your nervous system so that you can't really do anything else. What we want to do is build explosiveness. And there are many other exercises that have been shown to build that same performance. Goblet squats, jumping goblet squats, these will also translate to faster running and jumping. The studies back that up. But because they're lighter, you can perform them more explosively. You can do them for high rep ranges if you want to build that strength endurance. And they don't tax the nervous system to quite the same degree. They don't require as much recovery, downtime, meaning that you can do things like sprint drills, kicking drills. And this is where you're going to translate that power that you're building into actual performance. Because just squatting isn't going to give you a powerful roundhouse kick. You need to practice your roundhouse kick. So we're going to have calisthenics for the upper body and we're going to have running, jumping and kicking for the lower body. And I think this is a brilliant combination if you want to look and perform like Leon. Really anyone who's got an athletic physique that can also move and perform. We need some one-legged strength. So you can do something like weighted pistol squats, Bulgarian split squats, or even one-legged deadlifts. These will give you the ability to drive power off of one leg whilst keeping your hips level. We're going to do ATG split squats. Brilliant for front split mobility, for sprinting and jumping as well. And we're going to be doing Cossack squats. These will open up the hips in the frontal plane, giving you great hip adduction and translating directly to those big kicks. Then you're going to be doing your kicking training. And this is going to consist of minutes on the bag as well as some mobility work, some things like 1990s, some things like hip shifts. This is going to open up the hips even more and allow you to kick harder. Kicking power is about technique, 100%, but it's also a little bit about power and a little bit about mobility. And you do need some additional training for your mobility if you want to be able to kick to the best of your ability. Finally, if you also have time, you can integrate some sprint training. Something I want to really round home is that you don't need to be an athlete to train in an athletic way. And you certainly don't need to be a martial artist to train with kicking. And this is just a hypothetical. This is something that I've been doing myself lately, trying to build myself more control and mobility. I'm not fantastic at kicking. Anyone will tell you that. But I've benefited a lot from this. It's opened up my hips. It's given me more power in my legs in that plane of motion. It's taught me some cool skills and I'm getting better all the time. It's a lot of fun. It's a great way to burn calories. Don't think, I need to be a martial artist. I need to go to a class. What's the point of martial arts training if I'm never going to learn to fight? Think instead what you can gain from that kind of training and how you can incorporate it into a really unique profile of things you can do. This is Leon Kennedy training and it happens to jail with what I'm interested in right now. But you don't have to choose kicking. You could choose punching. You could choose anything else that you're interested in and tack that onto your training and potentially replace something that you're doing with that to make your training more fun and unique to you. And if you're looking for a kicking drill that you can tack onto your workout if you like this idea good news because I have a friend who happens to be one of the best kickers I've literally ever seen Grant Stephens. I'm going to hand you over to him and he's going to show you just such a routine that you can combine with what we talked about here. Leon Kennedy's fighting style in Resident Evil is actually pretty grounded and most of his kicks aren't flashy martial art techniques and they're more like explosive strikes used to create distance and drop enemies quickly when things get really chaotic. So in order to train like Leon we're going to focus on things like rotational power kicks that create distance and explosive leg conditioning. And just before we start make sure you've limbered up and stretched up a little bit before attempting any of these kicks. So one of Leon's most iconic kicks is the classic martial arts roundhouse kick and he usually uses it after stunning one of the zombies. But instead of snapping it back like we see in point sparring which kind of looks a little bit more like this Leon will instead kick all the way through the target in order to deliver maximum power which would look more like this. So in order to train this you want to throw powerful roundhouse kicks but instead of stopping allow that hip rotation to carry you right through. So you use that muscular tension to initiate the kick and then relax and allow it to carry you through the rest of the technique. Leon will also utilise a rear leg side kick to create space when something is rushing towards him and push them away to create that distance so then he can pull his weapon and resume firing. So the way that you want to do this one is you've got to really drive from that heel as you bring into that chamber you want it nice and tight to create that explosive power of the kick. You shoot it outwards then snap back in so that you're able to move again. Now when Leon has some momentum especially against stunned enemies he will sometimes utilise a spinning back kick and this is one of the most powerful kicks in martial arts once you get the technique right because the whole body talks and rotates into the strike and then it is delivered very powerfully forwards. So the way you want to do this is from your stance here you basically step keep spotting the target turn around to keep looking at it once again and then just deliver a nice powerful side kick into the enemy then snapping it back in so that you can move again. Sometimes when he wants to close more distance quickly Leon will utilise more momentum than driving into a kick and an example of this is he will sometimes utilise kind of a mix between like a bicycle kick which is a sort of typical scissor kick mixed with a teep moving forward so he lifts this leg up then lands and pushes forwards onto that kick to really create that big distance and in order to do this you want to really focus on that forward momentum driving the ball of the foot into the target to create that pushing force to knock an enemy backwards and finally Leon will occasionally throw spinning attacks but only when he has space and momentum to do so and an example of this is a step in spinning hook kick which allows you to create more force from the stepping forward into the rotation than you would get from just a regular spinning hook kick so the difference of those is a regular spinning hook kick is just pretty much executed on the spot where you stand step, turn, look over similar to the spinning back kick then execute a hook kick and rotate back down however the more momentum gaining version where you step in would be performed from the other stance you would step like this to create that speed and then it creates much more whip through the target going round so those are some of the core kicks Leon uses but to be able to execute them with real speed power and explosiveness it requires strong hips and explosive leg drive so now I'm going to share a few conditioning exercises that will help you to develop those traits so the first one is simply rehearsing the chamber as fast and as explosive as possible because this is something that translates to pretty much all of the kicking techniques that we have discussed in this video so all you want to do really is from the front leg just rehearse lifting that chamber up and getting into the kind of pre-extension position as fast as possible so that would look like this and then coming back down you see the control from here and you can also do it from the rear leg as well to get used to that rear leg side kick chamber then as from this position you can see all that's left to do is basically extend the kick because the faster you can get that first part done the easier the kick will be to execute in general overall and with these I would go for something like 15 to 20 repetitions for 3 to 4 sets focusing on things like keeping your body standing up tall so you're in control and can stand up fast afterwards because so many people when they lean down to kick they will go way too low and then there's all of this delay getting back up onto posture so from that stance you see how I just kind of keep myself up and then if I really want I can just throw the kick out and I'm back on balance again so powerful kicks require explosive leg drive and a great way to train this which is one of my favourite methods are explosive switch lunge jumps I like to put my hands on my hips to isolate any way of creating momentum so I'm only using the legs you basically go down into a lunge a few inches off the floor with the knee there then what you do is when you spring up instead of just switching and being relaxed a way that I like to get a little bit more drive from the legs is to really straighten them and point the toes during that switch shooting straight up in the air and then dropping back down again so the way that those would look in motion is as follows just continuously switching straightening those legs and even just doing those first few reps you can already feel the burn so these are really incredible exercise to develop that explosive leg drive and my last recommendation for conditioning would be to practice reps of these against something heavy like a bag or a kick shield but also make sure that you're doing your reps in shadow boxing as well because often people that only train on a bag aren't really used to the control it takes if the kick misses because obviously the bag is always going to be stopping you and so if for instance especially for somebody like Leon who operates in a very chaotic environment the zombies are very unpredictable if he goes for a kick and misses when he's expecting to land it he might step forward and then put himself in danger which is the thing that you see with a lot of fighters who haven't really rehearsed the retraction part of the kick very well in shadow boxing and they end up stepping into a danger zone and getting knocked out so with that being said make sure that you're practicing the kick in both dimensions both shadow boxing and against something so that you've got full control over the technique so just as a little bonus one thing that you can do once you're familiar with those fundamental kicks is begin stringing them together with some hand combos just like Leon does in the game and I'll give you a couple of different demonstrations of those now so the first one utilising some of the kicks we discussed would be a jab cross straight into a rear leg roundhouse kick reset into the spinning back kick coming back down into balance and this is where the requirement of having good control over your body really begins to be important because obviously when you're throwing these kicks at speed and with intent fully rotating through with maximum power you need to have good control and balance of your body to reset to execute the next technique and the second one of those combos is a jab cross roundhouse kick stepping forward into a spinning hook kick which would look like this jab cross once again roundhouse kick Leon style coming through step forward into the spinning hook kick and these combos mimic how Leon will often land a powerful strike first then follow up with a kick attack afterwards so to close out the video as we mentioned before Leon's style is not about flashy martial arts it's about explosive strikes strong hips and constant movement if you work upon these drills diligently you'll be able to apply the type of power and mobility that fits right into the chaos of Resident Evil guys if you want more content like this go and check out Grant's channel I'll put a link in the description down below there's so much awesome stuff there I highly recommend giving it a look no green herbs and of course if you want the full Leon Kennedy experience you might also want to do some firearms training now that would be something I know absolutely nothing about but I do know you can train things like your situational awareness your reflexes your aim your peripheral vision in a number of other ways with things like juggling with a bunch of different tennis ball drills even with VR training anybody can learn a whole host of different physical skills and add this to their training which will just round out your performance and give your proprioception will give you more skills that you can use and it'll make your training that much more fun so you're not just building muscle and athleticism you're actually using it for something as well and a big choice for us right now of course would be the break fall this is something that Leon does all the time in the games and it's something that everybody can benefit from being able to break fall moves if you trip or if you slip you can land without injuring yourself and that can potentially save you from you know a hospital trip so this is something anyone can benefit from and it leads into a whole bunch of cool movements so you want to be able to do this on hard floor it's all about landing on your hands there's a few different ways of doing it one option is to make a kind of triangle with your hands like that and then to follow your shoulder over you want to curl up as much as you can so as not to slam your back or your hip but the main thing is you need to protect your head during this movement Grant actually made a fantastic video on break falling on this channel so go and check that out if you want to see how to do it so there you go guys that's how you can train like Leon S. Kennedy I hope I've given you some cool ideas not only for how to structure your workouts so that they can incorporate some things that you find more interesting some functional skills that are going to help you to move and feel awesome but also in terms of specific exercise I hope I've given you enough to build your own routine based around this if you like this style of training then of course you can check out my ebook and training program Super Functional Training 3.0 Super Mover it's built around this entire concept it's home workouts that are convenient that can fit around your lifestyle and that also importantly can fit alongside other forms of training whether you're someone who plays sports or does martial arts and you can actually incorporate that kind of training into your main workouts too it has kick drills it has sprint drills it has all of it and I hope it's really fun whilst still being very accessible for those that just want something more simple I'll leave a link to that in the description down below and if you use code REQUIEM you'll get 30% off a purchase oh by the way guys I said earlier in a jokey way where am I I actually know where I am I'm at Station 53A this is a really cool set that's based near me in Oxfordshire if you want to film something apocalyptic they're the nicest guys and there's so much cool stuff here honestly I haven't even really shown you a fraction of it I'll definitely be back here for future so yeah consider them I'll leave a link to them in the description down below as well of course a massive thank you as well to Grant Stevens for filming his statement thanks to you guys bye for now by the way guys this video is brought to you by Squarespace so as most of you probably know by now Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to build their own website for example to get up and started you can either choose from one of the many ready-made templates and then customize them to your heart's content or use their AI tools to generate websites even more quickly with absolutely no coding required from there there is an absolute smorgasbord of different features and tools anything you could possibly need it's got a fully integrated commenting system with scheduled comments replies and likes has member management gated only members content e-commerce tools of course there are scheduling tools so if you sell a service you can schedule time in with your clients you can accept all kinds of payments so that you're never turning away customers and there's search engine optimization tools so you can bring your website to the top of Google this is why Squarespace is used by everyone from small indie creators to some of the biggest brands on the web if you want to learn more go to squarespace.com and when you're ready to launch go to squarespace.com forward slash bioneer to get 10% off your first domain or website thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video thanks to you guys for watching and bye for now