The soass is one of the most important muscles in the human body. When it is working well, it will encourage great posture, good biomechanics when walking and running, giving you more running speed, fast, tall, powerful kicks, and general mobility and fluidity throughout the body that makes you feel youthful. However, when it's not performing as it should, it leads to lower back pain, anterior pelvic tilt, stiff, awkward movement when running, and a general poor biomechanics. Unfortunately though, the SOAS doesn't get the attention it deserves simply because it's hidden away deep within the hips. And many of us don't even know about it. So, in this video, I'm going to explain what you need to know about the SOASS and untangle how you should be training it for the best results. Whether you're looking to maximize your performance or whether you're looking to address some kind of movement or pain issue related to your lower back and hips. So the sorus is a deep muscle in the hips. It goes from the top of the feur, that's your thigh bone, to your lower back, your lumbar spine. So it attaches from your back and uses that as an anchor to raise your leg. And you do this when you're walking, when you're kicking, and even when you're sitting. When you're sitting, your sus is going to be in a shortened position. This is one of several hip flexor muscles responsible for flexing the leg that is kicking it upwards. The iliacis is very relevant here because it actually shares a tendon with the soas connecting it to the feur. However, unlike the soas, it doesn't attach the femur to the lower spine but rather to the top of the pelvis the hipbone. So they work slightly differently although teasing them apart can be very tricky and we call them together the ilopsus. Of course, there are many other hip flexor muscles as well, such as the rectus fororous, which are more responsible for larger hip flexion movements. We tend to think of muscles like the soass as having a action, you know, flexing the hip, but actually they're just as important for stabilizing the hip, for keeping them in position and for maintaining good posture. This is true of pretty much all our muscles. They don't just move and flex the joints, they also hold them in position with gentle tension. Here's a fun fact as well. We actually have a so major and a so minor. The so minor is obviously smaller and it goes from the last thoracic vertebrae and the top lumbar vertebrae. And interestingly, not every member of the population has one of these. Estimates put it at somewhere like 40 to 60% of the population, which is pretty interesting. And some even say that you're slightly more likely to experience that lower back pain if you have a so minor. So perhaps that's contributing to more lower spinal compression. Now unfortunately a lot of people have a tight SOA which is why so many people suffer with things like anterior pelvic tilt and things like lower back pain. And of course the reason for this is that we spend so much time sitting. When you're sitting your leg is in a flexed position, your hips in a flexed position. You've shortened the distance from your lower spine and your pelvis to the top of the feur. And as a result, that of course means that your so is shortened. At the same time, it's also going to get weak from a lack of use by staying in this position. Combine that with the fact that most of us don't walk or run as much as we should, and the result is a source that's short and tight, which is no good. And this can lead to a number of issues. It causes that anterior pelvic tilt because it pulls on the lower spine. And this of course creates that exaggerated S curve in the back like so. And then that also via the SI joint pulls on the pelvis tilting it downwards. Combine that with also tight iliacis and that's going to pull down on the pelvis even more giving you that Donald duck butt waddle. It can even make it difficult to get into a lower squat position. When your SOS flexes your hip, it also rotates it outwards, which you need to do when you're getting into a squat. If it's weak and tight, you might find yourself feeling a bit of pain at the bottom of the squat or even feeling very weak down there. And if that's the case, then a tight hip could again be the issue. So, how do you strengthen the soass? Well, it's actually pretty simple. The answer is leg raises and vsits. Another great one is the pike pulse. That'll also train the hip flexors. Lean forward slightly, raise your legs like so, and just, you know, lsit. When you're doing these, you might notice that your lower back often starts to round, especially with something like the pike pulse. And if you want to keep it a purely hip movement, then you might think that's a bad thing because you're involving your lower back. But as we've seen, the SOAS attaches to the lower back. So this isn't actually a negative if we're targeting the soass. So if we want to target the iliacus more specifically, then what we can do is do the pike pulses with our back against the wall to make sure we keep it nice and flat or do pike pulses unilaterally. So on one side at a time and what that does is it keeps the pelvis and the spine more in place allowing you then to just focus more on the iliacis and feel it deeper. It just means that in terms of leverage it now is an advantageous position. So what I actually recommend doing is doing both doing some variations we are isolating the iliacus and some way you're letting the soass get more involved. Also really good is crawling. You guys know I love crawling. When you do this of course you're bringing your knees up to you, flexing your hips that way. One of my favorites marching a launching your knees up as high as you can or also called 100 ups. But again, you can isolate the iliacis more. For example, by doing seated marches because this way you're keeping your spine and your pelvis a little bit more locked in position, allowing the iliac to take over more. Then of course, as well as strengthening the soass, you also need to make sure that you're making it mobile. You need to stretch it as well. And there's lots of great exercises you can use for this. If you want to target the soas in particular, then something like the warrior pose is really good or crab reach. Anything where there's a slight arch in the back because that way you're increasing the distance from one end to the other. If you want to stretch the iliacus or both of them more, then do something like a sofa hip flexor stretch. Put one leg up behind you. As you're doing so, just be mindful to make sure you're not rotating your hip away from you. Cuz if you do that, then you're not actually stretching it half as much as you could be. But whilst this can be effective, this is where things get really interesting because actually it's a whole lot more complicated than just stretching the soass. If you really want to release it and achieve some relief there, guys, look what I found. Like this amazing hidden den. How cool is this? had to go a bit off the beaten path to find it though. But getting back to the point, where things get really interesting with the SOASS and tension is in the fact that you can carry tension in the SOASS because of emotional stress. Now, this is true for all your muscles to an extent. Of course, if you're stressed, you're going to be clenched up and tense. But people refer to the SOASS as like the emotion muscle or the anxiety muscle. And the reason for this is because it actually physically connects to the diaphragm. They both attach around T12 vertebrae and they actually share fascia and nerves. So that when the soass becomes tight, it actually impacts your breathing, makes you breathe more shallowly. And the same thing is true when you're breathing more shallowly, it makes your soass tighter. So, I've known for a long time as someone who has back pain running in the family that if you're an anxious or very physiologically aroused person, if you're someone with a high sympathetic tone, then you're more likely to experience lower back pain. And this also makes sense if you think about it from a survival perspective because if you need to run suddenly, you know, you're in fight or flight, then you need the soass, the running muscle. And this is where I find myself. I'm someone who can't switch off and I even find myself holding my breath, you know, constantly throughout the day because I'm so focused on what I'm thinking about. I'm a very tense person. All this to say that actually you can release your soass and make it more relaxed by practicing breathing with things like proper diaphragmatic breathing. That's where you breathe from the stomach. You you first drop the diaphragm into the abdominal cavity and then fill it up from the bottom upwards to make sure you're properly filling up the lungs and then you breathe all the way out. You can do this by holding your hand on your stomach and your hand on your chest, making sure that the stomach moves first, then just being very conscious to breathe all the way in and all the way back out. And this can actually help to provide some short-term relief for the soass. And if you train yourself to breathe better, if you're someone who chronically has short shallow breaths like myself or holds your breath, then training yourself to breathe better can actually really help. And likewise, trying to combat stress throughout your life, whether through meditation or therapy. Some people even suggest that, you know, childhood trauma can actually then manifest itself as tension in this area. And again, it might sound a little bit abstract, but actually there's a very logical and scientifically sound reason this could be the case. And again, it checks out without meaning to get too deep. I did experience some trauma as a child. So really, everything was stacked up against me. It's kind of one of those things, isn't it, where you have a genetic predisposition and then environmental factors that can could together contribute to these issues. So if you're someone who experiences back pain and you're someone who's very anxious and you know nervous, if you're holding on to lots of trauma, then consider a practice like meditation, yoga, taichi, and many of these will teach you as well proper diaphragmatic breathing and moving from the core or the dantenne. So something to consider, don't write it off. This is why just another reason why mental health goes handinhand with physical performance. If you want to perform your best physically, you need to be your best mentally. If you're anxious and stressed, you can't relax the body. And it starts with the soass. Another reason that you might be experiencing tension around the hips though could be that you have weakness or tightness in other areas. So, for example, if you have very tight hamstrings, then when you bend over without bending the legs, what you might find is that you need to really engage the hips in order to prevent that from rounding the spine too much to keep the back nice and flat. So, ironically, your back looks great, but there's just so much tension working there to try and keep you in that position. So, that if you're doing something like a deadlift where your legs might not be bending that much, then you're going to be at greater risk of injury. And the same goes if you're picking up socks off the ground. So loosening up the hamstrings can help you out a lot here. At the same time though, it could be due to weakness in the rest of the core. If you have weak abs or weak rectus abdomini, transverse abdomini, then this isn't providing the kind of support that you should be getting for your lower spine and connecting the upper and lower body. So you might have to overly activate the hips in order to keep your body upright and stable. It's also worth mentioning, of course, that the muscles in your legs, your ankles, your feet can also play a role on your soass. If you're placing your foot awkwardly, then your SOASS is going to have to help correct that higher up the chain. As I said at the start of this video, the SOASS acts as a bridge between the upper and the lower body. So, it's important we address this from both ends. And that's why I'm very happy that today's sponsor is Vivo Barefoot. Vivo Barefoot make minimalist shoes. That means shoes designed to have minimal impact on the way you walk, allowing you to move more naturally. They do this by having a zero heel totoe drop. So your foot is completely flat on the ground. That right away is massive because when you're elevating your heel, you're in a shortened calf position, which robs you of mobility to a huge extent, just like being sat in a chair all day does. At the same time, they have a much thinner sole, which allows you to feel the ground underneath your feet. This lets the propricepceptors kick in and do their job so that your body can arrange itself around the terrain underneath. You can correct for little imbalances in the ground, making yourself less likely to slip and hurt yourself. And this is huge when it comes to pain all the way throughout your body. I think Vivo Barefoot make the best minimal shoes because they are extremely high quality. They come in a wide variety of great designs that can suit any occasion. They're sustainably sourced. And guys, if you're interested in Vivo Barefoot, then this is the time to check them out because they're offering Bioneer viewers 25% off via a promo code Bion 25. That's a quarter off the usual price. Thanks again to Viva Barefoot for sponsoring this video. And now on with the show. Now, I know what you guys are thinking. You're thinking, "Damn, I wish that this was more complicated." Well, good news because there's more aspects to consider as well because what's also possible is that you could have tight hip flexors on one side and weak loose ones on the other. So, if your soass is tighter on one side, this is going to actually tilt your pelvis this time to the right or to the left, more commonly to the right. And just to make things even more interesting, this is actually healthy and normal to an extent. That is to say that nobody is completely symmetrical. We think of ourselves as symmetrical creatures, but in fact we're not really. And partly this is due to our dominance, our hand preference. Part this is due to our anatomy again because you actually have a big heavy liver on your right side. And this takes up space. That actually means you have less space for your diaphragm. Also means we're heavier on that side. And as such, we tend to prefer standing on that side and placing our weight on that side and reaching on that side. And this isn't a problem. This is a functional asymmetry. It's actually completely normal. Like I say, the issue is that if you're someone who has bad habits, is very anxious and stressed again, or someone who is an athlete and practices throwing on the same side over and over again, for example, extending their spine in the same way, placing the weight on the same side, loading the same hip, and throwing over and over again, then this can snowball into a problem. For me, I used to sit in a coffee shop and I would always have my left leg tucked underneath my right leg and I'd sit there for hours. This can take a lot of time and effort and hard work as well. You have to identify that that's definitely the problem and then address it to the correct degree without then overcorrecting in the other direction. One thing to just be mindful of is what in your lifestyle right now could have caused this and is it something you need to address. This could be an issue. For example, if you are a martial artist and you're always hitting the bag on the same side, make sure to practice the same amount on the opposite side even if that's not something you need for your sport. Likewise, I've been guilty of doing more reps of pistol squats on my right leg than on my left and of doing more right-handed one- armed push-ups. So, from now on, I'm making sure to always start on my left and to only match the number of repetitions on my right that I do with my left. You also want to start looking at corrective exercises so you can get into the habit of standing with your hips nice and square. The stretches we talked about earlier will help with that, as will the breathing practices. Something else you can do, for example, is an anterior reach or a straight leg one-legged deadlift or Romanian deadlift where you're going to reach forwards on one side and pick something up off the ground. When you do this, or just touch the ground. And when you do this, make sure you're keeping the hips square. You should see that back foot pointing nicely downwards, not veering off to the side. As you can see, then there are an awful lot of different things that could be contributing to pain in your hips, poor movement patterns relating to a tight soass or iliacus or any other number of muscles in that area. And I highly recommend that you go and see an expert who can help get to the root of the problem. This is an issue I have. I don't like videos that claim they have all the answers that say this one trick is going to fix your back pain. This is why you have knee ache. Because the truth is so many different things can be affecting it. In this case, it could be a tight soass, tight iliacis. It could be tightness on one side and not the other, weak glutes, weak abs, poor posture, tension and stress, or it could be a tumor. So, you need to go and see somebody who can check that and give you good advice if you can afford it. This is also unfortunately why I am a little bit skeptical of this kind of advice. It can be a little bit overprescriptive, giving you hundreds of different little exercises to try, many of which might not work or you don't know if they're going to work and take loads and loads of time. This can end up just being like chasing your own tail. Whereas, if you perform a wide variety of different natural activities with great varied movement in them, then these sorts of imbalances are far less likely to occur in the first place. Trail running is brilliant because you're going to be using your hips in a wide variety of different ways as you adjust to the ground underneath. In particular, running uphill is brilliant because you need to raise your legs even higher in order to get up the hill. This is a great way to train the hip flexors. Swimming is fantastic because as you swim, you need to kick the legs. This is going to build stronger hip flexors, decompresses the lower spine, but swimmers have tight soasses very often because they do it so much. And this is the key. It's a balanced varied movement. That's the problem with trying to be a specialist. It leads to imbalances. If you just move a lot, do lots of different things you enjoy, then a lot of these issues will go away. This is because the body arranges itself around the task at hand, around the goal and around the environment, and around your unique biomechanics. When you just let it do its thing, then it operates really, really well most of the time. I hope though that this has been interesting because I find this fascinating. It really does show how unified the whole bodily system is and how issues in one area can affect issues elsewhere. I hope it's given you some threads to tug on and some areas to look into and some exercises to add into your routine that will address some of these issues and maybe prevent them from occurring. But I do recommend you go and see someone if you're having issues down here as well. Either way though, don't ignore your soass because it's going to improve your performance both in the long term and the short term. It's going to help you perform like an athlete and it's going to help you keep moving like someone much younger as you get older. And if you liked this video and you like this kind of breakdown of training that isn't just for aesthetics but actually helps you to move and feel better, then you might like my ebook and training program, Superfunctional Training 2.0, the protein performance system. It comes with an 80 plus page ebook. It comes with over 2 hours of instructional videos and it's full of workouts that you can do at home with minimal equipment that will adapt to any level of expertise. So, if that sounds interesting, link in description down below. But either way guys, thank you so much for watching this one and bye for now.