 I think a lot of people assume that I'm literally training all the time with insane intensity. I make videos with titles like SPAM Daily Reps and Why You Should Train Every Day, I'm constantly lifting weights, running, doing all these different things. But the truth is, I actually don't train a crazy amount. What I do is I train frequently, but I don't train insanely intensely during those workouts, and my workouts themselves, I keep nice and short. In fact, if you add it all up, I actually don't train for that many hours per week, maybe three to four hours total, divided into 20, 30 and 40 minute sessions, and I think that's really important to understand if you are trying to do lots of things and you have a life outside of the gym. So how does this actually work? How can you train less and actually get more results, and how can you implement this into your lifestyle and routine in order to see the results that you want? So first we need to define what I mean by training less, because like I say, I'm not actually saying that you should train just two or three times a week. What I'm actually saying is that many people could benefit from making their workouts drastically shorter, and there's a few ways that you can do this. One is to break your workouts into smaller modules, so instead of doing one one hour workout, you instead do two 30 minute workouts. You might alternatively have a couple of bigger workouts and then smaller modules that you do throughout the week, and this is what I do personally. You can do it by using fewer exercises per workout. I think bodybuilding culture has made many of us think that we need 10 different exercises to target the biceps, 10 different exercises to target the shoulders, and this is what I used to believe as well. But if you're just interested in a certain amount of strength and performance and size, often you can do with just one per body part. Another option is to reduce the number of sets you do per exercise. This is an idea that's becoming increasingly popular, and again it depends on your goals. If it's strength endurance, then maybe you want more sets. But if your main goal is size and strength, then two is often enough, and in fact in some cases it can be superior. And finally you need to recognise when you've provided yourself with the necessary stimulus. You need to learn to recognise that stimulus and then get out of the gym and call it a day. And again of course all of this is going to depend on your goals. Some of these things are going to apply to you, some won't. So you have to decide what works best for you. But in many cases you're going to find that there's a lot of fat that can be cut from your routine without losing much value at all. And this has certainly been true for me. I've drastically reduced the number of exercises I do per workout, drastically reduced the number of sets I do per workout, and I've just seen better results thanks to that. This is one of the main ideas behind Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover, which actually just uses four to five exercises per workout in many cases. And some of those are only done for two sets. And again a lot of it comes down to so much of YouTube content being geared towards high-level bodybuilders, high-level powerlifters, maybe people using performance enhancing drugs, or at least people who want to be in those brackets. There's a law of diminishing returns. You can do one really good set for your pecs and you can see growth. And if you're not in a hurry and if you don't need to look like Arnold Schwarzenegger, that's going to be enough for most people. It's only when you want to be competing at the highest level that it then makes sense to do bench press, pec flies, incline press, decline press. All in the same workout. So it comes down to remembering precisely what your goals are and being laser focused on those. One of the things I struggle with when trying to do this is that I want to train everything. Single leg strength, rotation, frontal plane movement, grip strength. I think it's important not to leave out whole planes of motion just because they're not as glamorous. But you can still do all this and include fewer exercises than you would do if you hit every single one of the mirror muscles from five different angles. And plus you can get around it to a large extent by using bang for your buck movements that do lots of things at once. And by getting some of these benefits from other parts of your routine, hobbies and things. I've started worrying less about rotation, for example, since I've been doing more martial arts training. And if you want to compete at that highest level, know that those top influencers, know that those competitors, they've designed their entire lifestyle around this. So they have the time to recover from that kind of intensity. So they don't have lots of other demands. They're eating a huge amount. Unless you're willing to be that committed to your training, and many of us just didn't have that option, then actually makes sense to be a lot more streamlined in what you're doing and to acknowledge that you don't have as much time to recover as some of those people. And if you try and follow those routines and you don't give yourself that recovery, you don't eat enough food, etc. Then you're going to fail. And that's why doing less often leads to better results. It's better to have a more rudimentary program that you stick to than an extremely elaborate one that's just out of bounds for you. And for an aesthetics angle, you actually don't need huge muscle to look great. Most people are going to look much better if they build a certain amount of muscle, then cut back on the fat in order to give themselves that definition. You need to look proportionate, you need to train the muscles that often get missed. If you do that, you're going to look fantastic without having to become this mass monster. By the way guys, if you want to grab Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover, it's on discount until the end of January. So now's the best time to get it. There's a link in the description down below. It aims to build a more athletic body that looks great and moves better in short, efficient workouts, whilst also leaving space for all the fun stuff so that you can learn skills, pursue hobbies, etc. There's 25 instructional videos, a 200 plus page ebook, loads of other stuff, so check it out, link in the description down below. Like I say, on discount for just a little bit longer. But as she goes beyond this, it's not just about being able to stick to a program, it's also about how this kind of lower intensity frequency can benefit your body. For example, because you're training for fewer hours, you're not going to build up the same amount of fatigue. And because that cumulative fatigue stays lower, you won't be carrying that fatigue into each exercises. This is the right way to do strength training as it lets you utilize your maximum strength during each repetition and to rehearse correct technique. And like I say, by training with short workouts, you will allow yourself to train with greater frequency. And by hitting your workouts more often, you're going to be keeping the body active, spiking protein synthesis more regularly, benefiting from things like spaced learning, greasing the groove, all of that good stuff. You're constantly elevating your heart rate, you're constantly improving blood circulation. And even at the higher level, many people subscribe to high intensity training, training with massive intensity, often just for a single set per exercise, or at least a single set per body part, and then leave lots of time to recover. And at the other end of the spectrum, high rep calisthenics often benefits from short workouts with short rest times, then higher frequency, which keeps feeding the muscles and allows them to grow. So whatever strategy you want to use, there's plenty of evidence out there, plenty to support that reducing your workout duration can support faster and better gains. And another benefit of these shorter workouts for training muscles is that you can then add in more stuff. I'm always talking in my videos about how you need more cardio, how you need mobility, skills training. I always talk about training like Batman. I want to be not just strong, but fast, and endurance, have cool skills. That might seem outside the realms of possibility if you're training, you know, six hours in total, heavy weightlifting. But if you streamline it, you can have much more time, much more energy to spend on other things, whether it's running, whether it's practising martial arts, whether it's improving your mobility. And that's what's going to make you a far more well rounded athlete. Strength and size are not the only things that matter, despite what YouTube tells you, and not everyone should be chasing strength, strength, and strength alone at the expense of everything else. And one of the things that allows me to train so frequently wherever I am, whatever I'm doing is today's sponsor, Vivo Barefoot. So Vivo Barefoot, as many of you might know, make minimal footwear. That means shoes that are designed to get out your way and let your foot move and work the way it's intended to. These shoes don't have big heels lifting off the ground, for instance, so that when you squat to train mobility, you're actually squatting and training mobility. The lack of a thick padded sole means you can feel the ground underneath your foot, means that your foot can work the way it's meant to, to stabilise you during exercises and movements, meaning you get that proprioceptive feedback. All these things make these great shoes for training in, plus the lightness, plus how convenient they are. But they're also comfortable shoes that are really good looking that you can wear all day. So the great thing about Vivo Barefoot is that I can be wearing the same shoes to the office, then just drop and do a bunch of squats. I genuinely find these shoes to be quite game changing for my lifestyle, my comfort and my training. So if you want to check them out, then head to the link in the description down below. And if you use code BIONEERVIVO15, then you get 15% off of a purchase. And the final piece of the puzzle, and possibly the most important, is to work on that efficiency. Because there are short workouts and there's short workouts. If you can be truly efficient with your training, if you can create the stimulus in a short amount of time, then you can be in and out of the gym really quickly. If you're just curling weights like this, letting them rest on your joints, if you're just going through the motions, then yeah, you're going to need to spend ages at the gym. And it's not necessarily just about intensity, it's just about making the exercises work for you. That means having that my muscle connection, feeling them target the correct part of your body that you want to train, feeling some kind of stimulus that will lead later than to growth. If you can learn to do that, then you can spend less time in the gym. Unfortunately, this just comes mainly through time, practice and experience. Which, obviously, you can't cheat. And so this is something to strive towards with your training. Not just becoming stronger, not just getting better at the exercises, but getting better at working out, at recognizing the signals and at being efficient with your workouts. If you emphasize that and really think about it, then there's no reason you can't start training a lot less by shortening your workouts so that you actually stick with them. Let me know what you guys think. Have you had better results by reducing the amount of time you spend in the gym? Let me know in the comments down below. If you enjoyed this video, then please leave a like and share around. That helps me out immensely. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one. And bye for now.