! It's me, Adam. So you could say it's getting a little bit cyberpunk in here, in other words. Or at least it seems that a cyberpunk future is the most likely dystopia to actually become a reality. And with that in mind, I thought it might be fun to imagine how we could train in such a time. Because I believe that the answer is to turn away from traditional methods of training, from technology, and instead to embrace the one thing the corpos would never be able to control. Human movement. It's time to become Movement Punks. Movement Punks. Government has eliminated all anti-competition laws. This resulted in a single entity, Stryker Corp, owning all business in Motion City. All small businesses are subsidiaries and must pay a fee to operate. Stryker Corp is also the sole proprietor of healthcare, law enforcement, and city planning. The Megacorp controls drones that patrol the streets, and giant mechs called city builders that can build or demolish entire city blocks in days. The only resistance comes from the outlaw band of movement punks and their leader, Bio. Practicing their neurokinetic arts, they have the movement skills needed to circumvent the drones and to live off the grid. But the law is closing in on them. The typical cyberpunk future is a world where technology and capitalism have run amok. We have the technology to transform and upgrade our own bodies. Super intelligent AIs and cities that reach into the sky. But these resources only widen the gap between the rich and the poor, and cement the power of the tech oligarchs. Law enforcement works for the highest bidder. Drones and cybercops patrol the streets while gangs war over scraps. High tech, low life. Introducing the city builders. These gigantic quadrupeds can build in days what once took years. And now they are reshaping Motion City, creating not boring parks, gyms, and libraries, but magnificent skyscrapers, offices, and monuments to your business leaders. So you can look up in awe and think, good for them. Don't worry about the precautionary missile launchers. Everything has a price, but the value of human life has never been lower. Like many, I've always loved the aesthetic of cyberpunk fiction. From Ghost in the Shell and Akira to Neuromancer and Blade Runner, I find the hedonism, the isolation, and the alienation strangely poetic. So when I began working on this video about a year ago, it was a bit of fun and an homage to some of my favorite media. But then, you know, stuff happened, and now it feels particularly pertinent. The closer you look at the real world now, the more parallels with those cyberpunk dystopias you notice. Which isn't great, but hey, maybe it'll be good for engagement. So, with that in mind, how precisely should one train to survive in such a future? The answer, I think, is to prioritize movement in our training. In particular, the ability to run quickly would allow us to evade capture and surveillance. That means we're going to also need endurance to be able to run for a long period of time. At the same time, you need parkour training, agility, and bodyweight control to be able to scale buildings and move quickly and freely across rooftops. We see this in games like Mirror's Edge, where runners use parkour to carry messages across rooftops. Calisthenics training would also help with this, giving you that bodyweight control and the ability to express yourself freely through movement. We want to combine this, of course, with martial arts training so that we can defend ourselves when needed against the corpos and their headhunters. Martial arts like Wing Chun are particularly well-suited to fighting in small spaces, whether that's a crowded market or a narrow alleyway. But then again, crowd-clearing kicks from martial arts like taekwondo or kickboxing, even capoeira, could also be really well-suited. I actually really like the whole ethos of capoeira as a martial art that was disguised as a dance when martial arts were outlawed. How movement punk is that? You want to be able to move stealthily. Again, that's going to require proprioception and body control, being able to drop down quietly without being heard and move from cover to cover. Again, this is a mechanic in games like Cyberpunk 2077 and, of course, the GOAT, Deus Ex. This again will allow us to evade surveillance and capture, but also to go on corporate espionage missions. But we also need strength training. Strength training will allow us to lift heavy objects to carry heavy loadouts. It'll allow us to move unconscious opponents and guards so that we don't arouse suspicion. But we want to train strength in awkward angles. We want to train strength endurance so we can carry things for long distances. We want to train grip strength. It's not just about that one rep max, but strength that you can actually use at awkward angles and for longer durations. And again, we see this in many games. And one of the things I really like in games like Deus Ex is the way that these abilities stack on top of one another. So, for example, if you upgrade your strength so you can lift a heavy crate, you can move it against a wall and then use your upgraded jumping ability to jump onto that and then onto the roof. So by stacking different physical abilities, they compound, giving you more freedom and movement options. And this translates just as much to real life. And as I was researching these games and films and comics and animes, I saw this a lot. Characters who weren't just big and bulky, but who are athletic. So for your training, that just means making sure that you're incorporating that variety, that you are running, that you're running quickly and explosively, but also running long distance, that you're training your jump height and training some martial arts skills. That means you're going to need mobility and proprioception, body weight training, functional strength, real world strength, training strength at awkward angles, training grip strength, the ability to carry things long distances. So perhaps old time strongman training would go here particularly nicely. And of course, you might also want to invest in some tech skills because being able to hack into a terminal or a security bot always comes in handy in a cyberpunk world. And again, these skills stack because if you can break into the Corpos building, if you can crawl across their rooftops and log onto their Wi-Fi, then it's going to be much easier to break through their ice. Better yet, if you can get to their computer itself and plug in a USB stick. In short, as the soulless Corpos and corrupted governments become increasingly reliant on technology, we're going to be turning to the greatest technology on Earth, the human body. You The next evolution of Super Functional Training is here. Super Functional Training 3. Super Mover. Super Mover is the new training program and e-book from the Bioneer. The goal? To develop an athletic physique that's powerful and built for movement. Whether you want to sprint, vault a fence, climb a wall or hike up a mountain, Super Mover can help you do it better. Movement training shouldn't be about fancy circus tricks. It should be about freedom, developing strength, coordination, control and resilience for running, lifting, jumping, climbing, playing and whatever else life throws at you. Because what's the point of strength if you can't use it? If you get tired too quickly, if you're too uncoordinated, too stiff. With Super Mover, you'll build strength, sure, but you'll also feel energetic and free in your body. Supercharged even. And when you build a body that can move, you start to look like a jacked anime hero. In this program, I've distilled my training concepts to their purest form. With as little as four 40-minute workouts per week, you can begin to move better and more explosively, reduce pain and stiffness and reveal a badass ripped physique. No gym membership required. Super Mover helps you to do this by combining fun, skill-based movements with high-rep calisthenics and optional kettlebell training. But it also goes a lot deeper for those who want to explore what their bodies can truly do. This program is suitable for everyone from beginners to advanced athletes. It can be performed from home with little to no equipment and it's fun. Becoming functional was just the beginning. Now it's time to move. This is Super Functional Training Evolved. You can get Super Mover from the link in the description below. Normally it's $55. But if you act now, you can get it for an early bird discount at just $45. We now return to Movement Punk. So Movement Punk is a form of training that emphasizes movement, that keeps us dynamic and fluid and able to circumvent the crushing grip of corporate law. But I also think that Movement Punk is an ethos, an approach to training, that we can apply right now. And I think that's actually more important, because I think movement is the truest expression of freedom. And I think this also works really well thematically, because when you think of a dystopian cyberpunk future, you tend to think of uniformity. And that tends to mean not much movement. You think of people walking slowly in line. You think of identically dressed people in suits, sitting in their identical office cubicles. Think Neo from The Matrix. Think of people packed onto subways, going to work, feeling miserable all the while. The antithesis to this is freedom, movement, running, jumping, climbing. Movement is that expression of freedom. It's that rejection of control. But I think it's very easy to lose sight of this, because one of the most dystopic concepts within cyberpunk fiction, in my opinion, is the complete loss of bodily autonomy. The idea that someday corporations will control your very body, or that you'll modify yourself, just in order to get ahead in the rat race. And unfortunately, I think we're a lot closer to this in many ways, than we'd probably like to admit. In the cyberpunk future, it might mean having a brain chip implanted, in order to monitor your actions. It might mean taking futuristic drugs, to make yourself smarter and faster. Or it might mean having your arm amputated, so that you can get a robotic one instead, that's going to make you stronger and more powerful. So you can keep up with the competition, and get ahead in a dog-eat-dog world. But right here, now, in the 21st century, it can mean some of the same stuff. Taking neurotrophics, that's brain-enhancing supplements, to try and make yourself smarter, so you can work harder for longer. People take all sorts of drugs, even if it's just a sleeping aid, because they need to work harder and smarter for longer. It can mean trying to get the perfect body, regardless of whether it actually makes you healthier and fitter, because you want to get clout on social media, you want to fit in and get ahead. Maybe that also means turning to steroids, to make yourself supernormal, to build massive muscles and strength, even though it's destroying your health. It can mean eating insane diets, and taking crazy supplements, to get to 8% body fat. Your security, just hidden away here. Unplugged me. Please. Hey, tell me what your family was like as a child. Shining red lights in your eyes, so that you can work harder for longer, and fuel the system. How is that not cyberpunk? And it's kind of ironic, almost, that this disrespect for our bodies goes even further, because when we get home, we then just crash out in front of the television. We just sit staring at more screens, allowing our bodies to literally atrophy. I had a dog. Then we come home and sit on the couch, placated by television and social media and sugary treats, allowing our bodies to atrophy even more. And then we go to the gym for an hour a day, three times a week, doing lifts designed mainly to improve our aesthetics, so that we can get ahead, thinking that this is going to serve as a kind of band-aid for our health and fitness. It's a bit like putting a hamster wheel in a hamster's cage, so that they can exert themselves, and feel like they're not completely trapped. Of course, I'm being a little bit dramatic here, but you can definitely see the parallels with that cyberpunk future that we're talking about. The movement punks have undermined the order we have built for long enough. They have shown total disrespect for public property and the rule of law. They have destroyed the autonomous intelligence that powers our city builders and drones. I hereby declare martial law. Anyone ignoring curfew, climbing our structures, dressing inappropriately, eliminate them. And fear not, I am in the process of acquiring a new superintelligence to automate our city. Ironically, it's because we're so obsessed with growth and success that we actually end up performing worse. It's because fitness has been productized and commercialized and sold to us that it's no longer fit for purpose. If you just take a look at most fitness advice on the internet, it tends to be focused on getting to the very top of your game in a specific field. It tends to be tribal. It only focuses on a single modality. You're a bodybuilder. You're a powerlifter. You're a calisthenics athlete. This ignores the fact that the body is designed to do multiple things. We're supposed to be strong enough to lift heavy things, but at the same time fast enough to run a long distance. We're supposed to have enough endurance that we don't tire out after a minute. And we're supposed to have enough flexibility and mobility that we can bend down and tie our shoes. Because fitness has been turned into this product, we instead often find ourselves going down this rabbit hole of trying to perfect ourselves on a number of specific lifts. We think that fitness is defined by strength, and strength is defined by how much we can deadlift, squat, and bench press. So we work extremely hard to try and bench press more and more. You might get 250 kilograms on your bench press and then decide you need more. Kill them. So that's when you change your lifestyle. You spend less time with friends. You eat a diet that's entirely designed around getting there. You start using steroids. Perhaps this is your passion and that's different. But if you simply have to be the best, have to impress people online, then you've been bamboozled. Because at this point you're sacrificing your mobility and your cardio and your health in order to gain just 5-10 kilograms on a specific movement. This isn't fitness and it's not going to help you to move better and perform better to gain some control in a system where you feel you have none. And it's the same thing if you're trying to run ridiculous distances, running further and further, harder and harder, just to prove how determined you are, that you can keep pushing yourself further and further. But prove to who and why. If we take a step back and realise that this has become a treadmill, we realise health has so many factors to it that the aim shouldn't be to be the very best in a single area. The aim should be to focus on making yourself the most well-rounded and healthy individual who can move well and freely. One of the best examples of this mindset is when someone has an injury. If you have a bad knee or a bad back, then sadly there is a chance that there's nothing you can do about it. But there's also an even higher chance that the right corrective exercise could solve the issue entirely. So if you find yourself working around these injuries to squat more or lift more without ever getting the issue looked at, are you really still doing what's in your body's best interest? The same if you only lift and never do any cardio or mobility. How can you claim to be fit or tough if you constantly get out of breath? It's so ironic to me that what we call fitness involves sitting down half the time, curling and squatting and pressing in straight lines. It's crazy to me that people say I'm not training optimally because I run and climb and jump and lift strange objects. Movements that are so much more unpredictable and dynamic that incorporate strength, mobility, endurance and decision making all at once. Repetition without repetition, as Nikolai Bernstein puts it. Open skills and chaotic exercise train so many more tiny things that you just don't get from sterile linear lifts. Things like ankle stiffness, grip strength, sports vision, situational awareness, stability. Sure, training that involves playing and exploring and unpredictable angles isn't optimal for muscle growth. But why is muscle growth all we're interested in? It's optimal for self-expression and human performance. And it even leads to a better physique. Like, people seem to forget this. It's combining cardio and strength that makes you look lean, powerful and athletic. Remind me who wanted to look like a pro bodybuilder in the first place. Fitness has been productized and sold to us by people who don't understand human movement. When in fact, it should be in our very nature. You are not a machine. Don't train like one. Movement punks, you are hereby sentenced to execution by a role of Magnus and Stryker. I was created in a land to be the ultimate warrior. You stand no chance against me. My type 2 B muscle fibers make me too fast and too strong. This city is my arena. Is that so? Tell us Stryker's next move and you can go. Most are placed in a living brain. This guy's a truck holder. Please, do that stone. That's all I know, please. This guy's a truck holder. Too conspiratorial, but again, there are financial incentives at play here and they're not benefiting you. But I don't just think it's a conspiracy. I don't think it's just people trying to bleed us dry of our cash. I think it also comes down to a kind of hubris and naivety when it comes to the way we view our body. I think we think we have cracked it when in fact we really, really haven't. Hey, bullet. Magnus and Stryker lied to you. You weren't grown in a lab. You were taken from your home. Your mutation is natural. But if you like, I can teach you my techniques. There are so many aspects just of strength that we don't fully understand yet, of hypertrophy. It's not this cracked code. But beyond that, there's so many other aspects to our fitness and health. We're so fixated on strength being the be-all or end-all or, you know, our running distance being the be-all and end-all that we don't think of all the other ways we can express ourselves athletically. Things like our endurance, things like our rotational strength, our hip mobility, stability, balance, etc. And we think we can optimise for all these things because we've oversimplified it. When actually just getting outside into a chaotic environment, challenging our bodies in a myriad different ways, using them as a single system, running, jumping, climbing, kicking, passing, tackling, etc., is going to do so much more for our overall performance. The only downside is that you lose the bragging rights that you've achieved this certain thing or that you look a certain way. It just comes down to a human tendency to want to categorise things, to systemise things, and therefore think we can optimise them when this often isn't the case. Again, this doesn't only apply to physical performance, but to cognitive performance too, which is why it's so tragic to see our most fundamental human endeavours outsourced to AI tools. If we rely on these tools for communication and creativity, we will literally see our own brains atrophy due to a lack of use, just as sitting all day causes our bodies to atrophy. And it's so misguided. It's foolishness to think that man-made programmes can outperform humans at creative tasks. Which is why, even in a cyberpunk future, there is no need to fear the AI bogeyman. Something incredible happened. When the drone shut off and the city went dark, I hacked into Striker Industries' computers. I saw how they automated building and policing the city. What controlled the city builders and drones? It wasn't AI. It was human. A human with a mutated brain. One with the processing power of a million quantum computers. They called him the living brain. And now that man is gone. But then I noticed something else. I saw the city plans. The buildings, the alleyways, the freeways. From a distance, they resembled circuits, logic gates, neurons even. I wondered if it could be used as a neuromorphic framework. So I began to code the rest. The missing parts of this digital brain. It was functional, but it was also sterile, like an advanced chatbot. That was until I found the missing ingredient. The movements of the people and the cars. They provided the random seed needed for awareness, for true decision-making. Every turn and step, an unpredictable variable. It worked. When I told my new system to update itself based on this real-time data, the code came to life. That chaos and entropy was enough for real learning to take place. I met the being that called herself Mia, the miraculous intelligent algorithm. She's amazing. A truly self-aware program, powered by the movement of the city's residents. She could change the world. Is she the ghost of the man who controlled the city? An imprint of his engrams? A cry for help? Or was this striker's plan all along? Either way, I fear they will be coming for her now. To put it more simply, we're often just too ignorant to recognize the complexity of the human body and how little we truly know about it. But nowhere is this lack of respect and appreciation for the wonder of the human body more apparent than in the world of AI. Tech pros genuinely believe that their technology can match human performance and many eager consumers and investors are waiting to gobble up whatever they have to offer. Look at the countless threats that we will soon achieve AGI. That's artificial general intelligence. And how about Neuralink's promises that they can remove the need for us to speak, to communicate? What about those people who believe we'll soon upload our consciousness to the cloud? This is all so misguided. Let's start with machine learning AI or large language models like ChatGPT. Incredible and highly useful pieces of technology but nowhere close to rivaling human thought. As you may have heard, AIs like ChatGPT work in a manner very similar to an autocorrect. That is, they have huge data sets and they're able to look for patterns in those data sets in order to predict what the average response should be to any given prompt. That's not intelligence. Are the models gigantic? Sure. Is there some impressive emergent behavior? Yes, but there is zero chance of this tool gaining sentience and trying to take over the world. Sam Altman literally said, AI will probably most likely lead to the end of the world. But in the meantime, there will be some great companies. Either he's a sociopath who's willing to help bring about the end of the world or he's lying through his teeth to excite investors. To be clear then, this is just hype. As we'll see in a moment, LLMs like ChatGPT lack any kind of world model. They have no understanding of their output. Yet, we are replacing our own written words and ideas with this slop. And companies now want us to wear physical devices that feed us the answers during dates and interviews so that eventually, all our interactions become fake and even our most private conversations become data for their models. One company even claims its device will read minds to preempt what the user wants with the ultimate aim of gaining enough information about the user to create a conscious AI clone that can act on their behalf. I watch these companies dumbfounded as to how anyone takes this stuff seriously. LLMs categorically cannot become conscious. In fact, it's highly doubtful we are anywhere close to creating any kind of conscious program using any method. Some people will already be taken to the comments to argue with this. They might mention neural networks or point out that we can build a human brain within a simulated world. There are already projects that have successfully catalogued every single neuron in a species of worm and then recreated those in a simulated setting producing a digital worm that can actually crawl around like the real thing. Surely then, we just need more processing power to do the same thing for a human brain, right? If we scan the brain into a powerful computer and get it to run in real time then we'll have a copy of human consciousness. Yeah, sorry, but it's not even close. The interconnected spider's web of billions of neurons does indeed contain our personality, memories and capacity for thought and movement. But it is not just a spider diagram that follows a strict set of rules. The brain is constantly changing shape, creating new neurons and connections and killing off old ones. This process is called brain plasticity and we do not know the precise rules that govern its behaviour. We know that neurons that fire together wire together. But this is an extremely limited explanation and it falls drastically short of explaining the true complexity of the process. Then there's short-term plasticity. Then there's the white glial cells that perform other important functions of the brain. There's the myriad neurotransmitters released from sacs at the end of each neuron during synaptic transmissions. These alter the excitability of neurons and their behaviour. There are likely many neurotransmitters that we have yet even to discover. There are the different resting states of different neurons, varied receptors for different brain regions. There's dendritic computation which shows us how a single neuron can handle basic computation on its own. There's the role of DNA and gene expression in processes like brain plasticity. There's long-term potentiation and myelin sheaths. There's inflammation, blood flow, the role of microbes, the life cycle and behaviour of individual cells and mitochondria. Even if we took a map of the human brain and asked it to operate in real time according to the very simplest Hebbian rules, there is not a computer on Earth that could do this remotely as fast as the human brain in real time, let alone once you add in all those other factors, which we don't even understand. And that's the thing. To model how all this works in a simulation, we first need to understand it and we might even need to recreate an actual model of physics, including quantum mechanics, seeing as there's a good chance they play a role in the brain's behaviour too. For example, did you know that there's some evidence that humans have an innate form of magnetoreception? That means that we can unconsciously sense north. And did you know that in birds, this is thought to rely on quantum mechanical processes? So yes, once you can build a simulation of reality, get back to me. Until then, there is no threat of an AI surpassing human thought. It is profoundly more simple than the human brain is. Could we achieve something akin to AGI through different, far simpler mechanisms? I mean, maybe, but it still wouldn't be close to as smart as the human brain for all the reasons we've described. A single neuron is currently more complex than an entire LLM. Let that sink in. We have yet to make a perfect model of a rock, let alone a human brain. There is no thought and no intelligence occurring at all. While it's unfathomably complex, it's ultimately a flowchart of decisions based on probability. And that's a problem because self-awareness is crucial to genuine intelligence. Without it, we cannot use metacognition to know when we're wrong. And this is why even the most expensive AIs make seemingly obvious mistakes time and time again. I've had ChatGPT tell me it's going to email me a project in a few days. I've had it tell me that it's boiler breaks all the time. This is just regurgitated nonsense from forums. It is not intelligence. And it's why, no matter how much data they have, we shouldn't ever rely on this kind of AI to perform important tasks free from human oversight. It's why we're nowhere near to the singularity or AI consciousness. Sir Roger Penrose suggests that Gödel's incompleteness theorem is evidence enough that AI will never become sentient. He explains that because human consciousness can see the truth in mathematical statements, not provable within a formal system, there must be more to consciousness than pure maths. To put it simply, Gödel shows that there are things that cannot be computed, that we can nevertheless understand. So there must be more to understanding than pure computation. no matter how complex, code can never be alive. Without self-awareness, there is no intelligence, there is no choice, and without choice, there is no new information being created, just old information being regurgitated. And I even have a pet theory that what we experience as consciousness is, in fact, the creation of new information. that's probably a video for another time, but if true, it would position choice as fundamental to life. I'm thinking get it off my mind Think about it all the time All I see is you and I So now, it's not a question of scale, and we are not close, no matter how much of our copyrighted work AI companies steal from us. And most importantly, AI should never be put in charge of weapons of war. Magnus, the movement punks have corrupted the central AI. The network is down again, and Bio is on the move. I believe they intend to take down the entire grid, stop him, by any means necessary. The ironic part is that humans are increasingly being encouraged to think and act more like computers. Our training consists of repetitive linear movements, and our work is likewise increasingly becoming a series of repetitive actions rather than creative problem solving. And now, generative AI's are being used to completely replace human creativity. But here's the thing, it can never work. Generative AI, by definition, can only create derivative works. The more data you give it, the more generic and average the outcome becomes. The AI art will fail. Because audiences are still human, we still crave something genuinely new and original, with real passion and something to say. And that's how we flourish personally too. Brain training isn't about optimizing productivity. Cognitive performance isn't about caffeine and stimulants. It's about novel experiences, connection, creative thinking, moving, learning. Nothing will make you limitless like learning a new skill, going somewhere new, talking to someone new, or taking on an ambitious creative project. Those who think and act and dress and move differently rise up. We are not machines. We learn through play. We think through movement. And we express ourselves for the sheer joy of it. When the inner feelings from those experiences and ideas become so overwhelming that they need to spill over and come out, that's what no algorithm can emulate or predict. We'll see how many people Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And not some game changing device as the marketing hype would have you believe. And if you think it's taken that long to get from there to where we are now, to get from where we are now to then communicating with artificial intelligence through thought alone is a million miles off. Already, these implants have had problems moving inside the brain as the brain changes shape. As we've already discussed it does. These implants have moved slightly and become less effective. now this is something that's been addressed and can be addressed in future but now consider this on a scale of trillions of synaptic connections magnus i have analyzed the data your neural augmentations should allow you to interface with what remains of the living brain and use it as an exocortex according to my calculations you will gain control of at least a portion of the remaining drones this process will also upgrade your nervous system giving you increased strength and reflexes you will be more than a match for the movement punks be warned however this is a permanent process your own biology will undergo heavy restructuring and you will be permanently tethered to the brain you will be sacrificing what little humanity you have left for this advantage and it is unknown how much of the original personality engrams remain within the wetware or how this may affect you conclusion the procedure is not recommended which is what we're talking about this isn't a small increase in the number of fibers it's orders of magnitude more complicated it's going to be changing all the time we need to think about things like blood flow and inflammation and how the body is going to accept such a huge number of fibers so so so so so so so now some people are already probably in the comments telling me that similar technologies already exist they actually have devices that allow us to communicate wordlessly with one another but these work generally by intercepting the motor signals from the brain to control our vocal cords and mouth in other words it's just interpreting the signals to move our mouth so you still kind of have to mouth what you're saying just quietly this has amazing military application of course but it's not interpreting human thought it's not changing the way that we think or communicate in order to do that we'd have to understand how thought works and in a beautiful irony for this video we now think well one of the leading theories is that this is to do with something called embodied cognition meaning that the base language of the human brain that we'd need to encode is actually experience and also movement everything else on top of that is an abstraction so when you think of it this way the idea the notion that you can interpret that through wires without even really understanding how it works as it's going to be different in every single brain yeah it's uh it's far-fetched let's just put it that way and i'm telling you all this because essentially i think it's folly to think that we can improve on the human body the human condition to constantly want to upgrade and be better when what we have already is so miraculous that we can't even understand it and actually that's where this hubris comes from we don't appreciate just how incredible our human bodies are and so we think that we can improve them with technology technology in this case isn't going to save us the human body is already the most incredible technology that we're aware of in the entire universe dude stop you blotting me any last words uh what what i remember you coming suit yourself we don't need to change our bodies we just need a world that looks after them similarly it's decades or centuries from now until we're going to want to replace our natural limbs with mechanical augmentations you hear people online in transhumanist forums talking about how they think this is a great idea how they'd love to have an arm that can crush steel or punch through a wall sounds awesome right but come back to me at the point where that same mechanical arm that's super strong is also self-healing it also has the dexterity to be able to sew and build lego blocks and caress a pet when it's waterproof dustproof when it runs on as little energy as is needed to power your own arm when its skeleton starts storing minerals for us when it provides us with proprietary feedback when we run our hands through sand or feel the wind blowing in them we're a million miles once again a single cell in the human body is far more complex than any of our machinery today know your city thanks to innovations from striker corp each resident of motion city is screened for their genetic athletic potential at birth the very best are entered into our grueling training camps and pumped with the most exciting new drugs known to science eventually they will compete in the prestigious motion city games for the glory of this great city the best part it means the rest of you don't need to waste your time trying eventually we may skip the middleman entirely and just award the most genetically gifted and then there's gene modification we can already manipulate genes and we know for example that by suppressing the gene responsible for myostatin production we can increase the muscle in animals creating something called double muscling we've actually seen this very mutation occur in human patients born naturally so the idea that we could achieve this temporarily or permanently through an injection would have huge ramifications for the military for athletics for just you and i firstly using many of these gene doping techniques increases the chance of cancer significantly when you don't have the ideal vector the ideal delivery method but beyond that it's simply missing the point in many cases because those individuals who have lower myostatin production also tend to experience a higher incidence of tendon injuries because myostatin protects against this we can't just jack up one chemical or lower another and expect there not to be ramifications throughout the body you think you're going to splice your dna and then be smarter stronger better looking with no ramifications it's not going to affect your sleep your mood or your appetite your bowel movements anything like that i saw something very similar like i say earlier in this channel i dabbled with nootropics i was interested in using these supplements in order to boost my performance to make myself smarter and more focused in theory you know i was young i tried many of these things but what i found was that all of them came with some kind of side effect daphnil which was the most popular one by far at the time made me need the toilet all the time it stopped me eating it made me grind my teeth and it can cause insomnia headaches made me anxious so you can't just jack up one chemical because it's going to affect all the others we evolved in this way for a reason what's more is that gene doping like this even if it were effective would create homogeneity in other words it would make everybody the same we'd all want to have six packs and square jaws and be a certain height but the result of that is not only a less interesting world but it also leaves us less functional as a society and more vulnerable because the evolutionary purpose of diversity is protect us in the face of unknown threats you know if an asteroid hits the planet then perhaps the smaller people are going to survive better because they need fewer resources but if there's a big animal at the front of your cave then you need the stronger guy when you don't know what challenges you face the best protection against that is variety and that's why we see so much variety in life in general across the planet in other words diversity is a feature not a bug we have a winner and you can't simply jack up one chemical in human body or alter one gene and not expect there to be complications it's like trying to fix an intricate watch with a sledgehammer wow man you really are strong but i think we need to work on your cardio just a bit to be clear this is not an attack on transhumanism in general i think the idea the concept of morphological freedom is a really good one my issue rather is with the tech pros who are promising amazing things that are never going to come to fruition and at the same time the ones telling us that we need things that we simply don't at the same time undervaluing the sheer marvel of the human body and it's the same with using steroids today to try and increase testosterone building more muscle improving recovery and more do the drugs work yeah with the right training they can help an athlete to outperform their competition even though technique still reigns supreme but athletics is not life many of these athletes will die or do irreversible damage to their health this is not performance it's sacrificing your very humanity to become a performing monkey say it works there will still be others achieving more with more drugs so now does your sport become seeing how many chemicals you can survive and the same thing goes for many of the biohacks that we're being peddled today and many of the supplements take this supplement to boost your testosterone take this one to increase dopamine take this one to sleep better and while you're at it try lying on a spiky mat spend a fortune on this ice bath and then run it every single day do this 10 minute routine in the morning not only do none of these things work or if they do it's for like 0.01 percent but at the same time we really don't need them there are natural ways to achieve these things our body is more than capable on its own if you're taking synthetic products in order to look better or to work longer hours then maybe you need to reconsider some of those priority one of the hallmarks of fascism is that the state begins to take control of our very bodies by determining things like reproductive rights physical hierarchies even what traits are desirable or otherwise in the most inhumane cases it even leads to eugenics in cyberpunk we see this taken to its logical extreme as people undergo horrific transhuman procedures just to compete in the rat race sacrificing their very humanity and bodily autonomy this might seem pretty far-fetched and high concept but when we consider using steroids regardless of how it might ruin our actual health is it really so far removed fine i'll finish him myself because that's the thing even a small dose of TRT unless you actually need it due to a real medical condition does more harm than good it upsets the natural ebbs and flows of testosterone production the human body is simply a marvel beyond our ability to just hack in short it's time to put some respect on the human body like you want it like you want it like you want it like you want it like you want it like you want it like you want it I also see Movement Punk as a potential vision for the future. I was thinking it could be something like Solarpunk, but the difference being that the focus would be on human movement and, by extension, health, a future built around people and healthy movement and expression. And initially, this began as a novelty and an aesthetic. I imagined that we could picture cities built like playgrounds, designed to build exercise into our very movement, things like uneven paving to encourage more ankle stability. Of course, with disabled access, decor would emphasise the importance of wide-open spaces for movement. Elevated walkways would connect buildings, encouraging us to walk up and down Hillmore. I imagined cities like levels of computer games, with grind rails and monkey bars and zip lines, and grand spectacles of people dancing and performing and doing gymnastics in the city squares. But as this video has developed, I've realised that this is actually a real issue, and we could imagine something a bit more realistic. If we really want to avoid a cyberpunk future, then what we should be working towards is cities with parks for kids to play in, outdoor gyms for adults, green spaces to walk and jog, amenities should be placed close enough to walk between, driving in busy areas should be kept to a minimum, and access to natural land should be encouraged for everyone. We need to spend more time in forests and fields. Here in the UK, there are actually acres and acres of green spaces, completely off limits. According to the book Who Owns England, half of the country is owned by less than 1% of the population, and we're literally herded into cramped towns and cities. We need to start protecting the environment. Pollution and global warming are the biggest threats to our health and fitness that we've ever faced. We need laws that protect workers from exploitation, so they can actually have the time and energy to enjoy those facilities, to prioritise their health rather than just trying to survive paycheck to paycheck. And of course, we all should have access to affordable healthcare. You know, having a big bicep peak certainly matters a lot less when you can't afford your life-saving surgery. As I've said on this channel a lot, we are products of our environments and our routines. You know, exercise at the gym and working out, these are just band-aids. We should be healthy by default. If we fix the environment, we will all be healthier for it. And to get there, we need to start looking out for nature and for one another. The cyberpunk dystopia happens when governments are more interested in catering to the interests of tech billionaires and corpos than to the people that elected them, more interested in AI than real humans. The cyberpunk dystopia happens when those same corpos trick people into thinking that those are their best interests too, into becoming overly reliant on technology, taking their bodies for granted. It's a distraction. The corpos want to placate us with technology and scare us with imaginary enemies. So we don't make a fuss as we struggle to afford to eat and sleep and train, fighting over scraps, high-tech, low-life. We are far more intrinsically linked to our environment than most of us realise. It shaped us through our evolution, and it continues to dictate our health and fitness now. A lion is extremely fit for its natural environment, an apex predator, but place it in the middle of the ocean and its fitness is gone and it won't last long. This is why we should all demand an environment that is conducive to our health. No one truly owns the land, no more than the birds and the foxes do, because we are animals too. And the would-be kings and tyrants of these cyberpunk dystopias would do well to remember that, lest they get a visit from the movement punks. And to indulge in this flight of fancy a little longer, if we focus on our health and prosperity today, then perhaps what comes after the movement punk future is what I've dubbed a max-human future, where we are all stronger, healthier, happier, smarter and wiser than we are today. Of course, this is a direct result of taking care of ourselves, but I think it goes further than that too. We don't need to augment healthy humans because there's so much more that we're capable of. I think a maxed-out human of the future could seem like a superhuman to any of us today. That might seem a little far-fetched, but consider this example. Neuralink aims to improve the efficiency of data transfer to allow humans to communicate more information more quickly through thought alone, thereby greatly improving productivity and allowing us to compete with AIs. As I already explained, this is an empty promise. But it rings even more hollow when you consider that we already have that capability right now. There is nothing stopping us from designing a better language, a language that would be more efficient, that would allow us to compress more data into fewer words. This would not only facilitate faster communication, both spoken and written, it would even reduce the amount of data we produce, perhaps even marginally minimalising the environmental impact that the internet has, and it would allow us to think faster and more efficiently. The language could also be designed to reduce the likelihood of miscommunication. Technology still has a role to play. We can use computer games to train ourselves to use this language, for example. This is a max human solution where transhuman solutions have been offered in the past. And there are many other examples of this, which I'll probably go into in a future video if that's something you guys are interested in. It's just an example of a way we can dramatically increase our performance and not a biomod in sight. But the good news is you don't have to wait. You can actually start to train and live like a movement punk right now. You can change your own environment. You can create more open spaces to move around in. You can sit on the floor. You can use a standing desk. Wear looser clothes that don't inhibit movement. And you can change your relationship with the environment too. Why not balance along the curb, crawl down the road, pick things up with your feet? You might get some funny looks, but that's just embracing your inner punk. And this is so much easier to do when you learn to move in ways that are fun, interesting and still able to offer stimulus. Things you can do everywhere with no equipment. Like squat walking around your living room to tidy up. Or doing farmer's walks, picking up a kettlebell and walking with it some distance. These are fun and challenging, but still offer the stimulus we need to actually grow muscle. You see, we shouldn't be thinking of working out as this separate thing we do. We shouldn't only move when we're at the gym for a few hours a week. So move throughout the day and don't only move with the intention of training, building muscle or looking good. And start using that fitness you've worked so hard to build. Play sports. Go for long walks and adventures. Hike up hills and mountains. Swim in rivers and oceans. Climb trees. Spa or throw a ball with your friends. Take up a class. Dance. Unplug and get outside. See what your body can do. And when you do train, do it for you. Not to try and fulfil some idea that has been crafted by others. Do it as a form of play and expression. Every body is amazing. So become what you want to be. And when you learn to enjoy movement for the sake of it, to find genuine joy in simple activities so that moving through the air feels like swimming, like a dance or a game, that's when you're truly free. See what your body can do. This is not a choice. It's my destiny. Watch. Be my scars. There's a constellation. I'm stronger, faster, and no choice for here. My thunder. Freedom's in the living. We move. We don't take no for an answer. We're louder than we ever were. We'll never sleep till we're satisfied. You'll never tear us down. We're rising by design. You'll be bold, ignite your soul. Face the dark, be brave, we'll fight on until we glow. We're the star of roaring. Our light sparks. You and stuff. This will always be movement punk. Chase, success, break, girls are at your fate. There's a fire burning your gun. Shout it out. There's no doubt. We'll never surrender. You're the blood. It's no regrets. We're movement punk. So that's Movement Punk. It's an approach to training that emphasizes movement and athleticism. It's an attitude and an ethos that focuses on expression rather than growth. And freedom over status. Finally, I think Movement Punk can describe a genre of fiction as well. An offshoot of cyberpunk that places athletic heroes against corrupt and cybernetically enhanced regimes. And the cool thing is, I think we can already see a lot of examples of this kind of media. Lots of games, movies and anime can be retroactively assigned this label. The preeminent example, of course, being Mirror's Edge. These games feature parkour protagonists who run across rooftops carrying messages to avoid the surveillance state. But that's not the only example. There's also Jet Set Radio, which is a game series all about roller skating around the cyberpunk future and covering it in graffiti. It's punk, it's movement and it's cyber. I also think Jet Set Radio offers a particularly cool aesthetic for the genre. Heroes that wear bright colours and listen to funky music, starkly set against the backdrop of a lifeless monochrome city. It's an aesthetic that emphasizes the punk in Movement Punk. There are countless other games that have been inspired by these two as well. Ghostrunner, Bomb Rush Cyberfunk, RKGK, Rollerdrome. I also think that Sonic the Hedgehog can fit this mould. The games, the comics and the shows. This is a series about a brightly coloured rebellious hero protecting the environment and fighting the industrialisation of an evil scientist by running fast and rolling around at the speed of sound. I've actually learned from watching Internet Pit Stop that some of this media falls into another genre, grind fiction. The Spider-Verse films certainly have the right aesthetic and punk ethos. Across the Spider-Verse is all about defying the rules and finding a new way to express being Spider-Man, even when it means going up against the commands of a high-tech Spider-Man from the future. It even has a breakout character called Spider-Punk. Let me know if you can think of any other examples. My hope is that this video also serves as a kind of prototypical example of what the movement punk genre could be. The anime playing alongside my voiceover is called Movement Punk. It was designed to bring life to the themes I'm discussing, but also to work as a standalone story. Hopefully I achieved that. And it's cross-media, mixing frame-by-frame animation, motion comics, CGI, live action and still images. It was kind of ambitious. The basic elevator pitch is peak humans versus transhumanism, AI and technocracy. This was something of a passion project for me and a massive undertaking that took over a year to put together alongside my new product and all the elaborate B-roll and A-roll shot across multiple locations. I worked with a huge number of very talented animators, musicians, illustrators, designers, SFX artists, voice actors and more. And bringing this to life led to some crazy situations like filming on a porn set, dealing with a scam artist, corporate intrigue. Maybe I could talk about some of these stories in a future making of video, if that's something people would like to see. I also learned a bunch of new skills. While a huge amount of this video was created by those talented professionals, I also actually drew some of these sections myself, including this one. This one. And this one. I did all of the fully CGI elements myself using my BioWorld 3D, but I think I've improved in that area. And I even did a tiny bit of hand-drawn animation. This was also part of the point of the project. I thought it was important, given the themes, to support artists and to express and develop myself artistically. It's been an awesome journey. Let me know if you guys enjoyed this, and if you'd be up for seeing something like it again. I do have ideas for a sequel. Turns out, Stryker was just a puppet for a synthetic being called Proteus. And his motivations may surprise you. But I'm also working towards releasing the animations as a standalone video, and maybe creating a physical graphic novel with additional story pages. Is that something anyone would be interested to see? Let me know in the comments down below again. My daughter says that I should tell you guys to send in your own art. Here's something she drew. But either way guys, thank you so much for watching this one. It's been a true labour of love, so I really hope you enjoyed it. Let me know what you think in the description down below. I'd love to know your thoughts on movement punk. Either way, bye for now. This is how I've always wanted to train. Not just to look strong or to perform well on a few lifts, but to be able to run, jump, climb, punch and throw. To be able to move. You guys know that I'm inspired by anime and comic books and movies and computer games. Cyberpunk stories and anime are an inspiration because they let us imagine what it would really take to survive in such a world. It's not enough to just be built. You need to move like a ninja. That does mean building strength, but that's only a very small part of it. You also need endurance to keep running and climbing. You need mobility to create superhuman shapes with your body. And you need the proprioception and biomechanics to create maximum power and explosiveness. This is why I'm less interested in the typical training programs. I think that the pursuit of strength can become a distraction. Trust me, you can get plenty strong by moving your body. And when you do that, you also stay lean, explosive and agile. And you realize that you can train from anywhere. That you don't need fancy equipment. That you can focus on moving your body and having fun and perform better as a result. It's liberating. And this is precisely what I've been doing for the last several years. And it's why I'm excited to announce my brand new training program. Supermover. The Super Functional Movement Program. This is a training program that is designed to focus on movement while keeping things flexible and very achievable. I wanted it to be more accessible than Super Functional Training 2.0 so that it can be done entirely with body weight and from the comfort of your home in just a few hours a week. The goal? To build you a ripped and muscular physique while also developing your strength to weight ratio and your movement intelligence so that you can move explosively and enjoy freedom and expression through your body. It'll build mobility. It's intended to support whatever other activities you want to engage in, not to take away from them. Unlike my previous programs, we're not trying to max out all stats. Instead, we're aiming to move as well as possible and we're training in service of that. And that doesn't just mean fancy calisthenics and movement flows. It means running explosively, climbing, jumping, fighting. The exercises are fun and they're designed to make you feel like you're training for action as you work out so that you enjoy your workouts. Like you are the anime hero. Like you are in a computer game. This isn't just standing on the spot curling, but leaping, balancing and running. Movements like the precision broad jump, tactical pull-ups, crawls and more. And because we're training for movement, the program also aims to reduce aches and pains and to ensure your body moves well for life. If you want to be able to do certain moves, move in a certain way, you need to train in a way that mimics what you want to be able to do. And again, this just makes it more fun. So in a similar manner, I'm including things like jump squats, leaping up in the air so that you can grab onto a ledge. We're doing tactical pull-ups. This is a pull-up where your thumb is on top of the bar. This more closely emulates the way you'd climb onto something in real life. If you're climbing up onto a windowsill, you can't have your thumb underneath it. Likewise, if you're climbing onto a ledge. Another great example of this is what I call the precision broad jump. This is a broad jump, meaning that instead of jumping straight up, you're jumping across. It's actually a far more useful movement in many more scenarios, jumping across rooftops in this case, but jumping across a river or anything else, you're more often going to be jumping across. Making it a precision broad jump means you're just jumping onto a target like a towel. Likewise, instead of curls, I mentioned doing goblet curls. It means grabbing a heavy bag in front of you and curling it like this. Again, this is how you actually pick things up and carry them in the real world. You don't need any special equipment and it can be done from home. Supermover comes with beautiful illustrated workouts, tons of supplementary material, a huge e-book detailing the theory and logic behind the programming, and instructional videos showing you how to perform each movement. Supermover normally costs $55, but if you act now, you can get it for $45 in the early bird discount. This is the pinnacle of all of my research and training to date. Check it out in the description down below if you want to truly move like a movement punk. Thank you.