 diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets diets be some of the most important things when it comes to your performance. Think of football, rugby, tennis, martial arts, throwing things, sprinting, parkour, jumping in general, acrobatics. All of these things involve explosive rapid movement. So your ability to move explosively and rapidly is going to be one of the number one determining factors if you want to be someone who's considered athletic, if you want to dominate in competition. And I'm not just talking about sprinting and jumping. I'm even just talking about moving your hands quickly. You know, your reflexes, your ability to quickly respond to events around you. These are things you can train and these are things that shouldn't be ignored at the gym. Think of the people in your life. Think of people you know who don't engage in some kind of sport or explosive activity. Now try and picture them running and hurdling over something tall. Chances are you can't even picture it and that's because they haven't practiced it and they've therefore lost that ability. But this becomes even more important as we start to get older. Because as you get older, you're going to notice that explosiveness, that speed and that power start to diminish even more. Now I want you to imagine someone who's old and doddery, who moves in the way that someone elderly typically moves. And what you're probably picturing is someone who's a bit shaky, lacks control, but who is also moving slowly. You can't imagine your granddad quickly darting his hand out even, let alone sprinting across a field. There's a channel called I Am Longevity on YouTube. The guy who runs it is 60 years old and he really advocates for this kind of training. He can do things like climbing up six foot walls and then leaping off of them. A lot of stuff that people much younger than him cannot do. And he says that the reason for this is that he trains explosively. And he believes that the reason that has an effect is because it maintains his ability to call upon his fastest motor units. The ones containing the type 2x muscle fibers. Not type 2a, which is what we associate with things like powerlifting, but type 2x, which is more associated with things like Olympic lifting, more explosive movements, sprinting and jumping. If you want to maintain these, he says, you need to practice moving explosively and powerfully. Go and check out his channel if you want more on this. I highly recommend it. But the take home message is that unless you want to start moving like a slower, older person prematurely, you need to practice moving like a faster, more powerful person more frequently. So let me tell you a story. When I was a little kid, growing up, we had a railing outside my mum's house by a curb. And I wanted to be Jackie Chan. So naturally, my impulse was to see if I could jump over this railing. And with time and practice, I learned to jump over the railing. I liked being able to do this so badly that I wanted to make sure I never lost the ability to do it. So I made a pact with myself to practice jumping over that railing at least once every single day. And I actually did jump over that railing every single day. Eventually, I even went so far as to build a hurdle out of garden sticks and string in my garden to make sure that I could always jump that high so I could practice in a safe way from the convenience of my home. You know, thankfully, I'm still a little way from 60. But I am approaching 40. And I'm definitely getting to that age where more and more people are saying to me, Adam, you can't jump over railings and do handstands and handspring forever. This isn't a viable long term career. That just makes me want to do it all the more. The way I see it is that I don't need to worry about not being able to do those things. Because I'm not able to. What I need to worry about is not doing those things. And therefore becoming unable to you know, back when I was jumping over railings as a kid, I would have loved to have shoes like these from today's sponsor Vivo Barefoot Vivo Barefoot make barefoot shoes. That means they're minimal shoes that have a thin sole that doesn't block your foot from feeling the ground underneath that has a really small heel so you're not stuck in a kind of high heeled shortened calf position that has a wide toe box so your feet can splay across the ground. This is so much better for this kind of explosive dynamic movement because it lets your foot react to the ground underneath. All of this just makes you move more explosively, more dynamically. And because the shoes are lightweight, that just makes you feel even quicker and lighter on your feet. Vivo Barefoot make, in my opinion, the very best barefoot shoes. They're extremely high quality. They last forever. They're made sustainably. They have a range of styles for all kinds of different occasions, all of which look fantastic. Today I'm wearing the Motor Strength 2. This is their shoe designed for wearing in the gym and for movement in general. I highly recommend checking them out and if you use code BIONEERVIVO15 at checkout, you'll get 15% off a purchase. And now on with the show. There are a lot of other benefits to training explosively as well. For example, a lot of explosive movements are also really good for bone density. Anything where you're leaving the ground and landing, that small jolt, and it doesn't have to be a big one. You can just leave the ground a little bit. That's going to be really good for building stronger bones and joints. So another reason that this kind of training helps you as you age. Another big benefit is that explosive training is fantastic for getting your heart rate up, for building loads of calories. If you do something like explosive burpees, like really explosive, if you're able to, you're going to feel your heart rate soar through the roof. And if you do these at the start of a circuit, you're just going to be playing catch up all the way through. And this is fantastic for burning tons of calories, for body recomposition, because you're also using strength. But one of the reasons people don't love really explosive training is that plyometric training isn't the best for hypertrophy or for building strength, because there's not enough time for cross bridging. There's not enough time under tension. And whilst this is true, you can then combine your explosive training with other forms of training. I'm not saying you should only do this. And at the same time, if you do what I like to do, and train into the higher rep ranges, we'll get to in a minute, then you're going to slow down naturally. This is going to allow you to spend a bit more time and attention. And this is going to lead to more strength and size gains. Now, something some people will tell you is that you shouldn't train very explosive movements with higher repetitions, because if you want to become more explosive, then you need to train when your nervous system is fresh. If you're doing box jumps, and you're not jumping very high because you're tired, then you're not truly training explosiveness. So you need really long rest periods and low repetitions. But whilst this is true, firstly, I'm not talking about optimizing for a specific sport. I'm talking about being able to move more explosively and getting all the benefits that come from moving rapidly. But I also contest this because in almost any real setting, you sometimes are going to have to train explosively when you're tired. So learning to do this, to me, can only be a really good thing. That's why my new ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3 Supermover combines more explosive movements with a faster intent, with more controlled movements, with movements that require more maximum strength, with mobility stuff and endurance stuff. When you take it all together, you get a really well-rounded performance profile. My program does this using exercises that are convenient, that can fit into your lifestyle, and using shorter workouts so that this kind of functional training is available to everyone. And the result hopefully will be that you move better, more explosively, more powerfully, and you look better as well. It comes with an ebook that's over 200 pages long, 25 instructional training videos, cue cards you can download to your phone so you can quickly see the exercises you're meant to be doing, and loads more. So if you want to check it out, link is in the description down below. So of course there are tons of different ways you can train explosively like this. Obviously you can use plyometric exercises, that might mean things like squat jumps, it might mean things like clapping, push-ups, box jumps. But the good news is you don't have to do traditional plyometrics. So you guys will know for example that I like to perform many of my higher repetition bodyweight exercises with a more rapid cadence. I use a slightly wider grip with my push-ups for example. I drop down to the point where I feel a slight stretch on my pecs in order to activate that myotastic stretch response, and then I spring back up and I do this very rapidly, particularly at the start of my set. And again this can apply to air squats, it can apply to pull-ups, you can move quickly, again with that rapid intent to kick-throughs, but you don't actually have to leave the ground, you don't have to have any impact when you land. You can just go quickly and you can even then try and decelerate yourself at the top. But again you don't even have to do this, lots of forms of training have rapid movement built in, so things like the med ball slams, which I've talked about before and really enjoy, martial arts training, you've got things like kettlebell swings and clean and jerk and all sorts of other kettlebell exercises. These are ballistic movements, they have that rapid intent built in. That's one of the reasons that kettlebell swings translate so well to things like sprinting and jumping. Then you have sprinting, or of course you can just take part in a sport, whether that's football, rugby, tennis, table tennis, whatever you want to do. But if you combine going to the gym with actually playing sports, so you're moving quickly, so you're tiring yourself out, you're going to get such better benefits. You're going to have a much more athletic looking physique and you're going to move and perform much better as well, well into old age. And again my training program, Super Functional Training 3 Supermover, is built with this in mind. It talks about activities like this you can stack on top of your exercises at home on your own. It utilizes exercises that mimics that kind of explosive and chaotic training and it leaves you time to pursue other things as well, because so many training programs assume that's all you're doing. Either way guys, I just think it's super important that everybody move explosively, move with rapid intent sometimes. Let me know in the comments down below if you agree with me, let me know how you're making sure to get this in your movement diet. Bye for now! Oh you're coming too? Righto! diets