 When it comes to fitness, we need to go back to basics. So, I think it's not a massively hot take to say that, fitness on YouTube isn't always as helpful as it could be. In fact, I think a lot of people probably come away from watching fitness YouTube content feeling more confused and agitated than they did before they started. When you, for starters got all of the drama and people arguing and having these catty debates about things. A lot of it is just very toxic and I can only imagine that if I was to log into YouTube as someone who hasn't started fitness before and search for, you know, information and I found people just bitching at each other about the most petty things, I'd find that a bit off-putting and it might even deter me from, you know, pursuing more knowledge this way. It's just a distraction and it's all of it. People act like these things are so important. This personal beef that they have or whatever it is, this thing that someone said that was slightly incorrect or whatever. They act like it's so important when really, like, who cares? It actually doesn't matter at all. Like, I just make it a policy on this channel to not really mention other creators unless it's in a positive light. And I think, obviously, you can get more views by, you know, bitching about people or responding to beef or whatever. But, I mean, it's just, like, do you want to be like a tabloid paper or do you want to, you know, do something that you can be proud of? That's the way I see it. And if we all strive to be a bit more positive on YouTube, it's going to be more welcoming and more useful for people coming in. But at the same time, I think the other issue is the kind of tribalism and the way everyone acts like what they're preaching is the only way to do fitness. It's the only valid option. You know, I've seen examples of this on my own comments. I made a video recently. I've made a series of videos recently talking about how much I really like high rep calisthenics as a tool for building muscle, strength, endurance in a really convenient way for me. And I've had some comments on those videos saying things like, I just watched a video telling me that the best way to build muscle is to do really heavy reps, you know, with lower volume, you know, lower frequency and lots of rest time and recovery. And that that's how you build strength gains. And then those people, a couple of people even said, I give up. Like, I'm getting contradictory advice from different fitness channels. So, you know, what should I do? Like, some people like get angry, like, dude, what are you talking about? You know, mechanical tension is the most important stimulus for muscle growth. You're misleading people. All of this comes down to a basic misunderstanding because the simple matter is, the simple fact of fitness is that it all works. You can, I'm not saying that high rep body weight training is the only way to train. I'm not even saying it's superior to training with very heavy weights and low repetitions. And I'm saying it's a convenient method for some people because you don't need equipment, because the recovery time is lower, etc. That's going to work for some people. So both these style of training actually work really well. It's just that they have slightly different mechanisms of action. They work through slightly different pathways and they slightly affect different things. Like one might be better for strength endurance. One might be better for max strength. So, yeah, if you lift really heavy weights, you're going to build more maximum strength. Of course, because you're lifting heavy stuff. It's going to be better for your bone density. It's going to force you to use correct technique. It's going to help with rate of force production, muscle fiber recruitment. You're engaging all of your biggest muscles in a compound way. And that mechanical tension is a fantastic stimulus for growth and strength. But then at the same time, the lightweight stuff, I've talked at length about how this works. Because when you go to failure, when you go to those higher rep ranges, you force your faster twitch muscle fiber to get involved. Once all of the slower twitch fiber has dropped out, according to Henneman's size principle, you create angiogenesis. You increase blood supply. You get metabolic stress. And the thing is, you can't tease these things apart. But this is like the curse of a little bit of knowledge. You know, you can't say, I'm just going to favor mechanical tension and not metabolic stress all the other way around. One is better than the other. Which seems to be what some people on YouTube are trying to say. It doesn't work like that. You're always going to have some metabolic stress. You're always going to have some mechanical tension. Obviously, when you're doing high repetitions, you've still got a lot of mechanical tension. Each rep, not as much. But cumulatively, still a good amount at the same time. Even the very process of cell swelling, muscle pump, etc. that comes from metabolic stress, sends some of the same signals via the same mechanoreceptors as heavyweight training. It is a form of mechanical tension. The pressure that caused on the muscle. Then there's things like occlusion and the way that, you know, the limited blood supply forces fast twitch muscle fibers to get involved. There's so many ways it works. But instead of worrying about which system is optimal or, you know, listening to your favorite content creator who told you that the only way to build strength is this certain way, you can just rest easy knowing that whatever you do, it's going to work. Likewise, bodybuilding style training. You know, isolating specific muscle groups, getting a nice stretch on them, creating muscle damage in this case. This works really well for growth too and having that nice in-between of good strength, but also slightly higher strength endurance because you are doing those higher 12 to 15 rep ranges. The only thing that's important is that you're doing it correctly, whichever method you choose. And that's almost always going to mean using good technique so that you are targeting the muscle you think you're targeting. You know, so you can feel that stimulus being created. And it means putting in consistent effort. You, of course, need to be consistent whichever method you choose. So it comes down to choosing which method is easiest for you to do consistently, whether that's a little bit often or a lot less frequently. It's going to depend on you whether you've got access to equipment in a gym or not. And it also comes down to just putting in the effort so that you are going to or near failure. All of these methods, you know, work best when you go to or near failure. When you take the muscle, you know, just to the point of being hard work. If you don't do that, you're not sending the stimulus for growth. If you do, then you are. And that way you can get anything to work. The other day I made a video and I found this really large, like, tree, like this huge branch that was practically a tree. I was balancing it on my hand. You know, I was talking about balance and the QL muscle, so it seemed appropriate. But I was able to turn that into a workout just because I was focusing on the shoulders. And I was doing it in this kind of, like, isolated, targeted manner. I wasn't taking long breaks. I kept repeating reps. And that allowed me to turn it into a workout. Once you learn what the stimulus feels like and how to get it, you can turn anything into a workout. Just as it doesn't matter whether or not you're doing the most optimal training, you can also get a good workout in with, you know, no equipment, no supplements. You don't need anything fancy. And whilst there are useful tools and things out there that can help you get into shape, don't let someone tell you that you absolutely need it or it's critical because you can just get into shape with literally just your body. The equipment that I find that is most useful is actually the equipment that gets out of the way the most. And that's your body, which is the only piece of equipment that matters, do its thing. Which brings me nicely to today's sponsor, Vivo Barefoot. I mean, talk about going back to basics. Vivo Barefoot are shoes that are designed to completely get out of your way and let your foot work the way it's supposed to. It does this by having a minimal sole so that you can feel the ground under your foot so that you can adjust and balance by having no massive heel so that you're not constantly in this position of your toes pointing downwards, your calf shortened. When I train in Vivo Barefoot, I feel lighter and more agile. Like I say, you don't need them. You can train with anything. And in fact, going completely barefoot is the ultimate option. But if you want a great pair of shoes, then I highly recommend Vivo Barefoot because they're also a great company. They're extremely comfortable and they last for ages. They're just well made. And like I say, you get peace of mind knowing that they're helping you to be fitter rather than ruining your health like some modern shoes, you know, to be frank, actually can do. So if you want to check them out, there's a link in the description down below. You can use code BIONEERVIVO20 to get 20% off a purchase. Either way, thanks so much to Vivo Barefoot for sponsoring this video. And now on with the show. Now I regret not bringing my fancy camera, but I thought as I'm making a video about going back to basics, it'd be cool to just bring a basic camera and just walk and talk. But yeah, as I was saying, you can turn anything into a workout once you know how to do it. So you don't need to worry about doing the most optimal method. And you don't need to attack people because they're doing things in a slightly different way than you would be. You don't need a PhD. This isn't rocket science. Just exercise so that you feel like it's working and do it enough. Because that's the thing. Like I say, you have to use good technique and feel it on the target muscles. You learn that by doing, you know. And if you start light and you're sensible, you're not going to injure yourself. So you don't need YouTube at all or anything to get started. You just need your bedroom and your body. Some push-ups at night time. And as you do it more, you'll learn how to target the pecs so that they grow. You'll learn what your body responds best to. Again, it's actually not complicated, even though the internet would have you believe otherwise. And this is where the other problem comes in. Because people aren't content with that. People who aren't in shape want to become pro bodybuilders or, you know, elite powerlifters. Because they see people doing these impossible lifts. And they see people with these insane roided out physiques. And they want to accomplish the same. And so they think they have to train in the most optimal manner. And that all the different studies matter. And all the beast does matter. Because, you know, it really matters whether you use this rest time or that rest time. Or whether you go to, you know, 8 RPE. Or whether you go to failure. That only becomes an issue if you're trying to become like a world-class bodybuilder. And it sounds absurd that I should have to say this. But you don't need to become a world-class bodybuilder. You don't need to build anywhere near as much muscle, again, as the internet would have you think, in order to look really good. Remember, you know, lighting and things makes a huge difference. Pump makes a huge difference. And for most people, just building some muscle and having fun with it is going to be more than ample. More than adequate to look really good and feel much better. If you don't use conventional lifts at the gym. And if you mix up your training. If you do things like lift logs. People are going to say, well, how are you going to measure your progress? How are you going to, you know, progressively overload and monitor your recovery and things? And again, the truth is that whilst all that stuff can help at the, you know, top levels of bodybuilding or powerlifting or whatever, you and I don't really need to worry about that. Because if you're putting in hard work and targeting, you know, each muscle, you know, twice a week. And taking it close to failure with something somewhat isolated. You will grow. You'll get stronger because you keep doing it. And then you'll need to do a bit more next time. It doesn't matter what precise form that takes. So you might grow slightly less than if you scientifically measured every little bit of progress. But again, that doesn't matter. You're going to build big biceps and big pecs. And if you're doing it in a way that's fun, then they're going to, you know, accumulate over time. And you're going to see gains that actually stick around, which are far better than scientific gains that, you know, you give up on after a couple of months. An analogy that I like to think of is like, let's say that you find football cool and you want to play football. That doesn't mean you have to follow all of the advice of a professional football player. You don't have to eat and train and recover, you know, like a professional football player. I'm trying to think of an example, but I know nothing about football. David Beckham, who I'm pretty sure doesn't do football anymore. But you basically, you don't need to train like them to enjoy football. And guess what? If you enjoy football regularly, even if you're not training like them, you're still going to get better at football. And for the average person, you can get way better than most people at football. You can get really, really good at football by just playing it in your garden, you know. And it's the same for fitness and strength. You know, science-based lifting has become a sort of controversial term at the moment. And I'm saying you don't need to worry about all that. But that's not to say that science-based lifting is bad or stupid. It's just that we don't need to get so angry either way. You can learn the science because it's interesting. Because clearly, if you're into fitness, you've got some interest in human biology and performance. And you can integrate and try it. But at the same time, you don't need to fret about it because it is just extra. And the thing to remember is that everything is science-based lifting. If you're training and it's working, right, then it's science. You know, there is some biology behind that. You know, it's not magic. So it must be science. Then, like I say, maybe try to not only worry about building muscle and looking big, but focus on fitness too. Because that's my other pet peeve is the way that online, it seems like the only part of fitness that matters is building muscle. When actually, that's like one small part of it. Your endurance, your cardio, your mobility all matter just as much. The reason people think they can't train all these things at once is just because they're trying to take everything to these extremes. But if you just do a little bit of cardio, you know, try and walk a bit more. If you do a little bit of stretching in the evenings. And if you find a form of training you can stick at that you enjoy. Like, if your goal and your interest is genuinely fitness and not looking like, you know, a roided out freak. Then that's actually a way more sensible way to go. So to me, you know, if you want to go to the extremes of fitness. That doesn't mean being able to do a ridiculous lift or being able to take your top off and, you know, make people scream and faint. It means being able to do multiple things well with minimal pain without getting tired. You know, that's fitness and none of the rest of it really matters at all. And for that reason as well, actually, then just doing a sport is often one of the very best things you can do. Especially because it does so much else, you know, like balance, stability, explosiveness, etc. But to bring it all back around, I said that we need to get back to basics. Then I said a whole bunch of stuff. The way you get back to basics with fitness is to stop worrying about what the most optimal method is. Stop worrying about people arguing online. You know, read the studies out of interest, but don't change your training every two minutes because of them. And just find something that appeals to you. Whatever training modality that may be. Whether it's kettlebells, whether it's calisthenics, high rep calisthenics. Whether it's bodybuilding, powerlifting. Whether you just want to do martial arts. Whatever the case may be. Find some exercises you like. And then just start bashing them out regularly. Try and focus on it stimulating the muscle. Feel it actually working. Be consistent. Put in the effort. And if you find yourself falling off the wagon, then instead of trying something new, ask yourself how you can change your approach to better suit your lifestyle. What was it that made you not want to do it that day? And how can you mitigate that next time? I've had success with all these training styles. I've done bodybuilding. I've lifted heavy. I like kettlebells. I like calisthenics. At the moment, I'm doing a lot more high rep calisthenics. Because I'm a parent. I don't have much time. And because it lets me focus more on my skills training at the moment. That's what's working for me. And I've seen great results from it, which I've been sharing with you guys. And yeah, don't stress too much about the drama. Watch it if you find it interesting. I personally find it extremely depressing. There's plenty of really good YouTube channels out there on fitness. The Stone Circle, Fitness FAQs, Bodyweight Warrior, Jack's Blade, Grant Stephens, of course. There's just loads more out there I haven't mentioned. Mark Wildman. You know, go and check them out. Just sharing information they find useful. Sharing their methods. No ego. And then just integrate the stuff that you find interesting and want to give it a go. So yeah, like I say, I think we need to get back to basics with fitness. Stop arguing about the pettiest little things. And just realise we can train anywhere with anything. And don't let anyone tell you otherwise.