 This video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around after the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. I think it's probably fair to say that caffeine is the most popular performance-enhancing drug in the world. Many of us use it every single day in order to feel more awake and alert, to get us up in the mornings. Many of us use it in the gym, in massive doses, to help us get better workouts. And for the most part, it seems to work. But is caffeine really the total win without caveat that we tend to assume it is? Well, when you look at it a bit more deeply, it turns out probably not. Which pains me as much as you because I love my caffeine. But it actually turns out that in some cases, taking extra caffeine for performance could be the very worst thing that you can do. We should start by looking at precisely how caffeine affects us and what it does. So throughout the day, a neurotransmitter called adenosine builds up in the brain. This neurotransmitter causes us to feel groggy and tired by inhibiting the activity of brain cells. This is one of the factors that contributes to the weight of sleep that makes us feel as though we need to hit the hay. Caffeine mimics this adenosine molecule as a similar structure and so it's a very simple and effective way to get rid of it. In other words, it prevents adenosine from having its usual effect by taking its place. This is how caffeine can help us to feel more awake and alert by reducing that substance that makes us feel tired. But something important to understand about the brain is that nothing happens in isolation. You cannot only change one neurotransmitter, there are always downstream effects. Same goes for hormones, same goes for everything else. In this case, we do not only reduce adenosine activity, we also increase other excitatory neurotransmitters, ones that light the brain up like a Christmas tree, things like glutamate, cortisol and adrenaline, by preventing adenosine from binding and thereby increasing neuronal activity across the brain and specifically in certain brain regions. Caffeine has the knock-on effect of causing other excitatory neurotransmitters to get released in all of that activity. But suffice to say that these effects make you feel more alert and more switched on, and this confesably helps you to perform better at work and even improve learning through enhanced long-term potentiation. And this aids with gym performance too, because now you're in a more sympathetic state, a more fight-or-flight state, rather than rest and digest. You'll find that it's easier to recruit more motor units with a stronger neural drive. And this is why caffeine supplementation prior to workouts can help you to increase your maximal strength by anything from 2 to 7%, depending on the study. But that's not all, because sympathetic activation increases pain tolerance and heart rate, if you're running from a lion in the wild you don't want to be feeling too much pain, this also improves muscular endurance, such that you can perform more reps in a set. You might find you can focus more on the movements, this might help you to create more of a mind-muscle connection. It increases heart rate and gets the blood to your muscles faster, and finally, if you're feeling tired and little motivation, you might find that caffeine can give you that extra push to get you into the gym, thereby improving adherence and long-term outcomes. So talking increased focus, better memory, more wakefulness, more strength at the gym, what's the catch? What's the problem here? Well, what I've essentially just described is really stress in a cup, and as you know, stress isn't always a good thing. For example, increased activation of your motor units, your muscle fibres, is of course a really good thing at the gym if you want to lift more. But this also comes along with increased co-contraction of antagonist muscles. That is to say that the tension is kind of global throughout the body, so the muscle that you want to use is contracting, but so is the one that's fighting against the movement that you're trying to achieve. This isn't enough to cause an issue with something like a bench press, for example, where it's all just about strength, but it is enough to make you a little bit stiffer, a little bit more awkward when you're trying to perform movements that require flow or agility, when you're doing parkour or gymnastics or anything like that. Hey guys, editing Adam from the future here. I just wanted to make sure I'm being very precise by saying there isn't actually direct evidence for increased global tension or co-contraction as a direct result of caffeine use. This is my interpretation, and I don't want to make any bold, unfounded claims. To be more specific, caffeine can increase motor noise, and we see this with the onset of slight tremors and reduced performance in tasks requiring a high level of dexterity, dose dependent, of course. Large doses can create tremors. Caffeine can increase calcium availability, which can, yes, improve contraction strength, but also increases passive stiffness and slows muscle relaxation. Suffice to say, there are mechanisms through which this can harm fluid movement at high doses, and depending on the individual, potentially. I'll link my article with studies in the description. Caffeine can also become an issue for big lifts. For example, when it comes to the yips or the jitters, anyone who's ever tried to go for a really big lift will know that this can be a surprisingly psychological endeavour. It's very easy to get in your own head and choke as you worry about dropping the weight on yourself, blowing out of the knee, or whatever else. Caffeine can obviously make this worse, and this is only exacerbated in activities that do require a lot more focus. Did you know that being very stressed actually reduces activation of the prefrontal cortex? I've heard extreme stress sometimes described as a prefrontal lobotomy. It's a little extreme to say that caffeine would have an equivalent effect, but it certainly wouldn't help. So if you're feeling nervous before an interview or a presentation, or even a sporting event like darts, then having a big jug of coffee could tip you over the edge and leave you grasping for what you had planned to say. Overanalyzing your movements can also be detrimental to performance. This is one of the reasons why many of us will find down the pub we experience that U-shaped bell curve when we drink alcohol. For me personally, for example, a couple of drinks in, I actually do much better at darts and pool, and then it starts to go downhill. So I don't recommend caffeine as a tool for getting through tests and interviews. I definitely don't recommend it as a tool for parkour sessions. This is something that Liam Ellis actually made a great video about ages ago. I'll link that in the description. But in reality, the pros probably outweigh the cons for powerlifting and bodybuilding, at least when it comes to performance on your specific lifts. Because I do take issues with the notion of using caffeine to get through a workout that you don't want to do. If you feel tired and sluggish and not capable of giving it 110% at the gym, well here's a crazy thought. Maybe you should just listen to that signal from your body. So I'm just back from a gym session and I'm only on one cup of tea that I had this morning with my breakfast. We can then look back at the workout and think where would caffeine have been helpful and where wouldn't it? So I started off doing incline dumbbell pressing. Last night I had like four or five hours sleep. As my own fault, I stayed up late because I got enthusiastic writing this script actually. I also did some plant training yesterday so I wasn't coming at it at my best. Now maybe having some extra caffeine, maybe a pre-workout or a strong coffee in the morning could have helped me to get like one more rep. But then we've got to go back and revisit that. I was over tired, probably under recovered. Why would I use caffeine to push myself to do another rep? Now the only scenario where I think there would be any use at all is if I had a meet or a competition or something and I really had to perform my very best, maybe if I'm filming with a crew or something. But under any other circumstances, I just don't think that's a good idea. And especially not in the long term, repeatedly not allowing yourself to fully recover, not listening to what your body is actually telling you. Later on in the workout, I did some roundhouse kicks and some punching. This was already again not my best because I'd already done dumbbell curls and repressing, which you shouldn't do before your martial arts technique if you want it to be clean. You know, I was rigid and stiff already. But again, caffeine would only have made me far more stiff and rigid. So again, it's very individual but there's definitely enough of a limit. And I think taking 200 milligrams right before a workout. I mean, ignoring the fact that it can give you headaches, it can cause anxiety, jitters, stomach pain. I just don't think it's a really good idea in most cases. That said, a coffee or a cup of tea for a lot of people can be a useful thing. You really need to think about your individual biology and the circumstances. And between rounds, if your heart rate is really high, you've got to try and bring it back down so you can regain that fluidity so that you can go again. This is going to be harder if you've got stimulants in your system ramping up your heart rate. Maybe you'll get stronger a little quicker, but it doesn't strike me as being super sustainable. And really, what's the rush? Another effect we see in a fight or flight state is tunnel vision. We find that our vision narrows when we lose awareness of the periphery. From an evolutionary perspective, this serves to keep us focused on the dangerous situation at hand and remove its distractions. But you don't need me to tell you how this could be a bad thing in many athletic endeavors, where you in fact need to be aware of what's going on around you, tracking your teammates, the opposition, the position of the ball. This is further exacerbated by the fact that caffeine use, in fact, may negatively impact working memory. I've talked about working memory a lot on this channel. It's essentially the little notepad our brain uses to store information temporarily while we work on it. We use this during calculations or when trying to remember a phone number while looking for a pen. It's not stuff that you'll remember in a week's time, it's just stuff you need to hold in your mind for a few moments. Working memory is closely related to focus as we need to focus internally to keep that information present. This is why in lab settings, caffeine may sometimes be observed to aid with working memory performance with things like dual-endback tests. And it's why it might well be useful for certain types of activity, examination, etc. However, working memory is about much more than that outside of the lab. We are constantly holding on to multiple forms of mental constructs and updating them in real time. In conversation, we use working memory to remember what someone has said to us so far, and to continually update that information as they say more. We use it to maintain a general map of our surroundings in a new location without having to constantly look at them. That information is fluid and it needs constantly updating. In real-world settings, we don't have the luxury to sit still and maintain our image of the world around us. During sports, we may need to do this whilst running, planning and tracking a ball. If arousal narrows your focus too much, you may well lose that information that you are trying to hold on to. Likewise, if we focus our attention internally with too much vigilance, we may miss information from our senses that should have been integrated into an updated model. To do this efficiently, we need the right amount of arousal. Not too much and not too little. This is likely why studies now show that caffeine can actually impair working memory function in specific circumstances and in some domains. It seems especially bad for spatial working memory, perhaps for many of the reasons that I've discussed. These effects may well be worse in some individuals than others. As someone who's very wired, I find it doesn't take much for me to feel overstimulated, to the point that if I have too much coffee, I can end up feeling floaty and detached from the world around me. Starey. Turns out I'm not alone in this, but it took me way too long to recognise the pattern, that the reason I was spacey was because I'd had too much caffeine. But of course, if you're someone who's not as excitable, you might find that using a little caffeine is just what you need to be brought up to a baseline. While we're getting into the weeds of cognitive performance, we should also consider that high anxiety and excessive arousal are anathemas to creativity, at least according to the research and from personal experience. We come up with more creative ideas when we allow the mind to wonder and form new connections between disparate ideas. This can't happen when we're laser-focused. Then there's the fact that elevated dopamine in the thalamus, one potential indirect outcome of caffeine consumption, can increase signal filtering and network switching. Increasing dopamine in this area could thereby increase cognitive rigidity, and the filtering out of potentially interesting ideas not deemed salient to the current situation. This goes some way to explaining why caffeine may help to improve convergent thinking, but may also impair divergent thinking. So taking your own neuro-type and the situation into account, you might choose to use caffeine only for tasks that require a lot of focus and not much creativity, maybe inputting data into a spreadsheet. But the thing is, increasing focus using caffeine means artificially shifting into that more aroused state. In some cases, this may hamper your ability to then downshift as the situation demands. Had you used mental discipline to direct your attention to the task, by maybe reminding your system why it's important, you'd still be able to increase your attention and focus, but then also be able to ramp down that signal as needed to relax on your break. In other words, caffeine might make it harder for you to flow in and out of that focused, anxious state. That flow is what true cognitive performance is all about. It's adaptability, especially given that many tasks require a combination of seemingly opposite states and cognitive skills. Consider inventing a story, for example. This is a task that requires you to be able to use your brain to understand what is happening, and also to be able to create a story. This is a task that requires you to think creatively, while also holding all the characters' information and world building in your mind, updating that information as you do so, using focus. So it requires divergent creative thinking, but also attention and vigilance. And while divergent thinking is useful for exploring crazy ideas, it's convergent thinking that helps us to pick only the ideas that are present in a narrative structure that would be appealing, that are logical. It's just like the world of fitness, where people insist on separating things like strength and endurance, like we can have one without the other, like there are any kind of strict categories defining these labels. This is short-sighted, as, broadly speaking, the body uses all systems at all times. There are no categories and labels, it's all spectrums. Techniques can be learned that will allow you to increase your focus and to relax as needed. Cognitive restructuring, meditation, stress inoculation training, and simply being more aware of your own mental state is a great first step. Look, I'm not saying never use caffeine, that it has no place. I love coffee, personally, and I often feel great after one cup in the morning. We've seen that it has a lot of benefits and there are more that we haven't discussed here. There's a good amount of evidence that it's neuroprotective, for example. But it's time to stop thinking of it as purely a cognitive enhancer. As ever, the brain, when functioning in a healthy manner, is balanced the way it is for a reason. I've noticed this when hearing people talk about the use of neurotropics or smart drugs. People using supplements to try and improve their cognitive performance often expect there to be some kind of noticeable, tangible effect. They want to feel more alert and more buzzing. Truth is, though, that's not what optimal cognitive performance should feel like. You shouldn't feel on, you shouldn't feel different, you shouldn't feel wired. You should just feel like you on a good day. And this is why a lot of these different things, a lot of these different supplements and nootropics are actually doing more harm than good. As ever, the brain, when functioning in a healthy manner, is balanced the way it is for a reason. Just like the body, true mastery comes from turning your focus inwards, not looking for shortcuts. And unless you're trying to smash your PR on the bench press, most people can safely steer clear of pre-workouts packed with 200 milligrams and more of caffeine. They are, in my opinion, mostly a scam. And then, of course, there are the individual differences and the different situations. So just be more considered in the way you use caffeine. Use it with more intention. Let me know in the comments what you think, guys. Do you like caffeine? Does any of this make sense to you? Have you ever felt yourself feeling swimmy after drinking too much caffeine? Do you use it at the gym or, like me, does it make you want to shit yourself? Let me know. Let's talk about it. If you enjoyed this video and found it interesting, then please leave a like and share it around. That helps me out immensely. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one, guys. And I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. For those of you that don't know, Squarespace is a website-building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get started with their own website. You can do this in a matter of minutes by using tools that guide you through the process or by selecting from one of their many ready-made templates and then customizing them to your heart's content. But either way, the result is a website that's ready to go in minutes that looks highly modern, responsive, beautiful and professional. In fact, many of the biggest brands on the web use Squarespace. And you can then add as many different features as you want, and there's a wide, wide range of features to choose from. There's e-commerce features for selling products. There's appointment scheduling for selling services online. There's social media integration and integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies and likes. There's search engine optimization so that you can make sure people can find your website on Google. There's analytics so that you can see who's visiting your website, what's working, where your traffic's coming from. I think Squarespace are fantastic. They're also a brilliant sponsor who have been so loyal to this channel over the years. I can't thank them enough. So if you want to find out more, then go to Squarespace.com. When you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace.com forward slash pioneer and you'll get 10% off a website or domain. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one, guys. I'll see you next time. Bye for now.