This video is sponsored by Squarespace, the website building platform that makes it extremely easy to get a website up and running. Stick around till the end of the video to learn more about Squarespace and a special deal they're making available through my channel. Guys, I just read this great article in Men's Health magazine all about science-based training and whether you can really outthink hard work. It was by some really smart guy, just so well written. I think his name was Adam Shannitzky. Seriously though, you should check it out. It was really fun to do some proper journalism again. For those of you who don't know, I was actually a full-time writer for many years, and there are a bunch of other great articles in the issue. I thought I'd use this as a jumping off point to relay some of those points and to discuss the trials and tribulations of science-based training a little bit further because it's a very hot topic on YouTube fitness right now. Some people saying that science-based training obviously is the way to go because science. And other people saying that it's overhyped, misguided, and often just a form of marketing. So, in this video, I'm going to deconstruct the argument, and I'm going to point out a contradiction that's at the very heart of science-based training. It's a tension that essentially makes it impossible for us to base our training precisely on studies and research, which isn't to say that science-based training is useless and that science has no place in training. We'll get to it, okay? We'll get there. So, what I always used to say was that science just means proof. Science is about testing theories, hypothesis in order to find out if they're accurate. So science-based training would make sense in this context. You can't say, "I don't believe in science." Because what you're really saying is, "I don't believe in proof." And I mean, to each their own. But when that science deniialism motivates someone to reject, say, life-saving medicine in favor of alternative remedies, it can actually be very dangerous. Worse if you start convincing other people of that viewpoint. And the same goes for supplements aimed at gymgoers or exciting new training methods. We need the science to tell us not to waste our money on things like BCAAs or turquestone. For the most part, we can't say anything completely conclusive, but we can look at studies and we can say, "Hey, maybe let's wait for more research before we spend our money." That's a good thing. That's where science-based training makes a lot of sense. I mean, maybe we shouldn't need studies to tell us not to take random things off the shelves because someone told us it was good, but apparently we kind of do. Likewise, science tells us that there's no such thing as spot reduction. It tells us that you can't just train your stomach to lose stomach fat. It doesn't work that way. And conversely, science-based training tells us when something does actually work. For example, we know that occlusion training, that's restricting blood flow to a particular muscle as you train it, can actually be beneficial for seeing greater gains using lighter weight. And this has a lot of use, for example, if you're someone who can't lift a lot of weight, if you're older, for example. And this is what science-based training sets out to do. It lets us separate the weak from the chaff, call out the charlatans, and find the methods that work versus the ones that don't. And it lets us discover new cuttingedge strategies to potentially gain even greater performance. So, what's not to like? Well, to play devil's advocate, you could say it was science-based training that introduced us to BCAAs and turquestone in the first place. You know, someone reads a study about a supplement, maybe they take it out of context, maybe it's an animal study, maybe it's not a great sample size, and then they just run with it and say this one study is now enough to prove that you should buy my product. That's not to say that the studies on those supplements were bad. It's to say that somebody saw an opportunity to market something because a study was out there. They took that information and ran with it. Cue the sweeping claims and the countless expensive supplements. And this is the problem with science-based training. It's not the studies themselves. It's not the idea of using science to guide our training. It's the way that those studies are applied and overapplied. So you can't have a problem with science as such. If you're building muscle and getting stronger, then you must be doing some science. You know, we don't build muscle through magic. So it must be science. The problem is using science as a marketing tool. But I would go further than that to say that almost anytime you refer to a study and say this means you should train this way, you are misapplying that science. Because in theory, science-based training training can show us the optimal angle to perform incline dumbbell presses for upper pec activation. It can show us the ideal number of sets and reps for hypertrophy. It can show us the ideal amount of time to rest between sets and the optimal amount of volume we need before we see diminishing returns. Except can it though? Because like I say, actually most studies can't be used to guide your training in any definitive kind of way. And it's not for any of the reasons that most videos critiquing science-based training focus on. It's not because of poor experimental design. It's not because of insufficient sample sizes. It's not because so many studies are based on animals. And it's not because of inherent bias in the studies. I mean, all those things are problems. Even when a study is designed perfectly, it still can't be applied in this way. So why not? Because of something called moderating variables. To understand these, we need to quickly brush up on the types of variables to see how moderating variables differ from confounding variables or independent variables. If that sounds very dry, I'm going to try and make it as straightforward as possible. So, variables are the conditions and factors that can be adjusted and measured in our experiments. So, let's imagine for example that a study shows that low reps build more muscle than high reps. The study takes two groups and measures their quads both before and after the study. During the study, the participants are prescribed leg extensions for either three sets of five or three sets of 30. That's the intervention. In this study, the rep range is the independent variable, the variable that we are adjusting in order to measure its effect. Quad growth is the dependent variable, the variable being affected that is showing us an effect. Participants from both groups are matched as easily as possible so that they have a similar age, similar average experience, etc. The researchers also need to control for other factors, making sure that the participants use a similar range of motion in their reps, use similar rest times, use a similar tempo. If the participants in one group, for example, were using a full range of motion and the others were all using a short range of motion, partial reps, just through sheer coincidence, that would be a confounding variable. So, you could no longer say with certainty that the observed outcome was the result of the rep ranges alone. It's unlikely this would happen, but it's possible, and so you can't rule it out unless you control for those variables. So to prevent this from happening, researchers need to teach participants to use full range of motion in both groups during the study, removing the confounder. So range of motion would have been a confounding variable. You know, one that you don't want that's going to mess up your results. But now it's a controlled variable instead, one that we're aware of and we're controlling. A lot of studies do make mistakes like this. Arguably, most will miss some of the most important confounding variables and will therefore have some limited usefulness. And this is one of the critiques we see most often. I mean, how many of these studies strictly control range of motion and tempo and every other aspect of training? They don't. And that's one of the reasons people critique them. But like I said, that's kind of missing the point. And that's where all this discourse around science-based training is just going round and round in circles. Because let's say that the study did control for all those variables. It was really welldesigned. Then a science-based fitness creator might see the study and make a video with the title, "Science finally proves that low rep Training is superior." You can't argue with science after all. And anyone looking at the study and how watertight it is would be forced to come to the same conclusion. But that would be a mistake because the very act of removing the confounding variables means that you're also removing potential moderators, which is a variable that can alter the result. More precisely, a variable that could alter the direction or the strength of the effect shown. Put it this way, what if hypothetically low rep training works best with a large range of motion. High rep training works best with a short range of motion. The study as designed would never tell us this even though it has by all accounts been designed well. And so somebody might be training high rep with a shorter range of motion and getting great results wondering why a science influencer is telling them that their method doesn't work. It's like yes under these conditions you get this result but if you do them slightly differently or slightly differently or slightly differently you get different results. So you haven't really proven anything about rep ranges. You've only proved something about rep ranges under very specific conditions, and not everyone's going to train that way. You haven't trained the myriad other options and combinations. And it gets way more muddy because there are way more potential moderating variables that would once again change up the results. What if, for example, the researchers had chosen to target a different muscle group, say the biceps. Different muscle groups have different leverage profiles. They contain variable ratios of fast twitch fibers to slow twitch fibers. So, it's very conceivable that this might affect the results. Here, muscle group selection is another pertinent moderating variable. How about tempo? Maybe high rep training works best with a faster tempo. If you don't control for that in the original study, then tempo could be a confounding variable. But if you do control for it, now you don't know whether changing your tempo would have altered the results, which would be useful information. Now, you've only proven that low rep training works best with your quadriceps using a full range of motion and a slow tempo, which means that you might be missing out on an even better way to grow your legs by using a higher rep range with a fast tempo and a short range of motion. And maybe that only works on certain muscle groups. Again, this is with a well-designed study. They could say this is where you get like a review of lots of studies, but you'd need countless millions of studies to cover every possible scenario. What if doing both highrep training and low rep training used simultaneously would result in the very best results of all? If this is true, and it probably is if you ask me, then none of the studies comparing the two will ever discover the most powerful option for building muscle at all. And just studies like this don't tend to exist. They're always comparing this to that. I think it's a kind of human tendency to like to categorize everything neatly, to try and compare everything, rank everything, which isn't how biology works. Biology is spectrums. It's multiffactorial. We can't just take two things and compare them and say job done. It's better to understand the mechanisms of how they work and to infer results and then test them that way. And that's before we've considered all of the really obvious stuff like individual differences, age, sex, experience, genetic predispositions. Again, this is stuff we should be controlling for. But by controlling for it, we don't see how different groups might benefit from different types of training. And what if it matters the order that you do things in? What if training with high repetitions originally will increase vascularization and work capacity so that you then get better results from low rep training? What if switching the order around gets the best results? Again, none of this is going to be borne out in these kinds of studies. By making studies watertight, we also make them far less nuanced and thereby not particularly useful, at least not for guiding and designing workouts. But to be clear, the researchers are not at fault here. The fault lies with the influencers and the articles that proclaim method X is better than method Y. This is never the intended purpose of the research. Not if it's done well by good researchers. Most credible scientists will just roll their eyes at such sweeping claims. Their conclusions don't end with you should train this way. They end with here's something else we need to study. Training variables are not better or worse. Rather, their effectiveness is moderated by countless interacting factors. The most interesting of which are actively removed, ironically, in good experimental design. It's a kind of moderator confounder tension, if you want to give it a name. So, if all that's true, then what are we to do? Do we just throw out science-based training and just trust the bros? You're not better off asking the guy down the gym who doesn't know what he's doing. As I discussed at the start of this article, there are scenarios where studies and research can be really useful to help us navigate these murky waters to test claims and to get an idea of things that we can try. Moreover, reading the studies can be really interesting. I talk a fair amount of science on this channel because I love learning about human performance and how the body works. And crucially understanding a bit about the nervous system and about chemistry and about biomechanics that helps me to better implement my ideas and to better assess the studies by understanding what's actually going on and what might have been missed. My degree was in psychology. We did a lot of neuroscience and learning about the nervous system has actually massively helped me to understand and interpret these studies. But when it comes to your actual training, there is another deep truth that most people just completely neglect as they get lost in the weeds, as they get lost in the argument of science versus bro science. And that is we don't need to optimize. These studies are aimed at top level athletes and coaches who want to squeeze out 1% extra performance in a very narrow field. Most likely, they're aimed at rehabilitating people with very specific injuries and conditions, and they're intended to add to a general body of knowledge to be referenced for future research. They're not meant to be dictating what we do at the gym. And as I've said in a previous video, you can get very good results with high reps, low reps, rapid cadence, slow cadence, heavyweight, lightweight. You know this is true because of the countless people arguing for each method as though their lives depended on it because they got good results because some of the people they coached got good results. Your job is to find the training style that works best for you individually. That means what you respond to based on your genetics, but it also means what you're able to implement, what you actually enjoy, which is ultimately far more important. You know, it doesn't matter if something's 1% more effective if you hate it and you're never going to do it. For me, the key has always been finding a way to feel the stimulus. With practice, you learn to feel what's working through experience. Sometimes that means getting more of a stretch in a movement. Sometimes it means getting more of a pump with high reps. And with experience, you can make nearly anything work. When someone tells you that your rest periods are wrong, and slightly longer rest periods would be optimal. How about you don't worry about that until you stop getting results? When you're competing for Mr. Olympia, then you can worry about the perfect angle for your incin dumbbell press. For everyone else, just doing something's going to build muscle. And maybe you could be doing it 1% faster, but who cares? This is a big distinction I've been trying to make on the channel lately. The difference between fitness and niche bodybuilding. If you want to get fitter, and that includes getting a really decent physique, you don't need to worry about any of this. Most people just need a little bit more muscle and a little less fat. Playing sports, rock climbing, swimming, any of those things will do it. You don't need to worry about the optimal rest time. If you want a training program that is designed to be fun, something you can stick with, that will get you the stimulus to grow, but also focuses on other things like endurance and mobility, etc., which is so often left out by all this discourse, then you might want to check out my brand new training program, Superfunctional Training 3, Super Mover. It's built around movement. So, doing cool stuff and having fun exercising, but also getting a great rip physique in the process. Because when you move and you challenge yourself, you get a more athletic physique. It's designed to be accessible for anyone from beginners to experts. Doesn't require any special equipment. Comes with a 200 plus page ebook, 26 instructional videos, loads of exercise cards, really cool anime illustrations to make you feel like you're an action hero when you're training. And people are really liking it. It's been really successful. A huge thank you to everyone who's already supported it. But either way, don't worry quite so much about optimal, about optimizing, and just focus on doing things you enjoy that are going to improve your physique and improve your health, which is obviously more important. As I said in my Men's Health article, the only results that matter are yours, and the rest is really just noise. So, hope you found this video useful and interesting, guys. If you did, then please share it around and leave a like. Let me know in the comments what you think. Do you subscribe to Science-Based Fitness? Do you not? or do you think the whole argument is missing the point as I kind of do? Thanks again for watching this video guys and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy to get your own website up and running genuinely in minutes. You can do this by selecting from one of their many ready-made templates and then customizing them to your heart's content. Alternatively, you can use their new AI tools, which will walk you through the process of creating something completely bespoke, and you won't need any coding knowledge either way. Once you've got your basic website ready in minutes, you can then start customizing it to your heart's content. There are countless endless features that you might need that you can add very simply and easily. Things like e-commerce for selling products online, things like appointment scheduling if you want to sell a service online. You've got search engine optimization to help people find your content on Google. You've got beautiful formatting tools for making really attractive blog posts, a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes, analytics so you can see what's working and who's coming to your site, and so much more. If you want to learn more, then go to squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/bioner and you'll get 10% off a website or domain. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.