By the way, guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around till the end of the video to learn more about Squarespace and a special deal they're making available through my channel. One thing I really love about fitness and functional training in particular is constantly being able to explore and research new ideas and new things. So, at the moment, what I'm researching is called Jean Wang. Probably said that awfully. Or standing tree or stand like a tree as we used to call it in Tai Chi. It's basically a practice that comes from Chiong, the internal martial art designed to build health and control from the inside out. And it looks like you're just standing completely still. In fact, it hardly looks like an exercise at all. As such, it's easy to discard as being pointless and maybe just for older people you see practicing Tai Chi in the park. But this is a serious misconception. When I used to practice this at Tai Chi, I would be shaking by the end. And when you understand what's actually happening, you realize that this is a practice that can build the kind of ultimate body control and mind muscle connection that allows for insane performance and feats and just really healthy and optimal biomechanics. If you think it looks easy, then try holding this position for an hour. You'll be shaking and sweating by the end. Or in fact, just start with 10 or 20 minutes and you'll probably feel the same way. To do it, you basically want to stand with your feet about shoulder width apart, slightly narrower, feet pointing slightly outwards, about 30°, and your arms raised to shoulder height, with the elbows slightly bent and lower, and the palms pointing inwards. So, it should look as though you're holding like a large beach ball. Try to imagine like a string pulling your head up to keep your neck nice and elongated, but tuck the chin so that it's parallel with the ground. Keep your eyes slightly closed, slightly open, somewhere in between, and rest your tongue on the roof of your mouth. But again, go and find someone who really knows what they're talking about to show you how to do the technique properly. I'm still very much learning. You want to sit now gently down into the movement so there's a slight bend in the knees. Imagine you have ping pong balls beneath your armpits and in your elbows and knees, and you're trying to gently keep them in place. That visualization can help you to maintain the correct posture. Again, I'm not an expert on this and so I highly recommend going out there and looking for other videos. But the reason I wanted to make this video and share what I'm learning is because when I learned this in Tai Chi, I didn't really understand what it was that we were doing. I didn't really appreciate it at the time. Granted, I think I was about 18, but coming back to it now with a better understanding of biomechanics and biology and fitness, I can appreciate just how deep this goes. So I want to highlight that to you rather than giving a tutorial just so that you can then go and pursue it and learn more yourself. And of course I'll be making more content on it in future. So the aim is to maintain the position with minimal tension. This is the first part of the magic in quotation marks. By maintaining this posture without holding tension, you learn how to use just the right amount of effort throughout the body so that you're not expending and wasting energy. You should also be feeling for areas of stored tension that you normally wouldn't be aware of. Maybe in your shoulders, maybe in your hips. And you should look for imbalances or uneven posture. Maybe you're twisted slightly to the left or to the right. Maybe one side is tense and the other isn't. Especially as you begin to get tired and notice yourself shaking, these sorts of issues can then creep in. After enough practice, it's said that maintaining this kind of alignment, balance, and relaxation become second nature. at which point you'll be able to hold this posture for huge amounts of time and you'll be more aware of the movement of your body at all times. I am still so misaligned. I'm already noticing just greater awareness of my own imbalances and posture which I can then carry over into other movements and hopefully they'll help to address some of the issues that still plague me. The result hopefully being that you can move with perfect alignment and biomechanics, greater awareness of your body and less energy wasted. You know, it's so easy to hear about things like internal martial arts and just write it off as woowoo when actually the really sensible way to think about it is just kind of a meditation that turns your attention inwards not in a mystical sense but just to your own body to your interception. So you're sensing where your muscles are, where your posture is, what it's doing, possibly even other aspects of your physiology. When we focus on them, we become more aware of them. And if we can then bring that awareness into our movement practice, we're just going to be healthier, stronger, and better movers all around. It's not magic. It actually makes an awful lot of sense. Oh, but it wouldn't win in MMA. Shut up. The more I've delved into functional training, the more I've realized how important this stuff is. I'm uncovering my own limitations, compensations, tensions. Simply being mindful of these things can be transformative. Now's your chance to fix these things and to make new habits. Are your ribs flared? Is your back rounded? Is your weight evenly distributed? We all carry issues like this and our performance is limited as a result. But what if you could simply learn to stand in a relaxed and structurally sound manner, to root into the floor, to breathe unimpeded even under stress, to move fluidly without resistance, to let the body work as it should. And this is precisely what these practices are for, for building the structure ready for martial application and reaping the health benefits that come from that. Meanwhile, this is a brilliant option for meditation too. And that's because you need to maintain focus on the body in order to maintain the posture and not collapse. This empties the mind, but it prevents you from letting your mind completely wander, which is an issue many of us face when we start out with meditation. And in my case, as a busy parent, it also prevents me falling asleep, cuz that's what so often happens when I try to meditate. It may go even deeper than this, though, too. Standing and breathing with proper posture can improve healthy organ function. But more than this, bringing attention to the function of the organs may even aid in their function. If this sounds far-fetched, there's actually some evidence to support it. And I've known for a while that focusing the mind on things like the heart rate can help to improve our control over it. Go and see my video on interception for more. This might even help with control of the fascia. Now, I'm not about to tell you that this absolutely works or how to do it. I'm just saying that it's another layer that could be worth exploring, especially through a modern lens. And I think if we think ofqi in this sense as a visualization tool to direct our focus, it all makes a lot more sense. Originally, the tree posture actually comes from the towist practice of Dao Yin. However, it was then folded into Shaolin Kung Fu as part of Chiong. But today, I think there's a place for developing this kind of practice in modern training. We should all be developing our structure, alignment, and interception for sports, for performance, and for daily moving. So, hope you found this one interesting, guys. If you did, please consider leaving a like and sharing it around. Subscribe if you want to hear what results I get from this. Or if you'd like to explore other exciting movements with me. And of course, if you want to learn about all sorts of other interesting ways to train, then check out my ebook and training program, Superfunctional Training 2.0. Link in the description down below. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one and bye for now. By the way, guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. So Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it very easy for anyone to get a website up and running within minutes. A website can be life-changing. It can promote your ideas. It can help you to create a business or to share your passions and your talents. Maybe start to earn a living from something you enjoy doing. For me personally, creating a website was the first step towards running this channel. So, I highly recommend that anyone do it. And with Squarespace, there's nothing stopping you because you can have a fully featured website up and running in a matter of minutes with no coding, with nothing complicated. Just makes the whole process streamlined and simple. You start either by choosing from a range of different templates and then customizing them to be exactly how you want, completely unique, or you can use the AI tools to have something built precisely to your specifications again in a matter of minutes. And from there, you can start adding features and plugins to get it doing everything you could possibly need. There's search engine optimization, which means you can get your website to the top of Google so more people find it. There's fully comprehensive e-commerce solutions, so you can sell products, track inventory, track shipments, etc. There's appointment scheduling if you want to sell a service. There's a fully integrated commenting system, social media integration, pretty much anything you could possibly need. If you want to find out more, then go to squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/bioner. Thanks once again to squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys and bye for now.