 So I've been accused of lying. Specifically, I've seen here on my channel, as well as elsewhere, people saying that I've lied about building my physique using higher-up calisthenics. And to that I say two things. Firstly, I never claimed that I built this physique using purely calisthenics. In fact, the whole ethos of this channel going back has always been to train cross-modally. But with that said, it is actually true that I built the majority of my physique early on using calisthenics. And it is true that I've barely been to the gym for the past year due to the demands of parenting and running a business, etc. I've had to switch back to using the higher-up calisthenics that I predominantly used at the start of my training journey. And actually at the very start, I saw gains. I saw myself get bigger, not smaller, and I've maintained that extra size since then. If you go back to the earliest videos on my channel, they're almost all about bodyweight training. And usually, high-repetition bodyweight training. Basically, for this one, just go lunge on each step. If you don't have anything to stand on, just tuck one foot behind the other one, and then go up on your tiptoes like so. And if you do, maybe 30 reps of that, I know it's a lot, but it's not very heavy. And that'll really start to burn your cart as well, be that for three sets. So when people say I didn't build my physique using higher-up calisthenics, it's kind of doubly annoying because A, I didn't say I did. And B, I've maintained it this way, and I sort of could have done. The internet is so annoying sometimes. I'm cool. I'm chill. But I do have a little bit more sympathy for that angle, because I understand where they're coming from. I saw comments saying things like, people have been doing the one-punch-man workout for years and seeing no results. And I get that. I can imagine that happening. And it's because it's not about specifically the exercises you're doing or the type of training you're doing. It's more about the way you do it and how effective you make it. And one of the key things about body weight training that I want to focus on in today's video, if you're doing it for building size, is that you want to be using partial reps, or at least something akin to partial reps, we'll get into it more in a moment. This is one of the keys to making this work. I'm going to show you the exact difference between, you know, higher-up push-ups that will build you muscle and higher-up push-ups that won't. I also want to carry it this as always by saying this isn't the only way to build muscle. It's not some optimal secret method that's going to build you more muscle than anything else. It's actually inferior to bodybuilding for putting on muscle size. Otherwise, that's what bodybuilders would do. It's inferior to powerlifting for building strength. But the reason that I'm sharing it, and the reason I think that this is really taken off and lots of people want to hear about it, is because it's so convenient and it builds you enough strength and enough size. You can do it in your front garden, you can do it in your living room, and you don't need to buy lots of equipment, you don't need to go to the gym, and you can do it really, really quickly. You're going to see that it doesn't take much to get rid of good stimulus. So come with me over to the bio-arena, which is the cool name for the square of cold concrete over here, and we're going to look at the difference between doing push-ups with partial rep ranges and full rep ranges, and why partials work well in this instance. Because also, just to caveat again, you have to be so careful these days. To caveat again, full range of motion is really important and useful for things like mobility, for things like strength through that full range of motion. It's all about using the right targeted system for the gains, for the results that you want to get. So anyways, come with me, enough waffling. Okay, so I'm going to show you now the difference between higher-up calisthenics, the work for building muscle, and higher-up calisthenics, that won't. So this is what a lot of people understandably think they should be doing if they want to build, you know, big pecs with push-ups. Proper form, arms closer together, lowering down, pushing up, locking out, lowering down, pushing up, locking out. That's a proper push-up. That's the kind of push-up that counts when you're trying to set records and things. What I'm recommending you do is widen your grip slightly and then bounce. Using far more momentum, using far more elastic recoil, going much faster, and I say, spreading your arms out. Let's start with spreading your arms out. The reason I'm spreading my arms out here is because I'm isolating my pecs a little bit more by doing so, taking some of the focus away from the triceps and slightly increasing the stretch, getting into a deeper stretch on the pecs. Some people are going to tell you already that this is a bad idea and that it's going to cause you to injure your shoulders. That's not correct. The problem is when you do your arms up here, when it's further than the T, as long as it's slightly in arrow, as long as your arms are slightly pointing down, you're not going to injure shoulders, even with super high repetition, but by slightly widening my grip, which people tell me not to do in the comments, who don't know what I'm trying to accomplish, I'm putting more focus on my chest and getting more of a stretch. But what's even more important here is those partial reps going, so I'm kind of, it looks almost like a full rep, but this is all momentum. I'm throwing myself up and this does so many potential things. We've seen this kind of training work anecdotally for loads of people across YouTube. There's lots of videos on this. We've seen it work for loads of people, you know, in prison settings. That's the big anecdote. I don't want to base my claims just on anecdotes. Obviously it's worked great for me. I've trained other people in the same way and we can also hypothesize as to why this works so well. So you see, when I'm doing those really full ranges of motion, a few things are happening. Firstly, the slow cadence combined with my lighter body weight compared to say a bench press, means that I'm not recruiting my largest fastest muscle fibers. You'll start with these smaller motor units, the slower twitch muscle fibers, because your body weight isn't that heavy and because you're not pushing that hard or that fast, you just don't need that much force and your nervous system will always recruit the smallest motor units first and only add the bigger ones as they're needed. That means not building that maximum strength and you're not going to get as much growth. I've discussed using high rep ranges in order to fatigue those slower, smaller motor units so that you then need the bigger motor units. They'll kick in when there's nothing else left, even with a lighter load, but only if you're sending the neural drive to go quickly and powerfully. It's kind of like pushing really lightly against the wall and expecting that to eventually engage your fastest motor units. It won't. And there's loads of other functional reasons I like this kind of training too. There's so many good reasons to be moving quickly, to maintain that kind of elastic recoil, especially as we get older, as we become slower. This is the kind of training that's going to keep you youthful, springy and athletic. If you want to start moving slowly and doddery, Lee, then stop moving quickly. I set my glass down for like a minute and it throws to the table. It's how cold it is. In many ways it's actually working similar to a plyometric. Obviously doing these fast push-ups makes me very good at plyometrics. It's working kind of like a plyometric, but a plyometric doesn't build muscle because the amount of time you're actually contracting the muscle so small in the exercise. It doesn't provide enough opportunity for cross bridging. However, when you do it like this, it's kind of still explosive, but there's not really enough time for it to disengage. I'm maintaining that tension on the muscle and moving explosively, which of course is going to produce some kind of beneficial result compared to these really nice, slow, careful, do it properly push-ups. But we can also hypothesize lots of other reasons that the shorter rep ranges might be good for building muscle. The most obvious and commonly pointed to explanation is that if I'm doing a push-up like this, then I'm actually locking out at the top. I'm not using any muscle at this point in the exercise. What I'm doing is resting on my joints and my bones, so this isn't doing anything, but actually it gets a bit worse than that even, because when I do this, this also isn't doing much. This is a really easy range of motion. I can probably do a billion of these. This is the hard part. So by focusing more on the hard part, you're going to grow more muscle. There's another reason that maintaining tension on the muscle like this can produce superior results as well, and that's to do with occlusion. Basically what happens is that when you're contracting the muscle over and over again, you're sending blood to that muscle, because it's staying contracted for such a long time, because there's so much continuous time under tension, not just time under tension, that means that you're pooling that area with blood. It can't escape. This has a bunch of effects. For one, it causes hypoxia, because new oxygen isn't able to get to the muscles in the same way. This means that you're forced to use the fast-twitch muscle fibers even more so, because they're not as reliant on oxygen. At the same time, this also means that you're going to encourage your body to learn to deliver more blood and oxygen to the muscles. You're going to improve your strength and endurance this way, which is a really nice functional benefit, but you're also going to get improved blood supply to the muscle, which encourages further hypertrophy and growth at rest when you're recovering. It gives you more performance in the gym, a better work capacity, so you can do more and get better results, and it gives you better blood supply subsequently. But you're not getting this effect if you use those really slow full range of motion repetitions the way that most people do it. And of course, it's not just push-ups that this works for. You can apply it to pretty much any exercise. This is how I do my dips. They're bouncy. They're fast. This is how I do my squats. I use a full range of motion on the squats, actually, but again, it's mostly momentum, most of the way. The actual power at the bottom is occurring very quickly and repeatedly. You can, of course, use a short range of motion for your squats, just squat in the bottom, but this is actually in some ways counterproductive because now you're going to have to intentionally use less power so as not to send yourself all the way up. You just need to focus on doing it quickly, I find, if you want to get the best results. The goblet curls I've talked about so much, that I like so much for building muscle, they work great because they have that short range of motion. Your body actually stops the weight and allows you to very quickly and easily pull it straight back up without needing to swing your body into it. It's just really conducive to this kind of training. Again, this doesn't even only apply to body weight training. It's just particularly effective with things that aren't your max lift or close to it, things where you're doing 10, 20 or 30 repetitions. That's why and how you can use body weight training to build muscle. That's why it works. It's why it also gives you functionality in the form of strength, endurance and explosiveness. It's something that you can do anywhere relatively easily with a minimum fatigue and that's why I love it and that's why I've returned to it because the current demands of my lifestyle mean that it's harder for me to get into the gym. Of course, we're all different. Different people are going to get different results based on their distribution of muscle fibro types, based on even limb length and muscle insertions. I think that if you have shorter arms, you're going to get better results from this than if you have longer arms and the same for your legs. There's lots of different factors. All I'm saying is that there's a good reason this works and if you're not getting the results you want, it's probably because you're not feeling the tension and that's what it really comes down to. That's the important thing because that's what's also going to allow you to get the best results from whatever other kind of training you do. When you learn to feel the tension, you can feel the same results from this as you do from a bench press and you'll know when you're done. It comes with practice and time, so stick at it. Don't get too worried about what other people are saying is correct form or the only way to do things. Listen to your body. Let me know if this makes sense to you. Let me know if you use shorter rep ranges when you're doing your high-rep calisthenics and of course if you're looking for a training program that's based around this style of training, then look no further than my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3 Super Mover. It's currently on discount for January. Link in the description down below. It comes with full workouts based on body weight movements, functional exercises, cool and fun explosive movements balancing, but it's all adaptable to any level, doesn't require any equipment. It comes with a 200 plus page ebook, 26 instructional videos, lots of alternative exercises and workouts that you can do, so yeah, link in the description down below. Either way, thank you so much for watching this one guys and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. For those who aren't familiar, Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get started with their own website. You can do this in literally a matter of minutes by using either their AI tools to have something built for you bespoke very quickly or by selecting from one of their ready-made templates and then customizing them to your heart's content. This way you'll have something that looks modern, that has all of the features you could want and you can add more features from a huge variety that are available through Squarespace. Things like a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies and likes, things like e-commerce with inventory management and tracking, things like appointment scheduling for booking appointments with clients and selling your services online, gated members only content if you want to make money that way, search engine optimization for making sure that your website is visible in Google, analytics for seeing who's coming to your website and for how long, what's working and so much more. So if you want to find out more then go to Squarespace.com and when you're ready to launch go to Squarespace.com forward slash pioneer and you get 10% off a domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thank you so much to you guys who stick around till the end and I'll see you next time. Bye for now.