 https https https https https https https https https https https https platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to get a website up and running in no time at all. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. The kettlebell, I think, has to be one of the most misunderstood pieces of training equipment in the world. And this comes down largely to two types of fitness content creator. On the one hand, you have those who take a five kilogram kettlebell, do the worst looking kettlebell swings in the world with zero research clearly, and then say, see, kettlebells are useless. Don't listen to them. But then you have the other type of content creator who is the kettlebell fanatic who intentionally or otherwise ends up gatekeeping kettlebell training by being so militant with form and having a massive go at anyone who makes the slightest mistake that people become afraid to pick up a kettlebell. Now, of course, there's great content out there from the likes of Labour Stark and Wildman Athletica who just share great kettlebell technique without judgment. That's where you should go for your kettlebell advice. But unsurprisingly, that kind of content doesn't tend to rise to the top in quite the same way that the more bombastic and controversial content does. And it's all a shame because actually the kettlebell is one of the very best tools that anybody can just pick up and start using like a kind of weirdly shaped dumbbell with no technical knowledge necessary, using exercises that take advantage of its unique size, shape and proportions. So the kettlebell is a tool that's brilliant for rhythmic circular movement that sit in the middle between strength training and cardio, meaning that you're going to build muscle whilst at the same time reducing fat so you can see the muscle. So you get a ripped and athletic physique, which I think is what more people want versus that big bloated bodybuilding physique that YouTube seems so obsessed with. It also shares maybe the same benefits as the kind of high repetition bodyweight training that I really like. It lets you maintain time and attention on the muscle, which builds pump, builds strength endurance and gets the same kind of benefits as like prisoner training. You know, those high repetition pushups you see prisoners do. It's also brilliant because it has some of the benefits of a dumbbell and some of the benefits of a barbell, meaning you can use it to train your upper body, your lower body, everything all in one. You just have to not overthink it. So without further ado, I'm going to share here a workout using a kettlebell that has no high skill ceiling, no technical know-how necessary, that's going to get you brilliant results and quickly, easily and conveniently. So I'm going to start with an exercise that perfectly exemplifies what I'm talking about, something that targets the muscle that we're focusing on in a unique way that's hard to do with other tools, but at the same time offers lots of stimulus with no technical know-how required. We're talking about the kettlebell halo. I've made videos about this in the past, so I'm not going to go into it in a lot of detail here, but basically you take your kettlebell in both hands, hold it by the horns, then you're going to take it straight up past your head and then bring it over on the other side. As you do this, you're trying not to flare the ribs, as in opening up the rib cage and bending the spine backwards. Try not to wobble around. You're going to brace the core and you want to let it hang a little behind your head to really open up the shoulders and get that mobility. The great thing about this is that it has real continuous time under tension on the shoulders. Because the movement is circular, you're constantly tensing the shoulders. That builds a really nice pump. It trains strength endurance so that you can keep going and at the same time, it just, it does build muscle. It's great for hypertrophy. It works in a very similar manner as those prisoner push-ups, the really high rep, short range of motion push-ups that you see prisoners doing that you know I highly advocate for when it comes to building pecs and shoulders. That's why I think this is so good and it's something that's hard to get with other tools, but at the same time, it has all these other benefits. Like I say, it opens up the shoulders. It's great for the core, both, I say, because it's anti-extension, but also because it's anti-rotation and lateral flexion, so you're keeping your core nice and rigid. Get all these additional benefits in there as well. You can do this for 20, 30, 40 reps with continual time and attention. Two sets, I'd say, and you're good to go. Of course, the other thing you can do for your shoulders with a kettlebell is quite simply just a shoulder press. Nothing to stop you treating it like a dumbbell in that sense. I like doing it one side, then you're bracing the core against lateral flexion, which is great for the obliques, etc. But as we'll see, there's an exercise I actually prefer to do that's similar. We'll get to that in a moment. Okay, now moving on to the back. For this, we're going to be doing bent rows. So grab the kettlebell in one hand, bend over. You can support your weight with one hand on the knee because this isn't a back exercise. And then just row the kettlebell up like so, making sure to bring the arm directly up and back. Go over here so you can see a bit better. You can get a little bit of scapular retraction in there as well, moving that shoulder blade back. And again, it's not particularly heavy probably if you're using the same kettlebell you use for the other moves. But what we're doing here is maintaining that continuous time and attention again. Do you need to do this with a kettlebell? Not especially, but it's useful that you can have one tool that can do this and the halo and the other exercises that we're going to see in a moment. Also, it is actually nice to have that handle there. I find that using this, my grip is less of an issue than it is with a dumbbell. Also though, it allows you to do this variation if you want to, which is the ballistic alternating row where you're going to hinge at the hips and then row up, catch, swap. And I do like this one because it's a little bit explosive, obviously, what with throwing and catching the weight. But it's also a great core exercise, well, spine exercise, because you're training the multifidus muscles in the spine to brace as the weight changes sides. Failing to do this, this kind of micro adjustment can be the cause of a lot of back injuries. So this is a great way to fortify your spine and avoid spasms and other problems. But I found to be really effective in that capacity. And guys, if you like this kind of training with kettlebells, with body weight, things that are practical, functional, you can do anywhere that will build muscle and endurance and strength and athleticism and control in a really convenient way that fits into your lifestyle, you might enjoy my ebook and training program, Super Functional Training 3, Super Mover. It's built off of this sort of stuff. Basic bodyweight exercises, kettlebell exercises, optionally, if you don't have a kettlebell, that's fine. A bunch of other cool drills, exercises that are fun and easy, workouts you can do in 20 to 30 minutes, a few times a week, that will build that athletic physique, make you look and feel great, more energetic, and that will fit in around your lifestyle so that you can pursue other hobbies and interests. It's a training program designed to support your lifestyle, not to dominate it. It comes with a 200 plus page ebook, 25 instructional training videos, comes with downloadable cue cards with an anime theming, so you can download them to your phone and check them at the gym, and a whole bunch more. If that sounds good, there's a link in the description down below. And it's currently on spring sale, so you can get it for just $35, which is the cheapest it's ever been, cheapest it's going to be for a while. So yeah, go grab that now if you're interested. This is the best time to do so. Anyone who watches this channel regularly will know it was only a matter of time before I got to one of my very favorite movements, the goblet curl. And as we're talking about pull movements at the moment, seems like a logical next step. So grab your kettlebell for this one, and then what you're going to do is with both hands, curl it down, curl it up, and then repeat. And again, like all these, the objective is to go for high repetitions, we're talking 30, 20, 40, whatever you can do to failure. You want to feel that pump really build up in the biceps. And again, this is essentially a hammer curl, right? It looks like a hammer curl. It's training the biceps with the hands in that neutral grip position. So people say to me, why are you doing this? But then other people try it, and they say, yeah, man, I see the difference. And I think it's just because it lets you really rep them out because of the stance, because you can use your own body as a kind of like backboard, because there seems to be less core involvement. It just really isolates the biceps in a way that lets you maintain that high time under tension. And you really feel that pump. The stimulus to fatigue ratio here is fantastic because it's an almost concentric only movement, meaning you're curling it up, you're practically letting it fall back down. And whilst this doesn't, you know, create the same amount of tension and whatever else, it builds strength and endurance in the biceps again, which is what you need in the biceps because the biceps are the carrying muscles. And at the same time, it just really lets you pump them up without having this massive recovery cost incurred. You can do this at the end of nearly every workout. I do it at the end of every single one of my workouts. And that's usually about five times per week, sometimes even on my off days, because there's no downside. And it's just, it's, it's given me bigger biceps with like, that's all I do to target my biceps specifically. And say everyone who's tried this in the comments says the same thing. So don't sneer at it. Give it a go. The thing is, I actually mix modalities. I don't just train kettlebells. I particularly also like calisthenics. And I have at various points in my fitness journey, done more, you know, weight training, bodybuilding type stuff. So I'm not saying that you should do everything with a kettlebell, but if you want to train at home and all you have is a kettlebell, then for your pecs, then I highly recommend doing pushups or dips. And you can get very similar benefits here by doing high, high repetition, high time and detention. Watch my other videos. It kind of fits in really nicely, even though it's not specifically a kettlebell movement. What I'm saying is that the fact the kettlebells aren't particularly great for training pecs isn't a downside because you have your body for that. But if you really insist on using the kettlebell for everything, you could do something like this, put it here and do pushups on top. Basically, this is like diamond pushups and it's going to target the triceps a little bit more than it otherwise would. If you have two, then you can use them like pushup stands and use this as a way to just get that little bit more range of motion, that little bit more stretch on the pecs as you're going. That's pretty cool. And of course, if you want to get fancy, then you can train your stability like so, but you know, this defeats the whole object of what I'm talking about because that is a technical movement. If you want to get really fancy, you can do like renegade rows like this. But yeah, that's not a beginner movement. I don't frankly recommend it because you can't go to failure in the same way. You can't target the pecs in the same way. But yeah, if you wanted to be a stickler about this and use kettlebells for everything, that's how you would train the pecs with them. The other exercise for training upper body that I really like are farmer's walks or loaded carries. You're going to grab one or two kettlebells in either hand and then you're just going to walk with them like so. It's good if you have a large space, but you don't need a large space. You can go backwards and forwards. You can do laps. You can just do laps around your house. Do this for like a minute, two minutes, three minutes, whatever you can do. Not only will you feel it massively train your grip, but it's one of the very best things you can do for your traps. You shouldn't let your arms completely sag. You should maintain a slight tension in the traps. Over time, this, again, continuous time of tension is going to build massive traps. Of course, you're also getting steps in. Again, there's absolutely zero technical knowledge needed here. This is literally walking around holding something. Couldn't be simpler. Very functional. Mimics loads of things you do in your everyday life. Carry on one side to add that nice core bracing. On the other side, you know, the antilateral flexion. Make sure to train both sides. Do both sides if you want to target the traps more. I do recommend, of course, doing this towards the end of your workout, maybe to finish it, because obviously it's quite tiring. It's going to leave you too spent otherwise. So now we're on to training the legs, and we're going to start with a really unsurprising exercise. It's just goblet squats, which is just squats holding a kettlebell. Grab a kettlebell in front of you like this, like a goblet, and then you just squat all the way down. This exercise is courtesy of Dan John, another excellent kettlebell content creator and one of the OGs. But yeah, it's really simple. You just do this, and you can do it for high repetitions. Now, people again are going to say, well, this isn't optimal for building massive tree trunk legs for a bunch of reasons. You know, the weight isn't as much. You can't load it as heavily. It's your arms are going to tire out before your legs do, etc, etc. But I disagree on most of these fronts. Yeah, you can't load it as much. It's not super optimal for building the biggest legs. But if you do high repetitions with enough weight, you're going to build enough muscle in your legs. And again, you're building strength endurance, which again, is what we use in sports and martial arts and everything else. At the same time, the arms tiring out first. Well, a there are alternatives, you can do it, you know, with the kettlebells racked, one on either side. B, like I think most scenarios where you would be squatting and lifting something, you probably would be holding something. So what's so bad about developing your isometric arm strength at the same time as developing your legs, you know, you're just developing a useful function in tandem that way. Finally, another nice benefit of it is that having the weight front loaded actually places a little bit more emphasis on the quads. This makes it an easier movement for a lot of people because now you're not worrying about being back heavy. You can bend forward slightly and the weight's going to help with the center of gravity. At the same time, it just builds nice to quads. And this is great because especially we're going to be doing more stuff that targets the posterior chain as the next movement. And if you want to make it harder, then a great variation you can do is going to build explosive athleticism, which I think is cooler than just massive strength in the legs anyways, is the jumping goblet squat. So grab your goblet, grab your kettlebell, do the jumps at the top of the squat, then put it over to one side when you reach failure, and then just do jump squats like so. Obviously, that's a bit more technical. Obviously, you shouldn't do that if you've got bad knees, you need to focus on soft landings. But yeah, there's room for progression there is my point. Okay, and for this next one, I'm going to a little bit break my own rule. We're going to be doing kettlebell swings. I say I'm breaking my own rule because this is a movement that is a bit technical, like a lot of people can't kettlebell swing. As we discussed at the beginning of this video, it is a little bit tricky at first. But I think it's worth including because it's so useful and it is the de facto kettlebell exercise. Plus, again, I want to dispel the fear mongering because if you're using a light enough weight, like don't start with 20 kilograms, start with five, then it's going to be very difficult to injure yourself. This is something that Gregory talks about from Leberstock. What you want to do, though, the main thing to focus on is keeping this as a hinge instead of a squat. That means that the leg is going to bend a little bit naturally. But what you're really focusing on is sticking your butt back like this. So if you're doing this, then that's a hinge. And then what you want to do with that is as you come back from the hinge, you're boosting the weight up. You're boosting the weight up. You're not lifting it with your arms. And then when the weight comes back down, as it connects, that's what's going to swing your hips back again. And that's how you get the rhythm correctly. So it's almost as though the motion of a kettlebell is what's putting it back in position. And it looks like this. Like, again, mine's not perfect. Go and see those guys for the really good form. But I'm pretty happy with it. Like I'm confident with it. It does the right thing. You want to contract the glutes as you go through the movement in order to make sure you're targeting the posterior train correctly. You shouldn't feel it in your lower back. At the end, you should have tight feeling glutes as though you've worked your butt. And this is the thing. Although it's very ballistic, you actually do get like quite a pump in the butt. And that's why I like it so much. You can feel that there is some continual time and attention there. And being an explosive movement and a hinge, it translates to so much other stuff. It fixes your movement. It teaches you to sprint and to jump and to run. Now, I was lucky enough that this move I didn't do straight away from my bedroom. No one's going to just guess to do a kettlebell swing. It was shown to me by a guy at my gym, a trainer. But yeah, the kettlebell swing is something a little bit more complex. So if you just want a hip hinge that's going to train your hamstrings and your glutes without having to worry about learning the form, then you can just deadlift a kettlebell like anything else. And again, it's all about it being a hinge. You hinge down, you pick it straight back up. And it can be good to do a straight legged deadlift because that handles nice and high up. You don't have too much of a mobility challenge there. But if you wanted to get a better, something more approximating, a proper deadlift, then you can do it with a deficit. Stand on a box or put it lower than you some other way. And that way you're getting something that's more akin to a deadlift than you can train. You can stand on a step. A lot of people got steps. You can train something that's more akin to a deadlift than you can do with dumbbells because dumbbells, you're likely going to want to do them on either side. So this is, you know, actually surprisingly good. And whilst the weight is going to be light, unless you happen to have a really heavy kettlebell, this is actually, again, it's fine for teaching the movement. It's fine for strength endurance. If you do high rep ranges, you can feel it, particularly in the hamstrings. So don't necessarily always think more weight is what you need unless you're someone who's trying to train for maximum lift. If that's your goal, then of course you're going to need, you know, a barbell. But if you're happy to just practice this essential movement pattern, then the kettlebell has got your back. Literally. Now, ideally, I think I'd like people to do something like a Cossack squat in there as well. So you're training your frontal plane movement. That is more technical. And it's also a bit above and beyond what I think the average person is looking for. I think it's really good to cover all the planes of motion. I'm going to leave that out because I want this to be a basic program for most people. But there's loads of stuff you can do for legs with kettlebells is my point. Another one I'd really love you to work up to doing is the cross body clean and press. And I say this because this does look like a more technical movement, but it's actually one of the things that I started doing in my room with no instruction or tutelage. I personally find it easier to rack like that across the body without slamming my elbows and things than I do doing a regular rack. I'm not going to do my left arm because it'll smash my upper watch. But this movement has so much of what I like. It has a rotational element, has a hinge, has an explosive leg movement, and it has a press. But that's not the reason that I used to do this movement. I used to do this movement because it got my heart rate going like nothing. And I know now the reason is because it's alternating lower body and upper body. So the heart has to work doubly hard to get the body, get the blood around the body. This is a great finisher. The finisher to go after the farmer's walk finisher, that's going to like just, yeah, massively increase your calorie burn for the whole workout. Again, I know calorie burn is not the correct term. I don't care. Point is that this is brilliant for conditioning. And that's what I think a lot of people need most of all. And so here we're doing a press instead of a jerk. It's simpler than the jerk. At the same time, it gives us that targeted shoulder overhead pressing that we weren't quite getting from the kettlebell halos. I say you can just do, you know, shoulder press, kettlebell overhead press. It's an option two. There's loads of other exercises. I think my point is that hopefully that's a selection of things that you can do with a kettlebell that don't require technical knowledge. And there's more than enough there to create a full body routine, especially if you combine it with some basic calisthenics. You can pick and choose, mix and match. And yeah, use the kettlebell without fear of judgment, injuring your spine or anything else and get the really unique benefits that come from kettlebell training. So if you found that video useful and interesting, let me know what you thought in the comments. Which exercises did I miss out that you really like? Either way, thank you so much for watching this one. And I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video is sponsored by Squarespace. For those of you who don't know, Squarespace is a website building platform that may make it extremely easy for anybody to get started with their own website. To do this, you can pick from one of their ready-made templates and then customize it to your heart's content or follow a guided process that will build something completely bespoke for you from scratch. And either way, there was absolutely zero technical skill required. No coding, nothing else like that. The result will be a website that's extremely responsive, modern, that looks fantastic and that does everything you need it to. So that you know that however far you grow your business, Squarespace is going to have your back. Even more so because there are so many optional features that you can add on to get everything you possibly need to from your website. Things like search engine optimization to make sure you get to the top of Google and people can find your website. Things like appointment scheduling so you can sell a service online and make appointments with your clients. Things like e-commerce so that you can sell products online, send them all around the world. A fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies and likes. Gated members-only content so you can make money and monetize your website that way. And so much more. If you want to find out more, then go to squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com forward slash at Bioneer and you'll get 10% off a website or domain. I think that everybody can benefit from having a website. It's completely changed my life and Squarespace is the easiest, most reliable and most efficient way to do that. So I highly recommend Squarespace and I'm extremely grateful to them for sponsoring this channel and supporting it for so long. And to you guys for sticking around and watching and for watching to the end of the sponsor segment. Appreciate it. Bye for now. Bye.