 this video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special deal that's making available through my channel. If you can only get one piece of equipment to train with, then I'd probably recommend dip bars. But this isn't a super common take. In fact, I don't hear people talking about dip bars all that much at all. But actually, with a pair of dip bars, you can get an entire full-body workout that's actually fun, really effective, won't cost a whole lot, and doesn't take up loads of space. Because they stack like this, I mean, they only are going to ever be the width of the base here, or the depth, which means that if you need to stack them in, say, your kitchen, like I do, or when you're bettering more, or whatever else, you can just tuck them against the wall like this. It won't take up much space at all. You can even put more things underneath them to make proper use of that space. And like I say, they're not expensive. This set costs me 30 quid, and I bought them like 15 years ago. They're actually branded men's health. I don't think they make them anymore. So when people ask me in the comments what I've got my dip bars, I'm afraid I don't think you can get them. But literally, Argos, Amazon, the Sports Shop, Daniel Road, anywhere will sell them. They're very affordable. And I mean, as long as they're safe, which they practically all are due to the design, you're going to be fine. There's not any way to get dip bars wrong. You want to make sure it's really nice and stable, obviously. Nice wide base. You want to get dip bars that feel comfortable in the hand. Mine have got like a nice bit of padded foam, but you can always add that later. And I guess the only other thing to consider is the height. A taller dip bar is generally going to give you more options for things, you know, like pulling movements, because you can more easily do like an L-sit pull up. And if you don't have dip bars, then you can just use two chairs pushed opposite each other or the corner of a kitchen unit, for example, two tables in the meantime, even some trees can lend themselves to doing certain dip exercises. Should probably talk a little bit about what you can actually do with them. And as you might imagine, the first and main use for dip bars is to perform dips. The great thing about dip bars, as opposed to, you know, the body weight power stations you get at the gym, is that you can actually change the angle, change the distance apart to perfectly suit you. So if you find one position uncomfortable, you can adjust them slightly in order to find a spot that works for you. Dips are a fantastic exercise for building the pecs, for building the triceps and the shoulders. I like using really high repetition dips. I've made videos on that. You can also add weight. You can get a weight belt and add weight that way. You can even just wear a backpack with a bunch of books in it. And using this method, you can build the same kind of big and strong pecs you might be used to building at the gym with a bench press, but from the comfort of your home. And because you can add weight, it's practically limitless. And there are also variations on the dips that you can do, even if you don't have access to additional weight. For example, in a previous video, I talked about tuck dips like this. There's plenty of ways to make them harder, giving you limitless options for building your chest. Conversely, if you're so many times dips difficult, you can touch your feet lightly on the ground and give yourself the option of doing assisted dips like that. Grab a single bar and now you can do wall dips, great for parkour athletes. Turn the hands around, lock out at the top and you can train your straight arm strength like this. See, pec exercise, which is also good for the biceps tendon, scapula control, traps. And of course, one of the more obvious options is to elevate your legs. Form push-ups and use these in order to allow yourself to get deeper into that bottom push-up position. In plant training, you can do any plant exercises on a pair of dip bars. You can do tuck plant dips, you can do pseudo plant, you can do pseudo plant push-ups, full plant. Obviously, if you can do those things, you can do them on dip bars. But it's not just pushing exercises that make the dip bars so great. They also offer tons of pulling exercises and in many ways, I think that's actually their greatest asset. You see, not everybody actually has space in their home for pull-up bar. Even the ones that fit into the doorframe without a drill, they still damage the doorframe. If you're renting, for example, or you're just house proud, you might not want to install one of those. They're also a bit rickety. A bit rickety. A bit new thing is that if you're doing horizontal type rows, then dip bars have you covered. You can obviously do body weight rows. These are brilliant for training the lats, but also training scapular retraction, building a really nice defined back. And not enough people do horizontal pulling in the first place. There's also the perfect counter to all the horizontal pushing that so many of us do. At the same time, you have countless variations of this movement. Obviously, you can add weight again. You can elevate your legs to make it harder. You can lower your legs to make it easier. You can use one bar or two bars. You've got a neutral grip, overhand grip, underhand grip, whichever you prefer. You can bend your knees if you want to make the movement easier or if you're doing something like a drop set. And if you want to get really advanced, you can build all the way up to things like a front lever or front lever pulls. But if you do want a more vertical pull or if you want to focus on your biceps more, then there are ways you could adjust your positioning to achieve those ends as well. For example, you can just, well, you can support your legs and do what are effectively chin-ups. If you're feeling really fancy, you can do something like L-sit chin-ups. But you can also really nicely isolate the biceps by using more of an arc movement. Stretching out the biceps, then curling yourself in like this. These are body weight curls and they're fantastic. If you want to target the triceps more, obviously dips are already really good for triceps, but you can also do body weight tricep extensions. These are fantastic. These are also great for keeping your body nice and rigid, training core stability, training the hollow body position, and in fact, many of these exercises are including the body weight row. And speaking of core and building your abs, of course, you've also got leg raises. Probably one of the easiest and most convenient ways to train your abs at home. You've also got L-sit. And the easier variation, frog kicks. And of course, you can hold something between your legs, between your feet, if you want to increase the challenge by adding more resistance that way. And if you really want to target the shoulders more, then of course you can do things like handstand push-ups, using these like parallettes against the wall. I don't massively recommend you do that because, well, it's a bit dangerous, which is why my next recommendation for a piece of exercise equipment would be parallettes. They're pretty awesome too. If you want me to make a video on parallettes in future, then I most assuredly will. There's so much else that you can do with dip bars as well. I don't want to make this video like 10 hours long, so I'll just reel some stuff off here. They're great for mobility, whether you can hang from them to open up your shoulders, whether you're going to put your leg on them to stretch your hamstrings. They can be used to support your weight when performing one-legged bodyweight exercises, for example. You can also actually hang bands off them. You can hang gymnastics rings off them if you want to do push-ups with a little bit more instability. The options are so endless when it comes to dip bars. If you want to train from home and you're looking for a piece of equipment that's going to make a huge difference, then I highly recommend dip bars. They're really just an entire gym in one piece of equipment. If you're looking for a routine that you can use with your dip bars, then I recommend my own training program, an e-book, of course. It's a functional training 3 Super Mover. That's a training program built predominantly around calisthenics, but also other forms of exercise like running, martial arts, kettlebell training. You don't need any equipment, but if you have it, you can use it. Either way, it's going to build a more functional physique, one that looks athletic, one that lets you run and jump and climb and have fun doing it. Not a massive bodybuilder physique, but one that looks like a lean, mean movement machine. So if that sounds cool, then check it out. Link in the description down below. Either way, I hope you've enjoyed this video, guys. Thanks a ton for watching, and I'll see you next time. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video was sponsored by Squarespace. So for those who aren't familiar, Squarespace is a website building platform. They mostly are extremely easy for anybody to get a website up and running. A website that looks professional, that's highly responsive and modern, that does everything you could possibly need it to do. Suitable for a hobbyist who just wants to share their work online, have somewhere to write, all the way up to big businesses, and some of the biggest brands on the web already use Squarespace to power their websites. Squarespace makes things extremely easy to get started. You can pick from a wide range of different ready-made templates and then customize them to your heart's content, or you can get guided through the process by their AI features that will build you something bespoke from scratch. Either way, it takes minutes to have your website up and running, and from there, you can start adding as many features you could possibly need. That means things like a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes. E-commerce solutions. Appointment scheduling if you want to sell a service online. Has social media integration. Search engine optimization so that you can get your website to the top of Google so that more people find it. Analytics so that you can see what's working, who's coming to your website, when, etc. All that and much, much more, whatever you could possibly need. I highly rate Squarespace and I highly recommend them to anyone who wants to get started with the website. If you want to learn more, then go to Squarespace.com. And when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace.com. forward slash by one year, and you'll get 10% off a website or domain. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Thanks to you guys for sticking around till the end. And by for now. You guys get the second by for now. So you're the ones who are really in the know.