This video is sponsored by Squarespace. Stick around until the end of the video to learn more about a special deal they're making available through my channel. You know, probably winded. Sorry. That's hilarious. >> Hey there, guys. So today I thought we'd go for a slightly more relaxed discussion. Hence why I'm in a slightly more relaxed style. And today's topic is that it's okay not to be perfect with your fitness. And lately I've been a little bit more relaxed. Lately I haven't been training quite as much as usual. Partly that was because of Center Parks. Went there for a week with my family. Partly it's because my kids are off school on holiday and I don't have much time. And partly it's because Donkey Kong Bonanza has come out. And I'm just here to tell you that that's fine because Donkey Kong Bonanza is a really good game. >> Okay. Yep. >> Now, actually, what I'm here to say is just that there was a time there was an old Adam who never would have taken any time off of training in order to play a new computer game. Not saying I wouldn't have played the computer game. Maybe I'd have stayed up till 3:00 in the morning to do both, but I wouldn't have taken time away from training. In fact, I was the guy who after a night out clubbing at university would come home at 3:00 in the morning drunk and then still do a workout in the playgrounds behind the house like an absolute lunatic. That's how dedicated I was to training. And I had this real militant idea that if I missed a session of training, then I was letting myself down. I was going to start losing my gains. And the problem is there's still a little bit of that Adam inside me. And I think there's a lot of that for a lot of people online. And I think it's a lot worse than it used to be. >> I get a lot of comments from people telling me, you know, >> I've fallen off the horse. I've not trained as well in the last couple of weeks, and I'm really worried I'm going to lose my gains. Maybe these people have been injured and they're worried they're going to lose their gains. Or maybe they've just had to take a bit of time out for whatever reason. And I think there's this whole idea that you need to be perfect with your approach to training. That if you're not training perfectly, you shouldn't be doing it at all. That there's a moral imperative to work out, to lift heavy weights and get stronger. That you're somehow failing yourself and maybe even your family if you're not doing that. And that taking any time off is like a sign of weakness and something you should feel guilty and dirty about. And I'm here to tell you that actually, it shouldn't really come as a surprise. Actually, that's what's not healthy. We kind of think if we miss a workout or miss a couple of workouts that we're going to lose our gains and not be as strong as we were. And the truth is, you might lose some gains and you might lose some progress. But that is also just life. That's inevitable. Even the very top athletes in the world aren't going to constantly see progress. Progress is not linear. Progress doesn't go like this with muscle gains, with strength gains, with finances, with anything. It always goes like this. You have good days and bad days, good weeks and bad weeks, good months and bad months. And at some points, you're going to be weaker than you used to be. At some points, you might be stronger in some ways and weaker in other ways. And sometimes you will have peaked and you'll never be that strong again or that fit again or that mobile again. But you have to be okay with that because it is inevitable. It's useful in this way to think of your fitness as being in cycles. Like no one can be on all the time. That's true both during the day and also when you zoom out and look at it from a macrocosmic scale. Basically, you're going to have periods where you don't train as well, where you don't have the enthusiasm or the energy, where life gets in the way. And you're going to have periods where everything is on point, everything's going perfectly. And so instead of stressing when you're going through one of those down phases, just trust that it'll get better and try and be as active and as healthy as you can be in the meantime. Here's a wakeup call. You're not Mr. Olympia. You're probably never going to be Mr. Olympia. You're probably never going to look like a Hollywood star. I mean, we all know by now those guys are on perfect diet plans. They train 24 hours a day. They have, you know, professional top of their game coaches with them 24/7. They're probably using drugs. They've got perfect lighting. they're dehydrated prior to their filming. You can't live up to that and you probably don't really want to. So, what does it really matter if you lose a tiny little bit of size or a tiny little bit of muscle? It is okay to take a break sometimes because actually your body needs a break sometimes. And then people are going to say, right, okay, so I'll optimize my rest time by taking a cold shower and then meditating for 20 minutes and then getting sunlight exposure. You know, that's not resting. That's still trying to be productive. You're still on. Resting is lying on the sofa, playing a game, watching TV, chatting to your partner, just doing whatever you fancy doing. I don't understand these people, these grind mindset people who brag about the fact that they've never played a computer game in their life, that they don't have time for friends and things. Like, that's some kind of weird flex. Like, I'm so successful that I never do anything I enjoy. Okay, good for you, buddy. I don't want that. And we're talking about fractional gains here because you can get really really strong with a normal training program. So if you're going to the point of sacrificing so much of your life, you're probably going to get like.1% more out of it because you didn't do anything you enjoyed. And to me, that's just not a very good deal. So you're better off enjoying yourself and just accepting that you might lose that.1% because it's not going to affect your life in any meaningful way. So, you can relax and maybe take a night off to play Donkey Kong Bonanza or take a week off and play the whole thing. You know, it is okay because it's your life to enjoy. No one can tell you what you should be doing. You know, just as it's okay to occasionally miss a workout or to ease up on your training. It's also okay to occasionally treat yourself to some nice food or, you know, go out and party and come home late. In this line of work, I come into contact with a lot of people who take their health and fitness extremely seriously to the point where they would never even dream of not eating organic or having a McDonald's or something. And very often, they're really surprised when they learn that I do occasionally just eat chips or whatever. But to me, this is just common sense. Like, of course, I think you guys should eat healthily, and I aim to as well. It supports my training. It helps me feel better on the whole. But if you're eating perfectly well 95% of the time, then a couple of times a week, having something that's a bit naughty isn't going to cause you any harm. It's just going to be something that you can enjoy. Like, I don't know what these people are hoping to achieve. You know, if you're so intense on your morning routine and on your cold exposure and, you know, eating everything absolutely perfectly and you get really stressed if you break from that, you can't go out and enjoy yourself with friends. Like, what do you think's going to happen? There's not going to be some point where suddenly everything changes for you and you achieve nana and ultimate health. Like if you've already gotten to 99% good health, then you can ease up a bit and enjoy yourself. Life is to be enjoyed now. And again, it comes down to training to live and not living to train. I know that there's still going to be some people in the comments saying, "No, Adam, it's never good to eat a burger or have a Coca-Cola. It's always bad. It's not fun." But ultimately, you can't be 100% on it 100% of the time, for your entire life. And that's what we're talking here. You need to eat well for your entire life, which have any point or meaning. It's much better to make a couple of mistakes every now and then to try and be so perfect that you end up burning out and crashing out or not doing it at all. And I'm sorry, but anything else, thinking that you're going to be perfect forever is just naivity. It's just a lack of experience and a very youthful mindset, which we have to remember. A lot of the content online is made by very youthful people. You mustn't let perfect be the enemy of good enough. And ultimately, a good diet is about making lots and lots of little small good decisions that add up to mean more than the few bad decisions you make. It's about all those decisions you make in the moment. To be always just healthy, I'm not sure that is healthy. And to be always unhealthy, I'm not sure that is healthy. I think everything is about balance. It's not a guilt that you certainly if you would one day eat one donut that this is like um you it's really really bad. Is that you know the difference. >> Now I know what the backlash here is going to say. I'm a fitness YouTuber encouraging people to live a lazy lifestyle, not to work out. Telling them that they're never going to achieve their goals doesn't look good, admittedly, but I'm not telling you to be lazy. I'm not telling you to not try and achieve your goals. I'm telling you it's sometimes okay to put the brake on and just enjoy yourself and in the long run you're going to be healthier. In fact, you might have noticed that a while ago I made a video called you should train every single day. And you might think that these two messages are in congruent, but they're not because I'm defining training in that video as movement, as running, jumping, climbing, stretching, playing with the kids, going for a hike. I think you should move every day, and I think you should challenge your body every day. But that doesn't mean working out in the gym every day. So, when I did skip my workout, it's not like I hadn't also done walking that day. I'd also played football with my kids, and I'd done a big stretching routine in the morning, a big mobility routine in the morning. So, it's not like I've not done any exercise. It's just that working out is not the same thing as fitness. And this is what people miss when they sort of admonish you for not pushing yourself in the gym and grinding really hard. When they tell you, you know, if you skip a day at the gym, you're just weak or whatever. And the irony is that many of the people telling you you need to be perfect and on point all the time that it's never okay to take a day off. Well, actually, they're still unhealthy in other ways. Whether it's because they're actually using drugs to get there which are causing serious harm to their body. Whether it's because they can't touch their toes cuz they've got no mobility. Whether it's because they've got no cardio and then these people are telling you off not pushing yourself at the gym and it doesn't quite make any sense. And this is also why you shouldn't spend too much time stressing about like you know lagging body parts or some aspects of your physique that you're not happy with. Like all of us have parts of our body that look particularly good and parts that we aren't so happy with. And whilst you can of course train to bring up your weak points and to get stronger in those areas. That's all good stuff. You also shouldn't lose any sleep over it if they're not exactly where you want them to be. Don't stress about them, obsess about them, because ultimately, like I say, there's always going to be some part of your body that could use a little bit of work and nobody else probably cares. I personally have got a little bit of a, you know, muffin top. Flubble, flubble, flubble, flubble, flubber. you know, a little bit of excess tire around my waist and that's where I naturally store fat. Now, I could get down to a lower body fat percentage by, you know, eating less or doing a lot more cardio. I already do fair amount of cardio, but it just wouldn't improve my life all that much. Sure, I might get more clicks on my videos, might sell more products, but honestly, the channel is doing pretty well as it is. I'm happy to kind of grow at the rate I'm growing. In terms of my performance, it wouldn't make any difference. in terms of my physique, yeah, maybe be like 1% better. Quite frankly, I can't be bothered. And also, I think obsessing over things like that and trying to become perfect would be sending the wrong message if you're interested in functional fitness. You know, fitness that has a real impact on your life. If you're going to obsess about something, obsess about that knee pain or the fact that you wake up with backachche. And also, of course, this extends to the way you're training. You don't always have to be training in the most optimal and the most efficient way. You don't always have to be doing what's again someone else has told you online is the only way to train. People go mad if you do any kind of training that they think is suboptimal. You know, like you throw a kettle bell around. A lot of people will tell you you're wasting your time. You could be making more gains. Well, first of all, as you guys know, if you watch this channel, that's completely wrong because it's building cardio as well as strength. And I don't just want to be strong. I want to also have good endurance cuz that's, you know, obviously far more useful than being strong and gassing out immediately. But beyond even that, if I just want to build muscle at, you know, 75% speed instead of 100% speed, that's entirely cool. I just find it odd as well that people are okay with being told what they should and shouldn't do by people online. Like, why are you okay with being bossed around? You're not my mom. >> I'm not going to call him dad. >> Movement is medicine. If you're doing something that's active and you're enjoying it, who cares if it's the most efficient and optimal way of training? You're not trying to be Mr. Olympia. You don't have to achieve anything within a certain time frame and there will be times where you don't look as good as others and you just have to be okay with that. Otherwise, it's going to eat you alive. Otherwise, you're going to learn to resent training, not want to work out anymore. Sometimes as well, you get injured. A lot of fitness influencers will never admit when they're injured. They'll always pretend that they're in perfect health because they don't want to show any flaws again because they think that if they injure themselves and their information must be bad, no one's going to buy their products and they're going to go broke. I have loads of respect for people like Tom Merrick or Mark Wildman or Jax Blade who talk about the injuries they've had honestly and openly and how they're training around them. Because whoever you are, however bulletproof you are, however good an athlete, you are sometimes going to get injured. If you're training with any frequency and intensity, this is even more likely. >> You know, even someone like knees over toes guy Ben Patrick, his whole brand is creating indestructible knees. He's done an incredible job of doing so. Going from someone who has knee problems to someone who can jump really high and do all this cool stuff. He could still hurt his knee if he lands badly. If he lands at the wrong angle when doing a demonstration, it could happen and it wouldn't in any way undermine any of the information he shared. And it's the same for anyone. Ow. I'm an idiot and I'm injured literally all the time. At the moment, I'm playing a whole bunch of different outtakes to show that these things do happen. And again, the best thing you can do in that situation is just to relax. And this is a big part of the problem. It's fitness influencers and the industry at large trying to project an image of perfection. >> People showing you these incredible physiques and then showing off a lifestyle that comes with that, saying that they train super hard at the gym, but as a result, they're driving sports cars, they're super rich and famous, they've got all these girls or guys throwing themselves at them, and that you too could be happy and successful if only you'd work out harder. And then somewhere in the back of your mind, you blame yourself for not having that lifestyle. And you think that you're never going to achieve that if you take a day off to play a computer game or to be with your family or to go for a walk or just to relax. Thing is, we all know that those people are actually selling a product. They're selling a lifestyle, selling their channel, and they're presenting this image of perfection that isn't actually real. Sure, maybe the physique is real. Maybe they sacrificed a lot to get there. There's a high chance they're using drugs. Like I say, they're using all the correct lighting technique and then they're putting forwards the idealized version of their lifestyle. >> What? >> Yes, that's perfect. >> And if you really think about what it is that makes you happy, it might be that you actually don't want or need supercars and super yachts. Anyways, to me personally, spending loads and loads of money on a car, I just have no interest in it. I could be a billionaire and I wouldn't spend loads and loads of money on a car. I would buy lots of Transformer toys and then I would show it in videos and people would be like, "What?" And it's fine if you do like sports cars and yachts, but I'm just saying it's also fine to just enjoy the things that you enjoy. I don't know. It just seems a lot of the time like everyone on YouTube is trying to show off how cool they are all the time, and it just reeks of insecurity and desperation. I'm not trying to like sleep with you guys. I don't need you guys to think I'm some kind of perfect person. I'm not going to meet you in real life. I'm not trying to make best friends with you. Sorry. I just hope that you watch my videos because I'm providing interesting information and visuals. So why do these people feel the need to sort of posture and act really cool? I say I know why is because they're trying to sell stuff to you. But I just hope that you can see through it and realize that this image of perfection is a lie and also misguided to begin with. And actually the people who are okay with showing themselves as they are, well, they're the ones that you should really be listening to because perhaps they're not so insecure that they need the validation of the internet. If this is seeming like a bit of a random tangent, sorry. All I'm trying to say is that you shouldn't be trying to compare yourself with or live up to some of these fitness influencers online with these crazy lifestyles and idealized bodies. I mean, sure, it can look appealing, but ultimately it's not realistic, and it's also probably pointless. It probably wouldn't make you any happier anyway. And so, if you do miss a workout or if your training isn't perfectly optimal, or if you don't always eat on point, then it's just not that deep. If you love training for power and strength, again, that's awesome. You can absolutely add that on top of your basic health and fitness. Clearly, I love those things, too. but do them because you enjoy them or because they help with your goals, not because you think you have to. That's really the other issue. It's people online telling you what it means to be successful and then making everyone else feel inadequate who doesn't live up to that. Defining fitness and making that definition a key part of success when this stuff is just arbitrary and trying desperately to fit into someone else's mold just makes you a tryhard. You'll never feel satisfied. And no one cares outside of those online bubbles. Like, why is a successful guy supposed to be super strong, but cardio just doesn't matter? It's purely arbitrary. Don't let people put you into boxes. I find it hilarious when the internet talks about what you have to do to be a high value male or female. This stuff has no place in fitness. Like, are you really letting someone else tell you what you can and can't do in case you're not cool enough? Like, are we 7 years old? Again, it's just so insecure and so chronically online. Success is going to look very different for different people is what I'm trying to say. Sometimes being a good dad or a partner means I'll need to train sub-optimally, too. I was being glib earlier about playing Donkey Kong, but in truth, these last few weeks have been insanely busy. So, when I had a quiet evening, I opted to unwind despite being behind on my training. That's not really a bad thing. It was actually the healthiest choice for me in that moment. But I'm also a coder and I love comics and I'm learning digital art. I used to be a tech journalist. This surprises people who only know me as a fitness guy. But the truth is you can be and definitely should be more than one thing. Being more than one thing ultimately means that you will have to make sacrifices in some of those areas. Sometimes your fitness will take a hit, but again that's fine if you're following your own blueprint, deciding what's important for you. Do you really need a six-pack or is that just what the internet is telling you you need? There is no perfect if you're choosing your own path so you can relax about it. >> Big bunny, relax about it. >> Or to put it another way, with the topic of fake natties once again coming to the four, a lot of people are saying you shouldn't try and be like those guys because they're not natural. But I think we can go a step further and say it doesn't matter anyway. You probably shouldn't try and be like those guys. Full stop. This is not what most of us should aspire to, natty or otherwise. And so don't let that kind of energy, you know, transfer to you guys in your training. Just enjoy training for its own sake. And likewise with the rest of your lifestyle. There is some kind of imperative morally to be healthy. It's important to take care of yourself for your sake and others. Not that you should ever judge anyone for their current condition because you do not know what's going on in their lives, but it doesn't extend to you need to be super muscular or look like a model or anything else. It just means try and make good diet choices, try and be active and move a lot. And it's because they need to project this image of perfection that they also can't allow themselves to show any weakness or any humanity, which then creates these false expectations for the rest of us. And this is why you end up with people having arguments about whether their bench press PR is bigger than the other guys mogging each other, doubting whether they're using fake weights or cheating their reps. And I look at all this and it just feels a bit like watching children, you know, who genuinely cares what someone else's bench press is? Who genuinely cares how big their bicep is? There's no world in which getting a little bit more size on your bicep or getting a slightly bigger bench press changes your life in a huge meaningful way and turns you into this successful gigachad or whatever. I feel like I'm going mad sometimes or maybe I'm just becoming old. >> What happened? >> He made me home. >> One of the things people get very defensive about is whether or not they've made any gains recently. So you've had the same physique for 2 years and then the person's like, "No, that's not true. My delts have slightly grown." And this becomes a big issue. Again, who cares? First of all, second of all, it's fine to keep the same physique. You don't always have to grow. It's okay to just be as strong as you need to be for what you're doing to feel healthy and to be happy in yourself. And if we're constantly trying to compete with these people, if we're constantly trying to grow as well, if we think that we're failing unless we're getting bigger, getting stronger all the time, then it's inevitably going to eat up more and more of our lives as we get diminishing returns from the effort we're putting in. and eventually you might start making bad decisions. Whether it's things like using drugs or going on fad diets or lifting more than we should when we're not fully recovered. Any of these things can lead to injury or actually be worse. Ironically, for our health, you got people online screaming at you that you need to push, push, push to be the very best you can be when actually your body is begging you to just ease up a little bit and enjoy life. Again, it might come as a bit of a surprise hearing me say all this because I'm someone who talks about training like Batman, but again, I'm use that as a kind of fun way to structure my workouts, a fun goal, and a fun way to communicate what I'm interested in, which is not just strength, but also being able to do cool moves, you know, have energy as well as strength and mobility and all those things, brain function. I enjoy researching and learning about the human body and sharing it with you guys, making video essays, but I'd use it, like I say, as a motivating tool, as something I think is cool and fun as an aesthetic. I guess ultimately it comes down to this realization I had. You can either play at being Batman or a tough guy by being stoic all the time, doing your bio hacks, spending a fortune on supplements, and shouting about the gym. Or you can actually make a realistic attempt to improve your performance in a viable way that fits into your lifestyle and lets you enjoy other things without being a doofus about it. So, what's it going to be? The irony is that the more you push and the more you try and prove how strong and cool you are, the more insecure you look to the people who can actually see through it. And this is why I say when people take steroids, I can't help but see anything other than insecurity, than desperation, maybe money-m, but if you're not happy with being as strong as you can be naturally, what's the point of taking steroids to gain just a little bit more than you could have done on your own? And then you're still going to have the temptation to take even more steroids to get even stronger. I It's It's a pointless, futile exercise that's meaningless. >> Really cool. >> Thank you. And you don't need to be the very best because most of us, certainly myself included, are not going to be the very best. And you can be extremely successful and pursue whatever goals you have by being enough. Bye for now. By the way, guys, this video was brought to you by Squarespace. So, as most of you by now will know, Squarespace is a website building platform that makes it extremely easy for anybody to build their own website in a matter of minutes. You can do this by using their advanced AI tools, which makes it extremely quick and simple to have something very bespoke and custommade. Or you can select from one of their pre-made templates and then customize it to your heart's content. From there, you can then add as many features as you need to ensure your website is able to do whatever you need it to. Whether you're just a small creator looking to share your content online, or whether you're a big business looking to sell products and services, you'll benefit from everything from a fully integrated commenting system with threaded comments, replies, and likes, search engine optimization to get your website to the top of Google so more people find it, appointment scheduling so you can sell services online, e-commerce, and so much more. If you want to find out more, then go to squarespace.com. When you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/bioner to get 10% off a domain or website. Thanks again to Squarespace for sponsoring this video.