

=== FILE: #FREAKMODE Alex Savva's 12-Week Fitness Plan ｜ 1-Min Promo [jDnnWtlbVpc].txt ===

The Freak Mode mindset of never settling is going to help you get the best transformation out of this 12 week trainer and also it's going to translate into other areas of your life. At one point you have to say enough is enough. I want something else for myself. I want something better. I'm passionate about that and I'm going to pursue that to the fullest. That's Freak Mode. If you don't work hard at it, you don't stay on top of it, then it can all disappear. I'm giving you more than just a 12 week trainer. This Freak Mode program is about making an amazing transformation for all weeks. But also learning. Get ready. We'll just stay ripped. It's a part of your daily life stuff.

=== FILE: #FREAKMODE Alex Savva's 12-Week Fitness Plan ｜ Promo [Xsmbk6C9748].txt ===

My name is Alex Sava, I live and breathe fitness. The Freak Mode mindset of never settling is going to help you get the best transformation out of this 12 week trainer and also it's going to translate into other areas of your life. When you're willing to go the extra mile and you're not willing to give up on your passion and your goal, you're going to truly realize who you are as a person. When a lot of the people that I was growing up with, the life was going one way, my life was going another way because I had a place to full manage. I would just hate to leave something out on the table that I know that I could have accomplished. It is true when you love what you do, you don't feel like you're working, but I love to work. How many times have you heard people say, I hate my job, but they're still at the job about 10 years later. I don't like my physique, but they still have the same physique. At one point you have to say, enough is enough. I want something else for myself, I want something better, I'm passionate about that, and I'm going to pursue that to the fullest. That's Freak Mode. If you don't work hard at it, you don't stay on top of it, then it can all disappear. I'm giving you more than just a 12 week trainer. This Freak Mode program is about making an amazing transformation for all weeks. We're also learning, we get Rick, stay Rift, it's a part of your daily lifestyle.

=== FILE: $100,000 Transformation Challenge by ON & Bodybuilding.com [aqpwbRKfZXU].txt ===

Enter the $100,000 transformation challenge sponsored by Bodybuilding.com and Optimal Nutrition. One of the world's most trusted performance nutrition brands has teamed up with the world's largest online supplement store to provide you with access to thousands of exercise videos, weekly training plans and tips, free-died advice along with motivational support from body space that world's largest fitness community. Log on to bodybuilding.com-100K and sign up for the transformation challenge today.

=== FILE: $200,000 Transformation Challenge - Week 3 Tips from The Muscle Prof [dHR2H_LtwJw].txt ===

Welcome to Week 3 of Bodybuilding.com's 200K transformation. I'm Dr. Jacob Wilson. One of the biggest things that people think when they're trying to transform is that all of their meals have to be, you know, check in and broccoli or to lobby in a spare guest. But that's actually not true. You can make meals that are nutritious, shreds you in that or animal look that actually tastes good at the same time. Tell us what meals and what recipes are good for you by tagging us at Bodybuilding.com, at Diamondize, at the muscle prof and using the hashtag 200K Transform.

=== FILE: $200,000 Transformation Challenge - Week 8 Challenge and MuscleProf Tip - Bodybuilding.com [DqY9fh377_E].txt ===

Hello, I'm Dr. Jacob Wilson and welcome to week eight of the 200K transformation. You're in our laboratory right now You know this morning Kevin Shields in our lab Just PR and hit 405 on a squat to the floor for the first time and it made me think after eight weeks of this challenge A lot of you are hitting new PR's yourself doing things that you never thought you could do before Tell us what those are maybe in post the video or picture and tag us Add bodyvilland.com Add dramatize at the muscle prof and use the hashtag tier okay transform

=== FILE: $200,000 Transformation Challenge 2015 - Bodybuilding.com [H-07_eA9rBw].txt ===

Excuse me, Matt. It's the 2014 Bodybuilding.com Transformation Childs winner. How did you kidding me? I got fourteen, sixteen months ago. I passed out at home, so I'm like, I need to do something different. Bodybuilding.com is here. They gave me a bag of money.

=== FILE: $200K Transformation Challenge 2015 Promo (30 Sec) [9nlaYtEw9vg].txt ===

Excuse me, Matt. It's the 2014 Bodybuilding.com transformation challenge winner. How did you kidding me? I got a 14, 16 months ago. I passed out at home, so I'm like, I need to do something different. Bodybuilding.com is here. They gave me a bag of money.

=== FILE: 10 Essential Bodybuilding Tips ｜ Dorian Yates' Blood & Guts [hggkrZF-Bpw].txt ===

So you've got four workouts covering the whole body over a six day period. Having said that, you've got to be flexible. If you need an extra day for recovery, then take an extra day so that'll become four days. Over seven, some people may need even more. You've got to listen to your body if you need more days to recover. Then just extend that cycle into seven days or eight days or whatever you need. Extra negatives are a tool that you can use to increase the intensity. Basically, you've got three phases of strength. The weakest phase is a positive or the lifting of the weight. That's the weakest phase. Second phase of strength is a static. You're stronger on the static. And then the third phase is a negative. Unfortunately, a lot of people think in terms of just lifting weight. So for instance, a bench presser lifted the weight to the top. Or I'd job job done. Just drop it back down and do another one. They're missing half of the rip. And possibly the most important half of the rip. Because more muscle damage occurs on the negative than on the positive. And it's a damage to the muscle that the body repairs that then becomes muscle growth. So you're missing the most important part of the rip. If you don't emphasize that negative part. And even when you've gone to failure on the positive part of the exercise, your muscle hasn't gone to true failure because it's still strength-left and the negative. So that's why I advise sometimes doing additional negatives at the end of the set. If you've got a training partner, if you're on a machine and it's safe. For instance, you're doing bench press on a machine. You reach failure. You do a couple of force reps. Your positive strength is depleted. You fail. But you've still got something left in the negative. So you can get somebody to raise their weight to the top. And lower it slowly down for a couple of reps until you can't control it. That way, you've depleted every area of the rip. In the last season, a moderate amount of cardio. I think it's good for your cardiovascular conditioning. You need some decent amount of cardio to recover between your sets. So 25 or 30 minutes, three times a week, moderate cardio. I think it's good for some condition. It's also good for recovery when it works out. Because it helps your push-in blood-rounder system. I'll get rid of the waste products from the weight workouts. I prefer to do them on days that I'm not in the gym. Or if you schedule doesn't permit that. And you have to do it on the days you're weight trained. I would much prefer to do it away from the weight workout. I've known for years for my own feedback that if you do cardio after weight training, it kind of interferes with the recovery. The priority is the recovery from that workout and rebuilding your resources. So it's much better to do your cardio separately. And finally enough scientific studies are coming down and improving this. If you do cardio after weight, your strength gains are less than if you did weights on the run. I do a small amount of that work, but it's no additional weight. It's just body weight, short movements, crunches, reverse crunches, leg raises. Of course, if you wanted to get thicker abdominals, you could use extra resistance. But most people don't because aesthetically you don't want to build too much muscle in the mid-section because it spoils your shape. So just very controlled short movements. Basically abdominals is just to bring these two points together. So set ups and so on, not the most effective. I found this simple forward crunches and reverse crunch that where you're bringing your hips up towards your chest and just reverse in that movement. That's pretty much all I need. Until you can do it once a week, when you're in a mass cycle, but I wouldn't recommend using extra weights. This is going to build thickness in your bleaks and it's going to spoil your symmetry. I do several sets, just concentrate on the contraction and have more controls, especially when you go on stage. Controlling abdominals and with the posing and everything. You need to be connected with the muscle, it up to control them. There's a debate, what's better? Chines or free weights. Neither. Both tools that you can use. As long as you're working the muscle you're working it to failure. It doesn't particularly matter if it's a machine or a free weight. As the advantages and disadvantages, the advantages with a free weight, of course, we're all built differently. We're all different heights, we've got different lengths of limbs, different attachments and everything. Where a machine is just built in one way. A free weight, if you left the free weight and I left the free weight, it will take a slightly different pathway because our body is built differently. That's the advantages of a free weight. It works with the individuals body where a machine you're locked into a groove. The advantage of a machine is that you can isolate the muscle without too much in outside involvement, especially if you've got injuries that are very useful. There's more control involved. If you want to do extra negative and so on, of course, if you're doing a free weight, Ben's stress is very awkward to do extra negative. At the end you'll have to lift the weight to the top and lower it down and it's just not practical and it's not really safe. Where are the machines? You're doing a machine bench press. You can get your training partner to lift it at the top and you can control it and it's safe. As advantages and disadvantages, I use both in my training. I use free weights. I use machines. The main thing is it's more like death that you're putting in rather than a tool that you're using. I've always worked with a training partner just because working to failure is not practical. If you haven't got a training partner, you'll need a good spot if somebody knows what they're doing. If you're going to failure with an incline press with a free weight, for instance, if you've got a failure and there's nobody there to spot you, it's very dangerous. You can get stuck without weight on your chest. So you need a good training partner or at least the spotter to assist you in those exercises where it's not safe and practical to do without a training partner. For me they're essential but of course you've got to have a training partner as the same goals as yourself and things that's very important. I can give guidelines but obviously it varies from one person to another depending on their metabolism. I usually start with a protein recommendation. If somebody's training hard and they're trying to build muscle and put on body weight, I would recommend ballpark like one and a half grams of protein for each pound of body weight. So if you weigh 200 pounds for instance, 300 grams of protein a day, that's what you should be aiming for. And your body can only utilize so much protein one time and it doesn't stay in the system for very long. So as well I recommend eating breaking that protein requirement down into five or six small meals throughout the day. And that's where protein supplement becomes very important. Something I've always used since I started training because to get 300 grams of protein a day from solid food is very very difficult. And you know if you're working and so on and it's not practical to eat chicken breasts every couple hours. So protein supplement is very useful to get that requirement. As far as energy, climate, carbohydrates. It's going to vary quite a bit from one individual to another. So I can give you a guideline and basically if you're putting on body fat with that level, then you have to bring it down a little bit. If you're not gaining weight, then you have to go up a little bit. Whatever protein level you're taking times that by one and a half to two. 300 grams of protein a day becomes 450 to 600 grams of carbohydrates a day. That would be a good guideline. And again break it out throughout the day and keep good source of carbohydrates. You know if you're a fairly complex carbohydrates that are broken down slowly, released into your bloodstream slowly so you don't get spikes of blood sugar and big drops. So we're talking over your brown rice, sweet potatoes, vegetables, things like that. You need fats in your diet. There was one time back when I started training where it was just high protein carbohydrates. And super low fat. And I found with a little bit more fat in my diet. I definitely went up and I got better gains. You know you're going to get dietary fat. If you're eating eggs, I wouldn't recommend just eating egg whites. I would throw a few egg gellos in there. If you take all the yellows out, you're taking something in there. You know it's a way. So you have in 10 egg whites. I would say I have at least three yolks in there as well. You're going to have natural fats in there. And a couple of tablespoons a day of a omega fat mixed and a omega fat. So make sure you get all the essential fat. Chicken breasts, turkey breast and beef. There's an excellent source of protein. It's just, you know, if it's very high in fat, obviously you don't want that. But you can get, I used to get lean, ground beef. Almost as lean as chicken breast and it's a better, can more complete source of protein. So beef is a good source as well. So eggs, chicken breasts, turkey breasts, the beef. Fish is fine if you're like, they're not a big fan myself. And then a protein supplement. Those are the main source. I used to train after two meals. So I'd have a big breakfast, you know, odd meal, eggs and so on. A couple hours later, I'd have a shake. A protein shake. Maybe a banana or a small amount of carbohydrates. About an hour, to hour and a half before I train. Thirty minutes before I train, I take a pre-workout, kind of similar stimulants supplements. After training, I would take a small amount of simple, quickly digested protein, like a way isolate, along with some simple sugars. The extra so-called, it doesn't matter as long as it's a simple sugar. Then you're going to get that insulin reaction. What is going to release insulin and it's going to help push nutrients towards the muscles that are depleted at that point. And that's a good time to take, you know, extra glutamine, creatin, if you're taking creatin. That's excellent time to take. You're going to absorb more right after the workout with the simple sugars. I've got a lot of experience with injuries, man. I don't know if injuries over the years. I've learned as I went along. As you know, when I started, I got injuries. And there's really no good advice around. I'd go to my MD and of course, I don't know much about sports injuries. I just tell you to rest and take some anti-inflammatories. If you've got an injury, a small injury is good to take care of it. You know, what happens if you've got an injury, if you've got a small tear in the muscle, your body will repair that, but it will repairs it with scar tissue. Scar tissue is not flexible, like normal muscle tissue. It's not elastic. So if you could think about an elastic band, if you snap to the elastic band, and then stuck it together with glue, with a lump of glue, it'll be fixed, but it'll no longer be elastic. And there's a good chance that that lump of glue at some point is going to snap again. So if you go to the injury, I think deep tissue massage is the best thing to do. You get somebody in there, break that scar tissue down, bring blood into the area, and try to get the healthy tissue back there. And do that before it comes to severe injury. That's what I've learned over the years. And regular carapractic is very helpful as well to keep everything in balance. Don't wait to leave got an injury. If you're putting a lot of stress on your body, if you're doing all the weight training, I think it's a good idea if I have regular carapractic care, just maybe once or once something like that. I used to do a strain because I mean a strain is a good indication. If you're getting a strong gear, you're getting bigger and vice versa. So I would do a body weight. I even used to do measurements like measure my arms, and stuff like that, and a little old school. But if you've got various factors there, you can see if they're all increasing. So you could do a couple of measurements. You could do your body weight on the scales. You could do your strain levels. And see how that increases from month to month. And have a goal each month. Even if this month I'm going to put on two pounds. If you did that every month, then it's 24 pounds, it's a huge gain. I didn't do pictures in the off season, but I did get ready for a contest. Every week, getting ready for a contest, and that way I could track out my body was changing. And actually helped me a lot when I went to the first semester of Olympia in 1992. I kept that every week pictures. And what I noticed was like, track took me five or six weeks out from the contest. I was more or less in counter shape. And I kept coming down and losing weight and losing weight. And I may have got a little harder. Water realizes I was actually losing muscle. So the next year I was determined not to do that. And I didn't make that mistake. And that's why I was able to make a few jincries from one year to the next, like 16 or 17 pounds of muscle from one year to the next and everyone's like, how is that possible? Well, you know, I had a great year of training. So I probably did put on five or six pounds of muscle which at a pro level. That's a great game. But more importantly, I didn't sacrifice ten pounds of muscle that I sacrificed the previous year. So it's really helps with the learning process. Something that really helped me over the years to keep motivated is keeping a journal with nutrition. We're training. What I used to do is every month. Right now, where I'm at, presently. This is my body weight. This is my nutrition. These are my max weights for eight reps on, like 10 key exercises. And then I always set myself a short term goal, which is like, in one month's time, I want to do this. And it's going to be an achievable goal. For instance, if you're just at five pounds, do your bench press in a month. If you could do that every month, then there's 60 pounds at the end of the year. That's a huge game. So it's important to have goals. Short term goals, maybe monthly goals. And maybe a long term goal at the end of the year. And break it down into little steps. Instead of looking at the end of the year, I want to achieve this. How are you going to get there? You've got to take some more steps to get there. So monthly goals. And I'm writing them down. I think it makes them more, much more powerful. What I would do before I work out, I would look at my journal. I know I'd keep a record of every workout as well. After I'd work out, I would write down, this is what I did today. You know, incline press 200 times, 8 reps. And I would review that before I went to do the workout the next week. And okay, that's what I did last week. And that's my goal to beat this, you know. I did 8 reps with 200 or whatever. This workout I'm going to do 9 reps or 10 reps. Or I'm going to do the same reps with 205. Just small increments. And get that goal in your mind. Know which exercises you're going to do before you go to the gym. Which already you're going to do them in. What your goals are for those exercises. Rather than just wondering in a gym and thinking, I'm doing chess today. What should I do? What do I feel like doing today? And having no clear goal. If you've got no clear goal, you're very unlikely to get anywhere.

=== FILE: 12-Week Hardcore Daily Video Trainer With Kris Gethin ｜ Trailer [uWyaPkt-VOI].txt ===

My name is Chris Gettin and I am here to help you achieve the body of your dreams. I lost about 35 pounds during the whole transformation. He's kind of like I said, the no-nonsense, no frills, you have a goal, you stick to it, and that's pretty much it. You know, don't wind, don't complain. You see, I know what it's like to be trapped inside an unhealthy body. My severely injured my back. I was depressed. My asthma, my back was getting worse, and I sunk to a personal low. It was this low point, was my transformation trigger, to change my habits for good. But I didn't do it overnight, and I didn't do it alone. And you don't have to either. Workout plans, nutrition advice, motivation and supplementation, you'll get it all right here. If you have somebody like Chris behind you and know what he's talking about, or just lose weight, or better feel better in your experience change life. So what's unique about this program? I'll be doing it right alongside with you. I'm going to be there with you every step of the day. In the gym, and on a non-training day, it's given you all the info that you need to have a successful transformation and be a winner at the end. I'm going to be there with you. I'm going to be there with you.

=== FILE: 19-Minute Gladiator Workout ｜ Tyrone Bell： Spartacus War Of The Damned [a7Te20vMnY8].txt ===

The Numbers have drawn me on wildest expectation Yet winter is nearly upon us when a city could hold us now That is one of the four with future victories and the blood of Christmas We'll make vital stand against Rome many of us will fall so that all may live free Whatever happens to my people it happens because we choose rent we decide our fate Hey everybody building Dr. Omits Liam McIntyre from spotter cuz war of the damned here to tell you about the guy that changed my life Change my training changed my shape. This is Tyrone Bell tell a little bit about yourself. I am the official spotter Katrina and I am the man responsible for what you see here When Liam got picked for the lead role he was what they considered Absolutely super talent on in front of the camera They weren't 100% happy where his body was and neither was he so they brought me an early What we call pre-production and we started training with him probably about six weeks out and that was a mass building face I didn't care about cutting up anything like that. We had to pack mass on as much as possible in that six weeks Because after that six weeks here to go through what we call boot camp It's fighting its gymnastics. It's getting him up to fight speed and that's basically cut him up And then we had to start the high purge for phase again throughout the season We fit workouts and we can production try to schedule as much as possible But it may be throwing you know they might finish us seeing early and then it's like turn you got half an hour And that's where I guess we had to develop a efficient workouts that would fit into time slots And that's where it came up with a specific thing because the average workout we were had for 20 minutes long So I developed these 19 minute workouts and heavily high purge for base just the guys had to look big We're gonna blow up arms today. This arm workout comprises of a number of super sets We're gonna be working these super sets with compound and isolation detailing exercises We're gonna have our mass builders in there like the easy bar curl. I accompanied with some detailing extensions And you're gonna find that format the whole way through this workout finishing off with two exercises And I'll take you to absolute failure, but the most important piece of equipment to this workout is this the stop watch Every second is accounted for one thousand one hundred and forty seconds So as soon as you walk in that gym So grab your soap watch. Let's get ready here we go First exercise easy bar curls Dressing extensions with a chain the first super set is gonna be 10 reps 10 reps and what you're gonna find This is easy bar our reps are gonna drop while I reps on the extensions climb I actually came on and season one button sand I came on is the Kricks of Stunk Double jump down Start learning the fights and it wasn't long before I actually ended up helping with the cast within nutrition They're training mixing I was in charge and and forcing everyone's nutrition and training Immediately no rest jump on here. You got to hit 10 on this as well I just spent so long training that out pop up and who probably at the time very rightly was like more is more Just work to you can't work anymore and for where I was at was really good Mine state to get myself into because like all right So if you want to grow some muscle mass we're gonna have to change this thing and I'm like, but no, no, no, I've got this worked out I know what to do. I'm I'm gonna just gonna lift more. I know I did you don't know let's move Okay Set one done we've got 45 seconds rest What you're gonna be finding in this super set is the weight is gonna increase on the easy bar curl But your reps are gonna drop well this one here your extensions The weight is gonna go down and your reps are gonna be coming up We're gonna move apart from each other, but the working back to back so you're gonna get a mean pump through the arms All right, let's load this weight because I've only got 25 seconds left All right, this one here. I'm gonna hit eight this one here. I'm gonna hit 12 The reason we're doing this is so we're getting that heavy high purtrophy on our biceps this one and working in a high purtrophy range with our triceps They're a little higher on this Okay Okay, my 45 seconds starts now remember tempo is extremely important with all these exercise back to back every seconds account Or four we still want their two seconds up one second down and this one here one second up two seconds down It's loaded up because I'm gonna six reps on this now. I'm gonna lighten this and we're gonna hit 14 reps The hard part for me every day was looking at you training huge weights that I was always trying to like match You can really have this not experience body that's great as well And all the people as well you had that goal somebody you know you follow and might not be the training partner But you were training videos these guys and you know that's what I want to be this stuff But you know you had that in the corner every day This exercise one super set duck our biceps just went through a heavy mass face Which means we're working the low high-pitched free range or triceps We're working in the higher rep range for high-perature thick and they're gonna swap that up next exercise It's gonna be our triceps We're gonna be working in the low range a biceps the room high range the reason for that is we've only got one workout a week There were hit our arms 1,142 seconds this all comes from working with the car's about this in particular Liam and when you give a 19 minutes to train him you've got to be on par so I want the same from you guys account every second follow this to a take and you'll get the same results Welcome to exercise two it's our second super set What we're gonna find here is our bice and tries the rolls are now reversed our triceps Be working in the lower rep range of high-perature feet and our biceps are in the higher rep range of high-perature feet 10 reps here 10 reps here and then we're gonna work away from each other So let's get this underway we're gonna be doing some skull crushes for the trice we're doing some cable curls for the biceps The common misconception we use say we're gonna be training 19 minutes and we're gonna put muscle on it It's no it can't be done. It's not enough But it is the proof is in the pudding you look at these guys and they've packed lean muscle mass over time Especially under the workload that they've got It's a long-term game because unlike near the end of war the day and they started to go you know what I do see what you're seeing And do see the change. Yeah, you know I could it had been happening for a long time But I didn't want to believe it because I was used to being the other guy Have I thank you for that? Yeah Use that 45 seconds rest to load your weights up use some common sense make sure all your exercises Close with in each other in the same area So you don't have to be running from one side of the gym to the other this one I'm looking at eight repetitions here my biceps We're gonna go up to 12 This also works for the everyday folk. There's people out there that are super busy family life careers If they follow this they're gonna get the same benefits that these people who are shooting on Spartacus with workloads That are crazy the news Okay, one more sit to go. This is the failure one. So let's get to it Last set this entire arm workout used to be Liam his favorite workout one of his body parts that he likes was the triceps This exercise was our main mass filter for the triceps Ties the the master of hypertrophy training I suppose the hard task master of hypertrophy training and I'm sitting there going he's massive So it's gonna work out great. You actually change the way I look at training and change the way I diet and change the way I live my life Straight away on TV at 14 to play the We had to be training the entire time throughout the seasons here Which was a lot of the time frames we were given for training the workouts not only had to be effective They had to be very very time-climbed You got to find failure feeling different on each component of the superset here You're failing under heavy load here you're failing. I'm the electric acid build up is so great So it is quite a different feeling you may feel sick especially with the high rep ranges This is where you cowboy up and keep going through this move on to a final superset This superset is doing two exercises that are more focused at detail on the tris and the boys We're gonna be doing reverse grip here for our triceps. I'm gonna be doing cable curls for our biceps here instead of working in a pyramid We're gonna be working 10 10 10 the whole way through The Spartacus world is these gladiators that have to be aesthetically pleasing They have to have the right combination of lean mass and you know a size as well You Again the same format of everything you've got 45 seconds rest in the twang the nature of these exercises You have to lift that much you've blowing your arms out from the previous heavy exercises these ones we're just going for detail Keep in mind guys tempo every repetition is about three seconds long two seconds up One second down exposed through the hard part one second one two every second is accounted for In the duration of the actual repetitions. Do you take too long or too short? 1000 40 seconds it's gonna be out of whack You're not gonna get this workout done in 19 minutes You You need to enjoy that 45 seconds rest this is over real quick By the end of it, everybody will just like minding up like I started off there and they're like are you turning it with fire? Okay, sure we'll have a good time. I'm going down to my gym by the end of the for more of the day Everyone's taking another take a little bit Good news Super sets are over We got two standalone exercises that we're gonna go to failure on each one, but it's max So we're looking super high reps Okay, guys, we're approaching the end of our workout all the super sets are done We're now concentrating on two exercises two standalone exercises one for the tries one for the boys A little difference here. There's no rep range. You're gonna max them in failure The first one we're gonna do is try set bench dips We do this one first because the reps that you hit you set the mark for your biceps Because then we're gonna pick a weight that we're gonna fail around the same rep range I want to at least hit over 20. I want to blow my rep range out same tempo though It's the only one 19 minutes There's a little bit of leeway Because I don't know how many reps you're gonna do here. I don't know how many reps I'm gonna do here So it could be a little bit under a little bit over the 19 minutes You're pushing this huge the important they have to have the right amount of proteins And they've got to have the right amount of carbs at the right time to pick for the workout and trigger recovery as well Supplementation is really really big. I am a firm believer in supplementing without glutamine and Vc doublease Fill in the muscle Laptic acid is building up. This is where tempo goes you just get it out you start pumping Make that one count you set gladiatom mentality. This is the one I used to push really really hard on in fact This is the one I made him throw up on himself and stool maintenance keep going Bench tips I've got about 35 reps out there now I need to take that number they're 35 transition that over into my bicep curls I need to select a weight that I can know that I'm gonna get around about their 30 mark So you're gonna be lifting lighter than what you normally do so check your ego We're going for maximum failure in a high rep range. It's what I call pump curls One Two To train these guys has been absolutely epic. We've become a family we've been four years together training to put these guys through their Paces every day and we built a bond. This is the only one from the start The tempo has gone out the window So your last exercise time doesn't let it out I'm excited for you to be able to do this workout with somebody's people for what? I can't wait to show yeah, I mean these are the actual workouts that's I made you do yeah, just it takes discipline But it's a realistic life change. Yeah, I think that's what they're asking what you bought me And I appreciate that so much so you're welcome. I'm not a bad man and then is the end Of the 19 minute gladiator arm workout remember this is only one of the 19 minute workouts in this program format But the key principles they transfer over to all of them is time management each workout is one There's 142nd long and every second is accounted for for the full Spartacus program check out the page below It's also a chess workout back workout shoulders and legs as well as the arm workout that we just did Training is only one part of this supplementation and nutrition are the key factors to making this work Now if you've got those in check you're gonna get the results a living testament to that is lamb over two seasons following this Exect workout exact nutrition again over 20 pounds of muscle now if you've got any questions Check out my personal website champion nutrition dot net dot in z book for more Spartacus content check out bodybuilding dot com Final stand against rose number all male Prepare the men for much have a press towards Spartacus Whatever happens to my people we decide our fate I

=== FILE: 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer - Day 4 [03JKamVnbfs].txt ===

Today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player, Michael Gasper, and joining us. And remember, for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch life 24-7 fitness trainer, you can follow along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV, or computer. Starting with jogging in place, Michael is going to get us started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warm-up is going to be completed at total of 30 seconds. And again, every warm-up that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7-10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you really want to be pushing it during the warm-up we want to get the muscles ready to do work. So just about 10 seconds left, I feel like I'm saying Michael. Ready? Killer? Yeah. Which you've made it to do. Four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. There we go. So Michael's taking a nice, wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people that are doing this kind of thing. Come all the way up, bring your feet nice and wide. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. Supporting that you're really focusing during your workout. Four, three, two, one. Good. We're going to get right into butt kicks, warm the hamstrings up. Good. Michael, if you can just turn to the side, show the people at home. The angle. So his knee is staying right underneath his hips. And that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it. Hence the name. Bucks. Good. Keeping the upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath. You want to be breathing. You want to be loosening up. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out, getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. We're trying to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. Blood moving into all the muscles. Good. Five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Moving right into walking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these backmits for ball days. Yeah. There we go. So again, with all of these warm up exercise, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. You mean, everything nice and engaged. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. So that concludes our dynamic warm up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. Do you run into it? Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows. He's a highly conditioned athlete. You should feel his at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, again, that's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay, good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out and he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch. By that second stretch your body goes, oh, hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. And then we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes his body's getting warmed up. Your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that you're breathing. Don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, ah, you should be relaxed during this time period. Good and relaxed. I'm going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it. One more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work and that's exactly what we want. Also when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Good, just about halfway there on the second stretch. 10 seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two and one. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. Throughout home, you shouldn't be text messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. Five more seconds left on this side. Feeling warm? Oh yeah. Good. And relax. He's going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. That's a little perfect. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our bodyweight workout. Good. 10 seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Your hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. When you relax, just come up, shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for the stretch. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. 10 seconds left. And five, four, three, two, one. All right. On our feet, right into our dynamic chest stretch. He's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and rifting through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. Perfect. That's perfect for him. Just killing it right out of the gate. I got his chin. 10 seconds left on this first round. Perfect. And part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. It relax. Shake it out. Moving right into the next round. Again. So often at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the movement. So we're going to kick good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he, Michael's just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're ringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good, five seconds left on this right side. Good, and relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I'm going to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out. You're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. 4, 3, 2, 1, moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of building is so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. The last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment. It's like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. 8 seconds left. 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend too. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching. Good. 10 seconds left. We're going to move right into our tricep stretch. Good. 4, 3, 2, 1, good. And moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position. And he's just pressing down on that top elbow, top of his elbow rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lat and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. I feel a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down here today. Good. 3, 2, 1, good. Relax. Shake it out. Moving into the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys, during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym, committing to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place it needs to be to give 100%. So we have just about 10 seconds left. 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Perfect. So often I see people at the gym and they go, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone while the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to work out and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that head space before you get to your workout. And this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. 5 seconds left. 3, 2, 1, good relax. Okay, good. Let's move right into our LAO-SOS stretch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more and they should feel this right through your abdominal area. So you're going to go through here because that's where your hip flexor, the LAO-SOS, kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. We want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. 4, 3, 2, 1, good, shake it out. We're going right into the round two. Good. And again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit further than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one, find where you're comfortable, but on the second one, you want to push into it a little bit more. Perfect. Good. 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, good, moving right over to the other side. Good. and we're going to head and work, moving right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day, doing body building workouts in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, carrot with these workouts, you will build muscle as well, and not have to be in the gym for two hours, because a lot of people, myself included, I'm short on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back, and he's just going to cross one leg over the other, yep, and just twist down perfect. Yep, and again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. See that a lot, you really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good, relax. Shake it out and move right into the round two. Good, just about 15 seconds left for the second stretch. Good, five seconds left for the second stretch. Good, five seconds left for the second stretch. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, let's twist over to the other side. Good, and I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other. And that's fine, that's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good, five seconds left for three, two, one. Good, relax. Our body will do really funny things, because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor, so if my side is my right side, if I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find that the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important, because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good, and relax. Perfect, moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight. And then just cross the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super, super tight, because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body, is your low back comes in and tries to take over. And that is what will create a lot of problem through you. So when it comes to the glute, so when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good, relax. We'll go one more time on that side. You know, sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching, but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension. That's a good thing going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. But 10 seconds left. Good, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Good, let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol, because we're so stressed all the time. The cortisol is going to be a good thing. And our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax. And the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place, the more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Can't go ahead and relax. It's to go ahead and shake it out. We're moving right into the last round. Ready to get done? And that's really the headspace that you need to be in. You are here to put in the work because you want to change with your body. The way you get that change is by going 100%. 3, 2 and 1. Great. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout： Day 11 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [S7KX_S_gzX0].txt ===

Today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player, Michael Gasper, and joining us. And remember, for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch life 24-7 fitness trainer, you can follow along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV, or computer. Starting with jogging in place, Michael is going to get us started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warm-up is going to be completed at total of 30 seconds. And again, every warm-up that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7-10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you really want to be pushing it during the warm-up we want to get the muscles ready to do work. So just about 10 seconds left, I feel like I'm saying Michael. Ready, Kelly? Ready, Kelly? Okay. Which you've made it? Four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. There we go. So Michael's taking a nice, wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people that the gym kind of go in like this. Come all the way up, bring your feet nice and wide. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. So important that you're really focusing during your workout. Four, three, two, one. Good. We're going to get right into butt kicks, warm the hamstrings up. Good. Michael, if you can just turn to the side, show the people at home. The angle. So his knee is staying right underneath his hips and that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it. Good. Then he gets the right foot. Good. Keeping the upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath. You want to be breathing. You want to be loosening up. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out, getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. Never try to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. Get blood moving into all the muscles. Good. Five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Moving right into walking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these back moves for ball days. There we go. So again, with all of these warm up exercises, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. You mean everything nice and engaged, good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. We can include our dynamic warm up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. Do you run into it? Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows. So highly conditioned athlete. You should feel his at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet again, that's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay, good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out. And he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. And we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes his body's getting warmed up. Your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that you're breathing. Don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, ah, you should be relaxed during this time period. Good and relaxed. Going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it one more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work and that's exactly what we want. So when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Good. Just about halfway there on the second stretch. 10 seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two and one. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be text messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% to this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. Five more seconds left on this side. Feeling warm? Oh yeah. Good. And relax. Take that out. Come right back up. Perfect. That's a little bit better. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our bodyweight workout. Good. 10 seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Our hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. When you relax, just come up, shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for the stretch. Good. Good. Good. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. 10 seconds left. And five, four, three, two, one. All right. On our feet right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and rifting through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect for him. He's just killing it right out of the gate. I got his chin. 10 seconds left on this first round. Perfect. And part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Moving right into the next round. Again. So often at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. That's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. With any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the movement. Pick good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he, Michael's just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're ringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good. Five seconds left on this right side. Good. And relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I'm going to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body. Everything in a stretch they're upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out, you're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of building is so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. Last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment. It's moments like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend too. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching. Good. Ten seconds left. We're going to move right into our tricep stretch. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position. And he's just pressing down on that top elbow, top of his elbow rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lat and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. I don't want to. I feel a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down here today. Good. Three. Two. Good. Shake it out. Moving into the next round. Again, you guys, during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so. So many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym, committing to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place it needs to be to give 100%. Four, three, two, one. Better relax. Shake it out. Let's move onto the other side. Do we have just about 10 seconds left? Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. You know, so often I see people at the gym and they go, you know, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone while the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to workout and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. Five seconds left. Three, two, one. Good relax. Okay, good. Let's move right into our LAO Southwest stretch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it, up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more. And you should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor, the LAO so as kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. We want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Good shake it out. We're right into the round two. Good, and again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit further than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one. Find where you're comfortable, but on the second one you want to push into it a little bit more. Perfect. Good. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, and five. Two, one. Good moving right over to the other side. Good. Go ahead and relax. Moving right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building workouts in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, you care it with these workouts. You will build muscle as well, and not have to be in the gym for two hours, because a lot of people, myself included, I'm short on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. And he's just going to cross one leg over the other. Yep. And just twist down. Perfect. Yep. And he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. See that a lot? You really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good. Relax. Shake it out and move right into the round two. Good, just about 15 seconds left for the second stretch. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Go. Let's twist over to the other side. Good. And I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other. And that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good. Five seconds left. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. Now our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So if my side is my right side, if I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find that the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good. And relax. Perfect. Moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight. Cross the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body is your low back comes in and tries to take over. And that is what will create a lot of problem through you. So when it comes to the glute, so when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good. Relax. We'll go one more time on that side. You know, sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension that's good thing going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. But 10 seconds left. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Good. Let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place. The more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Go ahead and relax. It's a go ahead and shake it out. We're moving right into the last round. Ready? Good done. Ready? Good done. That's really the head space that you need to be in you are here to put in the work because you want to change with your body the way you get that change is by going 100%. 3, 2 and 1, great.

=== FILE: 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout： Day 14 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [e0B7sfEEtbk].txt ===

So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar Amber Lisbon-Thawd-Wight. Remember for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer, or television. Alright so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warm-up. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises in the dynamic warm-up. You're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright, let's go ahead and get into it. So Amber's going to start with jogging in place. And again with every single one of these warm-ups you want to really be at at level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warm-up you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. But halfway through. Coming up is jumping jacks 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 right into jumping jacks. So Amber's taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of short cutting the movement make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warm-up that you're keeping your core tight we really want to get every muscle in the body fired up. Okay, and 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to butt kicks. This is an exercise to work with the hamstrings. Go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. So Amber's keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. Make sure that the arms are moving. Keep your shoulders nice and loose. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to switch kick with arms circles. And then Amber's keeping her core tight. Her legs, her quads, her straight. This is great to warm up your quads. Also she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warm-up. Plus her core feel. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 switching over to walking high knees. Your last exercise in the warm-up. Okay, this is great for the hip flexors. I want to make sure that the hip flexors are really really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. We spend so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward, as she's bringing her knees up. 4, 3, 2, 1. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. Again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of path-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds as she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Go ahead and keep your head down. So your head should be down, you should feel this stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. Okay, good. So for this stretch, you want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. And go right into the stretch one more time. While you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay. Good for us. Two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, three seconds. Let it shake it out. Good. So she's shaking it out. She's going to go right back up again. Good. She's going to kick her knee. So I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good. So five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out, but throughout the day. Good. Two, one. Come back up, shake it out. And she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Good. Good. And again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching. Again, sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favors by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. We don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. For arms of staying nice and loose. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one. Good. Shoulder across the chest. Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the belt and the rear belt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay. Three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. I'm bringing it across again. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to the pair for the work out ahead, switch. Okay. So she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one, shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your ego better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back. And she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back what you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Bring it right back up. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good, three, two, one. Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. And take some left on this side. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, shake it out, back up. Okay, so you got 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliosto-S stretch. So you go and back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliosto-S stretch next. So you're going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. So you're going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good, okay, relax. Good, she's going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliosto-S is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness and your low back, this is your stretch. Good, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good, three, two, one. Good, so she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first, put your hand up. Okay, so if you're in this position and you're not feeling the stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So Amber to bring her body back, so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. So this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. And again, keeping the upper body totally straight, she's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next, Amber is going to move into the low back stretch, so she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay, and she's just going to bring one knee over her body. Go to the she's going to rotate. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your glute. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So just going to come back over and come right back over. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough, good, 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Just going to shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for pushups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay, three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber is going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up. Just going to cross one leg across the other and she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Good. Ten seconds. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's going to shake it out for a second and bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. So Amber is shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you was eating that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. Good. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good.

=== FILE: 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout： Day 21 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [sNDCARHi3-M].txt ===

So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar Amber Lisbon-Thawd-Wight. Remember for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer, or television. Alright so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warm-up. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises in the dynamic warm-up. You're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright, let's go ahead and get into it. So Amber's going to start with jogging in place. And again with every single one of these warm-ups you want to really be at at level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warm-up you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. But halfway through. Coming up is jumping jacks 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 right into jumping jacks. So Amber's taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of short cutting the movement make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warm-up that you're keeping your core tight we really want to get every muscle in the body fired up. Okay, and 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to butt kicks. This is an exercise to work with the hamstrings. Go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. So Amber's keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. Make sure that the arms are moving. Keep your shoulders nice and loose. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to switch kick with arms circles. And then Amber's keeping her core tight. Her legs, her quads, her straight. This is great to warm up your quads. Also she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warm-up. Plus her core feel. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 switching over to walking high knees. Your last exercise in the warm-up. Okay, this is great for the hip flexors. I want to make sure that the hip flexors are really really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. We spend so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward, as she's bringing her knees up. 4, 3, 2, 1. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. Again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of path-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds as she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Go ahead and keep your head down. So your head should be down, you should feel this stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. Okay, good. So for this stretch, you want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. And go right into the stretch one more time. While you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay. Good for us. Two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, three seconds. Let it shake it out. Good. So she's shaking it out. She's going to go right back up again. Good. She's going to kick her knee. So I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good. So five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out, but throughout the day. Good. Two, one. Come back up, shake it out. And she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Good. Good. And again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching. Again, sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favors by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. We don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. For arms of staying nice and loose. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one. Good. Shoulder across the chest. Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the belt and the rear belt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay. Three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. I'm bringing it across again. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to the pair for the work out ahead, switch. Okay. So she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one, shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your ego better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back. And she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back what you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Bring it right back up. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good, three, two, one. Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. Good. And tighten the left on this side. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, shake it out. Come back up. Okay, so you got 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoes stretch. So you're going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliostoes stretch next. So she's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. So she's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Okay, relax. Good. She's going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoes is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do it at the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness and your low back, this is your stretch. Good. So she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first, put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling the stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. You're going to get five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also this is great for the quad as well. Okay. Go ahead and get right back into it. And again, keeping the upper body totally straight, she's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So next, Amber is going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay. She's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good and she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your glute. Good. Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to come back over and come right back over. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, you can't get quite far enough. Good. Ten seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Just going to shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for pushups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay. Three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber is going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up. Just going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Good. Ten seconds. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. And so she's going to shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. So Amber is shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you see that arm to bring the across. And you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good.

=== FILE: 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout： Day 25 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [wRwGOgHBcgE].txt ===

Today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player Michael Gass for sending joining us. And remember, for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch life 24-7 fitness trainer, you can follow along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV, or computer. Starting with jogging in place, Michael is going to get us started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warm-up is going to be completed at a total of 30 seconds. And again, every warm-up that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7 to 10, 10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you really want to be pushing it during the warm-up. We want to get the muscles ready to do work. So just about 10 seconds left, I feel like say Michael, ready to kill it? Did you donate it? Four, three, two, one. Good moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. There we go. So Michael's taking a nice, wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people that the gym kind of go on like this. Come all the way up, bring your feet nice and wide. Good, just about halfway there. Good. So important that you're really focusing during your workout. Four, three, two, one. Good, we're going to get right into butt kicks, warm the hamstrings up. Good, Michael, if you can just turn to the side, show the people at home. The angle, so his knee is staying right underneath his hips. And that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it, hence the name, butt kicks. Good, keeping the upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath. You want to be breathing. You want to be loosening up. Good, just about 10 seconds left. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out, getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. We're trying to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. We get blood moving into all the muscles. Good, five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Moving right into walking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these backmits football days. Yeah. There we go. So again, with all of these warm-up exercises, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. You mean, everything nice and engaged, good at five, four, three, two, and one perfect. All right, so that concludes our dynamic warm-up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. Can you ran into it? Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good and he's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows. He's a highly conditioned athlete. You should feel this at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. Because if you can't get all the way out to your feet, again, that's okay. You can always hold onto the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay, good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out and he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch. By that second stretch your body goes, oh, hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. And we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes his body's getting warmed up. Your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that you're breathing. Don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, ah, you should be relaxed during this time period. Good and relaxed. I'm going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it one more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work and that's exactly what we want. Also when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Good, just about halfway there on the second stretch. 10 seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two and one. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. Again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be text messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. Five more seconds left on this side. You feel more? Oh yeah. Good. And relax. He's going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. That's a perfect workout. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our bodyweight workout. Good. Ten seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Your hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. When you relax, just come up, shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for this stretch. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. Ten seconds left. And five, four, three, two, one. All right. On our feet, right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and ripping through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect for him. He's killing it right out of the gate. I got his training. Ten seconds left on this first round. Perfect. And part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. It relax. Shake it out. Going to be right into the next round. Again. So often at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injuries. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the movement. Pick good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he, Michael's just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're ringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good, five seconds left on this right side. Good, and relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I'm going to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthen, and out, you're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good, four, three, two, one moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of building that's so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. The last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment. It's moments like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six, five, four, three, two, one good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time, but I always recommend to. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching. Good, ten seconds left. And we're going to move right into our tricep stretch. Good, four, three, two, one, good. And moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that, that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow. Top of his elbow, rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lat and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. I'm going to, I see a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down here today. Good, three, two, one, good, relax, shake it out, moving into the next round. Again, you guys, during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym committing to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place that needs to be to give 100%. Four, three, two, one, good, relax, shake it out, let's move onto the other side. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. So often I see people at the gym and they go, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone? Well, the truth is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to work out and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get to your workout. This is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. Five seconds left. Three, two, one, good, relax. Okay, good. Let's move right into our LAO sew-ass stretch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more. And you should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor, the LAO sew-ass, kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. We want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left, four, three, two, one, good, shake it out. We're going right into the round two. Good, and again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit further than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one, find where you're comfortable, but on the second one, you want to push into it a little bit more. Perfect. Good, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, good, moving right over to the other side. Good, go ahead and relax, moving right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building workouts in order to build muscle. It's not true if you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, carrot with these workouts, you will build muscle as well, and not have to be in the gym for two hours. Because a lot of people, myself, included, I'm short on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. And he's just going to cross one leg over the other, yep, and just twist down perfect. Yep, and again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up and see that a lot. You really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good, relax. Shake it out and move right into the round two. Good, just about 15 seconds left or this second stretch. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, let's twist over to the other side. Good, and I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. And at the other times, when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other. And that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side has needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good, five seconds left, four, three, two, one, good, relax. And our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So if my side is my right side, if I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find that the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good, and relax. Perfect moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight. Cross the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body. And the low back comes in and tries to take over and that is what will create a lot of problems through you. So when it comes to the glute, so when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good relax. We'll go one more time on that side. You know, sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching, but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension. That's good thing going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. But 10 seconds left. Good five, four, three, two, and one. Good, let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place. The more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Okay, go ahead and relax. It's to go ahead and shake it out. We're moving right into the last round. Ready? Good done. And that's really the headspace that you need to be in you are here to put in the work because you want to change with your body the way you get that change is by going 100%. Three, two, and one. Great. Thank you.

=== FILE: 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout： Day 28 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [mQVw701Ta8E].txt ===

So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar Amber Lisbon-Bethoddwy. Remember for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer, or television. Alright so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warm-up. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises in the dynamic warm-up. You're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright let's go ahead and get into it. So Amber is going to start with jogging in place. And again with every single one of these warm-ups you want to really be at a level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warm-up you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. But halfway through. Coming up is jumping jacks 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 right into jumping jacks. So Amber is taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of shortcutting the movement make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warm-up that you're keeping your core tight we really want to get every muscle in the body fired up. Okay, and 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to butt kicks. This is an exercise to work with the hamstrings. Go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. So Amber is keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. Maybe you should that the arms are moving. Keep your shoulders nice and loose. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to switch kick with arms circles. The namers keep in her core tight. Her legs, her quads are straight. This is great to warm up your quads. Also she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warmed up. How's her core feel? 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 switching over to walking high knees. Last exercise in the warm up. This is great for the hip flexors. I want to make sure that the hip flexors are really, really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. We spend so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward, she's bringing her knees up. 4, 3, 2, 1. Again. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. Again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Keep going as far as you can go comfortably and grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds as she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Moving stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. Okay, so for this stretch, you want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable if you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch. It's okay to use a wall or whatever it's nearby to keep your balance. Put 15 seconds. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. While you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout. That's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. Use that opportunity wisely. Okay, three seconds. Let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good. She's shaking it. No. Okay, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked and this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one. Come back up, shake it out. And she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good. Again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up but we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. For arms of staying nice and loose. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one. Good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the belt and the rear belt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough, okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down and bring it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to the pair for the workout ahead. Switch. Okay. So she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also, a known to most people, it also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique, it can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay. Two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay. Go ahead and stop. Okay. Let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm is back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll, you'll feel this in the tricep. A lot of you will also feel this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthen out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back what you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Bring it right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch. Just that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Take a three, two, one. Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. Put a five, four, three, two, one. Good. Shake it out and back up. Okay, so you've got 10 more seconds left. Coming up we have the LEO Southwest stretch. So you're going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the LEO Southwest stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. So she's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Okay, relax. Good. She's going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The LEO Southwest is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do it at the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good. So she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first, put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also this is great for the quad as well. Okay. Go ahead and get right back into it. I think I'm keeping the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. So next, Amber's going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay. She's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good and she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even fill this in parts of your glute. Good. Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to come back over. And then coming right back over. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough, 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Just going to shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay. Three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up. Just going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Good. Ten seconds. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's going to shake it out for a second and bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling. The knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. So Amber is shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you was eating that arm to bring the across. And you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Thank you.

=== FILE: 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout： Day 7 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [Tyv5vhtuRt8].txt ===

So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar Amber Lisbon Dodge Light. Remember for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer or television. Alright so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warm-up. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises in the dynamic warm-up. You're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright let's go ahead and get into it. So Amber's going to start with jogging in place. And again with every single one of these warm-ups you want to really be at a level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warm-up you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. But halfway through. Coming up is jumping jacks 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 right into jumping jacks. So Amber's taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of short cutting the movement make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warm-up that you're keeping your core tight we really want to get every muscle in the body fired up. Okay, and 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to butt kicks. This is an exercise to work with the hamstrings. Go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. So Amber's keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. Make sure that the arms are moving. Keep your shoulders nice and loose. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to switch kick with arms circles. And then Amber's keeping her core tight. Her legs, her quads, her straight. This is great to warm up your quads. Also she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warm-up. Plus her core feel. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 switching over to walking high knees. Your last exercise in the warm-up. Okay, this is great for the hip flexors. I want to make sure that the hip flexors are really really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. We spend so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward, but she's bringing her knees up. 4, 3, 2, 1. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. Again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of path-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds as she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Keep your head down. So your head should be down, you should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. Okay, good. So for this stretch, you want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. And go right into the stretch one more time. While you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay. Good pass. Two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, three seconds. Let it shake it out. Good. So she's shaking it out. She's going to go right back up again. Good. She's shaking her knee. So I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good. So five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out, but throughout the day. Good. Two, one. Come back up, shake it out. And she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Good. Again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching. And sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favors by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. We don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. For arms of staying nice and loose. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one. Good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the belt and the rear belt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down and bring it across again. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath so often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Switch. Okay. So she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your ego better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay. Let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. You'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back what you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Bring it right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Take a good three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. And left on this side. Good five, four, three, two, one. Good. Shake it out. Come back up. Okay, so you got 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoes stretch. So you go back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliostoes stretch next. So she's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. So she's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Okay, relax. Good. She's going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoes is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good. So she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling the stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also this is great for the quad as well. Okay. Go ahead and get right back into it. And again, keeping the upper body totally straight, she's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So next, Amber is going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay. She's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good. And she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your glute. Good. Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to come back over and then come right back over. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. Good. Ten seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Just going to shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for pushups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay. Three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber is going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up. Just going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keep it this leg nice and straight. Good. 10 seconds. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. She's going to shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Great. So Amber is shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you can see that arm to bring the across. And you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. Good. So we've got five seconds left. 4, 3, 2, 1. Good.

=== FILE: 2010 Joe Weider Interview - The Father of Modern Bodybuilding - Bodybuilding.com [2npBZBayg34].txt ===

... I worked in a grocery store and it will put the grocery on there and I will walk around the city to deliver them. But in doing that I was able to observe everything in the city some so long. And one day I passed a shop, a sports shop. And I saw the magazine and the magazine I noticed that the weight cluster was strong and husky and I was being the right lip they picked on me. I was big and they picked on me. So for that I was skinny and I used to go walking the streets and a French candid guy in my Jewish people. But they picked them up but they had a fight back and I saw the barbells, no double barbells. So I went to all the stores and went to Yolk to get nobody knew about these things and kind of got them. And I went to ask them that they saw barbells here. Barbells, they got barbells here and I asked them what they had dumbbells here. Yeah, we got a bunch of dumbbells we were working for us. We also saw them for you. That's the way they were. They were because they never heard about them. We turned the cello's dumbbell. We turned the cello's barbell. They never did. They never knew about it. But luckily there was a blacksmith. And once they were called there and she had faith in making a barbells because they had their hammer and everything. So one day they said we don't make that stuff. Boy, if you go there, they have to give it to your free so they can get out of the house and we went down to Suck Yolk and I saw a junk and I saw one piece of equipment to I took homework and they were glad to get rid of it. I did not get into training at home when the war began. I couldn't compete in making a barbell because it took everybody's way into the army. As long as you were in the communication and left your lungs, you could have put the most of them in the army. So all the way to the army. I couldn't make left, but I left them heavy weights. I tried to live in a dweather than a gym. You know what I would do this is a different thing. And by doing different things, I began to accept different things. You know, I looked up away, I pushed the weight. But because of that, I enjoyed it. The only my body. I had the money. I had $8 to my name. I was going to put it on my feet. I was going to put it on my legs. As everybody's off in me, she went out again lifting the weight. Everybody says, how do you just go on like that? How do you get so big for an overyear of pectowning? And everybody wants to be, say, hey, power some. Before they used to pick on me. But after a year or so, they used to call me power some. They're going to build up. But we got started because they didn't have to prepare it. Maybe for about eight, nine years. I didn't know where the little magazines I had. People were trying to read it. And they left the weights. And they wanted to compete. But the guys had nothing to do with them. They were saying, y'all, you know, everybody has that. Every sport has. And why don't we have it? I said, okay, we'll put it up. Come on. Come on. Come on. You're getting together for you. Yeah. After five or six years, the publishing of magazine, that became a big success. And people all over the world wanted to copy through the magazine. Right. So when my brother came out of the army, I asked him to become a debassable for our sports. And he did. And he was a great ambassador. People loved him. He went all over the world. He was a very open-up. And he came with pictures and so forth. I need to show that to the president. You know, all over the country. He's very well-bought and well-bought. And they're very fascinated. Not only we were fast, so they were. But they were fast, so they're not going to pull them. And you call it a grease. Or if you thought when a really well-bought thing could be new, they had a big song. Right. Let's say you want to be a great football player. Right. You can't be a football player in the skinny. Right. You're not a tough, not the overall. It's great. So they wanted to be tough. A real poor. There was a pressure. I threw it, but the point is that when I ate my food, I made sure that it was good food. Right. And I had a garage and build a garage in my home. And I first made a shit. I worked with that. And then eventually, I did all. And I did a lift thing in the garage there. Then later on, he's been just later going to the barbells for a being sold in the United States. And I bought some of them. Then I began copying them and putting that around my mouth. I used to train it at my home. There was no gym for bodybuilding and so forth. For one day, somebody rang the bell of my home. And they said, it's still weird to live here. I worked for a high-end job with them. You always draw weird at them. Left-winged race. It says, yeah, could you show me how to do it? A couple of guys. They were looking all over the city. You get members for the club. Yeah, they had power to have a size. They're not going to be so funny. So you really see this guy going around. To do it. To help the club get members. To the kids in my place. And I showed them how strong I was. He said, wow, you're really powerful. Would you like to be able to eat lobster? Wait up. Okay. They open the doors. And my soft gym. Oh, guys, we're training, lifting heavy weights and helping. Giving advice to other, supporting them. I've said to myself, I'm working for the guys I like. They support each other to help each other. And that's where I'll be payment involved with them. If you don't lift weights in the guy, bring to the side, take a check. You know, every year with a little pop, pop, pop, pop, pop. It's my body. And when I go to the doctor, they also have my dog. You've got bones for men of 20 years younger than you. I have powerful bones. And when you wait, that whole body gets strong. Because not only must be a club of strong, you know, it got forced in the body. That has to eat new things. If you were an athlete, lifting weights, they'll kick you off the team. Because they figure your main come muscle bar. They say, weight training will make your muscle bar. Now, if you lift weight, they put you in the team. A lot of bodybuilding. Not only that, I almost forced like a pop. Yeah. But very lifting. I always watch the bodybuilder. In fact, until 1970, 75, 76, I wanted them to stop taking drugs. You know, hold on. I'm almost 90. Before the medical professor said, don't listen to me. Nothing you're watching yourself. You're breaking bones, you're so crazy. Now, they carry you to exercise. And if they save you exercise all the time, you live at least 20 years long. Well, I'm happy because I love bodybuilding. I love all the bodybuilders. I've never seen suicide kid. They're my favorite people. When I was bodybuilding, I knew what bodybuilding would do for people. They're very similar. Bodybuilding eventually dominates. They're looking at me or they're flexible. They're like, show off. That's right. They didn't know they were so showing off. They were looking for flaws in their body to get better. They didn't know about it. Bodybuilding's the greatest thing in the world. They see it strong. You'll see the few exercise. You'll be better when you're forwarded or defined. Everybody belirt me as a great friend. I'm like, I consider them a friend in the power. When I'm with bodybuilders, I'm always happy.

=== FILE: 2010 Military Challenge ｜ Bodybuilding.com Commercial [FbOxs6mu9N4].txt ===

Move gentlemen, we ain't got all day. Let's go, let's go, let's go. Be good. One, two, three, one, one, two, three, two. Move, move, move, move, go, go, go. We're in the middle, move, move.

=== FILE: 2011 Arnold Classic Rap - Bodybuilding.com [LdgWz_eU6hU].txt ===

Yo, Steve, Jimatch, come on, T.P. Columbus, Ohio, y'all. The capital is crazy, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You're in the head of the Hatch, though. No, follow me, man. Let's go, hi. Smell. Smell. You ready? You ready? You ready? Two thousand, he live out. He live in. He live in. Mark's third. Mark's third. Mark's third. Mark's third. 10's bowling. x-potogoon. 10's bowling. Let's win, let's winter. It's time for a day. Let's run. Christmas. Let's Party. Let's win. mechanism. Let's fight. National, dance or judo, fitness in the national, party with the chrome, strong man classic, team up for health, life worth lasted, amateur, MMA, active living festival You wanna be like Arnold, I suggest you eat your vegetable, more than $100,000 people that's a shocking, yeah we got karate, yeah we got boxing, rivaling GJ zoom, pumping run by K, Arnold classic teen challenge on the way, yeah they grow teeny, and mature before

=== FILE: 2011 Arnold Sports Festival： Pro's Vs. Bro's Charity Lift [5KhOOj-wwx8].txt ===

Ladies and gentlemen, my name is Brian Stan. I'm the executive director for Higher Girls USA. Higher Girls USA is a chair. He then helps our veterans climb jobs and make it off active duty. In the last year we've held over eight veterans, fine jobs. Currently, the unemployment rate for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans is over 25% 25% of ladies and gentlemen. So here today, we're raising money for higher heroes USA. So we can help fight that and make sure that our war veterans are combat veterans come back. And don't get the third or the second chance with the first chance at the American Dream and they come back in front lines. Thank you guys very much. Well, basically it was the first annual Bros. Bros. Competition between team animal and team disparity and each competitor had to weigh in and then bench press their weight for maximum repetitions. The team with the overall most repetitions was one of one and the losing team had to donate $1,000 to higher heroes USA, which is a chair that helps our veterans find jobs and they get off active duty. And it's actually a charity that I run that on the president's board. We got teams as well. We're pretty proud. That's $1,000. That's $1,000. What is this? 20 seconds, everybody. It's going to be a little bit smaller. All right, try to kill me, go now. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. On your wrong side, and the other is still alive. Just calm down and keep calm down. Try to kill me. You can do that with your own皮. Yeah, I know, I think you guys're cutting up. Get this, trick. Yeah, we can go. Okay. We need to go. Hey, auntie. 5, 2, 3. 5, 2. Come on. Who did you like? Fuck you. Come on. I want to go crazy, Zephyr is born. I want to go. One half way there, baby. 14, 21, 22, 22. I'm going to lose. 29. Yeah. Good. I'm not going to work. I'm going to work. I'm going to work. But you run. Yeah. Yes. Yes. 32. Yeah. Yeah. And how do we do that, Tom 35aya? Is Nokia laser? Yep. And describe this nonprofit at your Street. Yes. That's the style of animal. You want to find stronger Star in the parish. Tatives inside your hand. At first, it took place, mentor 齢 pains and power dialogues, all over the city of T Punkte. part from team animals. So, you know, we're really proud and at the end of the event, higher heroes USA was very lucky that both teams don't aid a thousand dollars and body billing.com through an extra thousand dollars. All going towards higher heroes USA and all going towards finding our veterans jobs and they get home.

=== FILE: 2011 Employee Transformation Challenge [bUFiZyW6uMk].txt ===

I'm a Jared Smith and 30 years old. I work at Bodybuilding.com as a senior product designer. I'm going to be company for about a year and a half and just you're decided to take fitness seriously and participate in employee transformation challenge. Send it up losing 30 pounds to cut my body fat percent from 22 to 11 in 12 weeks. My name is Jesse Ellis. I'm 28 years old and I work at Bodybuilding.com and I did the transformation challenge and I lost about 31 pounds. My name is Michael Lussin. Also known as Mighty Nick. I'm 26 years old and I've been working at Bodybuilding.com for a little over a year. I started off at 270 and day 84. I was weighed in at 230. My name is Ryan Deering. I work at Bodybuilding.com. I went from 181 pounds to 166 pounds. In college I was actually a sponsored athlete. My whole life played football and land track. March 3rd of 2010 had a little boy and that was kind of a wake up call that I didn't want to be the fat-old slow dad. About the same time I was diagnosed with an autoimmune disease where my body saw my thyroid as a foreign object and attacked it and killed it. It's time to make a change and take fitness seriously. It's not just working out anymore. It's eating right and doing the things necessary to get back to that person. I think I am when I look at the minute. I've always been into working out and lifting weights. I just never actually have dieted down. I took my week four photos and just after four weeks I already saw a big change. My wife, Rachel, did the transformation with me. Having somebody there for that support I think was huge. Just the feeling when you're done, there's that satisfaction that you did it yourself. I think it's a really cool feeling that anyone should definitely try. Growing up I was always a little thicker than most kids. After I got done playing a collegiate football I kind of slacked off so I didn't pay attention to my fitness as much. It was about day three changing my diet. I truly felt different. I felt like I was light. I even stopped snoring because of the change and diet and the weight that was dropped. I huge factor in my transformation was having people around me that were doing the same thing. It doesn't have to be five people. It doesn't have to be ten people. One person, two people, they can make a huge difference in your success. The main motivating factor in doing the transformation is what it's going to do for yourself. Not only for your body but the mental aspect of yourself image will improve. My body type, when I was younger, was always really skinny. I was always skinny kid and that's kind of why I got into lifting. I kind of bulk up, you know, Arnold was really cool. So I thought it'd be cool to get bigger and lift. I had gotten older and finally started gaining weight, started packing on the pounds. When I started at bodybuilding I was still lifting and exercising but I put on a lot of fat just from having bad nutrition. You know, you see all these people that are able to improve their lives and improve their body. And for me personally, I wanted to take on the challenge, I wanted to prove that I could do it to myself. It really helps you have a lot of confidence to know that you're able to set a goal and meet that goal. Thankfully, I think it was working at bodybuilding.com. Working at bodybuilding.com was a huge help to the transformation. Information, motivation, supplementation, got the information from the site. Use body space as a great tool as a motivator and then supplementation was came last. The biggest motivation was just working at bodybuilding.com every week. We get an email that shows somebody that just kind of trans woman their body all around. I mean, when you see that stuff every day and you want to be able to say to yourself, you know, I can do that to you. I've been a fit of losing that much weight. The greatest benefit of my way of being able to run and not feel when it is as fast as I used to. Doing great all the time, you have more energy, you can do things, and I'm going, and what are you doing? How are you losing so much weight? This is really working and I want to see how far I can take it. These goals are actually attainable if you have a plant on it to prove to myself that I can transform myself as well. The life transformation is a post-aliby transformation. Put making excuses and start getting it done.

=== FILE: 2012 $100k Transformation Challenge - Bodybuilding.com [sV7hM2idXJA].txt ===

Feel free to subscribe and tutorials.

=== FILE: 2012 Bodybuilding.com Employee Transformations [4TrKSBlI3Cc].txt ===

My name is Brian Khan, 36 years old. I've worked at Bodybuilding.com now for about eight months. I started at about 187 pounds, roughly almost 20% body fat, and I ended up at 173 pounds and 10% body fat. My name is Aaron Hoke. I'm 29, and I've been with Bodybuilding.com for four and a half years. When I started I was around 23% body fat, and then 135 pounds, I believe. My final result for 10 pounds of weight loss and then got down to 14.9% body fat. I'm Preston Lewis, 26 years old, and I've been working at Bodybuilding.com for two years. I went from 25 pounds down to 185 pounds, 11.5% body fat down to 5.5% body fat. My name is Ethan I'm 30 years old, and I've been working at Bodybuilding.com for a little over two years. I got on the scale. I was 131. That was heavier than I had ever been when I came in. I got my body fat tested. It was 24.8. My end results were 15.1% body fat and 113 pounds. Jen Hutherington and I've been with Bodybuilding.com for two years now. Matt Kutherington, did the Bodybuilding.com employee transformation challenge with my wife? I started at 108% body fat, and I ended at 109 pounds, 10.5% body fat. I started at 234 pounds and 22% body fat. I ended up 194.5 pounds and 7.3% body fat. My name is Barrett Smith. I'm 33 years old, and I found out about the transformation through my little brother who works for Bodybuilding.com. When I started I weighed 296 pounds. My body fat was close to 30%. I wore a size 42.5. My final stats, I lost 76 pounds. I lost 10% body fat, and I now a size 36 pounds. I really wanted to get myself back in shape to the point where I felt good about myself again. I took off my shirt and I could see my six pack again. Doing the transformation was just awesome. I've just started to see the change, especially from the photos and when I look in the mirror. Since I've come on board at Bodybuilding.com, I've been brought into a world of fitness. If I wasn't working here and I wasn't with this great crew and great team of people who pushed me every day to get better and be better and strive to be the best, then I would still be at home sitting there and go, yeah, look good. I just feel like I've regained a lot of confidence that I had lost. I feel like my clothes fit better and your step is a little pepier. You just feel better in your own skin, which is nice. There are so many great transformations. Everybody really put in the time and the work and the diet. So much encouragement and high five. I'm so happy to be able to keep it up when you get frustrated and want to quit. That support system is there for you. I had ethod with me along the whole way. So I had her to go to and talk to our frustrations. We're quite similar and I love sweets. So that was really tough. If you see the goal inside and set your mind to something, it's not too bad. It's only three months. Going through this has only reinforced the fact of why I'm here. I want to help others and help them be successful just to have as I have been. That'll carry on far into the future, not only in my day-to-day job, but outside of work as well. My goal was basically to just try to get down to that elite physique. I just wanted to really get strict with this time and see what my body could do. I absolutely love the Geth and Trainer. I recommend it to all my friends. Anyone that comes and asks me, you know, oh, what are all the tips? What are all the secrets? I just told him to go to bodybuilding.com slash Geth and Trainer. And they'll literally get everything that they need to know. At the end, I was more confident, not in just how I felt and how I felt. I look, but actually, who about what I learned along the way. Because I now know how to control my work out, how to control my nutrition and stay fit. Last year, I got to see employees do it. And I was so amazed by what they could accomplish. This year came around, so I decided to do it. And my goal was going into the transformation where to be at 18% body fat and 118 pounds. I think maybe four weeks before the end date, I was already there. And so there was no way I would just let it go. A friend asked me to go to Asiumba class. And it was mid-squatter, some sassy move. I don't know what it was. And I could feel the muscles in my legs that I hadn't felt before. And I was so excited. I just wanted to stop and tell my friend how excited I was. And I could feel these muscles in my legs. And from there, I was just so addicted to that. Something that really helped me was my coworker was so strong. And I would see her every day saying no to her sweet craving when she had. And so that really helped me. And I would think about that and it kept me going. It's affected me in every way. I feel physically better. I feel happier. I feel more energized. I feel like I can think more clearly. I mean, when you have that extra weight, it seems like it's just something that's external, but it really gets to you. I feel just a sense of ownership now. I feel like I've conquered it. I feel like it's something that I'm so proud of that I can also offer to other people. If they have questions or if they need help or inspired by my results, maybe. All right, so three years ago, my husband and I lost a child. And... After that experience, we ate everything inside. I think you put on 40 pounds in the matter of 12 months. And we cope, we cope with food, we cope with alcohol. And we kind of shut ourselves off from friends and family. And this was exactly what we needed to get our lives back together. Making the decision to transform ourselves and kind of bring some sanity back to our lives was perfect for us. I watched my husband through 12 weeks completely transformed. And I don't mean his body. I mean, it's just mentally, physically, emotionally. It brought Jennifer and I closer together, but I think it brought her from the closer together too. Watching our kids try and start making more healthy decisions on what they eat. Probably the biggest thing that I took out of it, or we took out of it, was that you have to control your environment. Too change, you need to control yourself in what you do and what you eat. I think for us going forward, the transformation is over, but our life change is just beginning. Did I mention my husband as hot? He's sexy. One of the big things that drove me was last Thanksgiving. All my buddies got together to play football, turkey ball, and they decided that we needed to come up with big guy rules. And most of the big guy rules were for guys like me who were out of shape physically, probably ten minutes in plan. I'm staying tight and up really bad. And I couldn't play anymore and hobbled back to my car and left. For the first time in my entire life, I really wanted to change physically so that I would do all the things that I want to do. Because I'd never done anything like this before physically, I really didn't know what I could achieve in 12 weeks. So rather than give myself some kind of number goals, my goal was just to do my absolute best and push myself until I couldn't push any further. But I honestly thought that it would take me a year and by pushing myself in only 12 weeks, I came really close to my year-long goals. Bodybuilding.com played a huge part. I had never been in the gym in my adult life ever. I didn't know what to do going in there. I didn't know if I was going to hurt myself and embarrass myself. So looking at all the information that's on there, knowing that it's all free, you can just go out there and find whatever answers you need. I know that there's even better results that are out there. I'm the only one that can do it. I mean, nobody else can force me to hit the gym, force me to make these changes, knowing that I can because I've done it before, knowing that when I go to the gym, what to do, how to do it, by doing it the way that Bodybuilding.com instructs, I'll get results, makes it that much easier. Nothing is impossible. Everything is possible. Nothing is out of reach. If you think you can do it, you can do it. It was just great to go through the experience with everybody because we can now take it with us and we can always look back and say we did it. And we did it together.

=== FILE: 2012 Mr. Olympia Highlight Reel - Bodybuilding.com [_wVMS_OYDRs].txt ===

The walk-up that abortied annual Mr. Olivia. This is a sport of individual achievement and the men and women you will see here tonight represent the best of the best. I think it's like I never thought in my life that I was going to be able to stay but it's like this and women 7 only get titles. I miss it when I'm being a title that's not my fan and I'm still dreaming. I've got to write books. What do you think? I will tell you this guys never give up on your dreams. I hope I was able to give you guys something to smile about tonight.

=== FILE: 2013 Arnold Classic ⧸ Sports Festival Highlight Reel - Bodybuilding.com [_F7JmdRpAk8].txt ===

Good evening Columbus 25 year anniversary. What do you think of that? This was my pro debut and it took me 10 years to get you to shake my hand. I did the stairs, I did the lunges, I did my cardio and I just let it happen. Fantastic. I just stay focused every day, every week. I do what I have to do and focus on my hand results which is my goal today.

=== FILE: 2013 Bodybuilding.com $100,000 Transformation Challenge - 30 sec [pLv47KTDwIw].txt ===

What's a picture worth? 1,000 words, 100 pounds. $100,000? Whoever you are, wherever you start, it's time to transform. You can change. We can help. What's your picture worth? $100,000?

=== FILE: 2013 Bodybuilding.com $100,000 Transformation Challenge - 60 sec [B1P3IR5-6uM].txt ===

What's a picture worth? 1,000 words, 100 pounds. $100,000? Whoever you are, wherever you start, it's time to transform, build muscle, burn fat. Become your best self. Change for your family. Change for your friends. Change the silence your stay. Mix up your mirror and shock your doctor. Change for yourself. You can change. We can help. What's your picture worth?

=== FILE: 2013 Bodybuilding.com $100,000 Transformation Challenge [-p7WQABen1M].txt ===

What's a picture worth? 1,000 words? 100 pounds. 100,000 dollars?

=== FILE: 2013 Olympia Expo Experience - Bodybuilding.com [jqPdIDjFFCc].txt ===

Hey, what's up? We're here with Bodybuilding.com to check out the 2013 Olympia Expo in Las Vegas. Let's go check it out. Let's go! We're back to the Olympia muscle farm group. We have a special guest here. We're going to check out the Top City guys. The most of our group is CG Fletcher. Hey, what's up Bodybuilding.com? Too bad to have you here and keep it clean. We're back to the Olympia.com. We're back to the Olympia.com. Let's go! Let's go! FAIL

=== FILE: 2014 Mr  Olympia Finals Pre Show Replay - Bodybuilding.com [6hQY3TSxFuM].txt ===

20 million customers came. And the finals are here ladies and gentlemen, the 50th annual Mr. Olympia is live in Las Vegas tonight. I'm Dave Ferrell alongside Larry Peppy and a very familiar face joining us in the middle. Mr. Jay Keller, how you doing, man? Good to see you guys. Great to see you too. You are a four time Mr. Olympia. So of course, you are no stranger to the competition, especially the finals. If you could though in your own words, just put into words, what the competitors are feeling is going into the finals tonight, how the anticipation is built after all these months and months of work. Well, let's say they're about half more relaxed than they were last night because obviously it can have an idea how they did the prior night and they kind of got to eat and drink a little bit. Maybe some on offer diet doesn't really make difference. It's just to get their bodies back in tune. And of course, hydrate themselves and create a little more. I think a little more fullness is the most important thing. So tonight, of course, we've got what seems to be a fair league clear one and two between Philly, Thin Kai Green. I see you sort of shaking your head. What are your thoughts on that? You know, last night I sat in the front row, dead center. I had a better seat than most of the judges. And I thought Sean Rodin gave a pretty solid showing. I thought he was probably the most improved Kai Green. I think just he just didn't really bring what I expected him to bring and Philly didn't either. So it was kind of like, between those guys, it was really, it was just really hard to really, you're kind of looking at both of them. And then you're looking at Sean who was really on the money. I thought it was, you know, is it was close? Do you think there's a possibility we could see a huge upset tonight? You know, I don't think we're seeing upset. I think Philly's going to run with this thing. I think Philly's going to come back kind of like I did all the years that I, that I always was better Saturday night. So I think he's going to kind of just, you know, do what he needs to do come back and you're going to see, I think you're going to see Phil 20% better than last night, honestly. And Jay, one of the things that we talked a lot on the webcast about was some athletes, Kai Green, Sean Roden and Big Ramey. Literally, we're transforming during the pre-judging. They came out watery and as they continued to pose, they seemed to get dryer and dryer. Dennis Wolf to me looked very conditioned but flat for Dennis Wolf. And that's what you're seeing. I mean, speaking from a competitor side, I've been there. You know, I was always better Saturday night. I always came in a little flatter on Friday. I needed to be fuller. And as you start posing that food starts working its way, you know, the body starts showing a little more. And I think that's why, you know, Saturday, you always show up better. You're, you know, you can fill up a little bit, dehydrated a little more and then you're boom right on the money. Yep, some time to improvise. So that's 24 hours. Yeah. What are your thoughts on the intensity between Kai and Phil? We always saw a fight last night on stage. I thought it was going to go to blows. I mean, I kind of put myself in that position. I don't know what I would have done. Honestly, I have to side with, I'm sitting back. And, you know, of course, I'm very friendly with Phil. And, you know, I'm very neutral with Kai. But at the same time, I thought Kai was a little disrespectful. I mean, flip this hair on to Phil. And then, of course, you know, he started bumping in the front. Double-by, separate rear double-by, so I figured what it was. But, I mean, it was just, it was kind of uncold for, in my opinion. And I think, you know, Kai's trying to be aggressive, but I think it's getting a little overboard. And Phil handed it, you know, like the professional that he is, Mr. Limpia. And, you know, this is, this is, it's still Phil's stage. It has to be respected. I was surprised in that final call out, especially because it looked to me. And I agree with you. I don't think Phil was 100%, I don't think Kai was 100%. I think Kai started to improve as the pre-judging went on. And they purposely kept them at the corners, with rodent and wolf in between. And I was saying on the webcast, I would really like to see them bring the two together. I wonder if they're afraid to bring them together, because of what we just saw. Would you have like to see in that final call out? And do you think maybe they shy away from it because of what went on? Well, you know, from the past, I mean, it's been, I mean, I remember Phil and I got called out last call out in a lot of the shows. You know, Ronnie and myself got called out top two. I mean, there was really no need to bring extra guys in when you kind of figure, okay, who are the top guys? So it makes me kind of wonder, okay, are they for sure who know who's second? I mean, if they kept rodent and they mixed wolf in there, did they keep them separate? I don't think these guys have to that would have gone into the extreme of actually going at it again. I think they kind of knew the Steve Weinberg kind of showed his, it can emotions a little bit and kind of expressed like enough as enough guys. That's the most aggressive I've ever heard of. Wow, that was just, you know, he was screaming and I mean, it was, you know, I think the crowd was a little tense. I think it was kind of, you know, some people see it as kind of like, you know, poor sportsmanship, some people say, wow, this is really like kind of cool, you know, you've never seen that on Olympia stage, but, you know, we're in the professional ranks. It's, I can see that on an amateur stage, but I when you have the two top guys that are er, you're promoting this contest and you know, the kind of look that is the two front runners, it's hard to get them battling and almost going to blows on stage. I mean, you know, this isn't wrestling, you know, I'm saying, it's not really aggressive. We do have an octagon up to straight out. Yeah. I'm sure. You could have been a riff on up for us. Do you think of that could potentially affect the judges, even if it's a very subliminal thing. If the judges are seeing this sort of, some people are calling it disrespect by Kai Green, could that creep into their subcoaches and maybe affect the outcome? You know what, I don't think so. I think that, I think these guys know that there's some tension. I mean, obviously, this thing's built up, you know, they've been bounced, you know, first or second for three years now, you know, Arnold classics. I mean, it goes into other contests too. There's been a lot of hype. I think that there's just a lot of tension personally between the two. You saw that the press conference, I think the whole weekend's been kind of created a drama around those two. It's kind of taken a little bit from the other athletes. But, you know, those two are the guys that, you know, everyone seems to be talking about from the last few years. And I mean, it's, it's showing on stage. And I don't think it's really going to make a difference. I think it's going to come down tonight who knocks whoever out, meaning with the physique, not with the blows. Yeah. All right. If you would be so bold to give us your top five. I would say, Phil Heath, I'm going to personally go with Sean Rodin for second, Kai Green third. I'm going to put Dennis with fourth. I would say, Dexter Jackson probably fifth. And then one final question for you. A lot of people have been talking about where you sit right now because last year we had the pleasure of seeing you back on stage. Are you going to compete again or are you retired at this point? I have no future plans to compete at this point. Obviously, it's nice to be standing here with my clothes on for once. I was going to say, this is unusual because usually when I'm up here with you, I hear metals clanking and you have no shirt off. I'm sure if you mail you were disagree with whatever. So, you know, it's kind of nice to stand here and in be a part of it. Obviously, I'm doing a lot of different things now. I just launched a supplement brand called the Nutrition. And of course, I'm promoting a lot of NPC events. But I'm here supporting the guys. And of course, don't involved with the AMI organization. And of course, the IFBB. So, right now my focus is on that. Do I plan to compete probably not? But I hate to say never. Does being here start to stir it up at all? I sat in the front row and I was very happy doing that. You're cheesy. Watching. You know what? I do not miss the stress. I do not miss. You know what? I missed the crowd. You know, last night accepted the award for new brand of the airbodyland.com. And I was like, wow, you know, that crowd, you know, energy. I'm going out there in a sweater and everything. And then it's funny because it's like I went back. I missed that crowd, you know, jack out there, you know. But it's kind of nice to be on the other side and just watching it. And did I miss it not not one single bit? Even being at the expo being surrounded by the pouring fan. And listen, I love the expo. I love the fans. You know, they still think I'm the champ. Some people wish me luck for tonight. So you don't correct them. I got it. You know, good luck. Sometimes it's easier just not to correct people. I could not do you know, I can beat the Olympian. I saw the tweets. You see it all. I mean, you see it on social. I'm just like, oh, thanks. Thanks so much. Jake, I thought there's going to win and fill he, you know, Ronnie Coleman's going to be up there too. You know, that would be an upset. Right? If Coleman wants tonight, that'd be a big upset. Jay, thanks so much for your time. And I really appreciate it. I appreciate you guys having me on. I appreciate all the fans out there. You're still watching you guys are in for a big show. So stay tuned. We'll talk more about the men's to 12 as well as the men's open. And some of the ladies competition coming up in just a moment. From the 50th annual Mr Olympian live-in Las Vegas, we'll be right back here on Bodybuilding.com. Day 1, Motivations High, Gears Packs, Your Unstoppable, You lose fat, build muscle, transform, but it doesn't last. Days pass, desire drops, fitness goals become fitness dreams again. Because fitness starts on the inside, your brain is a circuit board that powers your body. If you know how you're wired, you can avoid your pitfalls. If you start with your mind, you can master your muscle. To achieve lasting success, you can't just repeat. You have to rewire. Take the rewire of personality test today. Discover who you are. Get fit for life. If you're 30 days out of a wedding, if you're 30 days out of a show, if you just want to bring those abs and tighter because you've never really hit it, this program is going to show you how to get into your goal, physique, and 30 days. I'm going through 30 days of this program with you guys. Hold in your hand, walk me through it, showing you emotionally what it's like to go through this program. This one's up, man. Show you physically what it's like to go through this program. These are hard. I'm going to do TRR jumps. Little shirt. Working at that bed. This is 30 days out, maximizing your intensity and your time, getting you in peak condition through nutrition and supplementation and training. You're 30 days out, dilute it. We are just minutes away from the finals getting underway here in Las Vegas for the 50th annual Mr. Olympia. I am Dave Ferro joining me now on stage with Felicia Romero, always pleasure to see you and Kathleen to Sory as well. Ladies, just to reflect on what we saw last night with some of the action that took place, you know, it's been almost 24 hours now in case anyone missed the post show. We saw some really big historic moments. Let's start by talking about Iris Kyle after winning her tenth full title here at Olympia. She decided to retire. What are your thoughts on Iris her career in whole as a whole and then what you decided to do last night? Right. I know just watching her emotional farewell and her announcement to retire was emotional for me just because I've been, you know, coming to the Olympia now for nine, ten years and seeing her consistently come to the shows with a positive attitude. She's such a sweet woman, worked extremely hard and is super humble and is just a down to earth person. So to see that and to actually experience it firsthand, her emotional farewell is just a really neat experience for me, you know, coming to the Olympia now for ten years. So, you know, I enjoyed it. Now I feel the same way as Felicia, you know, I've been coming about six years and she's always been a very sweet down to earth person. She always gives most emotional speeches on stage. So to be here for the 50th Olympia, her tenth win and to be able to speak with her in person was pretty phenomenal. I'm talking to some friends about it today and the fact that she won her tenth full title and then decided that she was done was kind of the equivalent of like dropping the mic as you leave the stage, you know, because just like such a boss thing to do. Right. You just got to go out while you're on top. Yeah, I'm done. And then we also saw some new developments with with ongoing winning competitors. Oksana, of course, in fitness and then Ashley repeating in bikini, it was really very impressive to see these young ladies come back after great performances at the Arnold, and then of course, the Olympia last year. And then doing it again this year, what were your thoughts on both those ladies starting their own legacies? Yeah. I mean, they both impressed me just because they come to each show better and better. You know, and that's hard to do. And I had a we were talking about it last night. When you're on top, it's a lot harder to stay on top than it is trying to chase that first place person or that one who, you know, keeps winning the show. So it's impressive that they just keep bringing their great physique. So Oksana brings amazing routines every single time, the amount of creativity that comes into these routines is just amazing. So it's extremely impressive. And you know, hopefully they can stay up there and continue their legacy, but there's always going to be those competitors, you know, trying to scramble the chase after. So it's it's really nice to see. Yeah, Oksana's been one of my favorites for so many years. I remember first watching her and not seeing her place as high as I thought to, I was a newbie to the sport. So it was good to see her on top at the Arnold and then again at the Olympia. And also, you know, what was really fun was the rookie Janet Janet Lee was really fun to see her because we watched her at the Arnold and knew she was a contender. And then to see her come on top at the Olympia, it was really exciting. Yeah, she has many years, some awesome, you know, experiences. She's going to just continue to keep growing as a competitor. So yeah. Earlier today, we saw a men and women's physique wrap up. And there was a bit of an upset on the women side, right? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Although, you know, it's crazy because, you know, watching as a spectator and watching the physique and, you know, you, they have their favorites. You know, everyone has their favorites. And and that's, that's all, you know, fine. But when you see the physique on stage and when you see them being compared to one another, that's when weaknesses and flaws are, you know, sort of stand out and exposed. And Julie on a just had better muscle belly. She was rounder. She was fuller. She had, more muscle. So I think it was well deserved, you know, definitely. I mean, Dana Land Bailey's an awesome physique. She has an amazing amount of fan base. So, but Julie on a really, really brought that package. So, so you thought she gets the win and it's deserved. It wasn't an upset wherever one's going. What just happened is it was something that they got it right. It was fair. Absolutely fair. Yeah, my phone lit up when that happened. But it definitely was fair. Yeah. Let's talk about women's figure that is being finalized tonight here on Saturday, I'm Mr. Olympia. We've got some pretty clear front runners who's in the running right now and who are your early predictions. In the running, well, Nicole Wilkins and Kenna's keen. Kenna's Lewis is up there. You know, we probably have her in that fourth or fifth spot. But Kenna's keen and Nicole Wilkins are your two front runners. Nicole bringing a bigger package. I honestly, you know, I love Nicole. I love her physique. But she is a lot more muscular than she's ever been. I really feel it's getting up there closer to, you know, almost a little bit of a step down from physique. My opinion, beautiful girl. I'm Kenna's keen always looks on point. It could have been a little sharper at pre-judging in the glutes, hamstring area. But it's going to be really close. And I'm just excited to see how I'm just ready. I want it to happen right now. I know. I know. It's going to be exciting. Well, we're minutes away from not just that getting underway. But of course, the two 12 finals and then of course the open finals as well. $750,000 in total prize money up for grab in the men's finals. $250,000 going to the winner alone. So big money on the lines and I'd certainly exciting times as the whole community comes together. We certainly appreciate you watching. We'll be right back Larry Pepe, we get a join me back on stage. We'll talk about the men's two 12 and the men's open. It's the bodybuilding.com stream. For Mr. Olympia, the 50th anniversary live from Las Vegas. You must decide. A moment when you know that you've given it everything you have. Pushing your body and mind to the limit of what is possible. Coming what other stuff was in us. And that's the moment you push further. It's a push fueled by the all new NOX flow. The original free workout igniter. Now, re-engineer for explosive energy enhanced endurance and maximum performance. The new NOX flow. Push your limits. Then push further. Not every legend is a myth. Some of flesh and blood. Some legends walk along us. But they're born. They're built. Legends are made from iron and sweat. Mind and muscle. Blood and vision and victory. Legends and champions. The grow. They win. They conquer. Legend behind every legacy. There's a blueprint behind every legend. I'm on my trots and I. This is my blueprint. And welcome back. We are live here in Las Vegas at the Orleans Day Fair. Long-satellary Peppy. We are heading into the finals. Before we get into it, there's somebody that you want to give a shout out to because he's working hard on the Olympia webcast Twitter accounts tonight. He's making sure to keep all the fans informed that aren't able to watch the stream or be here live. Absolutely Roger. Lockridge got to say thank you for all the work that you're doing. On the webcast, letting people know on Twitter everything that we're doing here tonight. So thank you Roger. Value will play by playing. We just talked about the ladies' physique with Felicia and Kathleen here on stage. But the men's physique also wrapped up earlier today. And a bit of a surprise to some people, the winner from last year didn't even make the top five this year. Yeah, I think that's one of the big stories. And Jeremy Buenita took the overall in the men's physique, which was interesting because when you saw a lot of the previews coming into the event, Jeremy wasn't the guy people were pointing to. He came in. He looked great. He beats Sadik who was kind of like the fan favorite kind of like the guy that everybody was pointing to as the potential winner. And he walks away our second men's physique Olympia champion. And Sadik did get that runner up as a result. He took the runner up spot. In the men's two 12, we've got to herself a bit of a storyline as well. Flex Lewis hands down clear it away appears to be a massive front runner at this point. But it's not of course said and done just yet. However, there is something interesting beyond that. What's going on in the two 12? There's something very interesting. For the first time, David Henry is not contending for this title. He is solidly at best in fourth. There was a final call out. They brought out three. And the name David Henry was not red. That is very unusual for any Olympia lightweight competition. David a former champion and a consistent runner up at this event to Flex Lewis. So what happened? Is it worth it? He's a little bit off. And Eduardo Korea is head to toe peeled. We saw pictures because of course these competitors have to weigh in. They have to be 212 pounds or less. They weighed in on Wednesday night. Pictures got out from the way in and Eduardo Korea was feathered head to toe. He is in ridiculous condition. I think he's probably going to take that runner up spot contending with him for that spot is Jose Raymond. And let's not forget David that this is the year the Flex Lewis said. He's calling it quits in the two 12 moving up to the open. So in some ways that runner up spot more important this year than ever because it kind of sets the table for who the front runner is going to be going forward. Well, and Flex Lewis saying that this is going to be his last year competing at two 12 and then he's moving up to the men's open. There's been a lot of people that have been very critical of that. And some people would say rightfully so because right now he's the king at two 12. But moving up to the open is again a beat somebody like a Phil Heath at this point today it seems fairly unlikely. But there's also a lot more prize money that's involved in the men's open. You're talking about a quarter million dollars going to the winner as opposed to $40,000 going to the winner for two 12. Do you think the money has anything to do with it or is it more just like he wants to get his bequeat and get a new set of competition in front of him? Well, you know what? We're going to find out if he wins when we interview him after. But you know, I have to be honest if it's me and I'm the best guy in the world at what I do in a particular division. I'm going to stay in that division. I'm going to set a record that nobody can come close to and I'm going to make my money off sponsorship for being the most dominant human being in the world at what I do in my weight class. He certainly not going to be a Phil Heath. So he's not going to be Mr. Olympia. To me the bigger issue is why not stay the world champion for as long as you possibly can and just become known as the Ronnie Coleman of the two 12. But that's a personal decision. I'm not the athlete. I'm not flex Lewis. Maybe he just wants to challenge himself and see how far he can go. Maybe he knows that he's limiting his body somehow by making that two 12 will certainly ask him afterwards if he comes home the winner. Which I think it's a pretty good chance for going to be talking to him after the show. Pretty good chance. We'll see. We'll see. The men's open of course is wrapping up tonight and we've got a lot of story lines involved in that before we get into like the individual competitors talk about that 18 to 24 hour shift because of course we saw the pre-judging last night and there's at times a very distinct different between what we see on Friday night and then what we see on Saturday night. So what happens over this 24 hours that could entirely change the game? Well over these 24 hours we're going to see water being manipulated. We're going to see guys who would two flat who went in eight and come back filled out and looking more like the muscle is bursting at the skin. And I have to be honest, they feel like this Olympia is one of the more disappointing Olympias from a standpoint of how many of the athletes were really in shape. How many of them really showed us the best that we've seen them? I would say Sean Roden if he dries out a little bit more could be significantly better than we've ever seen him. Phil Heath I don't think is good as last year. Kai Green I don't think is good as last year Dennis Wolf definitely not as good as last year. Dexter Jackson I think as well better. So I think there's room with this 18 to 24 hour window. One thing that was fascinating to me and we talked about it on the webcast was we just literally were watching some guys change on stage before our eyes. They would come out and have no masculinity in their legs, have very little separation in their legs. By the end of the pre-judging all of a sudden we were seeing masculinity. We were seeing separation that absolutely was not there a half hour before. That's an indication that that athlete is holding water and that as they pose they're drying out in front of our eyes. Now with an 18 to 24 hour period we could see them come back much drier. We could see some people overdo it and become too dehydrated or overdo it the other way and spill over with water or Dennis Wolf may eat up and fill out and look like the monstrous Dennis Wolf we've been used to. The one thing that is fascinating about these finals is that I have a feeling we're going to see some very different physics up there than perhaps we saw last night. It's such an interesting balance. These athletes trying to get it exactly right and I know that you spent a lot of time in this past year working on a book called The Free Contest Bible specifically geared towards the women competitors but you had already written one for the men competitors talk about just what you've learned as you've written these two books how you've really dialed in or tried to figure out exactly how these athletes dial in the exact moment and getting it right when they walk out on stage to compete. Yeah one thing that definitely fascinated me was that the champion seemed to have such a detailed approach because of their experience that we put in there like sometimes down to my new details you wouldn't even think about in terms of timing in terms of fluid in terms of food so it is fascinating to look at the different approaches and see as well, from division to division you see different approaches. Not when I did the men's book but in the women's book and you see different approaches in terms of drying out filling out all these details and to me it's fascinating because obviously if we chose them to be in the book there's among the best in the world but there are approaches of so diverse and that is the advantage for a guy like Phil Heath a guy like Kair Green who has done this many times. That experience if you're a smart athlete and you do this for this show and you saw well you know what I could have been a bit drier than when you do your next prep you change it around a little bit to take advantage of that experience and that's why the new guys at the Olympia have that bigger challenge because not only are they dealing with distress a being at their first Olympia like big rainy last year versus this year but they're also dealing with learning their bodies and at the end of the day bodybuilding anything in this industry is so individual that what works for athlete A may not work at all for athlete B so there's a lot of trial and error and experience becomes unbelievably important. Let's talk about some of the specific competitors are going to be on stage tonight for the men's open vying for that top prize of $250,000 of course. Phil Heath who is the rain champion right now seems to be the clear front runner Kai Green is right of the mix with them but then Jay Colour who joined us on stage a little bit earlier during the pre show said that he thinks that there's a real possibility that Sean Rodin will pull that upset over Kai and come in second place. Yeah listen with that 24 hour period anything is possible. My my issue with the pre judging last night was that Kai got better as the pre judging went on. I thought Phil faded a little bit at the end and I was very disappointed as we talked about on the broadcast this isn't quarterback in on Monday. We said right then I hope that they pull Kai and Phil together because that seems like the comparison that you would want to see at this point in the pre judging Kai was drying out and it would have been interesting to see them next to one another but we didn't see that comparison at the end which is unusual because if you go back to Olympios when we had Jay Stanton here he said yeah you know they always brought me out with Phil they brought me out with Ronnie but they didn't do that and in in in some ways I can't help but think that they would concern that maybe just maybe that that heated rivalry would overtake the stage. And that would you miss the pre judging last night they almost came to blows at one point there was you know Phil was standing there in Kai whipped his hair around and then their feet touched and there've been a lot of joying at the press conference that day before it got so heated that one of the judges grabbed the microphone and was screaming at them at the top of his lungs to separate they were jarring it looked like it was getting really intense on stage so the fact that they didn't put them together could really hurt Kai if you say that Phil was fading and Kai was getting better it could really affect the outcome of this competition. It's very possible I mean what do you beat him I still think Phil Heath has the better package on stage this weekend do I think he nailed it no do I think I nailed it no but at the end of the day when you're a competitor and we're judging these things it doesn't matter what you look like last year it doesn't matter that you're capable of better what matters is are you the best today and last night for me Phil Heath was number one Kai Green was number two Sean Road number three Dennis Wolf number four and Dexter Jackson number five could that flip with 24 hours and everything we've been talking about about how physics fill out dryout and change sure could but as of right now we haven't seen him on stage yet tonight and until we that's the order that I have them in so far we got about 30 seconds till we're going to kick it over the broadcast but who are a couple of more names that people should keep an eye on tonight that you think looked interesting coming into the pre- judging you know what victim Martinez looked really good and branch-worn looked really good they both I think regain some of their old form branch-worn was that shredded branch-worn that we've become accustomed to victim Martinez was in very good condition of course beautiful shape to his physique so I think both of them bear watching because these are two guys we talked about in the pre-show really needed a good outing here to stay relevant at the upper echelon of the sport we are set to go the finals of the 50th anniversary of Mr. Olympia here in Las Vegas set to get underway we'll join you on the other side of the broadcast that's Larry Pepey on day fair thanks so much for watching the official stream here on bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: 2014 Mr. Olympia Finals Post-Show Replay - Bodybuilding.com [rdrmhrYpWSg].txt ===

Thank you so much for joining us on the Pocho. I'm Dave Ferris standing next to Jay Cutler and Larry Peppy as we get into the Pocho commentary of the 50th annual Mr. Olympio wrapping up. It's just been such a tremendous show. Phil Heath of course walking away with the title of Mr. Olympia for the fourth time I know that you understand how that feels but if you can put in the words what you thought of the competition and of course Phil Heath wants to get taking the ground You know I had Phil from Friday night obviously he he closed the deal tonight. He think he came back better He came back stronger. He came back with a mission to win the title. He fought off a better Kai Green tonight That's that's kind of the story that that kind of was built up for the show I think it proved itself tonight. You know Phil came out the victor It was interesting to see quite the homage being paid to Joe Weader and being the 50th anniversary of this so many legends up on stage What was it like for you in that moment when you're up there with all of those other Mr. Olympia's people that really helped to build this sport over the past 50 years. I think we all have a story with Joey I mean I I stated you know when I came out to California for the first time I met Joe Weader. I was 21 years old and Joe Weader basically told me I had a future in bodybuilding and he wanted to support that So I was able to move out to California when I was 25 He actually moved me to California to become a better bodybuilder and we're close with the magazines muscle fitness and flex And of course endorsed the Weader supplements and we're kind of under his umbrella of What he built and it gave me a great opportunity it made me into a great bodybuilder I mean that's when my career actually in the pro ranks went from basically the bottom all the way back up and You know I get I understand how a lot of these guys their stories especially the Schwarzenegger walking on the stage Explained and you know he has the deepest relationship obviously would Joe of any of us But I think we all have a certain Story with that you know we can tell What Joey your touch upon in our lives when you were a 21 year old kid because plenty of 21 year old kids go I'm a movie California hope things work. How did you ever expect did it would get this big? You know what you don't know what to expect and I think you're so caught up in trying to just make your career The best it can possibly be I think really you know you just you kind of take every year one step at a time I think that's what a professional does They don't really get too far ahead So I didn't really want to think to the point okay. I'm gonna be on the Olympia stage I never thought I really compared to those guys to be honest especially at that age But then before you knew what I was knocking at the door and of course now went in four titles It leased me in a piece of history and fill heath of course matching that streak tonight Is there a little piece you think is now? You know he won four straight I didn't I wasn't able to do that Larry Larry knows the history. He's the historian over here and he'll tell you It's some battles I thought I had a fight off Of course the eight time went around he Coleman to get there So when I wanted was it's a big history of course losing come back and winning it and you know closing out my last Olympia 2010 Was my last victory and of course I lost the next year to fill heath So you know I kind of brought fill in and I left with him You know toppling me which I didn't expect when I actually helped him you know get under way and I said He's gonna be great and I think he'll be mr. Olympia someday I just didn't know he'll be mr. Olympia for me Well we saw some fantastic competition and I will say that your predictions We're very accurate flex Lewis is standing right off stage right now What are your thoughts on him moving up to the open as opposed to staying at two 12? You know what I don't know if he's gonna do that. I think it's gonna be tougher I mean as greatest flex Lewis is I mean you know it comes down to you know a kind of a height stature in this this division I mean he's he's definitely packed for a shorter bodybuilder, but you can see these other guys I mean look at someone You know that that's you know you look at the Leela broad as those kind of people that that really kind of broke through But it's kind of a different area now the guys are so chilled and you know William Bonnet I mean look at how built he is and how how much muscle he packs on and I mean he was you know pretty much You know at the end of a pack year, which I thought he was overlooked in this in this lineup We agree on that well we'll get the words from flex Lewis and just a moment as well as the Physique winner Jeremy we need to he is gonna be joining us on stage momentarily Jay Thanks so much for the insight always a pleasure to hang out with you and talk to you about this fantastic world of bodybuilding 50 years now in the books Mr. Olympia coming to a close here in Las Vegas We are live and we'll be right back with more of our post show here on bodybuilding.com you Day one Motivations high gears packed your unstoppable you lose fat build muscle transform but it doesn't blast days pass desire drops fitness goals become fitness dreams again because fitness starts on the inside you're brain and welcome back our post show is live here at the Oralines in Las Vegas the 50th anniversary Mr. Olympia has wrapped up Nicole Wilkins joining us on stage right now congratulations on your way and making your own piece of history tonight Thank you very much so we're at this event and obviously it's historic it's the 50th anniversary how does it feel for you though to be able to put together a piece of your own history amazing it's humbling and it's own to be on the stage and to be considered one of the 50 champions throughout the history of the Olympia but you know my goal to come into this show was to break the streak of getting second every time I won the year after and I really worked hard and it paid off so it feels great fantastic Felicia know that you've been watching Nicole very carefully we saw you with a great performance earlier this year as well but what are your thoughts on what Nicole was able to pull off tonight it's I mean I've just watching and pre-dudging I mean obviously you're amazing stage presence but you're physique you've had it so many so much awesome muscle how is your training changed this last year coming into the show? My training changed a lot last May when I started working with honey and you know last year I felt like it was the best look I ever had brought to the stage and so this year that was my goal is to try to better that look and we really did a lot of the same training styles I still trained like a traditional bodybuilder obviously and lifted heavy I do quite a bit of running because my legs tend to be overpowering so that was always a focus to bring them to keep them down and even with my upper body and then to balance out the upper from right to left you know my left side is always a little weaker and with a shoulder injury to rebuild that to make sure that you know from all four sides the physique was balanced and I think that we accomplished that Yeah absolutely you definitely did this event saying that you wanted to make history and then you did so now that it's all said and done how does it feel and what are the next steps for you? Oh feels amazing tonight I'm just going to enjoy it when I spent time with my family who's come from Michigan and my friends and clients and I was like 30 of them that are outside waiting and I was surprised when they all were green shirts yesterday from pre-judging so it was just the support that they give me is amazing so I want to spend time with them because throughout the weekend I don't get a whole lot of opportunities see them and then I have a lot of travel in the next couple months I'm going to do a lot of seminars and camps and I'm promoting a show in Finland which will be the first time in a cold-woken class at our championship has been in Finland and yeah so I'm just focusing on those things right now and then we'll see what happens next year I'm going to be taking a vacation anytime soon a little time off Well I guess the next vacation will be Christmas I don't have any plans for our out We've totally earned it Well you least go to get a piece of cheesecake when you're in Finland or something Yeah I'm sure I can fit in some of those Thanks so much taking the time for us on the post show Congratulations again Thank you so much Thank you More winners coming up when we write back here on bodybuilding.com There's a moment when you must decide A moment when you know that you've given it everything you have Pushing your body and mind to the limit of what is possible Coming what other stuff was in us And that's the moment You push for there It's a push fueled by the all new NOX flow The original free workout igniter now re-engineer for explosive energy Enhanced endurance and maximum performance The new NOX flow push your limits then push further But every legend is a myth Some are flesh and blood Some legends walk along us But they're born They're built Legends are made from iron, sweat, mind and muscle Blood and vision and victory Legends are champions, the grow, the wind, the conqueror Those legends behind every legacy There's a blue-brink behind every legend I'm on my trots and I'm This is my blue-brink We are live in Las Vegas It is the post-show from Mr. Limpia The 50th anniversary of course is now in the books And we are standing here with a couple of our big winners From the weekend Jeremy Booney to congratulations to you Winning physique Very nice to down and of course, flex Lewis At 2-12 both you guys with big medals around your neck With this now being behind us How does it feel to have won at the 50th anniversary of Mr. Limpia? For me myself Being the third title winner This was my biggest win to did You know Joe Eda Say Me as a young 23 year old To meet Joe Be brought into his office Have the pleasure of knowing him Up to his passing And then to win this historical event Is a moment As a part of my career I don't want to get emotional But this is a very, very, very big part And I'm probably the biggest win of my life Well, flex, let me jump in on that word career Right? I mean we've been here in the rumors Like this is going to be flex Lewis last time At 2-12 A lot of us have had the opinion that you should stay at 2-12 And just try to ride this out and become the greatest ever And set records What are you going to do? I think there's a lot of room Let's put it a bed As of now I want to stay at 2-12 And I want to create a legacy I think there's a lot of people that would love to see me I know you guys are fine I don't think you are so much I've all supported me and whatever I've done And yes, I am a bodybuilder And I do want to get bigger and I do want to get better But this face facts you see in the monsters I bet tonight I'll be standing against them Now I'm not scared to jump I'm getting in the mix for these guys I've done it in the past Maybe I'll do a small show You never know but in terms of being a Mr. Limpio I want that 2-12 title And for me I do a lot of travelling I travel in, I travel the world, support in The bodybuilding world, lifestyle And giving back to the fans And doing obviously my contractual obligations So that does keep me at a certain weight limit It doesn't give me the chance to have a crazy off-season So my off-season started this year at 12, 12 weeks out So if I was to do that each and every year Then I was definitely be standing in that 2-12 class So for the foreseeable future it's 2-12 For the foreseeable future as of No We ask a next week of every year There's a lot of pressure you guys give me a chance I will say that because again these fans get But again guys thank you so much for all support And you know not to jump in on this whole interview But you know I came into this whole Olympia with Giving back to you guys the 3-PIT All about the fans everything All my Instagrams Twitter Facebook is all about the fans So that's why I'll get you know we'll be doing your Up on stage is giving these interviews to the fans watching Around the world And again it humbles me to be as a humble driven champion And I'm seeing again thank you made long continue because I don't want anybody coming after that title for next year again Well, 2-12 is obviously a division that has exploded the competition this year It was very stiff we did not see David Henry right behind you in fact he was not in the top 6 Was that a big surprise to you? Almost definitely I'm so used to you and I'm not him And that's what when the guys are trained to beat all you So when I do hear him in the first call out I looked around You know a lot of people didn't have Eduardo career even then the top 5 you know into coming into this show And of course you can never write that a guy who's the hardest condition guy in the whole show I don't focus on our 3-10 particular anyway going into show I've got a lot of pressure self-pressing on myself But I do know who's coming and I'm bringing it and I knew Eduardo was coming in He had an injury last year and the one of these guys that you know he said injuries of all of come I'm proven to the world that he'll come back stronger And the proof is in the put in tonight he came out the all-time best in my eyes And most definitely most definitely Broad a fight to prejudging and the stage and like I mentioned up on stage You know I was battling something for a long three days But I didn't want to let that impeach my prepping could I come too far? And I would you want to use it as a crutch for any beyond lying to them focus in on a certain area? But I struggled through prejudging I made it through and again this is why this medal means That much more to me as well as it be in the 50th year Congratulations Jeremy let's talk about your win as physique champion. Did you come into this event expecting to win? That was a whole goal, mind you know being a relatively new pro of one minute pro for your and happy my second Olympia Taking the second play spot last year, you know I've always wanted to improve you know Everybody will want to get better and you know my goal was improve my place in coming to the show and when it and that was the whole goal all year training all year long was to come in and improve and to take that talent spot You know just to be here on the 50th anniversary of the Olympia being amongst greatness like flex and and fill in the cold there And Xana and all the other pros that that one as well is just it's overwhelming to be you know So young in the sport and to be amongst greatness. It's it's a privilege and honor and you know, I'm very thankful to be where I'm out right now Jeremy how much did the chatter coming into the Olympia body? Because when you looked at previews and when your herd names we knew that Mark Anthony was coming back trying to defend But the name on everybody's tongue was sedic even though you would run a rep last year Yeah, how much did that affect you did it motivate you? I'm more yeah absolutely. I mean, I we have social media nowadays, so we all follow each other. You'll see what's going on And you know, so the deeks of the great app we definitely brought his A game today. He's got a lot of size. It was very hard and very conditioned and you know I knew that I knew I need to come in equally as conditioned and I feel I brought probably my best conditioning to date But I knew that my shape and my presentation was going to be set over the top and you know, I thought it was real confident with what I brought to the stage And as far as leading up to the show, you know, I did my best to just stay within my own realm And I didn't write you know, I told everybody just tunnel vision to the, I didn't want to I wasn't looking outside as focused on my go of winning And you know, I knew I got to bring my best and I couldn't have any control where he was doing. I want the acting control is what I was doing So and I do and I came out on top today and I'm blessed Much like we saw at 12 David Henry was out of the mix there and then we also saw Mark Anthony, I'm not making the top five Big surprise to you. Yeah, absolutely. I mean Mark was a champion. You know, I was definitely expecting to see him in that top five You know, that top five was stacked and you know, it was very anybody could have been tossing there if he's very close to everybody brought the air game today So you know, I that top five that that was in there, you know, that was something that I could have predicted I would have throw Mark in there To throw Mark in there too though Steven Mark you were the toss up for that top five in my opinion Well the class is just keep getting better and better in every single division Congratulations to you too on being the absolute best in the world. Thank you very much. Good. Pleasure to have you on the post show. We got more winners and the fans choice award also going to be announced momentarily We'll be right back here on bodybuilding.com It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality It's time to join over eight million people at bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies minds and lives for free It's absolutely possible to change your life. I'm a prime example of it. I can go on the bodybuilding.com I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free Go to bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free Growing up I always wanted to be a great athlete. I wanted to look apart in the form of extreme wealth. I wanted both. I wanted it all. I would always get a kick out of people that looked like superheroes or You know super athletes but they couldn't do anything with it. Can you swim? No, I can't swim. Can you run fast? I can't run fast. What can you do besides staying there and looking the mirror? There's a moment when you must decide a moment when you know that you have nothing left to do. It's the moment you push further. The all new NOOTs flow re-engineered for its explosive energy and hands endurance and maximum performance. The new NOOTs flow push your limits then push further. It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over eight million people. It is the official post show here on bodybuilding.com. It is great to have you along with us. We round out Mr. Olympia, the 50th anniversary is now in the books. Julie Anima, my locality is joining us on stage. Congratulations to you on getting a victory tonight. I don't think you've changed some things up in your game a little bit to ensure that you got this victory. Talk to us a little bit about that journey. Yes, last year I played seven and the feedback I got was to bodybuildish. I should tone down. I did, I did tone down and I also changed my poses. I just my physique and that's what I did to do better this year. To go from seventh all the way up to being the champion now. Did you come into this thinking that you were going to get the win? I don't know about the win. I want to come and show my difference. I want to really people see people know that I was a, I changed it. I just, I heard I listen to the judge and I just my physique for the better criteria for physique. That's what I did. Julie Anima, I competed in the figure days. So we have lots of memories with that. So when they brought on physique for women, did you naturally just, you know what, that division for me? I want to do that. Yes, people actually told me I should do that because I was going to disappoint. I say, I don't know. I did fitness for many years and I never did well. I never got it first call out. I did 15 figure shows. I was very disappointed. I said, okay, I will try. I don't know. I wasn't sure about it. I said, okay, I think I shot. So I did and I won New York Pro in 2012. It was my first attempt and I did well. So I got excited and I kept annoying. And here I am today. One day. I want to welcome Gradually. Yes, congratulations. Thank you so much. Thank you. Talk about getting the win at the 50th anniversary event. Because a lot of the athletes have said how important it is to them at such a historic event. Win is amazing. And the 50th anniversary is something like, I have no words to describe my happiness and be in this amazing stage. Which is so many bodybuilding celebrities and represent. It's unscrutable. I'm extremely happy. What's next up for you? I'm taking some time off. Or are you going to continue? I think I will do the Arnold. That's my plan. I want to do it more. Sounds like a great plan. Well, in David Lenn Bailey, you know, the first female physique can be the win the Olympia. What did you feel like you had to bring as far as your package in order to beat her? You know, on stage when you guys are being compared like for me watching Prejudging, I could see the difference in the bodies. You had bigger muscle bellies, your shoulders were fuller, your quad's were fuller. You had a good amount of muscle, then she did. Which, you know, you can see it when you're being compared to one another. You know, those, those, like you said, the weaknesses and the, the flaws are exposed. What did you feel like you had to bring to the stage in order to beat her? I'm a smaller frame. That's what I thought because, um, I think we're very different, really like, you know, I didn't know like about beat Dana Dana. I think was, was harder for me. Was the DLB brand. I think that was like, that was more afraid than physique. Yeah. I think technically I wasn't too worried about that, but beat the DLB brand. She's amazing, sweetheart, very motivational, inspiring so many people. And, you know, get that. It was really like I said, oh my god, oh my god, I hope I do, you know, but physically, um, I think we're very different. And I really want to be compared with her and show the different bodies. Right now. So that happened and I'm super happy. Yeah. We're talking about beating the Dana Lynn Bailey brand. How important is it for you as an athlete in this day and age to build your own brand like that? That way you're coming in with two fronts. Oh, I'm excited for that, you know, and especially now after these, I think I can work much better. I'm getting much more exposure. Just in a set, I went for 19,000 followers on Instagram yesterday. 32,000 followers tonight. Wow. That's my check. That's wonderful. You know, that's it. It's media, that's social media, what does to you? So I'm excited with that. It's a new world opening for me, you know, so let's go. I'm going to take from there. From here. Join the congratulations to you. Yeah. Huge, so great. Congratulations. And thanks so much for joining us on the post show as well. My pleasure. Pleasure to talk to you. All right. The fans, choice winner, who is going to walk away with that award plus we're talking to Phil Heath, more with Larry Peppy in just a moment. We'll be right back here on bodybuilding.com. We're recruiting the workouts from phase one of a breakthrough free acid H&B estate done at University Tampa. Is the clear muscle challenge? Guys, ready? Let's do this. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Do you want game? Yeah. Clear muscle challenge. These guys brought a her all week. Can you? The results are clear. Clear muscle is the most powerful supplement and sports nutrition history. Only from muscle tech. A few seconds later, continue to do this. A few seconds later, continue to do this. Today won Motivations High. Gears packed. You're unstoppable. You lose fat. Build muscle. Transform. But it doesn't blast. Days pass, desire drops, fitness goals become fitness dreams again. Because fitness starts on the inside, your brain is a circuit board that powers your body. If you know how you're wired, you can avoid your pitfalls. If you start with your mind, you can master your muscle. To achieve lasting success, you can't just repeat. You have to rewire. Take the rewire of personality test today. Discover who you are. And welcome back to the post show. Live at the Oralines here in Las Vegas, stay fair alongside Larry Peppy. We were talking about Mr. Olympia, the 50th anniversary coming to a close. As you look at the event now, what are your final takeaways? What were the big surprises to you not just in the men's open, but also in some of the other divisions? What really is standing out that you've had a few minutes to digest what happened here tonight? Well, not from a surprise standpoint, but of course Phil Heath winning his fourth in a row. Very big deal at the 50th Olympia. I think the other thing that struck me was that I felt like last night the gap between Phil and Kai was wider. I think that Kai benefited more. I think they both came back a little better tonight, but Kai more so than Phil. I think that I think Kai improved more from last night because I think he was holding a lot of fluid. And I think he came back harder and made it more interesting. And I think, you know, we looked to set up this storyline for next year. We looked to question like who's going to be the contender? Who's maybe going to be the guy? Was Big Ramey going to get in much better condition and come back here and make us think like he was going to be the guy to challenge next year. And I think in some ways the way that the contests closed wrote that chapter for us for next year a bit. I think another big story of course is branched Warren finishing in the top six. I mean, that's enormous. Victor Martinez back in the top 10. Juan Morel and Steve Cookelo, you know, Morel, a rookie Cookelo in his second year both in the top 10 as well. I think that's what stands out to me. In the two 12 flex Lewis's dominance has announcement with us tonight that he is not going to be moving up. I think that's the smart move for flex Lewis. I think staying in this division and trying to dominate this division for as long as he can is better for his career, better for his brand, better for everything in my opinion. The shock of course of that two 12 has to be David Henry absent from the top six. I mean, if you would have asked anybody, I don't believe that one person who knows anything about bodybuilding would have possibly said that David Henry who's never been lower than second at an Olympia would finish out of the top six. Nobody would have told you that. So that has to be the most shocking thing of the weekend for me. Let me ask you about two 12 specifically because flex Lewis is starting to build that dynasty at two 12. We've seen some great Olympia champions do in the men's open with the way that the two 12 has grown. Do you think that this is a real opportunity for him to become a true legacy athlete in bodybuilding? Well, I think from what we see today, you know, I mean, we only know the landscape as it exists as we stand here right now. And there's no one out there that he has in beaten and beaten repeatedly. Now, at part of Korea, to flex his own words, his conditioning was insane tonight. We talked about that on the broadcast at part of Korea establishes himself as I would say the number one contender, but still at part of Korea is not beating this version of flex Lewis. So I think flex Lewis controls his destiny for the foreseeable future. And the reason I say that, David, is because there's guys that we, you know, haven't heard of or who are going to make huge improvements over the next year or two. And then all of a sudden, you say, wow, this person is now contending. This person is now challenging flex. But as of right now, one of the reasons I felt strongly that his better move was to stay in this division as of right now. I don't see anyone at two 12 that 100% flex Lewis doesn't beat. Let's talk about the changing of the guard because we saw a lot of competitors tonight here on the stage for the men's open that were brand new to the Olympia. And then also we saw some huge announcement like Iris Kyle saying that she is retiring from the sport. Do you think that we're at a turning point right now where next year we're going to see a whole new crop of athletes and people that are going to excel that are coming basically out of nowhere as far as the Olympia world is concerned. I don't. I don't think it's going to be a come out of nowhere situation. I think it's going to be that in bodybuilding now that a right Iris Kyle is retired with 10 Olymp. I can't believe I'm saying that with 10 Olympia championships on her resume now that she is out. Alina Popo becomes a clear front runner in women's bodybuilding. So that's that to me is the changing of the guard in bodybuilding. But Alina Popo is not new. Alina Popo is established herself with two runner ups spots here at the Olympia two years in a row to the best ever in terms of titles and across men or women. Right. So bodybuilding I think has changed with the retirement. With the retirement of a Delagarcia we saw oxana Gershina when now here and at the international. So you would have to now say is it going to be the oxana era. We also have to look at those scorecards. Was it close was it neck and neck or did she dominate the thing by the routine being so strong? And we know with oxana what makes it interesting there is that she's pretty much always going to get out scored in that physique round. And the routine round is going to have to be what pulls her through. So if somebody going to maybe the routine catch up enough that oxana can't catch her. So I think we leave this Olympia with intriguing stories with records with Nicole Wilkins with her fourth figure Olympia setting a record there. I think we leave this Olympia with a lot of things to be excited about for next year. Lawrence from Diamond Tine is a standing by he is going to present the check for the fans choice award. That's 30 seconds away here on the post show on bodybuilding.com. It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds and lives for free. Now it's completely disgusted with the way I look. Not so much so I ain't going out like that. Bodybuilding.com has complete fitness plans from the best experts, athletes and personal trainers to help you accomplish any goal. My health just started to decline and I wasn't happy anymore bodybuilding.com changed my life. Answer a few quick questions and bodybuilding.com will provide your perfect plan. You can definitely change your life. I'm a prime example of it. I can go on to bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Bodybuilding.com has everything you need to burn fat, build muscle and become your best self. Go to bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free. And welcome back to our post show. We are live here at the Oralines in Las Vegas. It is time for the fans choice award check presentation. Laura from Diamond Ties is here with the biggest check that I've ever seen in my entire life. It's massive but you're here to present it to the Water and the Holy Calgary. Yes, Sky Green. You won the fans choice award and thank you for being a really inspiration to everybody. You won by the largest amount ever on bodybuilding.com. You got 60% of the votes. The biggest leading history. So I'm really honored to be able to present this to someone that's been encouraging everybody and inspiring. Everybody actually in bodybuilding including myself. So it's honor. Thank you very much. Thank you. And I'll hold this huge check because you actually have a trophy that comes with it as well. So turn around. I'll sit this right over here in front of the other of you that's on this post show. Congratulations to you man. Obviously tonight you get the second place not. I know that the rivalry between you and Phil really kind of reached a boiling point when you guys were on stage at the pre-judging. Take us through that moment from your perspective. How intense was it when you were on stage and you and Phil were verbally sparring because from a spectator's point of view. It was palpable. I was nervous. I really thought that things might go awry and that you guys might start trading blows. I don't know. I don't know. Sometimes things are just really, you got some really wonderful men that behind the scenes in real life. You know, are in possession of spirits that are very beautiful. And they're approached to express a nice spirit. Just because a man may be a fighter or a world-class marksman that's able to pay attention to the beauty of his craft. That just might happen to be about taking another target out. There's still artistry. There's still spiritual magic that the athlete, the warrior, that champion mind is able to connect with even in something that may, you know, to the world. Like something that's not as beautiful as you look at it. And it may match if you look at a boxing match. To look at it as a spectator that knows nothing about the art of boxing. It may look like just, you know, clubbing and just a whole bunch of violence. But then to someone that is really into the sweet science of martial arts and, you know, able to think about the defense mechanisms and all the wonderful colors that go along with seeing the command of, you know, of tools and instruments. You know, it's a very different conversation. So when you put a bunch of athletes in the room, you know, with some very strong, you know, sometimes things may, you know, be said that don't, you know, Condor up the wonderful response that, you know, the lay person at home that's not in the trenches of the experience. That's not in the throws of passion and excitement. You know, like, yeah, that's a little inappropriate. But I encourage you. Don't sit on a sideline. Get up in there. Put on a full armor. And sometimes you'll be surprised what you may find, you know, a music story about the process. I noticed that after Phil was announced the winner, you did walk over. You guys seem to exchange pleasantries and I show a sportsmanship on your behalf. Oh, well, I mean, you know, at the end of the match, you know, I'm sure that there's some really awesome guys that can do it out and give it to you. You know, I can get a mistake of hand and still not be defined. The total man not be defined by what he's doing in the ring or the part of the craft of what he does, you know, it's a piece of the man. The man is a larger totality. But Kai, you've been in that press conference room with Phil. And this seemed like a different Kai green. It seemed like maybe you were pulling your motivation in a different way. You seem to more direct, more aggressive than you have it in the past. And you've been in that room with Phil. So what was different about this year? You know, it's very interesting to stay on on a sidelines and critique. And that's the point that I'm trying to make. Sometimes you just really got to get in the trenches. If you are in the trenches, then you'll see. We can look it up last year or two years ago. Kai, you know, you should have been a little bit more aggressive. Hey, Kai. Hey, you know, we're on stage. You're looking like you really don't let him do this. Do you really want to push you really? You know, so my point is that the athlete is really just working to do his best. He's looking at the notes. He's not one of those things where if you've given him three or four different assignments that are supposed to help him improve his gain. That you, you should see those, those things manifest in his performance in the future. If you don't, then thing you have to question whether well, does this man really want it? You know, what's really up with that athlete? So, you know, one of the lessons that I'm learning is that, you know, you don't want to do the same thing all the time. You know, if you are working and you see that there's some things that were successful or helpful. But then there's some things that weren't and maybe we have to try it a different way. Then you have to have the confidence and the courage and the overall drive and commitment to what you're trying to do to be willing to be open minded enough and maybe implement something that is different or outside of what you've done in the past. So you give me a perfect segue. It's almost like you tweaked your mentality like you tweaked your physique, right? And it looked to me like that. He's so good. You like that. All right. So, you're twice in my, you can imagine your dreams. So, it's very influential. Why did that work? Maybe that might work. It seemed to me if you used that, feel free to use that, make sure. But it looked to me like you were drier tonight than at pre-judging. It looked to me like you were grainy or and harder tonight. Did you do anything between pre-judging and finals to try to bring more detail in? We're always working. We're always working. We're working in the office season. We're working last year. We're working two years ago. You know, this is not something new. You know, that's about the champion mind. That's about the determined person that's working to get something done. You know, it's not just what you do point A and points, you know, somewhere in between. But there's a continued progression and continuation of thinking and working that ultimately. You believe and will bring you to the desired and result. You know, now that's sometimes we got it's, you know, strip away some of those things, you know, I identify what's helpful and, you know, strip away the things that aren't. But ultimately, the athlete is just really trying to hone his skills, you know, become more proficient at what he's trying to do. And at the end, see his, you know, his in result, desired in result, realize. So it's a lot going on. It's a lot going on. Well, I tell you what, as fans of the sport, certainly appreciate all the hard work that you put in. You're always entertaining. I would say that this hands down is my favorite Olympia today. Thank you. That intensity between you and Phil was fantastic to watch. You walk away with a huge amount of money for all of your efforts. Congratulations and thanks so much for joining us on the post show. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity. Absolutely. Thanks, Lord. Thank you so much for joining us. I'm now presenting the check. Congratulations. Phil Heath coming up next will be right back here in the bodybuilding.com post show of Mr. Olympia, the 50th anniversary. The 21st anniversary is going on. Day One, Motivations High, Guier's Pat, your unstoppable, you lose fat, build muscle, transform, but it doesn't last. these paths, desire drops, fitness goals, become fitness dreams again. Because fitness starts on the inside. Your brain is a circuit board that powers your body. If you know how you're wired, you can avoid your pitfalls. If you start with your mind, you can master your muscle. To achieve lasting success, you can't just repeat. You have to rewire. Take the rewire personality test today. Discover who you are. Get fit for life. The fifth year anniversary of Mr. Olympia is now officially in the books. Our post shows winding down, but we certainly couldn't wrap things up before the champ himself. Phil Heath joined a sound second. Congratulations to you, man. It's a four-peat now. You match the record that was held by Jay Cutler. In his book, so congratulations undoing that. But how does it feel for you to be able to walk away with four consecutive years? A cyber leaf. For now. Yeah. For now. You only get so many days to actually let this soak in before you're getting ready for the next one. Right. We'll talk about the rivalry that we saw this year because you and Kai were at each other's throat. There was a moment yesterday at Prejudging where we thought that it was going to go to blows. Was it as close to that as it appeared from a spectator's point of view? I'd probably say so. I mean, you have two guys that want one thing. And what they're being the 50th, we knew it was that stake. We all wanted the piece of that legacy. And every time the Olympia comes around, the competition juices get brewing. And I'm preventing a guy like Kai Greene that one spot. He just needs that one spot, right? So it's like when I tell people, it's like, if you watch baseball, you think the Yankees like the Red Sox, they hate him. They hate each other. But they respect each other at some point. Have they come to blows? Yeah, sure. And what almost came to that, obviously, because the fans actually feed into it. A lot of the time, throughout the year. And it gets people excited. And we did our best to not go there. But, and keep it classy. And I was able to do that for sure. But I have to tip my head off the Kai. I mean, he comes in, he works hard. He gives the fans a great show with his posing. And he comes up short. But I'm going to give myself a panel in the back because it's very, very hard to see someone that is that dedicated. I have to raise my game every year to make sure that he doesn't get what he wants. Well, and I know that you guys have something in common. I mean, Jay, you just launched your own brand, and filled you to the same thing this past. You're talking about how tough it's been with all of the work that it's taken to launch your own company in this past year. And then still stay on track and focus to make sure that the guys that are vying for your position as Mr. Olympia aren't catching you. Well, it's definitely difficult, but it's always comforting to know when you put other people in the position that are successful people, that are very organized, they're very intelligent, that belong in those positions, that they can carry the weight while you prepare. My team had gifted nutrition, that's what they did. They've been working very, very hard. As much as I've been working hard in the gym, they were working hard in the office talking to people that need to get things done. And all they told me was, hey, you just concentrate on the show, and I will put you on the conference call here and they're here and there, you answer some emails, but we're going to lighten the load. And then when you're done, you'd be in the office, working your butt off. But I look at myself as a multi-dimensional athlete, multi-dimensional person, just like Jay Cutler. There is a business within bodybuilding off the stage. And I would like this strike to iron where it's hot. And actually do something that I feel is fun. It's fun to know that I can actually make a phone call and say, this is the type of supplement that I want. Can you make it? And they say, yes, we can do it. And it's mine. That's awesome. There'd be no different than a kid wanting this on shoe. It's on sneaker. It's playing an NBA. I get to have that opportunity to get on the company. So it's awesome. Now as you've got me talking about them, thinking, gosh, I got a lot of emails I got to get back to people. That was a lot of work. But it does let you realize that you have to be organized. But that's what bodybuilding is. People that are watching this, they're no different than us. They go out. They have family. They have to work 40, 50 hour days, even not longer. But they still find a way to get their meals and they're training in this. And that's what they have. I mean, 40, 50 hour. I don't know what kind of monster you are. You're working for your 50 hour days. I will be doing that. And then some, because hey, that's facing. I'm eating every two hours. I'm doing all this stuff. And essentially, I'm willing to work my butt off. So then one day, you know, I could be chilling on the boat. Maybe next to this dude and talking about old times. But in order to do that, I've got to work hard and everything right now. Well, there's no question you're obviously working hard, Larry. Phil, congrats? Oh, thanks. I have two questions for you. First, not to lay off the kayak hook. Two quickly. There was a point before you guys were awarded. When you were standing in line and you guys were conversing, it looked like an amicable conversation. It looked like you were nodding to each other. What was going on in that interaction? Well, normally I wouldn't want to share that type of conversation between two grown men. But I think it just came down to the fact that we both respected each other. We both acknowledged that. We both acknowledged that what the stage was really about. And the position that both of us are in and that he wants it and that he wanted it. And I wanted it. And you know, things here, we both have our camps talking trash to us all the year. Beat this guy's butt, beat his ass, whatever. You got the fans on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, doing the same thing. It comes back to us. And then next, you know, we hate each other. And it was kind of like we both acknowledged that one's the insigators, not us. We're not necessarily saying anything. And although that, I know that we really don't hate one another, and it ain't going to be friendship until probably after we retired. And that's OK. And I think both of us kind of saying, all right, here we are again. Remember last year we talked about this. And we're going to probably end up having a hype this thing up next year as well. Are we OK with that? And it's like, yeah, say what you're going to say. Because I'm going to do what I got to do as well. And I respect Calgary. And I mean, he's a great asset to the sport of body building. I mean, he's definitely a good competitor. And like I said, I was impressed that he looked away, he did on Saturday night. And you know, gave the fans a great posing. You know, 30 day in is one of my favorite routines that he does. You know, I remember watching him do the New York Pro and actually winning that with it. So I mean, in a sense, I'm still a fan of his yet. We're our enemies. OK. So fourth Olympia, you spoke at the press conference about your father passing away and devoting this year to him. Can you compare the feeling of winning this year to the prior Olympia? Wait, is this one rank for you? It's all different. You know, I think Jake had agreed with every year's different. I think when I'm retired, I'll be able to look back and really soak it all in and say which one was really the hardest or all these questions. I mean, each year has filled with challenges. And it's more mentally than anything. The physical part of getting up training. I mean, I love the train. So how was that hard, right? To eat these meals? Well, it's a necessary thing. It's life's challenges. And I think every year, I get hit with something or my family or my friends get hit with something to where it enables me to put on a better set of battle armor to deal with the world's challenges and to face it with no fear and to continually to try harder, to strive for excellence. And I was able to do it and it definitely motivates me. And it's to credit all my friends, my family, you know, my sponsors, everybody, the sport of body building itself. But my stories are just about how everybody goes to these issues. Everybody goes through something hard in life. I'm not talking about it, woe is me. I'm talking about it to say, you two go through stuff. I acknowledge that. But you have no excuse to get in that gym and then make something positive of it. You could be going out and boozing and doing wrong and this and that. Not to say we all like to booze every now and again, but you could be really damaging your body and other ways. But you could be going to the gym too and getting something out of it. Like what I'm doing. And that's what it's really about. It's really about taking life's challenges and saying, you know, I'm going to put something positive and to work it out. Maybe not lift the waist. Maybe going for a run. Maybe playing basketball with friends. Maybe doing something positive. And I think, thank God, I have body building to do that. So Jake, he says when he retired, he'll be able to tell me which one you have no plans to compete. So when you look back at the four, which one was the most meaningful for you? You know what, he's absolutely right. I mean, when you're stepped away from the stage and the more things that happen in your life that become more important, especially as you progress and you get older, which I am. It's just a parent that you have a different mindset. You don't really look at each one. I mean, obviously you have specific wins. Probably the first time you won would probably be, you know, the most memorable one as far as like, you know, wow, I can't believe I'm Mr. Olympia. I mean, for me, I beat Ronnie Coleman, but then I came back and I felt I lost it in one another one. But, you know, we all go through challenges like you said on the way through. And we train different ways. And what I noticed about fill this year, and just the touch upon them, I mean, we travel a lot. We're around each other a lot, obviously we still conversed, you know, week to week. What I noticed about filly really, really was more dedicated this year. He seemed more driven than I've ever seen him in the past. And that's really the question I want to ask fill is, do you think this year you gave, you know, as you progressively get more and more Olympia's under your belt, they say that, you know, you seem to work harder every time that she's certain things because it becomes, you know, okay, am I going to win the next one and next one and the number start climbing? What I noticed is you trained more, you trained smarter. But when I spoke to you during your prep, you said I'm having a very easy, everything's just falling into place. Do you think it was easier to prep for this year's contest than the years past? You seemed more relaxed and just you had done the homework. I think more in the offseason than ever before to allow yourself to be able to just basically go through the rhythms and not necessarily not, you don't do no work hard. But you just everything just seemed to click during your training for this Olympia. Yeah, I think preparation is separation. There's an offseason in sports and that's because once game time hits, you know how to react and not to panic. And you know, we both know that there's a specific blueprint that's indescribable, you know, when you're training for the Olympia, this may work and the next year it doesn't, you have to be able to, you know, respond very quickly. Your body has to be able to respond quickly by knowing what worked and what didn't work doing your offseason. So how do you do that? Well, you ain't going to do it by going out to McDonald's and drinking beer and all sorts of stuff. You're right, you know, I worked really hard and I, and I had to because I knew that I was at a disadvantage. You know, being on the top of the food chain, you know, on the sport, you travel twice as much. I traveled 200,000 miles in six months. But you were training in the middle of the day. You always trained. Yeah. And you don't sleep. No. You're always late out there. Anytime I was trying to get a hold of you, whether what time zone I was in, you'd never sleep to sleep. I just, it's a credit to guys like you and Ronnie Coleman to be honest because I knew that you both loved being Mr. Olympia more than anything in the world. And it was like, do I really love this? If I really love this, that I'm going to be willing to do whatever it takes and get my butt in that gym, the gym makes me feel great. And it was self therapy, really, to get in that gym, going through life's challenges and just saying, you know what? You know, I trained by myself 90% of the time a year. So it's like, this was great for me and just me time, me time, and I learned a lot about different training disciplines. I learned that what works for you ain't gonna work for me. Like, I know we joke around. It's like, do you feel used machines? Do you need to hire work out? Stuff like that. And you know what, it actually works for me. It prevented injury, it prevented this and that, and it actually helped me. Now, well, that worked next year. Probably not because I have to be willing to open my eyes and say, okay, well, last year won't work this year. Let's just try it. And that's what the offseason is. So I think the because of the fact that, you know, I knew I had only specific time. I had to plan with purpose each and every day. And that's a credit to guys like yourself who are to me, a legend and a pioneer of the sport. Anyone that knows Jay Color, anyone that is no money, Coleman, anyone that is known, any Mr. Lippian like those guys that is trained around them or even watched them trained, it made you want to train harder. And you knew that during those battles that they had, they didn't take a day off. They had to slow down. And I know you used to train very late too. And it's probably because you wanted that knee time. Now that you get to adapt to that. Also, I would be honest when you're trained during a day, people want to take pictures all the time and listen to that. You need time to yourself to focus because, as I can talk right now forever, I'd be doing the same thing in the gym. I can't do that. I have to be focused because let's face it. These guys are hungry. And I knew that. And I'm going to be doing my due diligence, even during this off season now. I'm going to be going to Spain and going to be on tour with you and hanging out. I'm still going to train. I'm going to eat decent. But I'm going to still train. Maybe not as heavy. But I'm still going to train and learn something from this. Well, as a fan of the sport, it's so cool to see two guys that have each one for Lippian titles. Just sort of talking about the ins and outs of training and traveling and everything else and just getting side to mind of champion. So Jay, thanks so much for being here on the post show, Phil Congratulations again. What a huge night for you to inform her all like this, the 50th anniversary. And Larry always a pleasure to be alongside you. Thank you. I'm Dave Fair, thanks so much for watching our official post show here on BodyBully.com. Have a great night. But every legend is a myth. Some of flesh and blood.

=== FILE: 2014 Mr. Olympia Prejudging Pre-Show Replay - Bodybuilding.com [WaWrvmpWw2Q].txt ===

And we welcome you into the official stream of Mr. Olympia. It is underway here in Las Vegas. Larry, these past couple of days already, the excitement, the anticipation, the buzz is starting to build here in Las Vegas because it's a historic event. 50 years now in the books, Mr. Olympia has grown so much. Talk about what this weekend means, not just to the competitors and the fans, but also the people that are watching all around the world that are just seeing this sport girl that are maybe going, wow, I've really got to start paying attention to this because it's gotten larger than life. Yeah, I mean, 50 years in, you should start paying attention. Right, and most likely. I mean, just to put some perspective on it, our first Mr. Olympia had a whopping three competitors. Larry Scott, Harold Pool, and Earl Manard. Harold Pool still the youngest competitor ever at the Mr. Olympia 21 years old. The interesting thing to me, Dave, and a lot of people don't really know this story is how the Olympia came about. It came about in a bar. Joe Weater was actually sitting with Larry Scott. And Larry Scott was the poster child for bodybuilding, and Joe did not want to lose him, and Larry was telling him, it's really nothing for me to do anymore in this industry because I've already won all the big titles. So he got the brainstormed, let's do a professional contest for money that will let the best of the best be decided. Larry Scott liked the idea. And when he asked him, well, what would you call it? He looked down at his beer bottle, which was Olympia Beer and said, let's call it the Olympia. And here we are. We also had a shake things into perspective for just how rich this competition is and how long it's been around. The first Mr. Olympia, the one that you were talking about for $1,000, took place two years before the first Super Bowl ever happened. I mean, that's something. It's been around for that long. And we've seen the competition grow year after year. And this year, we've got ourselves a very distinct opportunity for an underdog and kaygering to come in and try to upset Phil Heath. And when I say that tensions are running high between these two, I'm not kidding. At the press conference just yesterday, there was almost a physical altercation because these two are at each other's throat so much. Well, it's a good thing that they was seated about 10 feet apart. Listen, anyone who has watched kaygering over the years knows that he tends to be pretty happy all the time. He tends to talk about positive. Who by our image? Yeah, sure. He's like, well, can Tony Robbins seminar with Mussel. Right? That wasn't the case at the press conference. If you haven't seen it, there's videos all over the place. I have never seen in angrier more motivated. And when I say angry, I mean just going at Phil nonstop through this press conference, cutting him off, cutting him off when he was talking about his father passing away. There were no limits to how angry and motivated kaygering was at this press conference. Now, look, talk is cheap. Maybe it means nothing. Maybe kaygering knows something we all don't know, which is he's finally nailed that condition that he has to nail to really compete with Phil Heath. We're going to find out. He did make one comment that could go either way. He said he's going to have 40 pounds on Phil. That could be a terrible thing if he is not shredded because he won't beat Phil just being bigger. He has to match his conditioning to beat him, to have any chance to beat him. But Dave, let's not get a twist. That this is not a two man race. We have people like Dennis Wolf, who was third last year, won the Arnold. And looks to have finally found the rhythm, found the formula for him to consistently get in shape. We have Sean Roden, fourth last year, who rumors are, is bigger than he's ever been and conditioned. And of course, if you stop thinking for a minute about Dexter Jackson and a top six spot in the Olympia, you should slap yourself because every time we think it's time for Dexter to wave and say thanks for the memories, he ends up beating everybody before or five guys in this contest. Well, all the analysts that I've talked to, they've said that Phil Heath is the clear frontrunner in this and that Kai Green obviously is out for blood. And you were talking about that intensity. And I'll ask you kind of a two-part question here. Do you think that Kai Green had that same intensity as he was leading up in the off season to this event? And do you think that will make a difference? And then also as Kai Green, two hyper focused on Phil Heath and forgetting about the people that are just behind it? Here's a good thing about bodybuilding. Anything that motivates you, whether it's one person or the field, to be in the best shape that you've ever been can't hurt you with anybody else. If he's this motivated to be in the best shape of his life, then that's what matters and that distances him, potentially from the rest of the field. The flip side is the off season and bodybuilding means little. If you look at pictures of Kai Green and Phil Heath for about 10 months out of the year, you would say Kai is the better bodybuilder. Because he's monstrous to you around. He's pretty conditioned to you around. But bodybuilding is about two days, pre-judging and finals. And that's it, nothing else matters. And talk about that, Manusha. Those little details that makes such a difference when it comes down to like you said, those critical moments in bodybuilding. When somebody has to get rid of exactly the right amount of water, white, to make sure that they're defined enough, but they're not too dehydrated in order to get out there and perform. What does it like for these athletes? Is they're coming into this weekend? The biggest moment of their entire year, possibly the biggest moment of their entire life, to make sure that they have everything just right. Well, there are so many variables and that's where experience comes in. That's where having competed at the Olympia, peaked for the Olympia. That's where it all matters. Your water, your body fat, your tanning, your routine. So many details that they have to manage and manipulate any of which could throw them off, particularly water, in a matter of hours. So one guy could look phenomenal at nine o'clock in the morning and he could come here tonight and have rebounded it, have been holding water. And Dave, let's not forget, not only do we have history on the men's side, with the 50th of Olympia, but we have the opportunity to make history in multiple women's divisions this weekend as well. Yeah, we have potential for the first time ever, men or women for one woman to walk away as a 10-time Olympian. That is unheard of, Larry. It's insane. I mean, and the thing is when a lot of people don't know historically is that there were several years where the misalempia was divided into a lightweight and a heavyweight and Iris Kyle won the heavyweight. So she lost the overall, but you could argue she has 10 Olympia titles already, but this would be 10 overall, it would make history, Dave, and in figure, Nicole Wilkins going for her fourth, that would make history, if Ashley, Colt was a repeats, repeats in bikini, that would make history. And in fitness, if that's not all enough, a Delic Garcia is now retired, which means that it is wide open and we will crown our first fitness Olympia champion, not named a Delic Garcia in six years. And Larry, I know that you spent a lot of time around the ladies in the offseason leading up to Mr. Olympia and the reason why is because you actually wrote a book. Correct. I wrote the women's pre-contest Bible with Isaac Heinz. We got to interview so many of the women who are competing as well as former legends. So I've gotten a lot of insight and thoughts from a lot of these ladies that we're going to see tonight and tomorrow night, we'll talk about it when we do our play by play about their training, about their feelings coming in, and whether they feel they have gotten ready to be in their best condition at this historical Olympia. I'm excited to hear some of that commentary from you. And shameless plug, where can people find your book? Oh, easy. Women'sprecontestbibble.com. Women'sprecontestbibble.com. Correct. All right, since we're talking about shifting around away classes with the women, let's talk about the men as well, because at two 12, we've got a similar situation that we've got a very clear front-runner in flex Lewis. But David Henry wants to hear none of that. What are your thoughts on 212? Well, you're right. Again, we're in Vegas. And if the books here put up odds for the Mr. Olympia and the 212 Olympia, the gamblers would tell you, I'm not going to risk $1,000 to win 100 on Phil Heath or Flex Lewis. They are big favorites, and they've earned that. They're not big favorites because people like them in clap form. They have big favorites because they have dominated this contest for the last several years. David Henry has not beaten Flex Lewis in several contest the Olympia and the Arnold that we called Dave back in March in Columbus. And Phil Heath has just been dominant. He's had straight ones for three years. So it really has not been close. In the 212, the interesting side story to the 212 to me is that Flex Lewis has said that this is his last contest at 212 pounds. If that's the case, then this is the last opportunity for David Henry to beat Flex Lewis and take the title from him. And if you talk to most athletes, winning the title is one thing. Taking the title from a dominant champion is another. And this may be the last opportunity for the entire 212 field to take from Flex Lewis that title of Best 212 Body Builder in the world. And I think they're going to be chomping at the bit to do it. In the ladies' divisions, fitness, bikini, and bodybuilding are all happening tonight. We're going to bring on Kathleen Tessori and Felicia Romero in just a moment to talk about the competition. We'll be right back. This is the official stream for Mr. Olympia, the 50th Anniversary on bodybuilding.com. It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds, and lives for free. I was completely disgusted with the way I look. Not so much so. I ain't going out like that. Bodybuilding.com has complete fitness plans from the best experts, athletes, and personal trainers to help you accomplish any goal. My health just started to decline, and I wasn't happy anymore. Bodybuilding.com changed my life. Answer a few quick questions and bodybuilding.com will provide your perfect plan. You can definitely change your life. I'm a prime example of it. I can go on to bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan, and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Bodybuilding.com has everything you need to burn fat, build muscle, and become your best self. Go to bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free. We're going to be recreating the workouts from phase one of a breakthrough free acid HMB study done at the University of Tampa. It's the ClearMustle Challenge. Guys ready? Let's do this. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Do you want game? Yeah. ClearMustle Challenge. These guys brought a her all week. Can you? The results are clear. ClearMustle is the most powerful supplement and sports nutrition history, only from Muscle Tech. This is the official stream for Bodybuilding.com. It's great to have you along with us as we had into Mr. Olympia. It's the 50th anniversary joining me here on stage. We've got Kathleen Tessori, and Felicia Romero. Always a pleasure to be alongside you. Ladies, it's our second year doing Olympia together. Of course, we did the Arnold back in March and Columbus, Ohio. I would say the competition this year for Mr. Olympia though when it comes to the ladies' competitions. It's some of the fiercest that we've ever seen. I know that you girls have spent a lot of time at the pre-judging seeing what some of the callouts were. Some very interesting notes to take from that. But first, just talk about the experience that you've had here in Las Vegas, being out in the Expo floor for me with people that weren't able to make it. To Las Vegas to attend this event. What is it like when you're here and you're surrounded by all the people that are part of the industry? Oh my gosh, it's an experience like no other. The amount of people, the energy, the Expo, it's like lines and lines and lines of people. I mean, I had a park like a mile away, so I'm like, I wish I had a driver. So my weekend already started off with blisters on my feet. And you're still rocking the heels though. I am rocking the heels. As long as I'm in one place and I'm not walking, I'm okay. But the experience is amazing and I know Kathleen experienced it on the Expo side. So I've been working the bodybuilding.com booth and the line was about an hour and 45 minutes. There's people here from Texas, New Zealand. The energy's high and I swear this Expo has like grown a lot. It is just extended so far. Well let's talk about some of the competitions. Women's bodybuilding is happening tonight. Iris can make history. She wins. She gets herself that very elusive and unheard of tent title at Mr. Olympia. She's got a moment for her going into the 50th anniversary, possibly winning one out of every five Olympia is it's ever even happened. But putting together 10 wins and 10 titles is unbelievable. Unbelievable. I've been coming to the Olympia for about 10 years now. So for her to win that many, it's insane. So yeah, I definitely think that she's going to take it tonight. So that's my prediction. Elena of course wants to not exactly hear those words. She's very interested in getting herself a title as well. You were at the call out earlier for women's bodybuilding. Was there anything that surprised you? No, actually no, there wasn't a lot of surprises. I mean, Iris came in like her normal, sharp, symmetrical self, hard self. Elena, you know, can give her a run for her money, but I really feel there's not a lot of competition there. Iris just sort of takes it. I think, you know, Kathleen sort of agrees. Yeah, I would have to create Felicia Iris. She always comes in solid and really makes every girl have to work extremely hard. The fitness competition is going to be interesting because Adela has now retired and that's open it up to pretty much anyone, right. Based off of what you saw earlier today, what are your thoughts on the way that that category is shaping up? Who should the viewers that are watching in home keep an eye on tonight? Well, I definitely think keeping an eye on Bethany, Sister Nina, she came out. She always has a solid physique, but she was so sharp, so on point, her body is just tight in all the right areas. So I definitely think she's went to watch and I think she probably is going to get that top spot in my prediction. She definitely had a glow and she, I mean, she looks so healthy, so on point and just she didn't even have to try very hard on stage. She was so on point. And Tangy. Yeah, go ahead, please. Tangy was also right there. It's definitely going to come down to the routines in the physique ground. It was definitely Tangy and Bethany, but it's going to be anyone's game when it comes down to the routine. Yeah, the routine is really two thirds of the scoring. So somebody who gets a top call out in the physique ground can be placed down lower in the routine round, depending on their energy and the creativity of their routine. Again, Oxana always has a lot of creativity, even though she's looking in that three or four spot right now with physique. So it's anyone's game when it comes to the routine. So they got to bring it. It's exciting. Yeah. I mean, the bikini competition as well, also a very tight race. Interesting story line here. If Ashley is able to repeat, she'll be the first person to ever repeat at Mr. Olivia in the bikini competition. Certainly a big moment for her, but I know that you girls were talking about the bikini competition earlier. Of course, I was listening intently. And both of you said that there is an incredibly talented field. Oh, absolutely. I mean, when these girls walk out, there are hardly any flaws. And it's crazy to be involved this weekend because there's so many history-making moments, you know, with every single division. So, but these girls, and we always say, I think, and I wouldn't need girls turn around to make a break for these girls, and I would say 95% of them have the glutes. Yes. Now, I would have to agree. It was amazing. Ashley called Swater, though. She came in on point from head to toe. She was just incredible. So I've seen her for the top spot. Yeah. I love her body. It's athletic. She has nice fullness in the glutes, but fullness and not too thin, but not too, you know, muscular or stringy. So, she's right on point. What did you think about Janet? Janet is beautiful. If you guys don't get a chance to see Janet on stage, you have to watch her just walk on stage. She's like this goddess, your eyes just follow her. She's a pillar of beauty. She's a pillar of beauty. I just- I just- She likes my women crush. Oh, my gosh. She's my women crush Wednesday, even though it's not Wednesday. I know, right? Well, let's talk about how difficult it is to do exactly what you're talking about is walk out on stage and just be so graceful and every single thing that you do when you're in any of these competitions to make it look like you're not working hard is the key to success and almost any profession, but especially when everyone's focused on every single little last detail about your face and your body and everything else. Yeah, it's hard stuff. You got a hold your stomach tight. You have to make sure your boots are rounded. You have to hold everything super tight while smiling and trying to be effortless and heels. Your back is hurting. Things are like cramping up, so it's tough. It's not easy at all, but these girls make it look effortless. Yeah, and especially when you dial in, perfectly you don't have to hold your opposing or anything that hard. So the better that you're dialed in, the more flawless and confident you can look on stage. Yeah, absolutely. So much history can be made tonight with the ladies. Certainly appreciate your insight and analysis and look forward to being with you on the post shows. We talked to some of the winners that walk away with their champion chips tonight. Thank you so much. Thank you. We're coming right back here on Bodybuilding.com. This is the official stream for the 50th anniversary event. We are live at the Orleans in Las Vegas. Here on Bodybuilding.com. If you're 30 days out of a wedding, and if you're 30 days out of a show, if you just want to bring those abs and tighter because you've never really hit it, this program is going to show you how to get into your goal, physique, and 30 days. I'm going through 30 days of this program with you guys. Good morning. Hold in your hand, walk me through it, showing you emotionally what it's like to go through this program. This one's up, man. Showing you physically what it's like to go through this program. These are hard. I'm going to do TRS jumps. You're just sure working at the wedding. Go. This is 30 days out, maximizing your intensity and your time, getting you in peak condition through nutrition and supplementation and training. Your 30 days out? Dial it in. Growing up, I always wanted to be a great athlete, but I didn't really have an athletic body. I wanted to look apart and perform extremely well. I did not buy into, you had to have a great body or great aesthetics if you will, or perform well. I wanted both. I wanted it all. In the only way to do that was to train like an athlete. To make sure I actually did movements and watched my nutrition enough to have a great body. I'm just going to help you get both. I say you can have it all. Strength, character, athletics and aesthetics. I would always get a kick out of people that look like superheroes or super-athletics. But they couldn't do anything with it. I would ask someone who looks the part that can you swim. No, I can't swim. Can you run fast? They can't run fast. The concept of AMP comes from wanting to perform extremely well and have great aesthetics at the same time. What can you do? I'm a sight stand there and look in the mirror. We welcome you back. This is the official stream for Mr. Olympia, the 50th anniversary event. I'm Dave Farrell, Long-Sightlary, a papy always a pleasure to talk to you about these competitions. You know so much. There are so much to do because each of these competitors is coming in with a different story to tell. When they walk up on stage and we're talking about men's pre-judging, for Mr. Olympia, there are some big names. Of course, we're flanked here. Kai Green over here and Phil Heath on stage actually right now. These are our front runners in one and two. There are some very interested parties that want to work their way into the mix. Dennis Wolf really surprised a lot of people last year. Here at Mr. Olympia, then he rolls into the Arnold, gets himself to win there. How much of a threat is he to the crown of Phil Heath or maybe to a runner-up place? A spot that a lot of people think the Kai Green has locked up. Yeah, for me Dave, it's more about that second place. I mean, could he beat Phil Heath? He could, but you know, facts are facts. When we look at history, Phil Heath has been dominant at this contest. Phil Heath has had straight first place votes. So for people who say, oh, two years ago, Kai almost beat him, not in the judges' eyes, and that's what matters. So when we really look at that, I think there's a distance between Phil and a guy like Dennis. Not that, like we talked in the first segment, things can happen. Guys can be holding water. They can leave that door open a little bit. They could miss their condition by a little bit. And if they do, then anything can happen. We can have guys that were in fourth or fifth overtake that spot. But Dennis Wolf, the story with Dennis that I find very interesting, is that years ago, Dennis was so inconsistent with his conditioning. There was a year he was fifth, and then there was a year he was out of the top 15. And it was because he was learning his body. And that's where we talked about experience. And sometimes experience can be everything to these guys when it comes to peaking, perfectly the day of the contest. Dennis Wolf based on how he showed up here last year, and how he showed up at the Arnold Classic to win that event for the very first time, says to me, he's figured out what he has to do to be in shape. And an in-shape Dennis Wolf is trouble for anybody, including Kai, especially if Kai has left that door open a little bit. And when you talk about leaving the door open in competition, there's always somebody that comes along, it seems every year, and surprises the entire field. Who is the dark horse this year? Who is somebody that you're keeping eye on that you're going? This guy may come out and really shock people with the way he performs here in Mr. Olympia. Yeah, and let me clarify when I say this, I don't believe that the individuals I'm going to name here are going to win this contest. I don't believe they're going to be the runner up at this contest. But what I do believe is that there's a very good chance that when this contest is over to Mar-Night, we may say, wow, this guy really exceeded expectations. And the two names that pop in my head when I say that Dave, William Bonack, who last year, I don't think most party building fans really knew who he was. He's had a huge year there, right? He's had a fantastic year. He was second to Sean Roden at one event in Australia, one event earlier this year. He won a pro show, was second to Victor Martinez in Tampa just a couple of weeks ago. And just two years ago, he was competing in the two 12. And now has gone up to the open spectacular conditioning, good shape, good body builder. The other guy is really winkler. He last year, I think, was kind of a break out for him at the Olympia. He was seventh. He could have easily been sixth, maybe even fifth. And this year, he did have an accident. He had a motorcycle accident, so we don't know how that's affected him. But he did go in and win the Chicago Pro to qualify. He looked great. If he's in the condition he was in last year, we could see him move up that ladder, maybe get closer to a top five finish. Where do you expect extra Jackson to fall in the competition? I'm going to expect extra Jackson to be in the top five because history says that that's what's going to happen. We always want to say, gee, is this the year? He's gone too old. Yeah, he's doing it in the world. He's 44 years old. How much longer could he keep showing up in amazing condition? How much longer could he keep hanging? With the top guys in the world. And every year, when everybody's ready to write the retirement party and give them the gold watch, he shows up and slams the door on everybody out of the top five. So I still think he's going to be battling for that five six pot day. Branch Warren Victor Martinez, a couple of names that have been tossed around. Will they be in the top six? Will there be anywhere close to the top six? Or do you think that that ship has sailed for both of them? I feel like a top six ship has set sail. And that is not to diminish their careers. These are two individuals that have had stellar careers. They've won the Arnold Classic. They've both been run around here at the Olympia. And when Victor Martinez took second to Jake Huttler in 2007, the majority of people not sitting on the judging panel thought Victor Martinez was Mr. Olympia that night. So these are guys who have had fantastic careers take nothing away from it. But Father Time is undefeated. And they have come to point where it's harder. Victor spoke at the press conference about his injury. He's making it harder for him to continue to come in a hundred percent like he used to. But he makes no excuses. He's a fantastic bodybuilder with great shape branch. Had a bad adding here last year. Everybody was able ready to write him off like we were talking about with extra. He goes in to Dallas, Europa, wins the contest. Not against the stiffness of competition, but wins it to qualify and come back. I would think that if either one of them finish on that seven to 10 range, that they've had a good outing for where they're at in their careers right now. And the final thing for people with that are maybe new to watching the bodybuilding.com stream of the Mr. Olympia event. What exactly are people looking for tonight as they're watching? This pre-judging and how much does it mean to the competition tomorrow? Pre-judging is virtually everything at this competition. We are going to have an excellent idea. In fact, we're going to have an almost defined idea of where these athletes are. In a minimum, we're going to know the judges are comparing these three four five athletes for the top five. They may bring out two at the end. And that's going to tell us it's between one and two. So the pre-judging is interesting to read. Sometimes it can become a little more confusing, depending on how the judges move them around. But we're going to learn a lot over the next couple of hours. And when we walk out of here tonight, we're going to have a very good idea of who's in contention for this contest, who's not in contention for this contest. And one thing I'm very curious to see is what are the judges do with Big Ramey this year? Let's find out. This is the official pre-show. It's coming to a close right now because the competition is set to get underway. That's Larry Pepe, I'm Dave Ferrell, joining you. That is other side of the broadcast. Thank you so much for being with us here on Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: 2014 Olympia Webcast Highlights Reel [LkLULVRNE9o].txt ===

We've got a great show lined up for you here today. I feel absolutely amazing coming into this I wanted to make history and I did. This is a historical event and I wanted to win this Olympia more than any Olympia ever. I wanted to make history and I wanted to win this Olympia. First of all I want to thank you guys, my fans who are crazy. You make me do my best. Absolutely a lot more pressure I think this year. But I perform all in a pressure so it just pushed me. I really love the sport and I hope I can continue to be a good ambassador for it. Thank you guys. Thank you guys. We have to get through this because I experienced losing my mom and she did my crab. I've been working with the few other pot holes. We all as individuals would like to be a service resource and be loved. And those three things my fans gave it to me. I look for the Lord to leave me and motivate me and teach me and give me all the spirits that I need. All the little pot holes that I run into. I just pray and leave me the hands of the Lord so every time that I come out to the stage. It's a gift and it's honor. It's a privilege and my fans. I love you to death. Thank you. I love you. Really, I would never ever get to meet so many positive people about people who want to change their outcome in health and fitness. The reason why you guys are here is because you want these three things. You want to look good. You want to feel great and you want to have hope that you can do it again throughout life's obstacles through I've said versity. So I'm just very, very thankful for each and every one of you guys that stuck around not just for me but for bodybuilding for the world of health and fitness for what Joe we'd or stood for and what it still stands for today. So thank you guys for coming out. Good night. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: 2015 BodySpace Spokesmodel Search Results [hdNsI4QO9_I].txt ===



=== FILE: 2015 MuscleTech Fit Squad 6-Week Challenge - Getting Started - Marc Megna, Bodybuilding.com [EI3LCETi2uo].txt ===

The FISCWAR Transformation Challenge sponsored by MuscleTech and bodybuilding.com is our first ever team challenge. That means that you can enter this challenge alone or in a group of two or more. Some examples of people you could join this challenge with, you're lifting partner, you know that cardio queen that never lifts weights, or maybe people in the office that are always talking about getting fit, but never actually take this steps to get fit. If it's quite a team will win $25,000. One solo competitor will win $5,000 and one transform for a life winner will win $5,000. Register an upload you before photos by October 4th. Ready for your first challenge? Now through October 4th we'll be giving away a MuscleTech price tag every day. All you have to do for your chance to win is to share your squad or crew your team on Instagram, Facebook or Twitter. Hashtag might fit squad tag bodybuilding.com and tag MuscleTech. So register today for the FISCWAR Transformation Challenge and your squad can start winning.

=== FILE: 2015 True Strength Student Challenge - Let's Do This @Bodybuilding.com [EdzaJV7AnT0].txt ===

Hey guys, Sean Stafford here, just want to say a huge thank you for registering on the true strength student challenge brought to you by the guys at Optimum Nutrition and BodyBilling.com. Because this is the first ever transformation challenge we've run for students only, here are some tips to help you stay healthy and fit through the school year. Number one, get yourself a plan. If you don't know what you're doing in the gym, log on to BodyBilling.com and pick one of our trainers that is you to follow and they're great. Number two, get yourself a workout partner. For that time when you're not feeling up for the gym, you can need someone that a drag you. Not only a drag you do the gym, but push you when you're in there. Number three, and you're not going to like this guys, try and get some sleep. Pull yourself away from the bar that hour early and get that extra hour in bed. It's going to help you push harder in the gym the next day and it's going to fuel your results. And last but not least, try and cut down on the booze and watch what you eat. This is an eight week challenge guys. Put your head down, work hard and best of luck.

=== FILE: 25 Years of Bodybuilding.com ｜ The Original Online Supplement Supplier Since 1999 [muT6xe9u4xg].txt ===

President & motherfucker

=== FILE: 26.2： The Road to Berlin ｜ EPISODE 1 [miRt92JoBpY].txt ===

Alright, five weeks out from Berlin. A lot of things going through a month at the moment making sure my body feels nice and intact, but also at the same time, my mind is not getting overwhelmed with trying to run too fast and all those kind of things in between. Week over week, I'm gonna be partnering up with bodybuilding.com, which I'm super excited about. To give you an insight scoop of me working my full-time, nine to five, and my outside jobs in my five-finine, well as how I train inside of all that. With the goal of trying to go under three-third and you into my training from my long runs to my community runs with more than miles, my strength training and my speed workouts, and how I train for a marathon with a full-time job. That I'm not a professional athlete whatsoever. I'm just an average guy who is a nine to five, who is trying to run as many world majors as I can inside the next year. Stay tuned and follow the journey and a huge shoutout to bodybuilding.com for making this all happen. MUSIC All right, so we're off to recovery with Cheneyde. If you guys know the old performance house, the steps in this facility were wild. She's the best in the business. I've gone over this 15 times. I'm Cheneyde, Bernan's, and I'm a soft tissue specialist, and we can't just really go in there deep and try and find and see what's tight, what's maybe pulling on something else, and what's causing the pain? Well, you don't know. Also about Cheneyde, is that she treats some of the best athletes, but also a ton of athletes in New York City. I've known her since 2018, and I trust her more than anyone. All right, we're going to get into this. So we're getting internal rotation here. It keeps like internal rotation for the joints. These fight against each other. That's why we always have sometimes techniques in the hips. And if we've got nice loose hips, we've got nice abductors, which potentially don't give us some hamstring strings. And then we're going to now work on the hamstring calf. Well, it's we're pounding a lot in the rules. Nice and tight. The ankle joint. So we get this to move and be nice and loosey. We will have nice, happy calf hamstrings. So session number one is down. Walk me through what we're some of the things that we noticed in today's session and things that I can improve on heading into next week. Don't cheese on your T-Spine mobility. Your T-Spine has rotation. Your hips has to do less work. So like, Ronin is just not all legs. We've got to use our arms. We've got to be loose to go see here. To keep everything else moving. 22 miles. This starts to cave in. Chest starts to cave in. You'll see a lot of people, especially in their first marathon. They're like full. We want to stay upright. So we want to work on your T-Spine strength. A lot of back, a lot of chest. Don't cheat that. Hips, as I said, always touch. Coping here can plant is a must for all runners. Variations, you can start off easy and then you can progress. But they're definitely one. And then just your typical joints. Just keep everything happy. Like do your mobility and hydrate. You grab the last time. Yeah, no one's popular, but they feel good. So track night. 10 by 800. 90 second rest in between. That's the program for today. Oh, now. Stuff six. Let's go back. Wait down. Stay down to three. We're going to preseason, baby. What the f*** me. You've played soccer track. You just know there's a moment where like preseason starts and you're like, I hate my life. I hate you so much. I hate everything. Oh, I don't want to do it. Cruze it. Cruze it. Eight down. Two to go. If you stayed on there three minutes for each 800 split, which is staying well below my goal of six, 15 from a mile. So continuing on this pace. Try to stay on there three minutes. We'll keep rocking a roll. Final one. We stayed out of the three minutes. Three, eight hundred. This last one. We'll try and go like sub 245. See what happens. Let's go. Two thirty six. Let's go. All right, game plan for today. Sixteen miles. We're going to be going out the first four. Probably like 70% effort. And then we're going to go negative splits to the back of my home. I'm not going to run the camera with me, but what I'll do is I'm going to do a little post run recap. Talk about how everything felt all that kind of good stuff. Long runs. It's early. It never gets easier. We are done with our sixty miles. Game plan for that was every four. We're going to try and find a little bit of a push. So you know, my first four miles were about 60% effort. 70% effort, 80% effort. And then we got to that threshold for the final four. My legs are tired. They are definitely feeling it today. Had some good help from Christian and Mo. But yeah, good day, good miles. So two. So game plan today, we got a little upper body. We got a little bit of conditioning on the skier. It did a lot of lower body this week, especially with the long runs. So A Centai are going to focus on some upper body strength. Nice looking body. You got some nice veins. The blue veins very nice, lovely. Nice looking. Hi, Kel. It's going to be a body going there. We're seeing it in the flesh. In the flesh. Finally. I do Bob shows us it in the middle. Hi, what do you kill? This is the top. I'm doing something easy. 5k and then 8k. 1k. I don't have enough. It's not incredible. Great footage. Which is how to do it. I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. Who's today? Yes, yes, yes. Yes, oh, you're having it. Kel in it, easy for easy for me. This isn't dry, this is the kill. Thank you. Perfect, why do you send a steering wheel? Yes, send a steering wheel. Yes, send a steering wheel. The theme song? You found glory, hit her miss.

=== FILE: 3 Hip Thrust Fixes For Glute Size and Strength [fqDXQslK9Mc].txt ===

Here are three reasons why you might be feeling the hip thrust in your quads or your hamstrings or even the lower back before you start to feel in the glutes. Let me explain. Here's where I'm going to place the bar. I'm going to bring the bar right to the top of my thigh where I'm going to be folding at the hip. So, I'm going to just get down like this as opposed to the normal setup where I would roll the bar over my thighs because I'm not using weights. So, I'm going to sink down. Now, the first mistake that people will get along is they're positioning their body too high up on the bench or too low on the bench. You want to have the edge of this bench directly underneath your shoulder blades. So, now when you come down in the bottom position, this is where you are and then when you come up, this is the top position. I'm not keeping my head like this because now I'll feel it. I'll be straining my neck and I'll feel it in my neck. Keep in my chin tucked and my placement is here for the bench. The second thing that people might get wrong is they have their feet too far out. Like this, you're going to feel that a lot more in the hamstrings or they have their feet too far underneath and you might feel this in the quads. So, what you want to do is keep the heels directly underneath the knees, the perfect particular to the ground. Your hands are perfect to the ground so when you come up, you have this close to a 90 degree angle in your knee. So, the third and most important is incorporating the posterior pelvic tilt to engage the glue to go through the movement. So, I'm going to stand up and show you guys how to do that. Incorporating the posterior pelvic tilt to her and the hipthro sexercise is beneficial for building the glutes because it optimizes the activation of the glue to your muscles. When you tell your pelvis posteriorly, you create a deeper stretch in the glue muscles at the bottom of the movement and ensure that you fully engage throughout the entire range of motion. This increased activation results in greater muscle recruitment and ultimately leads to more effective glute development and strength gains. Comment below if you found these tips helpful. As always, don't have a good against yourself. Share this video with a friend and enjoy the pump.

=== FILE: 3 Months in 3 Minutes - Show Us Your Beast Body - Motivational Video Finalist [G3wqO_re2Ts].txt ===



=== FILE: 3 Things To Consider Before Cardio #cardio #gymtips [iiNAQjWG3hY].txt ===

Top 3 things you want to consider before doing cardio. Number 1. Identify purpose for your cardio. Are you doing it for weight loss? Are you training for a special event? Or are you looking to improve your overall cardio basketball endurance? When the destination is cleared, the directions will appear. No the reasons for starting cardio, so you can start cardio the right way. Number 2. Now that we've identified the goal, let's curate the plan. So start where you're at, not where you want to be. Meaning if all you can do is walk, just walk. None of us came out running. None of us came out even crawling. It took most of us two years to even take one step. So regardless of the destination, take your time and getting there. Number 3. Decide what metric you're going to use. Whether it's distance, time, or heart rate slash intensity. What gets measured gets managed. It's really easy to run three miles when you're feeling good that day. But if you set that as your standard and you try to do it or that you don't feel good, not only are you going to fail, but your motivation is going to fail with it. But if you have in place measure miss for what you're going to do and how you're going to do it, you set yourself to be a success every time you achieve it. And when you start with one mile every day, small, measurable, achievable. We're all in wasn't built in a day. It was built with the plan. Now go make yours. Let's work.

=== FILE: 3 Tips For Massive Shoulders [5Hls272sOn4].txt ===

Bigger shoulders can make your waist look smaller, giving you the appearance of a bigger, broader, more powerful upper body. Not to mention, boosting self confidence, feeling more attractive, but here's where a lot of guys go wrong. Number one is neglecting the rear delts. Many guys will look in the mirror and attempt to visualize the improvements in their physique by building on what they do see, which is usually the anterior and lateral portion of the delts, while completely neglecting what they don't see, which is the rear or posterior portion of the delts. If you want to give yourself the appearance of having bigger shoulders, you must train rear delts. This will make your shoulders look much smaller, especially from the side angle. Some of my favorite exercises for building the rear delts are cable rear delflies. Unilateral rear delts cable flies or any variation of a high row. Number two is improper exercise sequencing. Instead of placing lateral raises towards the end of your workout, please nimit the beginning while your shoulders are fresh. Sequencing your workouts by prioritizing the underdeveloped or weaker muscle groups towards the beginning of your workout can help improve muscular and balances. And don't worry, your overhead pressing performance won't be hindered as much as you think, being that the medial delts are not as engaged in pressing movements as much as the anterior delts. Number three is stop-ingol lifting. I see guys cheating themselves on shoulder exercises more than any other muscle group. Just because you can get the weight up doesn't mean it will make you grow. I can say with confidence, I lift half the weight of guys half my size and for a good reason. Pick a weight that you can control through a full range of motion and learn to make lightweight feel heavy. When it comes to stimulating a hypertrophic response, yes, you need mechanical tension, but it has its place and that's after good quality controlled reps. It's not one or the other. Comment below if you found these tips helpful or if you want to see similar videos covering other muscle groups. And as always, don't have all the gains to see yourself share this video with the friend and enjoy the pop.

=== FILE: 30 Minute at Home Full-Body Workout： Day 6 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [hfdtAWY4YD0].txt ===

Today is a six year full body circuit workout. So the equipment that you're going to need today is a set of dumbbells or resistance bands on a pull-up bar. We're going to start with your dynamic warm-up, then we're going to move into a stretch series, then we're going to go through two full body circuits. Today we have clutch body shop athlete, fire fighter and former NFL football player, Michael Gaserson doing our workout with us. So for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer, you can fall along in real-time at home using your smartphone, tablet, computer or TV. So let's get started with our full body circuit starting with our dynamic warm-up. First exercise jogging in place. Remember you're doing each one of these exercises for 30 seconds? The intensity on these exercises should be a 7 out of 10 by the end of this warm-up. You should feel warm, you should be sweating at home. Good. Remember warming up is very important. We're preparing the body to do battle for today's workout, just like every workout in this program. Here we go. We've got about eight seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one, right into jumping jacks. Good. And with each one of these exercises as you go through this warm-up, progressively get a little bit more intense, speed it up. Again, you want to be warm by the end of this because we're going to move right into our stretching afterwards. Good. Halfway there, Michael's keeping his core nice and tight, shredding his feet all the way out, his arms are coming all the way up. Don't half-assus and come up to here. And each one of these exercises, the way that we're demonstrating them today. Three, two, one. Good. Now we're going to move into butt kicks. Michael is ready. I'm going to have Michael turn to the sides so you guys can make sure to see the angle at what she's doing this. His knee is staying right underneath his hip and his肝, his foot all the way up to his butt and hence the name butt kicks. His upper body is nice and loose. He's breathing. This is what you should be doing while you're warming up. We're getting ready to prepare for the workout. Good. We've got just about five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one good. We're going to ride into a switch kick with arm circles. Here we go. So again, he's keeping his quad. His quads are tight, his legs are straight. This is a nice warm up for the calves and for the legs. And circling his arms around and keeping his arms parallel to his shoulder. So we're getting the upper body warmed up as well with this dynamic exercise. Perfect. Perfect. About 10 seconds left. Just keeping his core nice and tight. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one moving right into our walking hi-nees. Perfect. You should do this when you're playing in that NFL. The time. Yeah. Great for opening up the hips, getting out all the blood flowing through the center of the body. Good. Perfect. So he's coming all the way up, past his belly button, using his arms just like you would if you were riding. He's keeping his core nice and tight. Go just about 10 seconds left. Seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one right into a calisthenic gut lift. So Michael's keeping his legs nice and straight and he's just coming down slowly and then slowly bringing himself back up. This is just designed to warm up your hamstring. You shouldn't be jerking while you're doing these. That's going to put a lot of stress on your low back. We're really just trying to get the hamstrings fired up. Because you have dead lifts in today's workout. Perfect. Five, four, three, two, and one perfect. So that concludes our dynamic warm up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. You ran into it. Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows it's highly conditioned athlete. You should feel this at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. You get all the way out to your feet again. That's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out and he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh hey, I'm not injured, I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. And we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. You're just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes as your body's getting warmed up, your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that you're breathing. Don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, ah, you should be relaxed during this time period. Good and relaxed. I'm going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it. One more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work. And that's exactly what we want. Also when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Just about halfway there on the second stretch. 10 seconds left. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be text messaging. This is the time to really set your intention to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% to this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. 5 more seconds left on this side. You're going to show them warm. Oh yeah. Good. And relax. He's going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. Okay, perfect. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. This is going to be really, really important in the stretch for today's workout because we're doing a lot of legs. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep, just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our body weight workout. Good. 10 seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Our hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. Relax. Just come up, shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for the stretch. Good. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. 10 seconds left. And 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. All right. On our feet right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and ripping through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect form. Just killing it right out of the gate. I'm going to get this trigger. 10 seconds left on this first round. Perfect. And part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Moving right into the next round. Again. So often at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able. So it's a good way to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the movement. Take good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he, Michael's just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're bringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good. Five seconds left on this right side. Good. And relax. Check it out. Oh, sorry about that. Let me be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body. Never thinking it stretched their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out, you're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time. Fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of building is so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. Last thing you want to do is catch cramp. And I'm going to moment like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through the stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend to. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching at least you're getting the body warmed up in prime for the workout appropriately. Good. Ten seconds left. And we're going to move right into our triceps stretch. Good. Four. Three. Two. And we're going to move right into our triceps stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that. That our right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow. Top of his elbow, rather. This is perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lot. And that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. I feel in it. I feel a little sweat coming down already. Whoa. It's about to go down it for today. Good. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Moving into the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys, during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so. So many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym, committing to being in 10s once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place you need to be to give 100% for today's workout. Put it for. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Let's move onto the other side. Perfect. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. And one. Perfect. You know, so often I see people at the gym and they go, you know, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone? Well, the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to workout and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. Five seconds left. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. Okay. Good. Let's move right into our L.O.S. stretch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's moving right into it up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more. They should be able to just right through your abdominal area right through here. Because that's where your hip flexor, the L.O.S. kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. This hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. So we want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Shake it out. We've right into the round two. It's good. And again, on each one of these exercises, during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit farther than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one. You want to jump for a ball, but on the second one, you want to push into it a little bit more. Perfect. Eight. Seven. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right over to the other side. So preparing to stretch for this workout, he is really important because we're working the whole body. So from this workout, you can really expect we're going from upper body to lower body back to upper body. The whole point of this methodology is to really confuse your body. It doesn't know where to pump the blood. So you can expect to be winded. You can expect to be fatigued. But again, those are all good problems to have because over time your body is going to Afflemet to it. You're going to get stronger. You're going to burn fat. And you're going to be in the best shape of your life by the end of these four weeks. Or hopefully you continue on for 365. Good. Go ahead and work. Moving right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building Workouts in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with a nutrition plan, Parat with these workouts, you will build muscle as well. And not have to be in the gym for two hours because a lot of people, myself included, I'm sure, no time. I don't have to. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have, a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right. Great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. And he's just going to cross one leg over the other. Yep. And just twist down. Perfect. Yep. And again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. See that a lot. You really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good. Relax. Take it out and move right into the round two. With any of these workouts, it's so important for us to stretch our back out because all of these movements go right through the center of our body, whether it's a body weight squat or we're doing pull ups. We really want to keep the body nice and flexible. Good. Just about 15 seconds left or the second stretch. We're getting so close to getting in and through this workout. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Go. Let's twist over to the other side. Good. And I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other. And that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side has knees a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good. Five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Good relax. Our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So my side is my right side. If I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find it the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those in balance. Because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good, and relax. Perfect. Moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight across the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. Listen, we got to warm up the glutes. We're doing a lot of lower body stuff. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super tight because you know what happens when you don't have that. When you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body, because your low back comes in and tries to take over. And that is what will create a lot of problem for you. So when it comes to the glutes, when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good relax. We'll go one more time on that side. You know, sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching, but they're not really doing anything. Should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension that's going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. But 10 seconds left. Good five, four, three, two, and one. Good, let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol. Because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax. And the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place, the more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Okay, go ahead and relax. It's to go ahead and shake it out. So moving right into the last round, we are almost about to start our workout. Are you ready? Ready? Ready to get it done? Absolutely. We're going to get it on today. And you're going to get it on at home. I know Michael's going to kill it. We're here to put in work. And that's really the headspace that you need to be in you are here to put in the work, because you want to change with your body. The way you get that change is by going 100% or the next 25 to 35 minutes through each one of these exercises. Three, two and one. Great. All right, so that concludes our stretch series. We're going to get right into our first circuit. So moving right into our first circuit, each exercise is going to be a good exercise. Each exercise is going to be performed for our total 20 seconds. You want to try and do as many reps as possible in those 20 seconds starting with body weight polyps. It's my most going to go ahead. I'm going to get my clock started. And again, if you're doing these at home, you can do wide grip, underhand grip. I don't care. What sort of grip you do just as long as you are doing this movement. All right, you ready? Nope. I'm ready. Let's do it. And now perfect. So again, each one of these exercises, you want to be going full speed, going 100%. You should be breathing hard even on this first exercise. Good. We're halfway into it. Good. Just about five seconds left. Good. Three, two, one. Perfect. Moving right into our dumbbell deadlift. You should have picked the appropriate dumbbell weight or resistance band that you need to use for yourself. And here we go, Michael's going to come down and back up perfect. And Michael can roll through these like voss because he does all the time. So again, his movement is nice and smooth. He's not jerking 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Moving right into pushups, put your dumbbells down. Good. So he's going to take a narrower stance with his hands. And that's fine. Begin. Perfect. You're going through each one of these exercises full speed. You should be pushing as many reps as possible during these 20 seconds. Perfect. Be feeling this and your tricep and your chest. Make sure you're breathing 3, 2, 1. Right into jumping jacks. So again, going upper body, lower body, upper body, lower body. This is going to make your body go. Where do I pump the blood? And that's exactly what we want it to do. Good. You got to just about 5 seconds left. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. Right into a body weight squat jump. Perfect. So Michael's coming up. He's coming down. He's landing softly. Exploding right back up. Again, you don't want to be coming down. You want to be able to pull my boots. Go back to 1080 degrees on these. When it comes right down to 90 and explode up. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Perfect. All right. Moving into jump rope. And again, if you need to take 5 to 10 seconds between exercises, that is completely fine. Michael's got his jump rope ready? I'm going to move his mat out of the way and begin. And again, as your jump ropeing, if you mess up. Don't worry about it. Shake it off. Starting in. Starting in. Starting in. It's not about perfection. It's just about continually to move. Even if you don't have a jump rope, you can do this movement at home. Just go through the motion without the rope. Perfect. Three, two, one. Perfect. That is the end of round one. Michael's gonna go ahead and grab a sip of water. You guys should do the same thing. Again, you don't wanna be taking 30 to 60 seconds between these rounds, but if you need to grab a quick drink, that's totally fine. We're gonna get right into round two with our body weight pull-ups. Are you ready? I'm ready. Let's do it. 20 seconds. Let's go. So again, Michael's coming all the way up. If you go through this exercise at home, you can do this using your body weight or you can go ahead and use a resistance band and do it assisted. That's fine too. Go ahead five, four, three, two, and one. Rest. Perfect. Moving right into a dumbbell deadlift. Michael's got his weights. Coming right into the center. And let's go. So again, he's performing this exercise nice and smooth. Even though your body by the second round is gonna be starting to get to T. It's really important that you make sure you're following proper form. Don't jerk on these exercises. You don't wanna anybody getting hurt. Everything nice and smooth. If you feel like the weight you're using is too heavy now is the time to make an adjustment. Good end time. We'll be right into our second round of pushups. I'm gonna move this over. Michael's on the mat. Here we go. Perfect. Good, again, he's got his speed up. By the second round, your body should be feeling nice and warm. Intensity should be cooking. You should be pushing through these. Good, five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Moving right into jumping jacks. Again, you guys, if you're going through some of these pull ups or some of these pushups and you need to take a second to rest and get right back into it, that's fine. The most important thing is you're giving a hundred percent. Maybe you can't get through the full 20 seconds of pushups the first time you do this workout. That's cool because you know up by the end of week four, you will be able to. Good, three, two, and one. Good, moving right into squat jumps. Good. But these you wanna make sure you're just landing nice and soft. These are gonna be very taxing on your body. And that's great. We're firing up the metabolism. These burn a ton of calories. And again, you've got no heavy weight on your back, which I love. Good time. We're getting ready to jump rope. That's one of the huge beauties in these workouts. It's we're not overloading your body with weight. You're just moving your own body weight. You know what? That's enough to see a huge difference. It's enough to build strength. It's enough to burn the calories that you need to burn and the fat. I mean, Michael's breathing hard. I hope you're breathing hard at home too. Again, he's not pausing. If he messes up on the jump rope, who cares? Move on, keep going. Good, three, two, one. Time. That is the end of your first circuit. Now, Michael's a highly conditioned athlete. So he's gonna take the minimum rest, which is 15 seconds. But if you need more rest at home, go ahead and just pause the video and pick up when you're ready to start circuit number two. Grab some water. All right, so that is the end of our 15 second break. We're gonna get right into circuit two with our dumbbell row. So Michael's got his dumbbells. And he is on his way. Okay, remember, each one of these exercises, again, you guys 20 seconds. His back is straight. His glutes are tight. His legs are bent. And that's exactly what you should be doing with your body at home. Perfect. So we got about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's good. We're gonna write into the next exercise. Which are burpees. You guys know what's up with burpees. This is gonna be a harmless good. Good. Perfect. So again, you wanna be coming all the way down to the ground, with your push-up, and then leaping up. Perfect, Michael's had a good speed. Again, the burpee, one of the hardest bodyweight exercises around, but one of the best as well for getting results three, two, one time. We'll be right into shoulder circuit. So Michael's gonna get his stance. Perfect. So he's gonna do a lateral raise, right into a front raise. You wanna make sure that even though you're tired, even though you're fatigue, that you're doing these with perfect form. You don't wanna be swinging around if you're swinging around, just hit some wider weights to sound a big deal, nothing to be embarrassed of. Good. Two, one. Good. Right into our next exercise, which is dips. So when you're doing this at home, you can do this off with a bathtub, a chair, any sort of ledge that you can find. And for those of you where you're having your feet out, is maybe two advanced, you can move your feet in. For those of you who are at the gym, you can use a dips station to do these with just bodyweight. Really, whatever you can find, dip off of that. And time, good. Moving right into jump rope. This is gonna be the end of our first round. How do you feel, Michael? Are you gonna get that jump rope together or what? Yeah. Here we go. Good. He's off. And again, this should be your pace with the jump rope. So, again, just pushing it as hard as you can go. It does not matter. If you mess up, you mess up, just keep going. So often I see people jumping rope and they mess up if they're a tantrum. No time for that. Good. And three, two, one time. Good. That's the end of round one. We're gonna get right into round two. With our dumbbell row, squeeze back up. And again, by this stage of the game, you're gonna be tired. You're gonna be breathing hard. Make sure your body is in this perfect position. The back is straight. It has not rounded over. Good. And we got 10 seconds left. Seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Moving right into our burpees. It's good. Again, you guys, you wanna get as many in as you possibly can. And I'm gonna help them with this map. Good. As many as you possibly can in these 20 seconds, even if you need to take a second to rest, that's fine. The key is to just be pushing, pushing, pushing. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. Moving right into our shoulder circuit. Michael's got his dumbbells. Again, guys, by this stage in a game, your body's fatigue. Make sure you're not training at a ego. You're training at a proper form. So if you need to lighten your weight, go ahead and do it. The most important thing is that you're keeping your body still. You're bringing the weight up smoothly. You don't have to throw weight around to get results. Good. Three, two, and one. Good. Great. In, two, or dips. Michael's over. And again, you really wanna try and pick up the pace on these now. We're more than halfway into the second circuit. Do you feel it? Oh yeah. Are you ready for it? Yeah. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right into our jump rope. Last round, last exercise of this circuit. Good. Push it as fast as you can go on these. Show off. Even if it all wins with you, even if you're in your house, show off. Why not? And five, four, three, four, three, four, four, four. Two, one time. You are done. That is the end of our full body circuit.

=== FILE: 30 Minute at Home Strength Workout ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer Day ｜ 3 [8MPb0O9xApA].txt ===

Today is day three, your strength to work out. Today we're going to start with your dynamic warmup followed by a stretch series and then go through three strength training circuits. You're going to need either a set of resistance bands or a set of dumbbells and a platform where you can perform dips. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete of fitness model superstar Amber Elizabeth Dodge Light. Remember for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer or television. Alright, so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warmup. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises and the dynamic warmup you're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright, let's go ahead and get into it. So Amber is going to start with jogging in place and again with every single one of these warmups you want to really be at a level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warmup you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. About halfway through. Good. Coming up is jumping jacks five four three two and one right into jumping jacks. So Amber is taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of short cutting the movement make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warmup that you're keeping your core tight we really want to get every muscle in the body fired up. Okay, five four three two one switching over to butt kicks. This is an exercise to work with the hamstrings go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. So Amber is keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. I think you sure that the arms are moving keep your shoulders nice and loose. Good. And five four three two one switching over to switch kick with arms circles. Okay, Amber is keeping her core tight. Her legs, her quads are straight. This is great to warm up your quads. So she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warmed up. How's her core feel? Nine eight seven six five four three two and once switching over to walking high knees your last exercise in the warmup. And this is great for the hip flexors. You want to make sure that the hip flexors are really, really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. We spend so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward as she's bringing her knees up. Four three two one. Okay, so now we're going to get into our stretch series before we start the workout. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. Again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds as she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Okay, keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel this stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So for this stretch, you want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable if you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch. It's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout. That's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out. She's going to go right back up again. Good. Make sure you keep your knee. Good, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You know, if you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. People who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one. Come back up, shake it out. And she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Take good and again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. We don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough, okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down and bring it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract. The whole body, don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym. And they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Okay, switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one, shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your ego better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Take your head and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthen out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. You're right back up. Those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good, three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. 10 seconds left on this side. Good, five, four, three, two, one, good. Shake it out, I'm back up. Okay, that 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoe stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one, okay, good. Amber's going to get into the Iliostoe stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So, you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good, okay, relax. Good, just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoe as is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it touches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So, it's a great stretch to do with beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good, three, two, one, good. So, she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first, put your hand up. Okay, so if you're in this position and you're not feeling the stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So, I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good, five, four, three, two, one, good, and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I'm going to get keeping the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So, if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one, okay, good. So, next Amber is going to move into the low back stretch, so she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay, she's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good, and she's going to rotate. Good, so this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your flute. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one, good. Just going to come back over and then come right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner, help you stretch. That'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. It's got 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, okay, good. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one, good. So you're going to shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That is, that's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine. Everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. A three, two, one, good and stuff. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up. Just going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's going to shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Then second's left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber's shaking now. Bringing the leg right back across. Again, you was eating that arm to bring the across. She's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So now we're going to get into our first strength circuit. It only has three exercises, but for each exercise, you're going to be performing as many reps as you can during the 30 seconds. We're going to be starting with the overhead press. Let's go ahead and get your dumbbells. Okay, so right out of the gate, you want to keep your intensity and your energy really high on these. So Amber's going to get it started and go. So you can see the cadence at which she's lifting the waist. This is the exact speed that you want to be doing this exercise at. If you can't perform it with proper form, which is you should be bringing your elbows down to 90 degrees, your dumbbell should be parallel to the ground, lighten the weight. Good. About 10 seconds left, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. We'll be right into dips. Now you can perform dips on any platform that you could find today. Amber's doing this on a medicine ball, but you can produce this on the couch off your bathtub. Any kind of surface that has a platform that you can secure your arms to. Good. Just about halfway there. So Amber's coming down to 90 degrees, keeping her elbows tucked. Good. Abs tight, legs straight out in front of her. Good. 10 seconds, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Great. Moving right into bicep curls. Now you can do this with dumbbells, a barbell or resistance bands. So she keeps in her elbows close to her sides, coming all the way up and all the way down. So bring those dumbbells all the way down. Good. Not swinging the body. You want to keep this part of your body completely still. Again, the intensity level is high. She's getting as many reps in as she can in these 30 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Going right back to the beginning. Right into overhead press. Amber's killing it, keeping the pace the same as she was in round one. It's okay if you can't especially if you're on weeks one and two. It's going to take your body time to get acclimated and you should get tired by the ends of these rounds as you near the end of the circuit. Good. 10 seconds left. The intensity up, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. All right, moving right into the dips is our last round. You guys, make sure you're pushing it. We go. Amber's already well into it, keeping the intensity up. Perfect. Keep those legs nice and straight. Keep your chin nice and neutral. Good. Half way there. Yep, if you need to readjust while you're doing this exercise, that's fine. Five seconds left, four, three, two, and one. Perfect time. Great job moving into our last exercise of this round and this circuit. Make sure you're keeping the intensity up and really pushing it. We've got our rest coming up after this. Good. You're not swinging. This is a neutral halfway there. Good job, you guys. Keep pushing through. We're almost there. Almost at the end. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Great job, you guys. All right. So Amber's going to take a 15 second break because she's a highly conditioned athlete. But if you need more time, go ahead and just pause this video. First exercise is a lateral raise and Amber's got one foot in front. That foot is supporting the resistance band and let's begin. Good. Coming up just to shoulder height, perfect. Keeping the intensity up. Great job. Make sure you guys at home choose a resistance band that is appropriate weight for what you're about to do. Don't try and for the guys don't overboard it. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Moving right into the next exercise, we're going into an overhead tricep extension. Amber's moved her foot to the back and the band is right underneath that back foot and let's go. So again, we've got 30 seconds of this. She's got our elbows nice and tight to her head. Keeping the intensity up. Corres tight and that front foot she's using to stabilize. Good. We're just about halfway there. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure that you're keeping your foretite. You can also, if you're doing these using a dumbbell, you can perform this exercise sitting down which will give more support to your lumbar. Five, four, three, two, and one. All right. Moving right into our hammer curl. So Amber's moving that band right back out in the front of her and she's grabbing right below the handle. Okay. And let's go. Keeping the elbows nice and tight to the body. Again, the intensity is high. You can see the cadence at what she's getting these reps done. The speed is up. Perfect. Keep pushing it. Remember, you want to do as many reps as you can do in these 30 seconds. Over halfway there. Keep your head up. Good. Make sure you guys when you're doing all these exercises, your head should be in a completely neutral position. Five, four, head up, three, two, and one. Time. Okay. Great. Here we go. Amber's in position. Let's go with our lateral raised. Perfect. Again, remember on this last round, keep the intensity up but don't let your form suffer because you're trying to go so fast. Make sure your focus is on both intensity and form. Amber's got it down. Perfect. Halfway there. Don't rock the body. Don't use any momentum to move this way. Even if on this last round, you can only move the weight up there. That's totally fine. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Moving on to our next exercise. Last one of the overhead tricep extension and go. Perfect. Again, don't use any momentum from your body. Keeping all these keeping both legs locked into place. Perfect. Perfect. Remember, do as many reps as you can do. Remember to keep pushing yourself through this last round. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Last exercise guys. Right into it. Here she goes. She's got her resistance bands ready. So we'll ride into our hammer curl. Stand up straight. There we go. Perfect. Nice and tall. Keeping the intensity up. Amber's speed is she's really got a fast turn over. You guys should be trying to match her speed. Perfect. Halfway there. Remember guys, we want to finish this circuit strong because you've got a rest coming up right after this exercise. Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Time. Amber's going to take 15 seconds rest because she's a highly conditioned athlete, but for everybody at home, if you guys need to take more time, go ahead and pause the video. Let's go ahead and get our interposition and start circuit number three. All right, here we go. The very first exercise is a front raise. Let's go. 30 seconds. So you can do this exercise, either by alternating arms or bringing both arms up at the exact same time. For her purposes, we're going to do alternating. So again, the intensity is up. Her core is tight. Do not swing your body. Do not use the momentum of your body to move the way we want to stay very still. If you can't complete the movement without swinging your body, drop the weight down. Go just about five seconds left for three, two, and one. All right, moving right into our next exercise, the cobra. Amber's going to go and get her mat. Pull it into position. This is a great exercise to use an as an alternative to a tricep press down with no equipment necessary. So Amber's got her body firmly on the ground. Her hands are parallel to her body and she's just going to go ahead and press up. Take a slight pause up top. Come back up. Top. Good. It's really squeezing the tricep. The key is to keep your elbows as close to your body as possible. That's going to put all the pressure right on the tricep. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. Don't turn this into a push-up. So really pause up top. Take a pause. Now back down. Good. Ten seconds left. When you're doing these at home, make sure you take that pause. You should really feel this burning your tricep. All right. In three, two, one. Good. Moving on to our next exercise and narrow bicep curl. You can do this with using dumbbells or with resistance bands. So Amber's just going to get her elbows tucked to her sides and coming up. Perfect. Good. Again, you don't want to be moving your body. You don't want to be using your momentum to move the weight. If you are doing that, you need to drop the weight down a little bit. Perfect. Don't swing the net. Keep everything very still. You want to be able to do these exercises to where nothing else in your body is moving other than the weight. Perfect. Just about ten seconds left. Ten, nine, eight. Keep breathing. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right. That ends the first round. So now we're going to move into our last round of this circuit right away. Front raise. Amber shows how it's done. Perfect. Keep the body straight. Keep the head neutral. Go at a speed that you can go where the whole body is completely still. It's just completely isolating that shoulder. Good. You don't want to be throwing the weights around. Good. Fifteen seconds left. We're halfway there. Keep pushing. Good job, Amber. Perfect. You are almost done with this exercise. Yep. Yep. Five, four, three, two, one. Drop right back down to the ground into your cobra. Perfect. Hands are tucked. Amber is ready to go. Hope you're ready to go to all the way up. Don't shortcut it. Come all the way up. I want to see that arm straightened out to the top. That's what's going to be that tricep that nice little zing. Ten seconds in. Good. You're almost halfway there. Yep. There you go. Now if you need to take a couple seconds, perfect. Take a breather and keep going. I remember guys, it's just as many as you can do within those 30 seconds. Each week you're going to get better within the 30 seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Like a boss into the last exercise of this round. Bicep curl. Here we go. And she's up. Perfect. A Bicep curl is obviously a lot less taxi on the body than the cobra. But still you want to stay focused. Focus on the bicep. Really trying to work it. We're trying to get that nice definition. Trying to get stronger. You're in the last exercise of this entire workout. Keep pushing through. We've got 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. This workout is done. Good job at home. Good job. Amber, let's blow it up.

=== FILE: 30 Minute at Home Strength Workout ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [zcjCdIR0eYI].txt ===

So today is your strength one workout. You're going to be doing chest legs and back. This workout you're going to start with a dynamic warmup. You're going to move into your stress series and then you're going to do two different circuits. Each exercise in the circuit is going to be comprised of 30 seconds. Then you also have a bonus round. In the bonus round you're going to grow around that circuit two times and that is optional and for you clutch over a choose. And the equipment that you're going to need today is a pull-up bar, a set of dumbbells or resistance bands. And for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player, Michael Gasperson joining us. And remember for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch life 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV or computer. So let's get started with the strength one workout and begin our dynamic warmup. Starting with jogging in place, Michael's going to get a started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warmup is going to be completed at total of 30 seconds. And again, every warmup that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7 to 10, 10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you want to, you really want to be pushing it during the warmup, we want to get the muscles ready to do work. So just about 10 seconds left. I feel like say Michael. Ready to kill it? Okay, but you've made it. 4, 3, 2, 1. Good moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. Here we go. So Michael's taking a nice, wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people at the gym kind of going like this. Come all the way up, bring your feet nice and wide. Good, just about halfway there. Good. Supporting that you're really focusing during your workout, getting your mind in the zone for the workout that is about to take place. Good. 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. We're going to get right into butt kicks, warm the hamstrings up. Good, Michael. If you can just turn to the side, show the people at home. The angle. So his knee is staying right underneath his hips and that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it, hence the name, but kicks. Good. Keeping the upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath, you want to be breathing, you want to be loosening up. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out, getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. We're trying to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. Get blood moving into all the muscles. Say, are about to work today. Good. 5 seconds left. 4, 3, 2, 1. Moving right into walking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these back in his football days. We go. So again, with all of these warm-up exercises, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. We're trying to tell the body, hey, guess what? We're getting ready to work. Keeping everything nice and engaged. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 perfect. All right. So that concludes our dynamic warm-up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. You ran into it. Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. See, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows. It's highly conditioned athlete. You should feel this at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet again, that's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay, good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out and he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. You're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes as your body's getting warmed up, your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that your breathing don't hold your breath, don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, ah, you should be relaxed during this time period. Good and relaxed. You're going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it. One more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work and that's exactly what we want. Also, when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles carry relaxed. You're going to get more out of these stretches. Good, just about halfway there on the second stretch. And second slap. Five, four, three, two, and one perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. Should it be looking around if you're in a gym, you shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be hex messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give a hundred percent to this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. At five more seconds left on the side, so in warm. Oh yeah. Good and relaxed. He's going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. Perfect. Good, just about halfway there on the second round of quad stretch. This is going to be really, really important in the stretch for today's workout because we're doing a lot of legs. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep, just let your butt drop all the way down. Michael can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our bodyweight workout. Good. 10 seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Our hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good and relaxed. Just come up, shake it out. We're going to be right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for the stretch. Good, about halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. 10 seconds left and five, four, three, two, one. All right, on our feet, right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and ripping through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect for him. He's killing it right out of the gate. 10 seconds left on this first round. Perfect. And part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good and relax. Take it out. Moving right into the next round. Again, so off in at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention, but believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he Michael's just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're bringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good, five seconds left on this right side. Good, and relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I mean to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out, you're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four, three, two, one, moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of buildings. It's so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. Last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment. It won't fit in like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six, five, four, three, two, one, good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend to. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching at least you're getting the body warmed up in prime for the workout appropriately. Good. Ten seconds left. Then we're going to move right into our tricep stretch. Good. Four, three, two, one, good. It moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow, top of his elbow rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lot and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. You feeling it? I see a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down. Good. Three, two, one, good. Relax. Shake it out. Move it into the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so so many times get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym and meeting to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place it needs to be to give a hundred percent for today's workout. Good. Four, three, two, one. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Let's move onto the other side. So we have just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two and one. Perfect. You know so often I see people at the gym and they go, you know, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone? Well the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to workout and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching. You get yourself in that space to give a hundred percent. Good. Five, seven, two, left. Three, two, one. Good. Relax. Okay good. Let's move right into our L.O. Sew-astroids. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more. They should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor the L.O. Sew-as kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. So we want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Good. Shake it out. We're right into the round two. Good. Again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit further than you did the time and before. So go cautiously into the first one. Find where you're comfortable about this second one. You want to push into it a little bit more. Okay. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right over to the other side. So preparing to stretch for this workout, he is really important because we're working the whole body. So from this workout you can really expect for going from upper body to lower body back to upper body. The whole point of this methodology is to really confuse your body. It doesn't know where to pump the blood. So you can expect to be winded. You can expect to be fatigue. But again, those are all good problems to have because over time your body is going to acclimate to it. You're going to get stronger. You're going to burn fat and you're going to be in the best shape of your life by the end of these four weeks. Or hopefully you continue on for 365. Good. Go ahead and work. Moving right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building work outs in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, pair it with these workouts. You will build muscle as well and not have to be in the gym for two hours because a lot of people myself included, I'm sure on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. He's just going to cross one leg over the other. Yep. And just twist down. Perfect. Yep. And again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. See that a lot. You really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good, relax. Take it out and move right into the round two. With any of these workouts, it's so important for us to stretch our back out because all of these movements go right through the center of our body, whether it's a body weight squat or we're doing pull ups. We really want to keep the body nice and flexible. Good, just about 15 seconds left or the second stretch. And we're going to so close to getting into this workout. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, let's twist over to the other side. And I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other and that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side has needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good, five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Good, relax. Now our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So if my side is my right side, if I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good and relax. Perfect moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight across the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. We've listened and we got to warm up the glutes. We're doing a lot of lower body stuff. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body, because your low back comes in and tries to take over and that is what will create a lot of problems for you. So when it comes to the glutes and when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good relax. We'll go one more time on that side. Sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension that's going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. Good 10 seconds left. Good 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Good let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that in my opinion is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place. The more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Go ahead and relax. It's a go ahead and shake it out. From moving right into the last round, we are almost about to start our workout. Are you ready? I'm ready. I'm ready to get it done. Absolutely. We're going to get it on today and you're going to get it on at home. I know Michael's going to kill it. We're here to put in work and that's really the headspace that you need to be in you are here to put in the work because you want a change with your body the way you get that change is by going 100% for the next 25 to 35 minutes through each one of these exercises. Three, two and one. Great. All right so that concludes our stretch series. We're going to get right into our first circuit. So let's get started with our first circuit starting with a push-up. Michael's going to get into position and go. Each one of these exercises you're doing for a total of 30 seconds. Michael's doing the advanced version which is a plyometric push-up for all of you advanced athletes out there. You can go ahead and do the same thing. If you need to do push-ups from your knees, that's fine too just whatever is 100% for you. Good. We're halfway there. You can also do a variation of both. Like Michael's going to do. Good. We have five, four, three, two, one. Good. We're right into our pull-ups. It's probably going to go right over to the pull-up bar. Not taking a lot of rest between these exercises. Perfect. Getting us chin all the way over the bar. Perfect. And again if you're doing pull-ups at home, you can do pull-ups that are just bodyweight or you can also use a resistance band. Using a resistance band will hopefully help build you up to do a just bodyweight. Good. Perfect. And five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right over to squat jumps. Right over to his mat and let's go. Good. So he's coming down just to 90 degrees and exploding up off the ground. And again with these exercises along with any exercise in this workout, if you need to take a brief pause during the 30 seconds, take a deep breath. That's fine. The thing that's most important is that you're pushing 100% whatever that means for you. But we are halfway there. Michael's legs. I'm sure are all ret-key burning. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right down into our push-ups. Here we go. 30 seconds. Remember guys, as many reps as possible in these 30 seconds. Don't pace yourself out if you need to go and then rest. Go 10, rest. That's fine. Good. 15 more seconds. We're halfway there. Try steps should be burning. You should be feeling this in your chest. You should be feeling this in your core. Perfect. Good. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right back up on our feet over to our pull-ups. Right away, he's taking no rest. He's in deep smoke right now. Let's go. Good. Four. I think he's going to get at least 15 out of these 30 seconds. Good. Good. Good. Good job, Michael. Come on. Good. There we go. And nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Okay. So you guys, it's okay to struggle at the end of each one of these exercises. The most important thing is you're pushing 100% for you. All right, let's get right into our squat jumps. Perfect. Halfway there. Good. And last 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right, let's get right into our final round. Into our pushups, take a deep breath of air. Go. Perfect. 30 seconds. As many reps as you can do by this point in time, your body is tired and I know that that is okay. The most important thing, just keep pushing through. Don't give up. Don't allow the fatigue to take over your mind because your mind controls the body. Remember why you're doing this, remember why you started this program. Good. 10 seconds left. You guys are so close. Good. And five, four, three, two, and time. Good. Right into pullups. Let's go. You're last and final round. Really trying to push it. Perfect. Good. By this point in time, you should have slowed down a little bit on your speed. That's okay because your body should be tired. This is the third time you've gone through this. Good. Perfect. Michael's doing it. Executing it perfectly. He's taking a little bit of time between pullups and that is fine. Good job. 10 seconds left. You're like almost there. You got it. You got it. Good. 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Good. Let's move right into squat jumps. This is our last exercise of this circuit. Here we go. Three seconds. Good. Again, trying to land softly coming all the way down to 90 degrees, exploding up off the ground. Good. Good. You guys are almost halfway there. 10 second countdown starts in 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, break. All right. So Michael's a highly conditioned athlete. So he's going to take 15 seconds to get some water. But for everybody at home if you need more than 15 seconds, go ahead and just pause this video now. Michael's going to get into position. We're going to start with a decline pushup. So you can do this exercise off of anything that has a ledge, a secured ledge. At home you can use your bathtub, a chair, whatever you can find. All right. Again, each one of these exercises in this circuit you're going to do for a total of 30 seconds. Let's go. 30 seconds starts now. Good. So guys, by this point in time and you're workout, you're going to be tired. You've already gone through three rounds. Stay focused. Stay in the zone and just do the best job that you can. Good. Halfway there. Perfect. It's about 10 seconds left. Good. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Okay, perfect. Now, move right on to our dumbbell row. Michael's going to go get his set of dumbbells. You guys get yours. You can also do this exercise using the resistance band. All right. So again, 30 seconds. He's going to get into position. Ready? Here we go. Perfect. So again, he's in a great position. He's got his back. Totally straight. His glutes tight. He's got a nice bend in his knee and that's exactly what you should be doing at home. Make sure that you are clenching the glutes because otherwise the low back is going to take a lot of heat in this exercise. Perfect. We got 10 seconds left. How you feeling? He's killing it. He's killing it. Good. So you have five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Time. Let's move on to our next exercise. Our bulk area and split squat. So Michael's going to go right back over to this bench. One leg is going to get, go up on the bench and the other one is going to be at 90 degrees. So we're going to 15 seconds on each leg. Here we go. Good. He's coming all the way down to 90. I don't want you to pass that 90 degrees. So if you do have a mirror, then you can use while you do this exercise. Go ahead and use it if not just eyeball it. That knee should not be coming out over the toe. Good. Switch. 15 seconds. Switching legs. Here we go. Perfect. Again, his upper body is staying nice and straight. All of his weight. He's placing in the heel and pushing straight up from the heel. Good in three, two, one. Perfect. All right. So let's move on to our next round. Back into our decline push up. Michael's ready. I hope you guys are ready at home. Here we go. Again, guys, you want to get his mini reps as you possibly can in these 30 seconds. If you need to take a pause for a couple seconds and then keep going, that is fine. Good. So Michael's staying nice and straight. He's not letting his torso drop down to the ground. Good. He's taking a slight pause. Here we go. We're over halfway there. 10 seconds left. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Perfect. Getting right into our dumbbell row. Get some breath. It back into the body and let's get into position. Here we go. 30 seconds. Again, perfect. Perfect. Perfect. He's not jerking. When you're doing this exercise, you shouldn't be using your momentum to bring the weight up. If you're doing that, you're training out of ego. Drop the weight down to a weight that you can do without swinging your body around. That's how you sculpt beautiful muscles. There we go. 20, got 10 seconds left. I know you guys are fatigued. Heat pushing through this. You are so close to being done with this workout. The worst of it is nearly over. Done. Time. Moving right into our split squat. Again, good. Take a deep breath of air. Get into position. Get your balance. Here we go. 15 seconds on this like perfect. Michael is in perfect. This is exactly where your knee should be. It's not coming out over the toe and all of his weight is right in that heel. Good. 10, 2, 1, switch. Perfect. Right onto the other side. You feel that in your booty? Yeah. We go. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Time. Moving into the last round of this circuit. Take a couple seconds. Take a couple deep breaths of air. We're going to get right back into our decline push-up. Last round you guys, you should be pushing as hard as you can go. This is the last round of this workout. Here we go. Good. Five seconds in. I bet Michael is going to get at least 20 out of this. Good. Good. Almost halfway there. Keep pushing through. Keep pushing through. I know the tries. Upstart burning. The core is burning. The chest is burning. That's okay. That's when change happens. There we go. Almost five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one crushed it. Yes. This is your last set. Make sure you're pushing it. Take a couple seconds. Get a couple deep breaths of air. What do you think? 20 reps? Okay. You guys should try and match this at home. 20 reps. Here we go. And begin. So we got 30 seconds. This is our last set. You should be giving it every single thing that you have after this. No more back exercises. There we go. Perfect. Halfway there. Fifteen seconds left. Good. You're pushing he's in a great position. He's not bending forward. He's still in the same position that he started in. Perfect. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving into our last exercise of this circuit. Split squat. Good. And don't go. Good. Pushing right through the heel. The intensity is up guys. You should be using this to just burn it out. Push as hard as you can. There we go. Five, four, three, two, and one switch legs. Here we go. Fifteen seconds and let's go. Perfect. Still pushing right through the heel. He still has great form that knee is not coming out over the toe. You should be doing the same at home. Three, two, one, time. Killed it. All right. So we're going to move right into our bonus round. Michael's going to get these weights out of the way. If you need to get a drink of water do it now. Our bonus round is comprised of two exercises, a burpee and a pull-up. You're going to do each exercise for 10 seconds and you're just going to give it all you have. So these are the last 40 seconds of this workout. Let's get into it. Michael's going to get into position. So again, the idea of this is just go all out 10 seconds per exercise twice. It's going to burn extra calories. It's a little extra conditioning. Let's go. Are you ready? Go. Good. Perfect. He's exploding off the ground. Good in three, two, one, right into it and pull up whatever type of pull-up you want to do. What type of pull-up are you going to do? You have to. Oh, oh, that's nice. Okay. We are five seconds in, four, three, two, one, right back into 10 seconds. A burpees as fast as you can between these transitions. Good, right into 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Last set of pull-ups. Let's go. As fast as you can in other transitions, 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, nine, six, five, four, three, two, one, time. Great job, you guys. Great job, Michael. Killed it. Let's see, end of your strength. One workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow for your cardio workout.

=== FILE: 30 Minute at Home Strength Workout： Day 15 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [ZuVTRPWGPD8].txt ===

So today is your strength one workout. You're going to be doing chest legs and back. This workout you're going to start with a dynamic warm up. You're going to move into your stress series and then you're going to do two different circuits. Each exercise in the circuit is going to be comprised of 30 seconds. Then you also have a bonus round and the bonus round you're going to grow around that circuit and that is optional and for you clutch over a cheevers. And they equipment that you're going to need today is a pull-up bar, a set of dumbbells or resistance bands. And for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player, Michael Gaskers and joining us. And remember for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch life 24-7 fitness trainer you could fall along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV or computer. So let's get started with the strength one workout and begin our dynamic warm-ups. Starting with jogging in place, Michael's going to get a started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warm-up is going to be completed at a total of 30 seconds. And again, every warm-up that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7 to 10, 10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you really want to be pushing it during the warm-up. We want to get the muscles ready to do work. So just about 10 seconds left. I feel like say Michael. Ready to kill it? Okay. Which you've made it through. Four, three, two, one. Good moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. There we go. So Michael's taking a nice, wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people that are doing kind of going like this. Come all the way up. Bring your feet nice and wide. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. Supporting that you're really focusing during your workout, getting your mind in the zone for the workout that is about to take place. Good. Four, three, two, one. Good. We're going to get right into butt kicks. Warm the hamstrings up. Good. Michael, if you can just turn to the side, so the people at home, the angle. So his knee is staying right underneath his hips and that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it, hence the name butt kicks. Good. Keeping the upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath. You want to be breathing. You want to be loosening up. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out, getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. We're trying to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. Get blood moving into all the muscles. Say are about to work today. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Moving right into blocking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these back in his football days. Yeah. We go. So again, with all of these warm up exercises, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. We're trying to tell the body, hey, guess what? We're getting ready to work. It's giving everything nice and engaged. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right. So that concludes our dynamic warm up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. We ran into it. Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows highly conditioned athletes. You should feel this at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, again, that's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay. Good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out. And he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right. Come all the way up. And we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes his your body's getting warmed up. Your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that your breathing don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, you should be relaxed for getting this time period. Good. We relax. Going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it. One more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work. And that's exactly what we want. Also, when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Good. Just about halfway there on the second stretch. And second, left. And five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be hex messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% to this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. Five more seconds left on this side. Feelin' warm. Oh yeah. Good. And relax. He's going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. Okay. Perfect. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. This is going to be really, really important in the stretch for today's workout because we're doing a lot of legs. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My foot can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our body weight workout. 10 seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Our hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. And relax. Just come up. Shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for the stretch. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. 10 seconds left. And five, four, three, two, one. All right. On our feet, right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and ripping through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect form. I mean, just telling it right out of the gate. I got his turn. Yeah. 10 seconds left on this first round. Perfect. Part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. And relax. Shake it out. Moving right into the next round. Again, so off to the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just like pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the movement. Take good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he, Michael, just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're bringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however, you know, against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good, five seconds left on this right side. Good, and relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I mean to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out, you're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four, three, two, one, moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of buildings is so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. Last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six, five, four, three, two, one, good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend to. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching at least you're getting the body warmed up and primed for the workout appropriately. Good. Ten seconds left. And we're going to move right into our tricep stretch. Good. Four, three, two, one, good. And moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow, top of his elbow rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lot and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. You feeling it? I see a little sweat coming down already. Look at it. It's about to go down at today. Good. Three, two, one. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Moving into the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so so many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym and meeting to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place it needs to be to give 100% for today's workout. Good. Four, three, two, one. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Let's move on to the other side. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two and one. Perfect. You know, so often I see people at the gym and they go, you know, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone? Well, the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to workout and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. Five seconds left. Three, two, one. Good. Relax. Okay, good. Let's move right into our L.O. Sewastratch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more and you should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor, the L.O. Sewast kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. So we want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Good. Shake it out. We're right into the round two. Good. And again, on each one of these exercises, during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit farther than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one. Find where comfortable. But on the second one, you want to push into it a little bit more. Perfect. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right over to the other side. So preparing to stretch for this workout, he is really important because we're working the whole body. So in this workout, you can really expect for going from upper body to lower body back to upper body. The whole point of this methodology is to really confuse your body. It doesn't know where to pump the blood. So you can expect to be winded. You can expect to be fatigue. But again, those are all good problems to have because over time your body is going to athlete make to it. You're going to get stronger. You're going to burn fat. And you're going to be in the best shape of your life by the end of these four weeks. Or hopefully you continue on for 365. Good. Go ahead, right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building workouts in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, carrot with these workouts, you will build muscle as well and not have to be in the gym for two hours. Because a lot of people, myself included, I'm sure it's on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that all I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back and he's just going to cross one leg over the other. Yep. And just twist down perfect. Yep. And again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. Let's see that a lot. You really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good, relax. Shake it out and move right into the round two. With any of these workouts, it's so important for us to stretch our back out because all of these movements go right through the center of our body, whether it's a bodyweight squat or we're doing pull ups. We really want to keep the body nice and flexible. Good, just about 15 seconds left of this second stretch. And we're getting so close to getting into this workout. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Let's twist over to the other side. Good. And I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other and that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good, five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Good, relax. Now our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So if my side is my right side, if I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find that the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good, and relax. Perfect, moving right into our glute stretch. Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight. Cross the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. Listen, we got to warm up the glutes. We're doing a lot of lower body stuff. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body, because your low back comes in and tries to take over. And that is what will create a lot of problems for you. So when it comes to the glutes, when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good, relax. We'll go one more time on that side. You know, sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching, but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension. That's going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. Good, 10 seconds left. Good, five, four, three, two, and one. Good, let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place, the more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. So go ahead and relax. It's a go ahead and shake it out. So moving right into the last round, we are almost about to start our workout. Are you ready? All right, ready to get it done? Absolutely. This we're going to get it on today. You're going to get it on at home. I know Michael's going to kill it. Go over here to put it in work. And that's really the headspace that you need to be in you are here to put in the work because you want a change with your body. The way you get that change is by going 100% for the next 25 to 35 minutes through each one of these exercises. Three, two, and one. Great. All right, so that concludes our stretch series. We're going to get right into our first circuit. So let's get started with our first circuit, starting with a push-up. Michael's going to get into position and go. Each one of these exercises you're doing for a total of 30 seconds. Michael's doing the advanced version, which is a plyometric push-up. For all of you advanced athletes out there, you can go ahead and do the same thing. If you need to do push-ups from your knees, that's fine too just whatever is 100% for you. Go over halfway there. You can also do a variation of both. Like Michael's going to do. Good. We have five, four, three, two, one. Go right into our pull-ups. I'm just going to go right over to the pull-up bar. Not taking a lot of rest between these exercises. Perfect. Getting us chin all the way over the bar. Perfect. And again, if you're doing pull-ups at home, you can do pull-ups that are just bodyweight or you can also use a resistance band. Using a resistance band will hopefully help build you up to doing just bodyweight. Good. Perfect. And five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right over to squat jumps. From right over to his mat and let's go. Good. So he's coming down just to 90 degrees and exploding up off the ground. And again, with these exercises along with any exercise in this workout, if you need to take a brief pause during the 30 seconds, take a deep breath. That's fine. The thing that's most important is that you're pushing 100% whatever that means for you. Go to we are halfway there. Michael's legs. I'm sure are all ripped-peed burning. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right down into our push-ups. Here we go. 30 seconds. Remember, guys, as many reps is possible in these 30 seconds. Don't pace yourself out if you need to go and then rest. Go 10, rest. That's fine. Good. 15 more seconds. We're halfway there. Try steps should be burning. You should be feeling this in your chest. You should be feeling this in your core. Perfect. Good. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right back up on our feet over to our pull-ups. Right away, he's taking no rest. He's in Bees mode right now. Let's go. Good. Four. I think he's going to get at least 15 out of these 30 seconds. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good job, Michael. Come on. Good. Here we go. 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Okay. So you guys, it's okay to struggle at the end of each one of these exercises. The most important thing is you're pushing 100% for you. All right, let's get right into our squat jumps. Perfect. Halfway there. Good. And last 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right, let's get right into our final round. Into our push-ups take a deep breath of air. Go. Perfect. 30 seconds. As many reps as you can do by this point in time, your body is tired and I know that this is okay. The most important thing is keep pushing through. Don't give up. Don't allow the fatigue to take over your mind because your mind controls the body. Remember why you're doing this? Remember why you started this program. Good. 10 seconds left. You guys are so close. Good. And five, four, three, two, and time. Good. Right into pull-ups. Let's go. You're last and final round. Really trying to push it. Perfect. Good. At this point in time, you should have slowed down a little bit on your speed. That's okay because your body should be tired. This is the third time you've gone through this. Good. Perfect. Michael's doing it. Executing it perfectly. He's taking a little bit of time between pull-ups and that is fine. Good. Job. 10 seconds left. You're like almost there. You got it. You got it. Good. Seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Good. Let's move right into squat jumps. This is our last exercise of this circuit. Here we go. Three seconds. Good. Again, trying to land softly coming all the way down to 90 degrees, exploding up off the ground. Good. Good. You guys are almost halfway there. 10 second countdown starts in 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Great. All right. So Michael's a highly conditioned athlete. So he's going to take 15 seconds to get some water. But for everybody at home if you need more than 15 seconds, go ahead and just pause this video now. So Michael's going to get into position. We're going to start with a decline push-up. So you can do this exercise off of anything that has a ledge, a secured ledge. At home, you can use your bathtub, a chair, whatever you can find. All right. Again, each one of these exercises in this circuit, you're going to do for a total of 30 seconds. Let's go. 30 seconds starts now. Good. So guys, by this point in time and your workout, you're going to be tired. You've already gone through three rounds. Stay focused. Stay in the zone and just do the best job that you can. Good. Halfway there. Perfect. About 10 seconds left. Good. 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Perfect. Now move right on toward dumbbell. Role. Michael's going to go get his set of dumbbells. You guys get yours. You can also do this exercise using the resistance spam. All right. So again, 30 seconds. He's going to get into position. Ready? Here we go. Perfect. So again, he's in a great position. He's got his back. Totally straight. His glutes tight. He's got a nice bend in his knee and that's exactly what you should be doing at home. Make sure that you are clenching the glutes because otherwise, the low back is going to take a lot of heat in this exercise. Perfect. We got 10 seconds left. How you feeling? Please kill him. He's killing it. Good. So you have five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Time. Let's move on toward next exercise. Our Bulgarian split squat. So Michael's going to go right back over to the bench. One leg is going to get, go up on the bench and the other one is going to be at 90 degrees. So we're going to 15 seconds on each leg. Here we go. Good. He's coming all the way down to 90. I don't want you to pass at 90 degrees. So if you do have a mirror that you can use while you do this exercise, go ahead and use it if not just eyeball it. That knee should not be coming out over the toe. Good. Switch. 15 seconds. Switching legs. There we go. Perfect. Again, his upper body is staying nice and straight. All of his weight. He's placing in the heel and pushing straight up from the heel. Go to three, two, one. Perfect. All right. So let's move on to our next round. Back into our decline push-up. Michael's ready. I hope you guys are ready at home. Here we go. Again, guys, you want to get his mini reps as you possibly can in these 30 seconds. If you need to take a pause for a couple seconds and then keep going, that is fine. Good. So Michael's staying nice and straight. He's not letting his torso drop down to the ground. Good. He's taking a slight pause. Here we go. We're over halfway there. 10 seconds left. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Perfect. Getting right into our dumbbell row. Get some breath. It back into the body and let's get into position. Here we go. 30 seconds. Again, perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. He's not jerking. When you're doing this exercise, you shouldn't be using your moment to bring the weight up. If you're doing that, you're training out of ego. Drop the weight down to a weight that you can do without swinging your body around. That's how you sculpt beautiful muscles. Here we go. 20, got 10 seconds left. I know you guys are fatigued. Keep pushing through this. You are so close to being done with this workout. The worst of it is nearly over. Done. Time. Moving right into our split squat. Again, good. Take a deep breath of air. Get into position. Get your balance. Here we go. 15 seconds on this like perfect. Michael is in perfect. This is exactly where your knee should be. It's not coming out over the toe and all of his weight is right in that heel. Good. 10, 2, 1, switch. Perfect. Right onto the other side. You feel that in your booty? Yeah. There we go. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Time. Moving into the last round of this circuit. Take a couple seconds. Take a couple deep breaths of air. We're going to get right back into our decline push-up. Last round, you guys. You should be pushing as hard as you can go. This is the last round of this workout. Here we go. Good. Five seconds in. I bet Michael is going to get at least 20 out of this. Good. Good. Almost halfway there. Keep pushing through. Keep pushing through. I know the tries. Upstart burning. The core is burning. The chest is burning. That's okay. That's when change happens. There we go. Almost five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Crushed it. Yes. This is your last set. Make sure you're pushing it. Take a couple seconds. Get a couple deep breaths of air. What do you think? 20 reps? Yeah. Okay. You guys should try and match this at home. 20 reps. Here we go. And begin. So we got 30 seconds. This is our last set. You should be giving it every single thing that you have after this. No more back exercises. There we go. Perfect. Halfway there. 15 seconds left. Good. He pushing. He's in a great position. He's not bending forward. He's still in the same position that he started in. Perfect. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving into our last exercise of this circuit. Split squat. Good. And don't want. Good. pushing right through the heel. The intensity is up guys. You should be using this to just burn it out. Push as hard as you can. There we go. Five, four, three, two, and one switch legs. There we go. 15 seconds and let's go. Perfect. Still pushing right through the heel. He still has great form that knee is not coming out over the toe. You should be doing the same at home. Three, two, one. Time. Killed it. All right. So we're going to move right into our bonus round. Michael's going to get these weights out of the way. If you need to get a drink of water do it now. Our bonus round is comprised of two exercises, a burpee and a pull-up. You're going to do each exercise for 10 seconds and you're just going to give it all you have. So these are the last 40 seconds of this workout. Let's get into it. It's Michael's going to get into position. So again, the idea of this is just go all out. 10 seconds per exercise twice. It's going to burn extra calories. It's a little extra conditioning. Let's go. Are you ready? Go. 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Last set of pull-ups. Let's go. As fast as you can in other transitions, 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, nine, six, five, four, three, two, one. Time. Great job, you guys. Great job, Michael. Killed it. Let's see. End of your strength. One workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow for your cardio workout.

=== FILE: 30 Minute at Home Strength Workout： Day 8 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [PY9_cXmhZfw].txt ===

So today is your strength one workout. You're going to be doing chest legs and back. This workout, you're going to start with a dynamic warm up. You're going to move into your stretch series and then you're going to do two different circuits. Each exercise in the circuit is going to be comprised of 30 seconds and a equipment that you're going to need today is a pull-up bar, a set of dumbbells or resistance bands. And for today's workout we have Plutch Body Shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player, Michael Gass for sending joining us. And remember, for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch 5247 fitness trainer, you could follow along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV or computer. So let's get started with the strength one workout and begin our dynamic warm up. Starting with jogging in place, Michael's going to get us started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warm up is going to be completed at total of 30 seconds. And again, every warm up that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7 to 10, 10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you really want to be pushing it during the warm up. We want to get the muscles ready to do work. Good, just about 10 seconds left. I feel like say Michael, ready to kill it? Okay, I wish you for me to do. 4, 3, 2, 1. Good, moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. Here we go. So Michael's taking a nice wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people that are going to go like this. Come all the way up, bring your feet nice and wide. Good, just about halfway there. Good. It's important that you're really focusing during your workout, getting your mind in the zone for the workout that is about to take place. Good. 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. We're going to get right into butt kicks, warm the hamstrings up. Good, Michael, you can just turn to the side, show the people at home. The angle, so his knee is staying right underneath his hips. And that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it, hence the name, but kicks. Good, keeping the upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath. You want to be breathing. You want to be loosening up. Good, just about 10 seconds left. Good, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out, getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. We're trying to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. Get blood moving into all the muscles. Say, are about to work today. Good, 5 seconds left, 4, 3, 2, 1. Moving right into walking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these back in his football days. So again, with all of these warm up exercises, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. We're trying to tell the body, hey, guess what? We're getting ready to work. You mean everything nice and engaged. Good, it's 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 perfect. Alright, so that concludes our dynamic warm up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. We're going to move right into the stretch series. We ran into it. Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good, and he's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows it's highly conditioned to athlete. You should feel this at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, again, that's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay, good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out and he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was to step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. And we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up again. You can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. You're just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes as your body's going to warm up, your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that you're breathing. Don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, oh, you should be relaxed for you in this time period. Good and relax. I'm going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it. One more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate the muscles that are about to work and that's exactly what we want. Also, when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Good. Just about halfway there on the second stretch. One second, left. And five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be hex messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% This workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. Five more seconds left on this side, feeling warm. Oh yeah. Good. And relax. He's going to shape that out. Come right back up. Perfect. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. This is going to be really, really important in the stretch for today's workout because we're doing a lot of legs. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our bodyweight workout. Ten seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Our hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. And relax. Just come up, shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in a perfect position for this stretch. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. And five, four, three, two, one. All right. On our feet right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and ripping through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect form. I mean, just telling it right out of the gate. I got his turn. Ten seconds left on this first round. Part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. And relax. Shake it out. Be right into the next round. Again. So often at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. With any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the movement. Take good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he Michaels is going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretch. You're stretching your chest because as you're bringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know against the machine. However, you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthened. Good. Five seconds left on this right side. Good. And relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I mean to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out. You're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of buildings. It's so important to have that flexibility through your upper body. Last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment. It won't fit in like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Eight seconds left. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend to. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching at least you're getting the body warmed up and primed for the workout appropriately. Good. Ten seconds left. And we're going to move right into our tricep stretch. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow. Top of his elbow, rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lot and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. You feeling it? I see a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down in here today. Good. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Move it into the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym and meeting to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place it needs to be to give 100% for today's workout. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Let's move on to the other side. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two and one. Perfect. So often I see people at the gym and they go, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone? Well, the truth is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to workout and be like, Oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. Five seconds left. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. Okay. Good. Let's move right into our LAO sew-ass stretch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more and they should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor. The LAO sew-ass kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. So we want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Shake it out. We're going right into the round two. It's good. And again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit farther than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one. Find where you're comfortable, but on the second one you want to push into it a little bit more. Okay. Eight. Seven. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right over to the other side. So preparing to stretch for this workout, he is really important because we're working the whole body. So from this workout, you can really expect for going from upper body to lower body back to upper body. The whole point of this methodology is to really confuse your body. It doesn't know where to pump the blood. So you can expect to be winded. You can expect to be fatigue, but again, those are all good problems to have because over time you're body is going to acclimate to it. You're going to get stronger. You're going to burn fat and you're going to be in the best shape of your life by the end of these four weeks. Or hopefully you continue on for 365. Good. Go ahead and work. Going right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building workouts in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, you can compare it with these workouts. You will build muscle as well. And not have to be in the gym for two hours because a lot of people myself included. I'm sure on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. Alright, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. He's just going to cross one leg over the other. Yep. And just twist down. Perfect. Yep. And again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. See that a lot. You really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good. Relax. Take it out and move right into the round two. With any of these workouts, it's so important for us to stretch our back out because all of these movements go right through the center of our body. Whether it's a body weight squat or we're doing pull ups. We really want to keep the body nice and flexible. Good. Just about 15 seconds left for the second stretch. And we're going to so close to getting into this workout. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Let's twist over to the other side. Good. And I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the knee. And that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good. Five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Good. Relax. Now our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So if my side is my right side, if I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find that the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good and relax. Perfect moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight across the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. We've listened. We got to warm up the glutes. We're doing a lot of lower body stuff. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body is your low back comes in and tries to take over. And that is what will create a lot of problems for you. So when it comes to the glutes, when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good relax. We'll go one more time on that side. Sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension that's going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. Good 10 seconds left. Good 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Good, let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place. The more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Go ahead and relax. Okay, so go ahead and shake it out. So moving right into the last round, we are almost about to start our workout. Are you ready? Ready? Ready to get it done? Absolutely. We're going to get it on today and you're going to get it on at home. I know Michael's going to kill it. Go over here to put in work. And that's really the headspace that you need to be in you are here to put in the work because you want a change with your body. The way you get that change is by going 100% for the next 25 to 35 minutes through each one of these exercises. Three, two and one. Great. All right, so that concludes our stretch series. We're going to get right into our first circuit. So let's get started with our first circuit, starting with a push-up. Michael's going to get into position and go. Each one of these exercises you're doing for a total of 30 seconds. Michael's doing the advanced version, which is a plyometric push-up. For all of you advanced athletes out there, you can go ahead and do the same thing. If you need to do push-ups from your knees, that's fine too just whatever is 100% for you. Good. We're halfway there. You can also do a variation of both. Like Michael's going to do. Good. We have five, four, three, two, one. Good. We're right into our pull-ups. So I'm just going to go right over to the pull-up bar. Not taking a lot of rest between these exercises. Perfect. Getting us chin all the way over the bar. Perfect. And again, if you're doing pull-ups at home, you can do pull-ups that are just bodyweight or you can also use a resistance band. Using a resistance band will hopefully help build you up to doing just bodyweight. Good. Perfect. And five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right over to squat jumps. Right over to his mat. And let's go. Good. So he's coming down just to 90 degrees and exploding up off the ground. And again, with these exercises along with any exercise in this workout, if you need to take a brief pause during the 30 seconds, take a deep breath. That's fine. The thing that's most important is that you're pushing 100% whatever that means for you. But we are halfway there. Michael's legs. I'm sure are all ready-peat burning. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right down into our push-ups. Here we go. 30 seconds. Remember, guys, as many reps as possible in these 30 seconds. Don't pace yourself out if you need to go and then rest. Go 10, rest. That's fine. Good. 15 more seconds. We're halfway there. Try steps should be burning. You should be feeling this in your chest. You should be feeling this in your core. Perfect. Good. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right back up on our feet over to our pull-ups. Right away, he's taking no rest. He's in these mode right now. Let's go. Good. Four. I think he's going to get at least 15 out of these 30 seconds. Good. Good. Good. Good job, Michael. Come on. Good. There we go. 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Okay. So you guys, it's okay to struggle at the end of each one of these exercises. The most important thing is you're pushing 100% for you. All right. Let's get right into our squat jumps. Perfect. Halfway there. Good. And last 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right. Let's get right into our final round. Into our pushups. Take a deep breath of air. Go. Perfect. 30 seconds. As many reps as you can do by this point in time, your body is tired. And I know that bit is okay. Most important thing. Just keep pushing through. Don't give up. Don't allow the fatigue to take over your mind because your mind control the body. Remember why you're doing this. Remember why you started this program. Good. 10 seconds left. You guys are so close. Good. And five, four, three, two, and time. Good. Right into pullups. Let's go. You're last and final round. Really trying to push it. Perfect. Good. By this point in time, you should have slowed down a little bit on your speed. That's okay because your body should be tired. This is the third time you've gone through this. Good. Perfect. Michael's doing it. Executing it perfectly. He's taking a little bit of time between pullups and that is fine. Good. Job. 10 seconds left. You're like almost there. You got it. You got it. Good. 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Time. Good. Let's move right into squat jumps. This is our last exercise of this circuit. Here we go. Three seconds. Good. Again, trying to land softly coming all the way down to 90 degrees, exploding up off the ground. Good. Good. You guys are almost halfway there. 10 second countdown starts in 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Great. Alright. So Michael's a highly conditioned athlete. So he's going to take 15 seconds to get some water. But for everybody at home if you need more than 15 seconds, go ahead and just pause this video now. Michael's going to get into position. We're going to start with a decline push-up. So you can do this exercise off of anything that has a ledge, a secured ledge. At home, you can use your bathtub, a chair, whatever you can find. Alright, again, each one of these exercises in this circuit, you're going to do for a total of 30 seconds. Let's go. 30 seconds starts now. Good. So guys, by this point in time and your workout, you're going to be tired. You've already gone through three rounds. Stay focused. Stay in the zone and just do the best job that you can. Good. Halfway there. Perfect. About 10 seconds left. Good. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Okay. Perfect. And move right on to our dumbbell row. Michael's going to go get his set of dumbbells. You guys get yours. You can also do this exercise using the resistance spam. Alright. So again, 30 seconds. He's going to get into position. Ready? Here we go. Perfect. So again, he's in a great position. He's got his back. Totally straight. His glutes tight. He's got a nice bend in his knee. And that's exactly what you should be doing at home. Make sure that you are clenching the glutes because otherwise the low back is going to take a lot of heat in this exercise. Perfect. We got 10 seconds left. How are you feeling? Please keep on it. He's killing it. Good. So you have five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Time. Let's move on to our next exercise. Our Bulgarian split squat. So Michael's going to go right back over to this bench. One leg is going to get to go up on the bench. And the other one is going to be at 90 degrees. So we're going to do 15 seconds on each leg. Here we go. Good. He's coming all the way down to 90. I don't want you to pass at 90 degrees. So if you do have a mirror that you can use while you do this exercise, go ahead and use it if not just eyeball it. That knee should not be coming out over the toe. Good. 15 seconds switching legs. There we go. Perfect. Again, his upper body is staying nice and straight. All of his weight. He's placing in the heel and pushing straight up from the heel. Go to three, two, one. Perfect. All right. So let's move on to our next round. Back into our decline. Push up. Michael's ready. Hope you guys are ready at home. Here we go. Again, guys, you want to get his many reps as you possibly can in these 30 seconds. If you need to take a pause for a couple seconds and then keep going, that is fine. Good. So Michael's staying nice and straight. He's not letting his torso drop down to the ground. Good. He's taking a slight pause. Here we go. We're over halfway there. 10 seconds left. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Perfect. Getting right into our dumbbell row. Get some breath. It back into the body and let's get into position. Here we go. 30 seconds. Again, perfect. Perfect, perfect form. He's not jerking. When you're doing this exercise, you shouldn't be using your momentum to bring the weight up. If you're doing that, you're training out of ego. Drop the weight down to weight that you can do without swinging your body around. That's how you sculpt beautiful muscles. Here we go. 20, got 10 seconds left. I know you guys are fatigued. Keep pushing through this. You are so close to being done with this workout. The worst of it is nearly over. Done. Time. Moving right into our split squat. Again, good. Take a deep breath of air. Getting to position. Get your balance. Here we go. 15 seconds on this, like, perfect. Michael is in perfect. This is exactly where your knee should be. It's not coming out over the toe and all of his weight is right in that heel. 10, 2, 1, switch. Perfect. Right onto the other side. You feel that in your booty? Oh, yeah. There we go. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Time. Moving into the last round of this circuit. Take a couple seconds. Take a couple deep breaths of air. We're going to get right back into our decline push-up. Last round you guys should be pushing as hard as you can go. This is the last round of this workout. Here we go. Good. Five seconds in. I bet Michael's going to get at least 20 out of this. Good. Good. Almost halfway there. Keep pushing through. Keep pushing through. I know the triusps are burning. The core is burning. The chest is burning. That's okay. That's when change happens. There we go. Almost five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one crushed it. Yes. This is your last set. Make sure you're pushing it. Take a couple seconds. Get a couple deep breaths of air. When you think 20 reps? Okay. You guys should try and match this at home. 20 reps. Here we go. And begin. So we got 30 seconds. This is our last set. You should be giving it every single thing that you have after this. No more back exercises. There we go. Perfect. Halfway there. 15 seconds left. Good. Keep pushing. He's in a great position. He's not bending forward. He's still in the same position that he started in. Perfect. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving into our last exercise of this circuit. Split squat. Good. And go one. Good. Go pushing right through the heel. The intensity is up. Guys, you should be using this to just burn it out. Push as hard as you can. There we go. Five, four, three, two, and one switch legs. There we go. 15 seconds. And let's go. Perfect. Still pushing right through the heel. He still has great form that knee is not coming out over the toe. You should be doing the same at home. Three, two, one time. Killed it. I'll see you back here tomorrow for your cardio workout.

=== FILE: 30-Day Challenge ｜ Bodybuilding.com Commercial [j-lKKUWwlOM].txt ===

It's time to break free, to kick the couch, to become your best self. It's time to experience the power of your body, the joy of energy, the strength of muscle. It's time to change your life. You don't know where to start? We have your guide. You think fitness is complicated? We make it easy. You don't have a trainer? We have the best in the industry. Thirty days, thirty challenges. We'll teach you the essentials, training, nutrition, supplementation, what to do in the kitchen and how to perform in the gym. Everything you need to live the fit life. You have the right to be fit. Take the first step.

=== FILE: 4 Cable Lat Pulldown Mistakes. IG： sigourney.jane #gym #fitness #trainingtips #fitness #upperbody [2C_l9Gq0wGA].txt ===

Alrighty guys, so here are four of the most common mistakes I see made in the gym when it comes to the cable lap pull down. So number one is going to be swinging our bodies back and forth on the machine. Using momentum to pull the weight. Remember we always want to be in control of the weight. We don't want the weight to be in control of us. Number two is going to be having an uneven grip on the bar as you perform the exercise. It's very easy to favor our dominant side. So remember to set up an even grip to avoid creating in balances. Number three is leaning too far back. This turns our lap pull downs into a rear-delt row, which for this exercise we don't want. And the fourth and final mistake I see is going beyond the appropriate range of motion. Pulling the bar all the way down to our belly button is an indicator that the weight is too light and you're not using the desired muscle group to move the weight. So now that we've discussed how not to do your lap pull down, let's have a look and see how we should be performing this exercise. First, we need to make sure that we have an even grip on the bar and our posture is in the correct upright position. Then, instead of pulling the weight with our hands, we want to think about driving our elbows down behind us, bringing the bar to our chest. Keeping control of the weight the whole time. Remember to focus on your mind to muscle connection, and if you ever lose this, light in the weight and double check your form and tech.

=== FILE: 40 Minute at Home Full-Body Workout： Day 20 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [_Jq0aHy_5z0].txt ===

Say as they 20, your full body circuit workout. So the equipment that you're going to need today is a set of dumbbells, or resistance bands, and a pull-up bar. We're going to start with your dynamic warm-up, then we're going to move into a stretch series, then we're going to go through two full body circuits. Today we have clutch body shop athlete, fire fighter, and former NFL football player, Michael Gasperson, doing our workout with us. So for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer, you can fall along in real-time at home using your smartphone, tablet, computer, or TV. So let's get started with our full body circuit starting with our dynamic warm-up. First exercise jogging in place. Remember you're doing each one of these exercises for 30 seconds? The intensity on these exercises should be a 7 out of 10 by the end of this warm-up. You should feel warm, you should be sweating at home. Good. Remember warming up is very important. We're preparing the body to do battle for today's workout, just like every workout in this program. Here we go. We've got about eight seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one, right into jumping jacks. Good. And with each one of these exercises, as you go through this warm-up, progressively get a little bit more intense, speed it up. Again, you want to be warm by the end of this week, because we're going to move right into our stretching afterwards. Good. Halfway there, Michael's keeping his four nice and tight, shredding his feet all the way out, his arms are coming all the way up. Don't half-assist and come up to here. You can each one of these exercises the way that we're demonstrating them today. Three, two, one. Good. Now we're going to move into butt kicks. Michael is ready. I'm going to have Michael turn to the side so you guys can make sure to see the angle at what he's doing this. His knee is staying right underneath his hip and he's bringing his foot all the way up to his butt, tends to name butt kicks. His upper body is nice and loose. He's breathing. This is what you should be doing while you're warming up or getting ready to prepare for the workout. Good. We've got about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one good. We're going right into a switch kick with arm circles. Here we go. So again, he's keeping his quad. His quads are tight, his legs are straight. This is a nice warm-up for the calves and for the legs and circling his arms around and keeping his arms parallel to his shoulder. So we're getting the upper body warmed up as well with this dynamic exercise. Perfect. Perfect. About 10 seconds left. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one moving right into our walking hi-nees. Perfect. He used to do these when you're playing in that fell all the time. Yeah. Great for opening up the hips, getting out all the blood flowing through the center of the body. Good. Perfect. So he's coming all the way up, past his belly button, using his arms just like you would if you were riding. He's keeping his core nice and tight. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one right into a calisthenic deadlift. So Michael's keeping his legs nice and straight and he's just coming down slowly and then slowly bringing himself back up. This is just his eyes warm up your hamstrings. You shouldn't be jerking while you're doing these. That's going to put a lot of stress on your low back. We're really just trying to get the hamstrings fired up. So we do have deadlifts in today's workout. Perfect. Five, four, three, two, and one perfect. Alright, so that concludes our dynamic warm up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. He ran into it. Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows it's highly conditioned athlete. You should feel this at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet again, that's okay. You can always hold onto the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay, good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out and he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be a fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. Now we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes as your body's getting warmed up, your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that you're breathing. Don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, oh, you should be relaxed during this time period. Good and relaxed. You're going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it. One more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate the muscles that are about to work. And that's exactly what we want. Also when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Good, just about halfway there on the second stretch. 10 seconds left. Good. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be text messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% to this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. 5 more seconds left on this side. Feeling warm. Oh yeah. Good. And relax. You're going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. That's perfect. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. This is going to be really, really important in this stretch for today's workout because we're doing a lot of legs. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. So he's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal to get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our bodyweight workout. Good. 10 seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. And relax. Just come up and shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for this stretch. Good. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. 10 seconds left. And 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. All right. On our feet right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and ripping through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect for him. Just killing it right out of the gate. I have his trigger. Yeah. 10 seconds left on this first round. Perfect. Part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. It relax. Shake it out. Moving right into the next round. Again. So often at the gym, I see guys working out. And they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body. Because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion. So we'll go. Okay. Good. Relax. You can go across the chest shoulder stretch. So he, Michael's just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're bringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however, you know, against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthened. Good. Five seconds left on this right side. Good. And relax. Shake it out. Oh, sorry about that. I'm going to be hitting you. Okay. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out. You're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time. Fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of building that's so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. And the last thing you want to do is catch a cramp in a moment like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretchers. One time. But I always recommend to. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching at least for getting the body warmed up in time for the workout appropriately. Good. Ten seconds left. And we're going to be right into our tricep stretch. Good. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. And moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow. Top of his elbow, rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lot and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. You feeling it? I see a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down in here today. Good. Three. Two. One. Good. Relax. And then the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys, during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym committing to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place you need to be to give 100% for today's workout. And then you need to go to the gym for three, two, one. Good. Go to the left. Take it out. Let's move on to the other side. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. You know, so often I see people at the gym and they go, you know, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone while the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym? You can't just show up to workout and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get in the gym. You need to get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. Five, six, five, three, two, one. Good relax. Okay, good. Let's move right into our LAO sew-ass stretch. The mic was going to put his foot out and now he's breathing right into it up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more. You should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor, the LAO sew-ass kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. So we want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Good, shake it out. We're right into this round two. Good, and again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit farther than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one, find where you're comfortable about on the second one. You want to push into it a little bit more. Perfect. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good, moving right over to the other side. So preparing to stretch for this workout, he is really important because we're working the whole body. So when this workout, you can really expect we're going from upper body to lower body back to upper body. The whole point of this methodology is to really confuse your body. It doesn't know where to pump the blood. So you can expect to be winded. You can expect to be 15, but again, those are all good problems to have because over time your body is going to applimate to it. You're going to get stronger. You're going to burn fat and you're going to be in the best shape of your life by the end of these four weeks. Or hopefully you continue on for 365. Good, go ahead and relax. Moving right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building workouts. In order to build muscle, that's not true. If you follow the building program with a nutrition plan, pair it with these workouts. You will build muscle as well. And not have to be in the gym for two hours because a lot of people myself included. I'm sure it's on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. And he's just going to cross one leg over the others. Yep, and just twist down perfect. Yep, and again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. See that a lot? You really just want to stay a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good, relax. Shake it out and move right into the round two. With any of these workouts, it's so important for us to stretch our back out because all of these movements go right through the center of our body. Whether it's a bodyweight squat or we're doing pull ups, we really want to keep the body nice and flexible. Good, just about 15 seconds left or this second stretch, we're going to be so close to get it into this workout. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, let's just over to the other side. Good, and I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other. And that's fine, that's why we're going through this stretch. So if you feel that one side needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good, five seconds left, four, three, two, one, good relax. Now our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor, so my side is my right side. If I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. That's why going through this flexibility exercise is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good, and relax. Perfect, moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight across the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. We've listened, we got to warm up the glutes. We're doing a lot of lower body stuff. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body. Your low back comes in and tries to take over and that is what will create a lot of problems for you. So when it comes to the glutes, when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good, relax. We'll go one more time on that side. Sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension that's going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. But 10 seconds left. Good, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. So let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place, the more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Go ahead and relax. If you go ahead and shake it out, then moving right into the last round. We are almost about to start our workout. Are you ready? I'm ready to get done. We're going to get it on today. You're going to get it on at home. I know Michael's going to kill it. We're here to put it in work. And that's really the headspace that you need to be in. You are here to put in the work because you want to change with your body. And the way you get that change is by going 100% for the next 25 or 35 minutes through each one of these exercises. Three, two and one. Great. Alright, so that concludes our stretch series. We're going to get right into our first circuit. So moving right into our first circuit, each exercise is going to be performed for a total of 20 seconds. You want to try and do as many reps as possible in those 20 seconds, starting with body weight polyps. It's like we're going to go ahead. I'm going to get my clock started. And again, if you're doing these at home, you can do wide grip, underhand grip. I don't care what sort of grip you do just as long as you are doing this movement. Alright, you ready? Yep. I'm ready. Let's do it. And now, perfect. So again, each one of these exercises, you want to be going full speed, going 100%. You should be breathing hard even on this first exercise. Good. We're halfway into it. Good. Just about five seconds left. Good. Three, two, one. Good. Perfect. Moving right into our dumbbell bedlift. You should have picked the appropriate dumbbell weight or resistance fan that you need to use for yourself. And here we go. Michael's going to come down and back up perfect. And Michael can roll through these like boss because he does these all the time. So again, his movement is nice and smooth. He's not jerking 99, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, 2, 1, moving right into pushups. Put your dumbbells down. Good. So he's going to take a narrower stance with his hands and that's fine. Begin. Perfect. You're going through each one of these exercises full speed. You should be pushing in as many reps as possible during these 20 seconds. Perfect. Be feeling this and your tricep and your chest. Make sure you're breathing three, two, one, right. And it's jumping jacks. So again, going upper body, lower body, upper body, lower body. This is going to make your body go. Where do I pump the blood? And that's exactly what we want it to do. Good. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right into a bodyweight squat jump. Perfect. So Michael's coming up. He's coming down. He's landing softly. Exploding right back up. Again, you don't want to be coming down. Past 90 degrees on these. You want to come right down to 90 and explode up. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right. Moving into jump rope. And again, if you need to take five to ten seconds between exercises that is completely fine. Michael's got his jump rope ready. I'm going to move his mat out of the way. And begin. And again, as your jump ropeing, if you mess up, don't worry about it. Shake it off. Starting again. Starting again. It's not about perfection. It's just about continually to move. Even if you don't have a jump rope, you can do this movement at home. Just go through the motion without the rope. Perfect. Three, two, one. Perfect. That is the end of round one. Michael's going to go ahead and grab a sip of water. You guys should do the same thing. Again, you don't want to be taking 30 to 60 seconds between these rounds. If you need to grab a quick drink, that's totally fine. We're going to get right into round two with our body weight pull ups. Are you ready? Go. I'm ready. Let's do it. 20 seconds. Let's go. So again, Michael's coming all the way up. If you go through this exercise at home, you can do this using your body weight. Or you can go ahead and use a resistance band and do it assisted. That's fine, too. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one rest. We're going to go down the bed with Michael's weight. We're going to the center and let's go. So again, he's performing this exercise nice and smooth. Even though your body by the second round is going to be starting to get fatigued. It's really important that you make sure you're following proper form. Don't jerk on these exercises. If you don't want anybody getting hurt, everything nice and smooth. If you feel like the weight you're using is too heavy now is the time to make an adjustment. Good end time. Moving right into our second round of pushups. I'm going to move this over. Michael's on the mat. Here we go. Perfect. Good. Again, he's got to speed up. By the second round, your body should be feeling nice and warm. Intensity should be cooking. She should be pushing through these. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Moving right into jumping jacks. Again, you guys, if you're going through some of these pull ups or some of these pushups, and you need to take a second to rest and get right back into it. That's fine. The most important thing is you're feeling a hundred percent. Maybe you can't get through the full 20 seconds of pushups. The first time you do this workout, that's cool because you know up by the end of week four, you will be able to. Good. Three, two, and one. Let's go moving right into squat jumps. Good. So if these want to make sure you're just landing nice and soft, these are going to be very taxing on your body. That's great. Firing up the matales on these run a ton of calories. But again, you got no heavy weight on your back, which I love. Good time. We're ready to jump rope. That's one of the huge beauties in these workouts is we're not overloading your body with weight. You're just moving your own body weight. You know what? That's enough to see a huge difference. It's enough to build strength. It's enough to burn the calories that you need to burn. And the fat. I mean, Michael's breathing hard. I hope you're breathing hard at home too. Again, he's not pausing. If he messes up on his jump rope, we can't just move on. Keep going. Good. Three, two, one. Time. Perfect. Alright, go get a drink of water. Michael's going to get a drink of water. We're going into our final round of this first circuit. So this should be your most intense round. Hey, feeling? He's sweating. If you have a close-up of this, you can see that he's sweating. Okay. Let's get right into it with our body weight pull-ups. It's our last round. And begin. Good. Your intensity should be high. You guys remember you're trying to get as many reps as possible during these 20 seconds. 20 seconds is nothing. Let's do it. Let's go. Good. 10, 9, 8, come on. You got it. There you go. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Good. Moving right into our dead lifts. So you guys can see that last rep, Michael was struggling. And that's what you should be doing. This should be hard for anybody. It doesn't matter how highly conditioned you are. Whether you're a professional athlete or you're just starting off. If you're giving 100% to each one of these exercises, you should be hard for you. That's the whole point. Good. 2, and 1. Good. Right into our next exercise. Push-ups. And begin. Good. Now if regular push-ups are too easy for you, feel free to do a file push-up. Oh, there it is. Good, especially on this last round. Got 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Perfect. We're writing a jumpy jacks. And again, Michael switched back and forth. It's okay to do regular push-ups. Do as many plies as you can do and then go right back into regular push-ups. Really about just pushing yourself to, uh, to fatigue. You really want to push as far as you can go during each one of these exercises, especially because we're on the last round of this circuit. Good. And 3, 2, 1. We'll be right into squat jumps. Michael's crushing this last round. You guys should be crushing the last round at home too. Leaving nothing to take into break after this. Good. 10 seconds left and 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Time. Perfect. We're writing to our jump rope. I'm going to move this mat out of the way. Again, guys, when this time in the workout, you're fatigued. You're breathing hard. That's okay. Stay in the games. Keep your head in the game. He's still killing it. 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Time. That is the end of your first round. It's the end of your first circuit. Michael's a highly conditioned athlete. He's going to take the minimum rest, which is 15 seconds. But if you need more rest at home, go ahead and pause the video and pick up when you're ready to start circuit number two. That's the winner. Alright, so that is the end of our 15 second break. We're going to get right into circuit two with our dumbbell row. Michael's got his dumbbells. And he is on his way. Okay, remember, each one of these exercises, again, you guys 20 seconds. His back is straight. His glutes are tight. His legs are bent. And that's exactly what you should be doing with your body at home. Perfect. We got about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. We've right into the next exercise, which are furpies. You guys know what's up with furpies. This is going to be a harron. Good. Good. Perfect. So again, you want to be coming all the way down to the ground, which you're push up and then leaping up. Perfect. Michael's at a good speed. Again, the burpy, one of the hardest bodyweight exercises around, but one of the best as well for getting results three, two, one time. We'll be right into shoulder circuit. So Michael's going to get his stance. Perfect. So he's going to do a lateral raise, right into a front raise. You want to make sure that even though you're tired, even though you're fatigued, that you're doing these with perfect form. You don't want to be swinging around, if you're swinging around, just hit some wider way. It's not a big deal. Nothing to be embarrassed though. Good. Two, one. Good. Right into our next exercise, which is dips. So when you're doing this at home, you can do this off with a bathtub, a chair, any sort of ledge that you can find. And for those of you where you're having your feet out, it's maybe too advanced. You can move your feet in. For those of you who are at the gym, you can use a dip station to do these with just bodyweight. Really, whatever you can find, dip off of that, and time. Good. Moving right into jump rope. This is going to be the end of our first round. How do you feel, Michael? Are you going to get that jump rope together or what? Here we go. Good. He's off. And again, this should be your pace with the jump rope. So, again, just pushing it as hard as you can go. It does not matter. If you mess up, you mess up. Just keep going. So often I see people jumping rope and they mess up, they throw a tantrum. No time for that. Good. And three, two, one time. Good. That's the end of round. You're going to get right into round two with our dumbbell row. Squeeze back up. And again, by this stage in the game, you're going to be tired. You're going to be breathing hard. Make sure your body is in this perfect position. The back is straight. It's not rounded over. Good. And we got 10 seconds left. Seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Moving right into our burpees. Good. Again, you guys, you want to get as many in as you possibly can. I'm going to help them with this map. Good. As many as you possibly can in these 20 seconds, even if you need to take a second to rest, that's fine. It's just fine. It's just pushing, pushing, pushing, pushing. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. We can break into our shoulder circuit. Michael's got his dumbbells. Again, guys, by this stage in the game, your body is fatigued. Make sure you're not training at a ego. You're training at a proper form. So if you need to lighten your weight, go ahead and do it. The most important thing is that you're keeping your body still. You're bringing the weight up smooth that you don't have to throw weight around to get results. Good. Three, two, and one. Good. Great. Then two, our dips. Michael's over. And again, you really want to try and pick up the pace on these now. We're more than halfway into the second circuit. You feeling it? Oh yeah. You breathe over? Good. And five, four, three, two, one. Good. Ryan Dorgio pro. Again, with that upper body and then lower body transition. Good. Perfect. Killin it. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Time. That's the end of round two. We're going to get right into round three. You need to trick the water. You need to drink a water home. Go ahead and take a quick one. Let's get right in around three. Alright, Michael's ready. Get ready at home. Here we go. Twenty seconds. So your last round you guys should be pushing. Leave nothing. This is the meat of the workout. So you should be giving every single thing that you have as fast as you can to each one of these exercises in this final round. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Ryan Dorgio. Ryan Dorgio. This is your last round. You should be getting as many burpees as you possibly can. Try to make your last round your best round. Try and get more in this round that you did during your very first round. Good. Half way there. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Right into shoulders. You've been on a breath yet? What's happening? So again, you guys. Michael's a highly conditioned athlete. This is wiping him out. It should be doing the same thing for you. If you're pushing 100% you should be out of breath. You should be sweaty. You should be taken yourself out of your comfort zone. Do not have fast these workouts. If he's out of breath, you should be out of breath too. Good. And three, two, one time right into our dips. Good. Second to last exercise. Let's go. Let's see how fast we can do these. You're going to faster than that? Here he goes. 15 seconds left. And 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one time. Right into jump rope. Last round. Last exercise in this circuit. Good. Push it as fast as you can go on these. Show off. Even if it's with you, even if you're in your house, show off. Why not? And five, four, three, two, one time. You are done. That is the end of our full body circuit.

=== FILE: 40 Minute at Home Strength Workout： Day 10 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [u_F_RlGONQ0].txt ===

Today is the 10th, your strength to workout. Today we're going to start with your dynamic warmup followed by a stretch series and then go through three strength training circuits. You're going to need either a set of resistance bands or a set of dumbbells and a platform where you can perform dips. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete of fitness model superstar Amber Elizabeth Dodge White. Remember for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer or television. Alright so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warmup. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises in the dynamic warmup you're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright let's go ahead and get into it. So Amber's going to start with jogging in place and again with every single one of these warmups you want to really be at a level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warmup you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. Halfway through. Coming up is jumping jacks 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 right into jumping jacks. So Amber's taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of short cutting the movement make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warmup that you're keeping your core tight we really want to get every muscle in the body fired up. Okay 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to butt kicks. It's the next exercise for more of the hamstrings go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. The Amber's keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. Make sure that the arms are moving keep your shoulders nice and loose. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to switch kick with arms circles. Okay, Amber's keeping her core tight. Her legs, her quads are straight. This is great to warm up your quads. Also she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warm up. Hugs are sore from the. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 switching over to walking high knees your last exercise in the warm up. And this is great for the hip flexors. You want to make sure that hip flexors are really, really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. This was so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward, but she's bringing her knees up. 4, 3, 2, 1. So now we're going to get into our stretch series before we start to work out. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. Again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again on the second round you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Okay, keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch which is a broad stretch. You can so for this stretch you want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable if you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch. It's okay to use a wall or whatever it's here by to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people walking while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game so use that opportunity wisely. Okay, thirty seconds, let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good, actually keep her knee. Okay, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You know, if you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked and this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one. Come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good, again. While she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up but we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout they can about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one. Good. Shoulder across the chest. Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough, okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down and bring it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract. The whole body don't hold your breath so often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Okay, switch. Okay. Okay. So she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Okay. And again, stretching also a known to most people, it also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique, it can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output, you have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll, you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. And you're right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good, three, two, one. Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. Good. Ten seconds left on this side. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, shake it out, and back up. Okay, that ten more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoes stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Amber's going to get into the Iliostoes stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good, okay, relax. Good, it's going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoes is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it catches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. If you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay, so if you're in this position and you're not feeling the stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. Okay, so she can go through this one more time. Also this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I'm going to keep being the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall. She's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next, Amber's going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. Most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay, and she's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good, and she's going to rotate. Good, so this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lap. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your blue. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to come back over. And then come right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner, help you use stretch. It'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes you use your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. It's got 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So now Amber's going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch was this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Shake it out. And we'll move right back across. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for pushups for this routine. Everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. A three, two, one, good and stuff. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. She's just going to sit up. She's going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. So Amber's shaking that leg right back across. Again, using that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. Good. We've got five seconds left. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. Stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So now we're going to get into our first strength circuit. It only has three exercises, but for each exercise you're going to be performing as many reps as you can during the 30 seconds. We're going to be starting with the overhead press. Let's go ahead and get your dumbbells. Okay, so right out of the gate you want to keep your intensity and your energy really high on these. So Amber's going to get it started and go. Because you can see the cadence at which she's lifting the way. This is the exact speed that you want to be doing this exercise at. If you can't perform it with proper form, which is you should be bringing your elbows down to 90 degrees, your dumbbell should be parallel to the ground, lighten the weight. Good. About 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Moving right into dips. Now you can perform dips on any platform that you can find today. Amber's doing this on a medicine ball, but you can produce this on the couch off your bathtub. Any kind of surface that has a platform that you can secure your arms to. Good. Just about halfway there. So Amber's coming down to 90 degrees, keeping her elbows tucked. Good. Abs tight, legs straight out in front of her. Good. 10 seconds, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Great. Moving right into bicep curls. Now you can do this with dumbbells, a barbell or resistance bands. So she's keeping her elbows close to her sides. Coming all the way up and all the way down. So bring those dumbbells all the way down. Good. Not swinging the body. You want to keep this part of your body completely still. Good. Again, the intensity level is high. She's getting as many reps in as she can in these 30 seconds. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Good. Going right back to the beginning overhead press. Good. Again, as many reps as she can in these 30 seconds, coming right down the 90 degrees. Her chorus tight, her legs are flexed. Knees have a slight bend. So again, you're going to be feeling slightly fatigue. The pace is high. Keep pushing. Just do as many as you can do in those 30 seconds each week. It's going to get better. You're going to be able to get more in per round. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Right into dips. Then we're just going to move right over. You can do different variations of dips. You can come down to 90 degrees or you can do a shortened version where you're only coming down to 45 degrees. Good. Got about halfway there. You're doing these at home and this is your first week. If you need to do 5, take 5 seconds break. 5, take 5 seconds break. That's fine. Just do the best that you can do. The key is that you're pushing yourself to 100%. 4, 3, 2, 1. Great. Okay. We'll be right back into your bicep curls. Embers got our dumbbells. Make sure you're not swinging your body as your body begins to get fatigued. You have a tendency. People have a tendency to start doing this. If the weight is too heavy, just lighten the weight. The most important thing is that every one of these exercises is being done with proper form. Good. Got 5 seconds left. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Great. Moving into our last round. Right into overhead press. Embers killing it. Keeping the pace the same as she was in round 1. It's okay if you can't, especially if you're on week 1 and 2. You're going to take your body time to get acclimated and you should get tired by the ends of these rounds as you near the end of the circuit. Good. 10 seconds left. The intensity up. 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Alright moving right into the dips is our last round. You guys make sure you're pushing it. We go Embers already. Well into it. Keeping the intensity up. Perfect. Keep those legs nice and straight. Keep your chin nice and neutral. Good. Half way there. Yep. If you need to readjust while you're doing this exercise, that's fine. 5 seconds left. 4, 3, 2, and 1. Perfect. Time. Great job moving into our last exercise at this round and this circuit. Make sure you're keeping the intensity up. I'm really pushing it. We've got our rest coming up after this. Good. Turn up swinging. That's neutral. Half way there. Good job you guys. Keep pushing through. We're almost there. Almost at the end. 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Great job you guys. Alright. Embers are going to take a 15 second break because she's a highly conditioned athlete. But if you need more time, go ahead and just pause this video. 1, 2, 3. First exercises, as a lateral raise. Embers got one foot in front. That foot is supporting the resistance band. And let's begin. Good. Coming up just two shoulders. High. Perfect. Keeping the intensity up. Great job. Make sure you guys at home choose a resistance band that is appropriate. wait for what you're about to do. Don't try it. For the guys, don't overboard it. And do something that's too heavy right out of the gate. Remember we've got three or four rounds of this. Good. Five, second, slash, five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, moving right into the next exercise, we're going into an overhead tri-step extension. Amber's moved her foot to the back and the band is right underneath that back foot. And let's go. So again, we've got 30 seconds of this. She's got our elbows nice and tight to her head. Keeping the intensity up. Core is tight and that front foot she's using to stabilize. Good. We're just about halfway there. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure that you're keeping your core tight. You can also, if you're doing these using a dumbbell, you can perform this exercise sitting down, which will give more support to your lumbar. And five, four, three, two, and one. All right, moving right into our hammer curl. So Amber's moving that band right back out in the front of her. And she's grabbing right below the handle. Okay, and let's go. Keeping the elbows nice and tight to the body. Again, the intensity is high. You can see the cadence at what she's getting these reps done. The speed is up. Perfect. Keep pushing it. Remember, you want to do as many reps as you can do in these 30 seconds. Over halfway there. Keep your head up. Good. Make sure you guys, when you're doing all these exercises, your head should be in a completely neutral position. Five, four, head up, three, two, and one. Time. Okay, great. So now we're going to move in right back into our lateral raise. So Amber's adjusted her position. She's going to come up. Now, something important to notice about this exercise is that Amber is letting her wrist rock. So when you're doing a lot of raise, you're actually going to get a much better bird in your adult. If your wrist are dropped down a lot of times, I see people trying to tense the wrist. That's going to pull a lot of pressure on the wrist that should not be there. Okay, good. We're just about halfway there. Keeping the intensity up. 10 seconds. Good. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Okay, move it right into our next exercise. And overhead, tricep extension. Good. Amber's got that band on the back foot. She's right into it. This performs her coming down just down to 90 degrees. By now, your triceps are going to be fatigue. That's okay, you guys. Just keep pushing, giving 100% to each one of these exercises. Good. Keep those elbows nice and tight to the head. Breathing through it. Good. 10 seconds. Good. Just about five seconds left. Here we go. Five, four, three, two, one. Good job, you guys. Good job, Amber. All right, moving into our next exercise. We're right away. Our bicep hammer curls. Let's go. Good. Again, try not to jerk. Try and keep your body nice and still. Head is upright. People have a tendency to want to look down when they do exercise. I always tell clients to stay very neutral with their head. That's going to take all the pressure off your spine. Good. Halfway there. Keep those elbows nice and tight to the body. That's coming all the way up. And that's fine. If you need to take a slight pause in between, in between reps that's completely fine, just trying to keep your intensity going. And time. Good. All right, moving right back into your lateral raise. Here we go. Amber's in position. Let's go with our lateral raise. Perfect. Again, remember on this last round, keep the intensity up. But don't let your form suffer because you're trying to go so fast. Make sure your focus on both intensity and form. Amber's got it down. Perfect. Halfway there. Don't rock the body. Don't use any momentum to move this way. Even if on this last round, you can only move the weight up there. That's totally fine. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Moving on to our next exercise. Last one of the overhead tricep extension. And go. Perfect. Again, don't use any momentum from your body. Keeping all of these. Keeping both legs locked into place. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Remember, do as many reps as you can do. Remember to keep pushing yourself through this last round. 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Perfect. Last exercise, guys. I'm going to write into it. Here she goes. She's got her resistance bands ready. So we'll write into our hammer curl. Stand up straight. There we go. Perfect. Nice and tall. Keeping the intensity up. Amber Speed is she's really got a fast turn over. You guys should be trying to match her speed. Perfect. Halfway there. Remember, guys, you want to finish this circuit strong because you've got a rest coming up right after this exercise. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 time. Amber's going to take 15 seconds. Rest because she's a highly conditioned athlete. But for everybody at home, if you guys need to take more time, go ahead and pause the video. Let's go ahead and get her into position and start circuit number three. Alright, here we go. The very first exercise is a front raise. Let's go. 30 seconds. You can do this exercise either by alternating arms or bringing both arms up at the exact same time. For her purposes, we're going to do alternating. So again, the intensity is up. Her core is tight. Do not swing your body. Do not use the momentum of your body to move the way. We want to stay very still. If you can't complete the movement without swinging your body, drop the weight down. Go to just about five seconds left, four, three, two, and one. Alright, moving right into our next exercise, the cobra. Amber's going to go and get her mat. Pull it into position. This is a great exercise to use as an alternative to a tricep press down with no equipment necessary. So Amber has to go out her body firmly on the ground. Her hands are parallel to her body and she's just going to go ahead and press up. Take a slight pause up top, come back up, top, good. It's really squeezing the tricep. The key is to keep your elbows as close to your body as possible. That's going to put all the pressure right on the tricep. We've got just about halfway there. Good. Don't turn this into a push-up, so really pause up top. Take a pause, now back down, good. Ten seconds left. When you're doing these at home, make sure you take that pause. You should really feel this burning your tricep. Alright, in three, two, one, good. Moving on to our next exercise, a narrow bicep curl. You can do this with using dumbbells or with resistance bands. So Amber is just going to get her elbows tucked to her sides and coming up. Perfect. Good. Again, you don't want to be moving. Your body, you don't want to be using your momentum to move the weight. If you are doing that, you need to drop the weight down a little bit. Perfect. Don't swing the neck. Keep everything very still. You want to be able to do these exercises to where nothing else in your body is moving other than the weight. Perfect. Just about ten seconds left. Ten, nine, eight. Keep breathing. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. That ends the first round. Let's move right into our second round. When we're right back into our front raise, you want to get as many reps in in these 30 seconds as you possibly can so really push yourself. Right into our second round. Perfect. Again, don't swing the weight. If you need Amber's going at a really fast pace, but if you need to pause at the top, squeeze and bring it back down, that's fine too. All right. And five, four, three, two, and one. Great job you guys. Let's move right back into our cobras. Amber is down on the ground. Elbows are tucked and let's go. Make sure again you're coming all the way up on those elbows. And want to make sure you're getting a nice squeeze right in the tricep. At this point of this circuit, you're going to be feeling fatigue. This is your last circuit of this workout. Keep your head in the game. Keep focused on what your goal is and exactly what you're trying to get out of this workout. Perfect. 10 seconds. Left. 10. Nine. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. So as you can see guys, Amber's a highly conditioned athlete and she's when did you should be when did you should be constantly pushing yourself through these workouts. Right into our narrow bicep curls. Let's go. Perfect. Again, keeping the body totally straight and still. All those are tucked at the sides. You don't want to let your elbows come out to the sides this way. I want to keep them nice and tucked. And even use your own body as leverage to bring them the weight up so that you're not moving the rest of your body to complete the movement. Good. 10 seconds left. Eight. Seven. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Perfect. So now we're going to move into our last round of this circuit right away. Front raise. Amber shows how it's done. Perfect. Keep the body straight. Keep the head neutral. Go at a speed that you can go where the whole body is completely still. It's completely isolating. That shoulder. Good. You don't want to be throwing the weights around. Good. 15 seconds left. We're halfway there. Push in good job, Amber. Perfect. You are almost done with this exercise. Yep. Yep. Five, four, three, two, one. Drop right back down to the ground into your cobra. Perfect. Hands are tucked. Amber is ready to go. Hope you're ready to go to all the way up. Don't shortcut it. Come all the way up. I want to see that arm straightened out to the top. That's what's going to end that tricep. That nice little zing. 10 seconds in. Good. You're almost halfway there. Yep. There you go. Now if you need to take a couple of seconds, perfect. Take a breather and keep going. I remember guys, it's just as many as you can do within those 30 seconds. Each week you're going to get better within the 30 seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Like a boss into the last exercise of this round. Bicep curl. Here we go. And she's up. Perfect. A bicep curl is obviously a lot less taxiing on the body than the cobra. But still, you want to stay focused. Focus on the bicep really trying to work it. We're trying to get that nice definition. Trying to get stronger. You're in the last exercise of this entire workout. Keep pushing through. We've got 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and. One, this workout is done. Good job at home, good job. Amber, let's blow it up.

=== FILE: 40 Yard Dash： Sprint Like a Pro ｜ NFL Combine Trainer [00lM8-a2o3Y].txt ===

The 40-hour dash in the United States probably obviously the most popularized event. People say it's the most important people say it's the least in making $1 million in the city. I just look at it again, it's just another tool. It definitely I would say is the mecca of all athleticism type of descriptions. Anklink the butt kick is the first part of absolute speed training. You know the first part of that 40-year body will be in a four-lane and your legs will be going like through like an piston like actions. Five yards of ankleing, then five yards of butt kick. What Pete's going to do is you're going to push his toe to the top of his sneaker right there. It's like a zanko and he's going to move forward. He's going to keep his arm action in line. He's going to make sure his hand breaks the waist. His head is going to be tucked and he's going to move forward. For five yards, he's going to get many reps and then after five yards he's going to complete the cycle full range all the way down. And this foot will clear the opposite ankle, okay? Pulling in front. So Pete's going to demonstrate. He pushes his toe, he's moving forward and then he completes the cycle all the way through. Now eventually gravity dictates that your body has to stand up, okay? Now when you do that, you might not actually be traveling at your true absolute speed potential, but your leg is now going through a cyclical action, not a piston action. We call that absolute speed mechanics. He's going to do it one more time. Five yards of ankleing, five yards of buck kick. Lox's toe, hand breaks the waist, heads tucked, and then he completes the cycle. Pete's respiratory will be walking right back to the top as soon as he gets back to the top he's going to do another repetition. Based on how well he looks, maybe we'll do two, maybe we'll do three, we could do four or five. It's all based on that athlete and how he's responding to the activity. So if you're looking at the absolute speed mechanic or that cyclical pattern, the ankleing to the buck kick series is the first, I'd say, progression or it a confidently teach that type of leg motion. The absolute speed a-run is the next progression. So if you think of what ankleing does, it initiates that recovery phase of what happens as soon as your foot comes off the ground and that cyclical pattern. You want to reduce that time as possible in order to get quickly in your recovery phase. The buck kick completes the cycle. The A-run not only completes the cycle, but after you transition to the top, it gets into a ground preparation phase. Well, Pete's going to do is he's going to start off at this cone. He's going to build up, do a fast job for 10 yards. There's going to continue on for another 20 yards when he accelerated A-run. He's going to combine the components of an ankleing and a buck kick. He's going to do the exact same things. He's going to push his toe to the top of the sneaker, pull that ankle through. He's going to increase to the buck kick and give it a full cycle reflex to the front. So if he's going to demonstrate force here, he steps up to the line. Two, let's see, accelerate jog and then he moves forward, buck kicking, cycling all the way through. His hand's still clearing the hip. His head is tucked. The toe is pushed to the top of the sneaker and he's pushing his foot through to the opposite ankle. Cycling full reflex all the way in front and bringing it back up. His rest and recover will be walking back to the top. Once he gets back to the top, he'll do another repetition. Repetitions could be anywhere from three to five. We could even get into six up in the how that athlete looks at that time of the drill during the time of the workout. It's still worth training. Ancling, butt kick coming back around that cyclical pattern of the leg action into that A-run. The moving glossers is by the best ground preparation phase that ties all together. If you look at the moving glossers itself, your leg can actually travel through the air at almost an identical speed of when you're running at that absolute speed of an ankle. Let's say from the 20 to 40 yard line. But Pete's going to do. The focus on his lower body first. You're going to push the toe to the top of the sneaker. He's going to butt kick all the way up to the top. He's going to clear the knee. He's going to relax the quad and then he's going to attack the ground. He's going to give it a one, two and follow all the way through. He's not going to leave his arms behind. The first time Pete goes down, we're going to focus on his lower body. Even though he's going to breathe, don't get him to start. Okay? Push the toe to the top of the sneaker. He's going to take off here. Boom. That's it. But kick, relax the quad, attacks the ground. Attacks the ground. That's it Pete. Yeah, the exercise is definitely time to reach out. I would not say one progresses into the next one. But if you're a fission at ankleing, you can be more efficient in butt kick. If you're more efficient in butt kick, even more efficient in A-run. You can be more efficient at the moving claw series. We could go with single side. We could go just the right leg. We don't to alternate in our feet. Which side we're doing? It's up to the coach. We could actually do one side single side right side, one side single side left side. And then maybe the third time through. We'll alternate between right and left. But you're not joint loading and actually moving fast forward. You're just undergoing the properties of that powerful leg whip around the cycle of what happens when your foot comes off the ground and your foot comes into the ground. You did the butt kick. Clear the knee. Relax the quad. Attack the ground. Now folks on pizza upper body. Watch how we one two and pulls it back through. Watches our motion. You give it a one two. Follows back through. One two punch. Follows back through. That's it Pete. Buck kick. Relax the quad. Attack the ground. If you start to master the complexities of the moving claw series, that is usually when we see the transfer of athletes starting to run the way they're stuck. And their body is intended to run the all important finishing 20 to 40. Now there's one thing to do drills. It's another thing to do drills will actually apply to your running form without the athlete thinking about it. And typically when we start to see the mastery of the moving claw series, we start to see that transfer. Proud or sprint is pure acceleration. So as soon as you come off the line, your body is again in that forward lean, your legs moving through that distance like action. It cannot be stated enough that strength, especially high speed strength greatly enhances that motion. Okay, so Pete's going to walk over to the prowler. He's going to get his hands to the mid to the top. Notice how his feet are together. And he goes like, toes push to the top. He's engaging his glutes. He's going to hold for five seconds, five, four, three, two, one, go and knee up. Pist an action. Toa up, knee up. Notice how Pete's knee action is in front of his body. He's accelerating forward. Nice job Pete. He does a 10-yard prowl of sprint. He's going to rest. Basically, Pete could have a partner on this side, pushing it back 10 yards and then Pete may go again. It depends how we set up the drill. It could go 10 yards. It could go 20. It could go 30. Might even go 40 yards. And at times, he put three, four, five, or even six plates on that sled. People always talk about form running in this and that and join angles. But let's just talk about strength. The stronger you are, the more force you have, that's able to be applied into the ground. The faster you're going to move. I think the rate, the limiting factor is definitely rate of force development. Not how much force you climb to ground, but how much force and limit amount of time. Pete's going to come back here. We're going to give a little break. Pay attention to Pete's ankle position. The knee drive, piston like action in front. The toe is pushed to the top of the sneaker. He has a five-second hold. He's engaging his glutes. And he has aggressive knee action in front of his body. No butt kick whatsoever. Five, and gaze the glutes. Four, three, two, one. Go. Knee up in front of driving, driving, driving, driving, driving, aggressive knee action, driving all the way. Nice push. Where to go, Pete? I think that not only will you get strong through the prowler series and able to get that pistol like action, but if you look at the angle of the joint of just specifically your ankle joint, that is the rate limiting factor in terms of rate of force development. And if you're ready to force development, it can be enhanced or going to be fast from a powerful acceleration phase. We're going to do it. We're going to do it. We're going to get a nice forward. We're going to put it together. To the top of the shoe, we're going to get his glutes to contract. He's going to drive down and attack the ground. Straight down. Switch to one. Switch the other. And then he's going to hammer it out. Rapid fire is feet. And then he's going to stop. Okay. Here we go. Pete's on the wall here. So how many seconds Pete's going to go through? We could do three. Sometimes we do five. It's all dependent on coaching with the athletes doing and what where he is in a progression here. So he's going to toe to the top of the shoe. He's got a 45 degree lean and gauge the glutes. He's ready to go. He lifts one. Starting position. Ready. Knee up. Switch. Switch. Go. Great. Nice job. So notice how Pete contracts. Pete contracts the glute. Fire is down. It attacks the ground. He's not jumping. He's attacking the ground underneath him. For rapid fire three to five. Three to five seconds. Two. Two. Go. Back. Back. The assistant sprint series is probably the most controversial topic in the industry today. A lot of people shy away from it because it's very dangerous. A lot of people limited because they're talking about research and force application and ground contact time. I've built my entire program on it. I really do. I think that it is the most dangerous thing you can do. It can also be the most effective. What's going to happen is we use a machine. It's a pulley system. It's not a stretchy cord. It's a straight cord tied to the fence. We have a belt on an athlete. The athlete is hooked up to that belt. The carabine is facing down. The string is basically pushed through the hoop. The athlete will start. Maybe 40 yards down. The coach will be about 30 to 40 yards away from him. The coach will, as soon as the athlete starts to move. The coach will start to run and pull him forward. We'll decide what increments are how fast or how far we are. We want to pull that athlete. If he's going 40 yards, we might want to pull that athlete 20 yards. The thing about overspeed training is you have to be very careful number one. It has to be a constant assistance. Which is why you saw it use the pulley system as a post-sway bungee system. It can only assist you very, very, very, very minute levels above your maximum ability to run. So I'd say on average, you could see anywhere between 3 and 5 and possibly even 7% of assisted faster. The people that go against it talk about overstriving. And yes, overstriving could happen with this device. If you don't micro-progress into it, when I say that, I mean, the fast claw series again is the exercise. If you can master that and complex it, back and forth between the actual assisted running itself, you can be very, very, very effective. I'm down holding the cord. The athlete will move out of his 2 points stance. I'll start to string with that athlete. I'll pull him so many yards and then I'll whip the cord off. And the athlete will be propelled in an overspeed, manning training manner forward. So we're working an overspeed training technique. It will be propelled forward. Now, the key component is once you've done the overspeed running, you have to do a lot of neuromuscular work right after it, as well as get back into those moving claw series and so on and so forth. So I like the complex back and forth. Having said that is probably the most effective horizontal plometrics you can possibly do because the rapid stretch reflex sets occurring through the posterior chain. Not only do we do with our combat athletes, we do with all of our veterans. We really do because I think that we understand how to teach that speed. So then your 3-point start technique is obviously very simple. It is trying to get you into position to number one, go within the rules of the NFL combat itself. And number two, allow you without any pausing or decelerating steps, get into your drive your acceleration phase as quickly as possible. To feed on the line, tow the ankle bone, right foot, four to six inches. The right hand is going to come right in the line. Left hand finger tips. The head nose to the knee is loading the left leg. Contracts the right glue. Left hand up thousand one, thousand two. I blocked the sun, fire the elbow. So I believe that you have to load the front knee with the shin angle as low as the ground as possible to try to mimic that same type of a drive. Shining when you come out. I believe it's got to be a two foot jump, which is why you see us load the back foot without straightening the knee. I believe that the arm up serves as a powerful lever forward, which is why we straighten the arm. So once the reflex of the down arm comes down, you can actually come out. You believe in flipping the arm up to almost block the sun out of your eye. Your markup is the same block of the sun. When you actually flip and rotate your hand this way, it can act as a powerful stretch reflex lever to propel your upper body into proper position. So we focused on the lower half of his body for the first repetition for the second repetition. We're going to focus on his upper body, his arm movement. Block the sun, fire the elbow. His right hand is down on the edge. Stingered tips. He blows the left leg, contrast the right glute, no space in between his cap and his knee. Hands up, thousand one, thousand two. Dr. Sun, fire the elbow. It's an aggressive technique and the hardest part of the technique is actually after you get that powerful jump, can you accelerate out. It's very difficult to teach you a football player because you don't have that track background. But I think with assisted running complex with this aggressive technique, it can be extremely effective. If you really want to maximize your gains, doing those two things will achieve it. The daily arm drill is very simple. You know, in all running motions, the arms lead the legs. It's very simple. If you can increase the efficiencies of the stretch reflex properties of the arm, you can increase the efficiency of the stretch reflex properties of the legs. Lift foot in front, right knee down. Notice how a piece engaged, his head's down. He's going to start to swing along pendulum swing, right long arm. Then he's going to start to jog. Then he's going to start to run, note the bounce. Then it's full speed, full speed force production stretch reflex, clear in the hip and clear in the hip. Put your body in a good position, just a completely eliminate the legs and we'll focus on that upper body type from action. There's no way to better way to do that than the kneeling drill series. And you saw we had the four components where you start along with the long levers, just to get that opposing force reflex down. And then you slowly increase the knee jog and slowly progress into a run. And so you actually actually at a high speed sprinting action, trying to mimic how efficient your arms could run as you finish. So pay attention to the four different phases. Okay, he's going to switch knees. We typically would have an athlete do the left leg, then do the right leg, rest and repeat the drill. So left knee down, he's engaged, his heads down. So you start to long arm pendulum first. That's it. Now he's going to go into the jog. Into the run off the ground full speed, clearing the hip, creates the stretch reflex. So we always use that as a tool when we start to see the legs fatigue. When we start to see the improper technique, usually we'll see some type of a deficient arm action. So we're always always complexing that arm drill with every single type of a sprint drill we do. Whether it's acceleration, absolute speed, even changing directions, we're constantly doing that refresher of a kneeling arm action because it takes the legs away. And it's not going to fatigue the lower body. And actually if you have good arm action, it can help propel your legs, which might be in a fatigue state, interproper mechanics. What it tells us is pure athleticism in a linear sense. People that say, well, the 40-yard dash is very specific because you're not changing direction. In football, you never run 40-yard in a straight line. That's all ridiculous to me. I mean, it's pure athleticism because if you look at the components of accelerating and transitioning, and you look at the muscle action that is involved in the second goal action of that finish, you're looking at just the explosive and the reflex properties of those muscles. The argument is always, well, why can't they just look at my game? Oh, my can't just look at a player's game, though. Well, let's just put that in perspective. Let's say you played hurt in college football. How many times that happened? It happens a lot.

=== FILE: 45 Minute at Home Bodyweight Workout： Day 13 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [fFTdY8SOZJE].txt ===

Music Say as they've 13, your body weight workout. Today we're going to start with a dynamic warm-up move-in-tourist stretch series, go through a body weight circuit and then move-in-tour course circuit. For today's workout, you're going to need a pull-up bar, a resistance band, and a mat if you're working on a hard surface. If you can do pull-ups unassisted, no resistance band necessary. This workout, as with every workout on the 24-7 fitness trainer, you could fall along in real time on your smartphone, tablet, computer, or television. Today I'm going to be performing the workout, so try and keep up. So for the dynamic warm-up, we're going to start with jogging in place for 30 seconds. Let's go. So I'm just starting at an intensity of about 7 out of 10. Music Alright, now we're going to move right into jumping jacks. Music We're going to be running the bike kicks. Music Alright, moving right into switch kick with arm circles. Music Let's finish it off with walking high knees. Music So I'm going to go right into a seated floor hamstring stretch. I hope my feet out in front of me. My legs are going to be straight. I'm just going to go right into it, grabbing my feet, and dropping my head. Music Okay, so I'm going to go ahead and just shake out. Right back into it. You really want to feel this right in the hamstring. If you can't get all the way to your feet, that's okay. You can hold the back of your calves and just make sure that your head is completely relax. Because I also want this to stretch out the upper and lower back. So let's get into it again. I'm going to take a nice deep breath. Music And while you're doing this at home, you use this time to really focus on what your intention is for the workout ahead. This is your time to get extremely focused and clear and get ready to do battle with these circuits. Music Okay, so let's get right into the next stretch. Which is a quad stretch. You can do this either standing up or sitting down. So I'm just pulling my foot right behind. My quadricep and my driving my knee into the ground is I'm doing this. Music If you need assistance with balance, it's okay to find something nearby to hold onto like a wall or anything you have available to you. Music Okay, go ahead and shake that out. Go right back into it for stretch 2. And again, when I'm doing this, I'm breathing, keeping my upper body nice and relaxed. I shouldn't be clenching or tightening anything. You really want to just stay relaxed while you're stretching. This is an opportunity to oxygenate the muscles and to get everything lengthened out, prevent injury, and really focus on what to head. Music Okay, good. Shake that one out. We're going to switch over to the other side. Music Music Hey, good. Go ahead and kick that leg out. Bring it back a little more time. And again, my foot is directly underneath my butt. My foot is not kicking out. It's driving it right behind, putting no pressure on the knee at all. Alright, so let's move into our sumo squat. So I'm just going to take a wide stance here. If you're sore at all from yesterday's workout, you may have a hard time taking a wide stance. That's okay if you need to bring it in a little bit. Let me see if I can drop down here in these shorts. So I'm just going to drop down and spread my feet out a little bit. And I'm just going to sit right back onto my heels. And when I do this stretch, I like to use my elbows to just press my knees out a little bit. It just gives me a little added resistance and stretch. Music Okay, good. Come up, shake it out. We get right back into it. This time, try and go a little bit deeper with this stretch. So I'm just going to use my arms to push out my knees a little bit farther. I can feel that my left, my left side is a little bit tighter than my right. So I'm just going to add a little bit of pressure. I got left side to try and even these guys out. Stretchy is also a great way to overcome muscle imbalances in the body a lot of times. The way that our body develops these imbalances is because of the fact that there are certain muscles contracting on one side differently than the other. So stretching is great for combating that issue as well. Great, so let's get up. Shake that out and get right into our dynamic chest stretch. I'm just going to swing my arms back and forth. I'm not forcing, I'm not going crazy. I'm just feeling a little bit of a stretch right there in my chest. I can also feel this a little bit in my shoulders. I'm just trying to get blood moving into that shoulder socket and all through the chest. Okay, shake it out and go right into around two. This time I'm going a little bit deeper with the stretch. The hands are coming back a little bit further. Again, every time I'm doing a stretch I'm trying to breathe into the stretch I'm trying to get oxygen to those muscles. Getting them ready to go to work. All right, so let's move into the next stretch shoulder across the chest. So I'm just going to take my right hand. I'm going to use this arm. I'm going to bring my elbow right across my body. And I'm just going to adjust my arm and bring it down a little bit. I have, I'm just a little bit tight from yesterday's workout. So I can feel this more in my chest. When I'm at this angle, so I'm just going to drop a little bit lower so I can get into this felt. Okay, got him shake that out. Go right back into it. Okay, let's switch it out over to the other side. So this side, my chest is a little bit better so I can hold this arm a little higher. And again, when you're stretching you don't want to over stretch. You don't want to feel like you're tearing the muscle, but you definitely want to feel enough tension to where it feels like you are definitely elongating the muscle. You don't want to have to stretch. I see a lot of people do this. You're not doing anything for yourself. It should feel slightly uncomfortable on the first stretch of each muscle group, which is why we do this two times. You can get deeper on the second stretch. Good. Shake that out. You go right back into it. Okay, good. Let's move right into our overhead tricep stretch. I'm just going to bring my right arm back. I'm going to pour arm down. I'm going to reach across and I'm going to use this hand to secure my elbow against my head and just apply a little bit of pressure down on that elbow. Again, I can also feel this at my lat attachment, which is good, because this can be a double way. If you have tight lats from pull ups or anything else we're doing as part of this program, that's another area of the body that you want to make sure that you're stretching. Okay, good. I'm going to shake that side out and get right into round number two of this stretch. Some I'm going to try and go a little bit deeper. Again, it's really helpful if you have a mirror while you're stretching, because you want to keep your head in a totally neutral position so that if you can see that in a mirror it makes it a lot easier to make sure that you're doing stretches correctly. If not, no big deal, but it's just helpful to have that available to you. Okay, let's move on to the other side. A lot of times people ask me why have people do each stretch two times. Our body is designed to protect itself, so anytime a muscle feels like it's being pulled or stretched, think about when you feel your ankle start to roll, your body's natural inclination is to fight against it. So by doing the stretch two times on the first stretch you're definitely going to feel your body's a lot tighter, it's fighting you a lot more. So that second stretch is like, oh it's all good, I'm not getting injured, I'm just stretching. And that's the reason for the two stretches. Okay, let's move into the second round. Keep reminding yourself to breathe while you're stretching, it's really important. Good. Alright, let's move right into our next stretch, the Iliossoa stretch, one of my favorites. So I'm just going to take this foot, I'm going to go from 90 degrees, put it out about six inches, and then I'm just going to lean directly into this stretch. I'm going to keep my upper body really tall, and I'm just going to use this hand, I'm going to go up over and back so that I can feel a nice stretch right through here. I'm going to use this elbow to secure myself on my right leg. Good. Okay, go ahead and shake that out and we're right back into it, time a little bit deeper. I'm going to actually scoot my foot out a little bit more. Yeah, so while you're stretching, you really want to make sure that you're not distracted. You shouldn't be on your phone. You shouldn't be twisting your head, watching other people who may be in the gym or the space that you're in. You really just want to focus on the task at hand, which is preparing yourself for the workout. Focus solely on that. Okay, shake that out. We're going to switch over to the other side. We're going to get right into it. So this stretch is really getting into your Iliosa, which is the largest hip flexor of the body. If this hip flexor gets tight, it causes a ton of issues in the low back. A lot of times people think that they're having an issue in their low back, and really it's just a tight Iliosa as. And it gets tight from sitting down all day at work. A lot of driving of the knee, so if you're running, if you're doing leg movements, pretty much every single movement that we do is go through the Iliosa. So it's extremely important to stretch out. Okay, good. Shake that out. We're going to go into round two of this one. Okay, good. So let's move right into our low back stretch. So I'm just going to. And right here. I'm just going to relax my hands. And I'm just going to twist and bring one knee over on this side of my body and keeping this bottom leg totally straight. This arm is going to be flat on the ground. So I can really feel this all through my lumber. My upper back even parts of my shoulder as I'm letting this arm drop. And you really, you really don't want to fight this stretch. A lot of people fight against this stretch. Just take a deep breath and just let your body do what it wants to do. Okay, good. Go right back to center. Right back, over into round two. Okay, so let's move on to the other side. I'm just going to flip this way. Do the exact same thing. So I'm bringing this knee over and down. Keeping this arm right nice and relaxed. And I'm keeping my head in a neutral position. The balance of bringing this knee over on this side of the body and keeping this hand on this side is what really creates that tension. Through through the back. So you want to make sure that you're not cheating. I'm bringing this arm over or bringing it up. You want to just let it drop on the ground. Good. So come back to center. Start round two. So again, while you're going through these stretches, really be focusing on the workout ahead. The side of what you're not negotiables are. I always tell clients that at the beginning of a workout. Decide that you're not going to give up. Decide that you're not going to shortcut it when it gets hard. Those decisions are going to make a huge factor when you start to get exhausted. You have to make your mind up now what you're going to do during the core of this workout. Okay, good. So let's come up with a blue stretch. Our final stretch. So I'm going to bring this leg out and straight this leg over. I'm just going to bring my knee right into my chest. Okay, let's shake that side out. Go right back into it. You know, one of the things that sports really taught me is you don't just prepare to go into game day. You prepare to go into practice to you. Have to decide what it is. You're going to have to decide what it is. You're going to have to decide what it is. You're going to have to decide what it is. You're going to go into game day. You prepare to go into practice to you. Have to decide what it is. You're trying to get out of that practice because ultimately that's going to determine how well you're going to play in the game. And so when you're going into a do a workout, you need to get your mind in the right place. You need to say, you know what? This is what I'm going to do. This is how hard I'm going to push and failing to do that. Failing to prepare as John Wooden said is preparing to fail. Okay, good. Let's switch over to the other side. Bring in this knee. Again, just in. I'm trying to keep my upper body extremely straight. I find with myself I have a tendency to want to slouch on this stretch. So I have to constantly remind myself keep the upper body straight because that's what's going to allow you to pull the leg into the body. Again, that's why having a mirror available is very handy because you can kind of do those visual checks. Okay, so let's shake this out. Bring it back over. Last stretch before we get into it. Okay, great. So let's get right into our workout. I'm going to move this mat out of the way. So each one of these exercises is going to be performed for a total of 20 seconds. So the first exercise is a plank jumping jack. You can do this from your hands or your elbows because I'm on a hard surface. I'm going to go from my hands and just go something like the same thing as a normal jumping jack, except we're on the ground. So here we go. Good moving right into a reverse lunge. And I'm alternating legs and again I'm trying to get in as many reps as I can in these 20 seconds. And these are coming right down in 90. Okay, good. Right into pushups. All right, right into my vertical mountain climbers. Good running the dips. Okay, great. I'm back up right onto my squat. So sometimes when I do these, I like to just let my hands drop. I find that it takes a little bit of pressure off my back. Or if you want to have your hands here, that's fine too. Okay, now we're going to get right into pull-ups. So actually I'm going to get a little sip of water. If you're somebody that doesn't need assistance doing pull-ups, you don't need to band, but I want to demo pull-ups are the best exercise for the back. So in order to build up to doing them unassisted, this is an easy way to do it. Just going to take a resistance band and hook it around the side of the bars. And I'm going to take this band and hook it under my knee. For today's workout, I'm going to be doing an underhand pull-up at home. You can choose whatever variation of pull-ups you want to do. All right, let's go. 20 seconds starts now. Okay, good. All right, so now we're going to start right over with plank jumping jacks. Take a second, take a nice deep breath. I'm going to get right into it. Round two, let's go. Good, right into your reverse lunge. Okay, shake your legs out, let's get right into our push-up. But now you should be sweating and bleeding hard. All right, right back up on our feet for vertical mountain climbers. Good. Take out right into dips. So at this point, I'm wounded, but I'm mentally I'm in the game. I'm not thinking about the fact I'm tired, just thinking about completing every single exercise at 100%. All right, I'm out of my dips. I'm right into my squat. All right, guys, we're getting into our pull-ups. By this stage in the game, you should be a little bit tired or a lot tired that's okay. Because after this exercise, we're going to take a short break. So I'm going to get this resistance band right under my knee. Take a deep breath. Get my hands in position and I am ready to go. Here we go. All right, so now let's take 30 seconds break. Grab some water if you need it, which I'm sure you do. I know I do. And just take a couple of few really deep breaths of air. Get the oxygen moving back through the body. This is not the time to start thinking, oh, I'm so tired. Oh, this is so hard. You just have to keep yourself in that zone. This is why I'm doing this. This is why I'm here. This is why it's important for me to see this through deep breath of air. Okay, and we're ready. Let's go. All right, right into our reverse lunge. Again, it's your body starts to get tired. Remember that you need to be thinking about your form. I don't want to let my knee come out past my toe. So if I need to slow down to make sure that doesn't happen, that's fine. All right, ready to our pushups. My hands out wide. Here I go. All right, coming up for mountain climbers. I'm sorry, a vertical mountain climbers can tell I'm starting to get tired. That's okay though. That's why we're doing this. I'm in great shape and this is winding me and that's because I'm pushing myself. If you're not windy, you're not pushing hard enough. All right, let's get in towards it. I'm going to take one to eat breath. The oxygen back in the muscle. Fear out. Let's do it. I'm back on my feet. Up into the squat. Here we go. Again, I like to pull my hands between. I'll take a little pressure off my back. You can do the same if you want. I'm more advanced version of this movement would be a plyometric squat. So if you want to go ahead and do that at home, feels right to you. Go ahead. Let's move right into our pull-ups. I'm going to get a quick little step of water. Up my band under my knee. And we're off. Okay, so that's it for the bodyweight circuit. We're going to move right into core. All right, so each one of these exercises is going to be performed for total 20 seconds starting with a sitting twist. All right, so here we go. I'm going to bring my feet out and I'm just going to twist this way. 20 seconds here we go. Thank you. Sure you're breathing. If you want to do these with a medicine ball, if you have a medicine ball available, that's fine. For these purposes, this is just a bodyweight circuit, so we're going to do it without. All right, moving right into a plank. I'm going to soften to my plank position. Here we go. Making sure that my stomach is not dropping down, staying nice and tight. You should feel shaky when you're in this position from the workout that we just did. That's good. That means you're working hard. Right, moving right into butt-ups. Right down. I'm going to ground my feet into position. Actually, because this is a thin mat and I'm going to hurt ground. I'm going to double up on my cushiony. Okay, here we go. Straight up to the sky. Keeping your legs as straight as possible. All right, rolling this mat back out. We'll be right into my heel touches. So I'm just going to come up, tuck my chin and touch side to side. You just want to get to make sure that you're saying nice and tight when you do core exercises, really make every single rep count. Engage your abs, think about squeezing. All right, next up, modified V-sets. So I'm going to come out this way and I'm just going to cross my legs back and forth. Now, I'm doing this with my hands up here. If you need to go ahead and put your hands behind you, most important thing is just to keep your legs straight and your core engaged. All right, next up, plank step ups. I'm back in my plank position. This is going to get right into my serratus. So I'm in my plank position and I'm bringing this hand right underneath my shoulder. I'm coming up, going right back down on that side, alternating sides. I'm going back down. Up. Up. Up. Woo! It definitely feel that burn. All right, we're going to move right into our plank walkout. So from this position, this is my starting position. I'm just going to inch my elbows out in front of me. A couple of inches and I'm going to come right back a couple inches. You're going to feel this burn, like crazy. The key is to not take big steps. Take tiny small steps. That's what really is going to give you that nice contraction. Okay. Right into our cross crunch. I'm back on my butt. Here we go. So this is my starting position. My chin is down and I'm just reaching. I'm never relaxing my abs. My starting position. My abs are already contracted. Some people you'll see them do this. That's not what we're doing here. You're staying in that contracted position. This should burn. Your abs should never be relaxing. Good. Right into a bicycle crunch. Here we go. Now, some people do these. They cross. Over. I like to go elbow to knee. Same side. I just, I feel it can work so much better when I do it this way. This is the way I have all my clients do it as well. Pretty right into those obliques. All right. Right into my shoulder ridge. So working the low back in the glutes now. I want to make sure that we're bringing balance to the core. I got my feet right underneath me. I'm just coming up down slow. Right back up. You really just want to squeeze right in your glutes. It's important when you're working the front of the body with core. You work the back of the body as well. Otherwise, you can create rotation in the hips that will create a lot of issues for your lumbar. Okay. So now we're going to go with our quadrupled alternating. I'm just going to come out. My hand is straight in front of me. My foot is straight behind me. My glutes are flex coming right down. We're right out on the other side. Same thing. Again, if you have a mirror, it's going to make this so much easier. I can't see myself. So I'm hoping that everything is in the position it should be in. Pointed toe and you should feel this squeeze right through your glute, right in your obliques. All right. We're getting right back into our sitting twist round two. It's round two. I'm going to pick up the pace a little bit. All right. We'll be right into my plank. Back on my obliques. Here we go. Keeping my body completely in a straight line, not dropping down. It's right here. Squeezing my core. And I'm a little shaky on the, so I'm assuming you are too. That's okay. Stay in the position where so close to being done with this workout. All right. We're right into our butt ups. Notice I'm not taking a lot of time between exercises. I'm just getting myself right into position. Double up my mat. Here we go. Okay. Getting right into my heel touch. Here I go. My starting position. My abs are already flexed. And we're touching. You're going to get out of this ab workout. What you put into it again. Focus on the contraction of the abs. Do not use momentum to do the exercise. You don't want to just be swinging your body. You really want to be just contracting every single rep. Right into our modified V-sit. So you know what? I'm going to bring my mat up under my butt. If you're on a hard surface, you can do the same. All right. Right into our plank step ups. And back into my plank. Here we go. All right. Right into our plank walk out. Give it a breath. Here we go. Just moving out little by little. Each side. Take a while on one side and coming back on that same side. All right. Right into my cross crunch. My feet are right underneath me. Here we go. Again, I am contracted. I am not relaxing my abs. Squeezing on every single rep. Right into our bicycle crunch. Again, get your legs. Don't shortcut it. Get your legs all the way out. Throw your legs all the way out there. Into our shoulder bridge. Actually, so if you feel 10 more tension in your low back like I just did, move your butt down towards your heel. That's going to put way more tension in the butt than it is in your low back to make those slight adjustments. I'm just squeezing every time right through my glute, driving all my weight right through my heel. All right. Right into our quadruple alternating. So hands are right underneath my shoulders. Here we go. Squeezing. These do not have to be done fast. These should be done at a pace where you can really feel the squeeze. I'm feeling a squeeze in my del. I'm feeling a squeeze in my glute. All right guys, that's it for our abs circuit. That's it for our workout.

=== FILE: 45 Minute at Home Bodyweight Workout： Day 27 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [o6JqgPfC-P8].txt ===

Today is the 27 year body weight workout. Today we're going to start with a dynamic warm up move-in-tourist stretch series, go through a body weight circuit and then move-in-tour course circuit. For today's workout, you're going to need a pull-up bar, a resistance band, and a mat if you're working on a hard surface. If you can do pull-ups on assisted, no resistance band necessary. This workout, as with every workout on the 24-7 fitness trainer, you could fall along in real time on your smartphone, tablet, computer, or television. Today, I'm going to be performing the workout, so try and keep up. So for the dynamic warm up, we're going to start with jogging in place for 30 seconds. Let's go. So I'm just starting at an intensity of about 7 out of 10. Alright, now we're going to move right into jumping jacks. Alright, moving right into switch kick with arm circles. Let's finish it off with walking high knees. Alright, so let's go ahead and get right into our stretch series. So I'm going to go right into a seated floor hamstring stretch. Put my feet out in front of me. My legs are going to be straight. I'm just going to go right into it, grabbing my feet and dropping my head. So I'm going to go ahead and just shake out and go right back into it. You really want to feel this right in the hamstring. If you can't get all the way to your feet, that's okay. You can hold the back of your calves and just make sure that your head is completely relaxed because I also want this to stretch out the upper and lower back. So let's get into it again. I'm going to take a nice deep breath. And while you're doing this at home, you use this time to really focus on what your intention is for the workout ahead. This is your time to get extremely focused and clear and get ready to do battle with these circuits. Okay, so let's get right into the next stretch. Which is a quad stretch. You can do this either standing up or sitting down. So I'm just pulling my foot right behind. My quadricep and my driving my knee into the ground is undoing this. If you need assistance with balance, it's okay to find something you're about to hold onto like a wall or anything you have available to you. Okay, go ahead and shake that out. Go right back into it for stretch 2. And again when I'm doing this, I'm breathing, keeping my upper body nice and relaxed. I shouldn't be clenching or tightening anything. You really want to just stay relaxed while you're stretching. This is an opportunity to oxygenate the muscles and to get everything lengthened out, prevent injury and really focus on what to head. Okay, good. Shake that one out. We're going to switch over to the other side. Okay, good. Go ahead and kick that leg out. We're going back one more time. And again. My foot is directly underneath my butt. My foot is not kicking out. It's driving it right behind putting no pressure on the knee at all. Alright, so let's move into our sumo squat. So I'm just going to take a wide stance here. If you're sore at all from yesterday's workout, you may have a hard time taking a wide stance. That's okay if you need to bring it in a little bit. Let me see if I can drop down here in these shorts. So you're just going to drop down and the spread, my feet out a little bit. And I'm just going to step right back onto my heels. When I do this stretch, I like to use my elbows to just press my knees out a little bit. It just gives me a little added resistance and stretch. Okay, good. Come up, shake it out. We get right back into it. This time trying a little bit deeper with this stretch. So I'm just going to use my arms to push out. My knees a little bit farther. Okay, good. Come up, shake it out. We get right back into it. This time trying a little bit deeper with this stretch. So I'm just going to use my arms to push out. My knees a little bit farther. I can feel that my left. My left side is a little bit tighter than my right. So I'm just going to add a little bit of pressure. Got left side to try and even these guys out. Stretching is also a great way to overcome muscle imbalances and the body a lot of times. The way that our body develops these imbalances is because in fact that there's certain muscles contracting on one side differently than the other. So stretch is great for providing that issue as well. So let's get up. Shake that out and get right into our dynamic chest stretch. I'm just going to swing my arms back and forth. I'm not forcing it. I'm not going crazy. I'm just feeling a little bit of a stretch right there in my chest. I can also feel this a little bit in my shoulders. Just trying to get blood moving into that shoulder socket and all through the chest. Got it. Shake it out and go right into around two. This time I'm going a little bit deeper with the stretch. The hands are coming back a little bit further. Again, every time I'm doing a stretch I'm trying to breathe into the stretch. I'm trying to get oxygen to those muscles. Getting them ready to go to work. Alright, so let's move into the next stretch. Shoulder across the chest. So I'm just going to take my right hand. I'm going to use this arm. I'm going to bring my elbow right across my body. And I'm just going to adjust my arm and bring it down a little bit. I'm just a little bit tight for me. I can feel this more in my chest. I'm just going to drop a little bit lower so I can get into this felt. Okay, got him. Shake that out. Go right back into it. Okay, let's switch it out over to the other side. So this side, my chest is a little bit better so I can hold this arm a little higher. And again, when you're stretching, you don't want to overstretch. You don't want to feel like you're tearing the muscle, but you definitely want to feel enough tension to where it feels like you are definitely elongating the muscle. You don't want to have to ask the stretch. I see a lot of people do this. You're not doing anything for yourself. It should feel slightly uncomfortable on the first stretch of each muscle group, which is why we do this two times. You can get deeper on the second stretch. You've got to shake that out. You're going to right back into it. Okay, good. So let's move right into our overhead, try and step stretch. I'm just going to bring my right arm back. I'm going to reach across and I'm going to use this hand to secure my elbow against my head and just apply a little bit of pressure down on that elbow. And again, I can also feel this at my lat attachment, which is good, because this can be a double way. If you have tight lats from pull ups or anything else we're doing as part of this program. That's another area of the body that you want to make sure that you're stretching. Okay, good. I'm going to shake that side out. You get right into round number two. This stretch. So I'm going to try and go a little bit deeper. Again, it's really helpful if you have a mirror while you're stretching. Because you want to keep your head in a totally neutral position so that if you can see that in a mirror, it makes it a lot easier to make sure that you're doing stretches. Correctly, if not, no big deal, but it's just helpful to have that available to you. Okay, let's move on to the other side. The lot of times people ask me why have people do each stretch two times. Our body is designed to protect itself. So anytime a muscle feels like it's being pulled or stretched, think about when you feel your ankle start to roll, your body's natural inclination is to fight against it. So by doing the stretch two times on the first stretch, you're definitely going to feel your body's a lot tighter. It's fighting you a lot more. So that second stretch is like, oh, it's all good. I'm not getting injured. I'm just stretching. And that's the reason for the two stretches. Okay, let's move into the second round. Keep reminding yourself to breathe while you're stretching. It's really important. Alright, let's move right into our next stretch, the IliosOS stretch. One of my favorites. So I'm just going to take this foot. I'm going to go from 90 degrees, put it out about six inches, and then I'm just going to lean directly into this stretch. I'm going to keep my upper body really tall. I'm just going to use this hand. I'm going to go up over and back so that I can feel a nice stretch right through here. I'm going to use this elbow to secure myself on my right leg. Go ahead and shake that out and roll right back into it. Time a little bit deeper. I'm going to actually put out a little bit more. Yeah, so while you're stretching, you really want to make sure that you're not distracted. You shouldn't be on your phone. You should be twisting your head, watching other people who may be in the gym or the space that you're in. You really just want to focus on the task at hand, which is preparing yourself for the workout. Focus solely on that. Okay, shake that out. We're going to switch over to the other side. We'll get right into it. So this stretch is really getting into your ilio so as which is the largest hit flexor of the body. If this hit flexor gets tight, it causes a ton of issues in the low back. A lot of times people think that they're having an issue in their low back and really it's just a tight ilio so as. And it gets tight from sitting down all day at work. A lot of driving of the knee. So if you're running, if you're doing leg movements, pretty much every single movement that we do. Is go through the ilio so as so it's extremely important to stretch out. Okay, good. Shake that out. We're going to go into round two of this one. Okay, good. So let's move right into our low back stretch. So I'm just going to. Right here. I'm just going to relax my hands. I'm just going to twist and bring one knee over on this side of my body. Keeping this bottom leg totally straight. This arm is going to be flat on the ground. So I can really feel this all through my lumber. My upper back even parts of my shoulder as I'm letting this arm drop. And you really, you really don't want to fight this stretch. A lot of people fight against this stretch. Just take a deep breath and just let your body do what it wants to do. Okay, good. Go right back to center. Right back, over and round two. Okay, so let's move on to the other side. I'm just going to flip this way. Do the exact same thing. So I'm bringing this knee over and down. Keeping this arm right nice and relaxed. And I'm keeping my head in a neutral position. The balance of bringing this knee over on this side of the body and keeping this hand on this side is what really creates that tension. Through you through the back. So you want to make sure that you're not cheating. I'm bringing this arm over or bringing it up. You want to just let it drop on the ground. Good. So come back to center. Start round two. So again, while you're going through these stretches, really be focusing on the workout ahead. Decide what your non-negotiables are. I always tell clients that at the beginning of a workout decide that you're not going to give up. Decide that you're not going to shortcut it when it gets hard. Those decisions are going to make a huge factor when you start to get exhausted. You have to make your mind up now what you're going to do during the core of this workout. Okay, good. So let's come up with a blue stretch. Our final stretch. So I'm going to bring this leg out and straight this leg over. I'm just going to bring my knee right into my chest. Okay, let's shake that side out. Go right back into it. You know, one of the things that sports really taught me is you don't just prepare to go into game day. You prepare to go into practice too. You have to decide what it is you're trying to get out of that practice because ultimately that's going to determine how well you're going to play in the game. So when you're going into a do a workout you need to get your mind in the right place. You need to say, you know what this is what I'm going to do. This is how hard I'm going to push and failing to do that. Failing to prepare as John Wooden said is preparing to fail. Okay, good. Let's switch over to the other side. Bring in this knee. Again, just in. I'm trying to keep my upper body extremely straight. I find with myself I have a tendency to want to slouch on this stretch. So I have to constantly remind myself keep the upper body straight because that's what's going to allow you to pull the leg into the body. Again, that's why having a mirror available is very handy because you can kind of do those visual checks. Okay, so let's shake this out. Bring it back over. Last stretch before we get into it. Okay, great. Okay, great. So let's get right into our workout. I'm gonna move this mat out of the way So each one of these exercises is gonna be performed for a total of 20 seconds So the first exercise is a plank jumping jack You can do this from your hands or your elbows because I'm on a hard surface. I'm gonna go from my hands And just go something like the same thing as a normal jumping jack Except we're on the ground. So here we go You Good, moving right into a reverse lunge But I'm alternating legs and again, I'm trying to get in as many reps as I can in these 20 seconds I'm gonna go I'm gonna write down a 90 Okay, good right into pushups All right, right into my vertical mountain climbers them Good Good right into the depths Okay, great. I'm back up right on to my squat So sometimes when I do these I like to just let my hands drop I find that it takes a little bit of pressure off my back, but if you want to have your hands here, that's fine, too Okay, now we're gonna get right into pull-ups So actually I'm gonna get a little sip of water If you're somebody that doesn't need assistance to pull-ups You don't need to band, but I want to demo pull-ups are the best exercise for the back So in order to build up to doing them unassisted This is an easy way to do it. I'm just gonna take a resistance band and hook it around the side of the bars And I'm gonna take this band and I'm gonna hook it under my knee For today's workout, I'm gonna be doing an underhand pull-up at home. You can choose whatever variation I pull-ups you want to do. All right, let's go 20 seconds starts now Okay, good. All right, so now we're gonna start right over with plank jumping jacks Take a second take a nice deep breath Unless get right into it. Round two. Let's go. Good, right into your reverse lunge Good. Shake your legs out. Let's get right into our push-up But now you should be sweating and bleeding hard All right, right back up on our feet for vertical mountain climbers Good. Check out right into dips So this point I'm wounded but I'm mentally I'm in the game I'm not thinking about the fact I'm tired just thinking about Completing every single exercise at a hundred percent All right, I'm out of my dips. I'm right into my squat All right guys we're getting into our pull-ups By this stage in the game you should be a little bit tired or a lot tired that's okay Because after this exercise we're gonna take a short break So I'm gonna get this resistance fan right under my knee take a deep breath Get my hands in position and I am ready to go. Here we go All right so now let's take 30 seconds break grab some water if you need it Which I'm sure you do I know I do and just take a couple of few really deep breaths of air Get the oxygen moving back through the body This is not the time to start thinking oh I'm so tired. Oh this is so hard You just have to keep yourself in that zone. This is why I'm doing this. This is why I'm here This is why it's important for me to see this through deep breath of air Okay, and we're ready. Let's go All right writing to our reverse lunge Again, it's your body starts to get tired remember that you need to be thinking about your form I don't want to let my knee come out past my toe So if I need to slow down To make sure that doesn't happen. That's fine All right, we're ready to our push-ups My hands out wide You All right, coming up for mountain climbers. I'm sorry vertical mountain climbers can tell I'm starting to get tired That's okay though. That's why we're doing this I'm in great shape and this is winding me and that's because I'm pushing myself If you're not winded you're not pushing hard enough All right, let's get in toward dips. I'm gonna take one to breath The oxygen back in the muscle Fear out. Let's do it You Back on my feet up into the squat Here we go again. I'll let you hold my hands between I'll just take a little pressure off my back You can do the same if you want I'm more advanced version of this movement would be a plyometric Squat so if you want to go ahead and do that at home Feels right to you go ahead Good, let's move right into our pull-ups. I'm gonna get a quick little stick of water Hook my band under my knee oh And blocked all Alright, so moving into our last and final round, let's get right into it, we're playing jumping jacked. I'm not stopping. I don't want to take a break between rounds. I just want to get through this. For our last round, I'm going to give every single thing that I have to every exercise. Alright, back up, right into my reverse lunges. This is where you really have to take control in your mind. You control your body through what you're thinking about. I'm not thinking about how I'm winded or I'm tired, I want to lay down. We're thinking, we will fight in the room.aling in my footsteps, here I go. Alright. All right, Brian, to my vertical mountain climbing. Here we go, come on guys, get your knees up, get your hands up. But hardest part of this workout is almost done. All right, Brian, how my dips? Oh, and let's do it. All right, hinge on my squat. You can see on these last few reps, it's hard, and I'm continuing to push by this last round, you should be struggling on every exercise. You've really pushed yourself to 100%. All right, let's go, let's get into the pull position. Little drink of water. Let's do it. Bloss around to pull ups. If I make these count, my hands are to position them, let's go. Two, two, three. Okay, so that's it for the bodyweight circuit. We're going to move right into core. All right, so each one of these exercises is going to be performed for total 20 seconds, starting with the sitting twist. All right, so here we go, I'm going to bring my feet out, and I'm just going to twist this way. 20 seconds here we go. Thank you, sure you're breathing. If you want to do these with a medicine ball, if you have a medicine ball available, that's fine. For these purposes, this is just a bodyweight circuit, so we're going to do it without. All right, moving right into a plank. I'm going to stop into my plank position. Here we go. Making sure that my stomach is not dropping down, staying nice and tight. You should feel shaky when you're in this position, from the workout that we just did. That's good, that means you're worked hard. Right, moving right into butt ups. I'm going to get right down from the ground. My feet into position, actually, because this is a thin mat, and I'm going to hurt ground. I'm going to double up on my cushiony. Okay, here we go. Straight up to the sky. Keeping your legs as straight as possible. All right, I'm only going to snap back out. We'll be right into my heel touches. So I'm just going to come up, tuck my chin, and touch side to side. You just want to get to make sure that you're saying nice, and tight. You're going to be right into the back. You're going to be right into my heel touches. So I'm just going to come up, tuck my chin, and touch side to side. You just want to get to make sure that you're saying nice, and tight. When you do core exercises, really make every single rep count. Engage your abs, think about squeezing. All right, next up, modify V-sets. So I'm going to come out this way, and I'm just going to cross my legs. Back and forth. Now, I'm doing this with my hands up here. If you need to go ahead and put your hands behind you, most important thing is just to keep your legs straight, and your core engaged. All right, next up, plank step ups. I'm back in my plank position. This is going to get right into my serratus. So I'm in my plank position, and I'm bringing this hand right underneath my shoulder. I'm coming up, going right back down on that side, alternating sides. I'm coming back down. Up. Up. Up. Whew. It definitely feel that burn. All right, we're going to move right into our plank walkout. So from this position, this is my starting position. I'm just going to inch my elbows out in front of me. A couple of inches, and I'm going to come right back a couple inches. And you're going to feel this burn, like crazy. The key is to not take big steps. Take tiny small steps. That's what really is going to give you that nice contraction. Okay. Right into our cross crunch. I'm back on my butt. Here we go. So this is my starting position. My chin is down, and I'm just reaching. I'm never relaxing my abs. My starting position. My abs are already contracted. Some people you'll see them do this. That's not what we're doing here. You're staying in that contracted position. This should burn. Your abs should never be relaxing. Good. Right into a bicycle crunch. Here we go. Now, some people do these. They cross. Over. I like to go elbow to knee. Same side. I just, I feel it can work so much better when I do it this way. This is the way I have all my clients do it as well. Pretty right into those obliques. Alright, right into my shoulder bridge. So working the low back and the glutes now. I want to make sure that we're bringing balance to the core. I've got my feet right underneath me. I'm just coming up down slow. Right back up. You really just want to squeeze right in your glutes. It's important when you're working the front of the body with core. You work the back of the body as well. Otherwise, you can create rotation in the hips that will create a lot of issues for your lumbar. Okay. So now we're going to go with our, our jupel alternating. I'm just going to come out. My hand is straight in front of me. My foot is straight behind me. My glutes are flex coming right down. We're right out on the other side. Same thing again. If you have a mirror, it's going to make this so much easier. I can't see myself. So I'm hoping that everything is in the position. It should be in pointed toe. And you should feel this squeeze right through your glute. Right in your obliques. Alright, we're getting right back into our sitting twist. Round two. It's round two. I'm going to pick up the pace a little bit. Alright, we'll be right into my plank. Back on my obliques. Here we go. This is my body completely in a straight line. Not dropping down. So right here, squeezing my core. And I'm a little, I'm a little shaky on these. So I'm assuming you are too. That's okay. Stay in the position where so close to being done with this workout. Alright, right in to our butt ups. Notice I'm not taking a lot of time between exercise. I'm just getting myself right into position. Double up my mat. Here we go. Right into my heel touch. Alright, go. My starting position. My abs are already flexed. And we're touching. You're going to get out of this ab workout. What you put into it again. Focus on the contraction of the abs. Do not use momentum to do the exercise. You don't want to just be swinging your body. You're going to get out of this ab workout. You put it into it again. Focus on the contraction of the abs. You don't want to just be swinging your body. You really want to be just contracting every single rep. Right into our modified V-sit. So you know what? I'm going to bring my mat up under my butt. If you're on a hard surface, you can do the same. Alright, ready to wear plank step ups. And back into my plank. Here we go. Moving out little by little. Each side. Take a look at that. Go out on one side. And coming back on that same side. Alright, ready to my cross crunch. My feet are right underneath me. Here we go. Again, I am contracted. I am not relaxing my abs. I am squeezing on every single rep. Right into a bicycle crunch. Again, get your legs. Don't shortcut it. Get your legs all the way out. Throw your legs all the way out there. And to our shoulder bridge. Actually, so if you feel more tension in your low back, like I just did, move your butt down towards your heel. That's going to put way more tension in the butt than it is in your low back. To make those slight adjustments. I am just squeezing every time right through my glutes, driving all my weight right through my heel. Alright, right into a quadruple alternating. So hands are right underneath my shoulders. Here we go. Squeezing. These do not have to be done fast. These should be done at a pace where you can really feel the squeeze. I am feeling a squeeze in my del. I am feeling the squeeze in my glute. Alright guys, I sit for our abs circuit. That's it for our workout.

=== FILE: 45 Minute at Home Strength Workout： Day 17 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [GD_RXZRA5Jo].txt ===

Alright, let's get today started with your string two workout. Today we're going to start with your dynamic warmup followed by a stretch series and then go through three strength training circuits. You're going to need either a set of resistance bands or a set of dumbbells and a platform where you can perform dips. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete of fitness model superstar Amber Elizabeth Dogdway. Remember, for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer, you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer, or television. Alright, so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warmup. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises and the dynamic warmup, you're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright, let's go ahead and get into it. So Amber's going to start with jogging in place and again with every single one of these warmups, you want to really be at a level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warmup, you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. About halfway through. Coming up is jumping jacks, five, four, three, two and one right into jumping jacks. So Amber's taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of shortcutting the movement, make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms, all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warmup that you're keeping your core tight, we really want to get every muscle in the body, fired up. Okay, five, four, three, two, one switching over to butt kicks. This is an exercise with one of the hamstrings. Go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. The Amber's keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. Make sure that the arms are moving. Keep your shoulders nice and loose. Okay, five, four, three, two, one switching over to switch kick with arms circles. Okay, Amber's keeping her core tight. Her legs, her quads, her straight. This is great to warm up your quads. Also she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warm up. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one switching over to walking high knees, your last exercise in the warmup. And this is great for the hip flexors. You want to make sure that the hip flexors are really, really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. This is so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward, but she's bringing her knees up. Four, three, two, one. So now we're going to get into our stretch series before we start the workout. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that bad idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice are is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Go keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. You can go back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever it's near by to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Look at that. Four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout. And that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good, actually keep your knee. Good, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You know, if you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running. This is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one, come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. Okay, two, one, back up. I feel good. Take good and again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. But we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout they you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one. Good. Shoulder across the chest. Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. Bring it across again. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches. Make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Okay, switch. Okay. So she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique, it can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get you know how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And I was going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm is back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthen out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back what you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. You're right back up. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good, three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. 10 seconds left on this side. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, shake it out. I'll back up. Okay, that 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoes stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliostoes stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good, okay, relax. Good, just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoes is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing this stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first, put your hand up. Okay, so if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back, so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I'm going to get keeping the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next, Amber's going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back and most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay, she's just going to bring one knee over her body. Go to she's going to rotate. Good, so this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your blue. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to come back over. And then coming right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further because sometimes using your own body what you can't get quite far enough. Good, 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So now Amber's going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake it out. And move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for pushups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay, three, two, one, good and stop. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up. I'm just going to cross one leg across the other and she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Good. Good. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's going to shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber is shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you're using that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. Good. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So now we're going to get into our first strength circuit. It only has three exercises, but for each exercise you're going to be performing as many reps as you can during the 30 seconds. We're going to be starting with the overhead press. Let's go ahead and get your dumbbells. Okay, so right out of the gate you want to keep your intensity and your energy really high on these. So Amber's going to get it started and go. Good. So you can see the cadence at which she's lifting the waist. This is the exact speed that you want to be doing this exercise at. If you can't perform it with proper form, which is you should be bringing your elbows down to 90 degrees, your dumbbells should be parallel to the ground, lighten the weight. Good. About 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Moving right into dips. Now you can perform dips on any platform that you can find today. Amber's doing this on a medicine ball, but you can do this on the couch off your bathtub. Any kind of surface that has a platform that you can secure your arms to. Good. Just about halfway there. So Amber's coming down to 90 degrees, keeping her elbows tucked. Good. Abs tight, legs straight out in front of her. Good. 10 seconds, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Great. Moving right into bicep curls. Now you can do this with dumbbells, a barbell or resistance bands. So she's keeping her elbows close to her sides. Coming all the way up and all the way down. So bring those dumbbells all the way down. Good. Not swinging the body. You want to keep this part of your body completely still. Again, the intensity level is high. Just getting as many reps in as she can in these 30 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Going right back to the beginning. Overhead press. Good. Again, as many reps as she can in these 30 seconds coming right down the 90 degrees. Her chorus tight. Her legs are flexed. Knees have a slight bend. So again, you're going to be feeling slightly fatigue. The pace is high. Keep pushing. Just do as many as you can do in those 30 seconds each week. It's going to get better. You're going to be able to get more in per round. Five, four, three, two, one. Right into dips. Come on. Just going to move right over. And you can do different variations of dips. You can come down to 90 degrees or you can do a shortened version where you're only coming down to 45 degrees. Good. Got about halfway there. You're doing these at home and this is your first week. If you need to do five, take five seconds break, five, take five seconds break. That's fine. Just do the best that you can do. The key is that you're pushing yourself to 100%. Four, three, two, one. Great. Okay. Well, if you right back into your bicep curls, hammers got her dumbbells. Make sure you're not swinging your body as your body begins to get fatigued. You have a tendency people have a tendency to start doing this. If the weight is too heavy, just lighten the weight. The most important thing is that every one of these exercises is being done with proper form. Good. You got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one perfect. Right into our overhead press. And again, at this point in this circuit, you really want to make sure you're focusing on form, keeping your intensity up, but you don't want to start letting your elbows drop below 90 or letting the weights kind of get in front or behind you. Keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. Ten seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Good. Okay. Right into your dips. But this point in time in the workout, your body's going to be feeling a little bit fatigue. That's okay. The most important thing, just keep giving a 100%. If you need to take more time in between exercises, that's fine. Just don't rest too much. The idea is to keep the heart rate up. That's what's going to burn calories and create drastic changes. Good. More than halfway there. Ten seconds left. Ambers doing it like a boss. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Moving right into your bicep curls. Pick up your dumbbells, your resistance bands, whatever you're using to perform this exercise. Again, Ambers keeping their body nice and straight. Keeping the pace up. Pushing it, make sure that your body is staying stable. Good. Let your head stay still. Good. Keep the intensity up. Good. In 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Great. Moving into our last round. Right into overhead press. Ambers killing it. Keeping the pace the same as she was in round one. It's okay if you can't, especially if you're on weeks one and two. It's going to take your body time to get acclimated and you should get tired by the ends of these rounds as you near the end of the circuit. Good. Ten seconds left. The intensity up. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. All right. Moving right into the dips is our last round. You guys, make sure you're pushing it. We go Ambers already. Well, into it. Keeping the intensity up. Perfect. Keep those legs nice and straight. Keep your chin nice and neutral. Good. Half way there. Yep. If you need to readjust while you're doing this exercise, that's fine. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Time. Great job. Moving into our last exercise of this round and this circuit. Make sure you're keeping the intensity up and really pushing it. You've got our rest coming up after this. Good. You're not swinging. Just head neutral. Half way there. Good job, you guys. Keep pushing through. We're almost there. Almost at the end. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Great job, you guys. All right. So Ambers going to take a 15 second break because she's a highly conditioned athlete. But if you need more time, go ahead and just pause this video. First exercise is a lateral raise. Ambers got one foot in front. That foot is supporting the resistance band and let's begin. Good. Coming up just to shoulder height, perfect. Keeping the intensity up. Great job. Make sure you guys at home choose a resistance band that is appropriate weight for what you're about to do. Don't try and for the guys don't overboard it and do something that's too heavy right out of the gate because remember we've got three or four rounds of this. Good. Five, second, slash five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Moving right into the next exercise. We're going into an overhead tricep extension. Ambers moved her foot to the back and the band is right underneath that back foot and let's go. So again we've got 30 seconds of this. She's got our elbows nice and tight to her head. Keeping the intensity up. Core is tight and that front foot she's using to stabilize. Good. We're just about halfway there. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure that you're keeping your core tight. You can also if you're doing these using a dumbbell you can perform this exercise sitting down which will give more support to your lumbar. In five, four, three, two, and one. All right. Moving right into our hammer curl. So Amber's moving that band right back out in front of her and she's grabbing right below the handle. Okay. And let's go. Keeping the elbows nice and tight to the body. Again the intensity is high. You can see the cadence at what she's getting these reps done. The speed is up. Perfect. Keep pushing it. Remember you want to do as many reps as you can do in these 30 seconds. Over halfway there. Keep your head up. Good. Make sure you guys when you're doing all these exercise your head should be in a completely neutral position. Five, four, head up, three, two, and one. Time. Okay. Great. So now we're going to move in right back into our lateral raise. So Amber's adjusted her position. It's going to come up. Now something important to notice about this exercise is that Amber is letting her wrist drop. So when you're doing a lot of raise, you're actually going to get a much better bird in your belt. If your wrists are dropped down a lot of times, I see people trying to tense the wrist. That's going to put a lot of pressure on the wrist that should not be there. Okay. Good. We're just about halfway there. Keeping the intensity up. 10 seconds. Good. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Okay. We'll be right into our next exercise and overhead tricep extension. Good. Amber's got that band on the back foot. She's right into it. This her forearms are coming down just down to 90 degrees. By now your triceps are going to be 15. That's okay. You guys just keep pushing, giving 100% to each one of these exercises. Good. Keep those elbows nice and tight to the head. Breathing through it. Good. 10 seconds. Good. Just about five seconds left. Here we go. Five, four, three, two, one. Good job you guys. Good job, Amber. All right. Moving into our next exercise. We're right away. Our bicep hammer curls. Let's go. Good. Again, try not to jerk, try and keep your body nice and still. Head is upright. People have a tendency to want to look down when they do exercise. I always tell clients to stay very neutral with their head. That's going to take all the pressure off your spine. Good. Halfway there. He goes elbows nice and tight to the body. That's coming all the way up. And that's fine. If you need to take a slight pause in between, in between reps that's completely fine. Just try and keep your intensity going and time. Good. All right. Moving right back into your lateral raise. The Amber's in position. Perfect. Keeping those wrists nice and dropped. Again, by this stage in the game, you're feeling slightly fatigued. That's okay. That's what you're supposed to feel. Change in the body doesn't happen until your body's taken outside of its comfort zone. Which is exactly why each one of these workouts is hard. It's designed to be hard because I want to get you the greatest result you can get in 28 days. On one way, eight to 12 weeks. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Moving right into the next exercise. Perfect. Amber's got that band right behind her and begin. Now, if on this last set, if you can't come down to 90 degrees, if your try steps are just toasted, that's okay. Even to come to 45, the key is to just keep the body moving. Good job, Amber. Yep. Even highly conditioned athletes, they have to go through workouts that are difficult. That's how we continue to get better. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three. Perfect. Two, and one time. Perfect. Moving into the next exercise right away. Scott our chord in position. And again, you're seeing that Amber's fatigue and you at home should be fatigued as well because she's going 100%. If she was half-assing this, this would be super super simple but she's trying to take herself out of her comfort zone and you should be doing the exact same thing. Good. 15 seconds left. Perfect. Keep your head up. Body still. Try not to rock. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. All right, moving into the last round of this circuit. Here we go. Amber's in position. Let's go with our lateral raise. Perfect. Again, remember on this last round, keep the intensity up but don't let your form suffer because you're trying to go so fast. Make sure you're focusing on both intensity and form. Amber's got it down, perfect. Halfway there. Don't rock the body. Don't use any momentum to move this way. Even if on this last round, you can only move the weight up there. That's totally fine. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Moving on to our next exercise. Last one of the overhead tricep extension and go. Perfect. Again, don't use any momentum from your body. Keeping all of these, keeping both legs locked into place. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Remember, do as many reps as you can do. Remember to keep pushing yourself through this last round. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Last exercise, guys. Right into it. Here she goes. She's got her resistance bands ready. Let's move right into our hammer curl. Stand up straight. There we go. Perfect. Nice and tall. Keeping the intensity up. Amber's speed is. She's really got a fast turn over. You guys should be trying to match her speed. Perfect. Halfway there. Remember guys, you want to finish this circuit strong because you've got a rest coming up right after this exercise. Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one time. Amber's going to take 15 seconds rest because she's a highly conditioned athlete, but for everybody at home, if you guys need to take more time, go ahead and pause the video. Let's go ahead and get her into position and start circuit number three. All right, here we go. The very first exercise is a front raise. Let's go. 30 seconds. So you can do this exercise either by alternating arms or bringing both arms up at the exact same time. For her purposes, we're going to do alternating. Go again. The intensity is up. Her core is tight. Do not swing your body. Do not use the moment of your body to move the way. We want to stay very still. If you can't complete the movement without swinging your body, drop the weight down. Go just about five seconds left, four, three, two, and one. All right, moving right into our next exercise. The cobra, Amber's going to go and get her mat. Pull it into position. This is a great exercise. Use it as an alternative to a tricep press down. With no equipment necessary. So Amber has to go out her body firmly on the ground. Her hands are parallel to her body and she's just going to go ahead and press up. Take a slight pause up top. Come back up. Top. Good. It's really squeezing the tricep. The key is to keep your elbows as close to your body as possible. That's going to put all the pressure right on the tricep. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. Don't turn this into a push-up. So really pause up top. Take a pause. Now back down. Good. Ten seconds left. When you're doing these at home, make sure you take that pause. You should really feel this burning your tricep. All right, in three, two, one. Good. Moving on to our next exercise. A narrow bicep curl. You can do this with using dumbbells or with resistance bands. So Amber's just going to get her elbows tucked to her sides and coming up. Perfect. Good. Again, you don't want to be moving your body. You don't want to be using your momentum to move the weight. If you are doing that, you need to drop the weight down a little bit. Perfect. Don't swing the net. Keep everything very still. You want to be able to do these exercises to where nothing else in your body is moving other than the weight. Perfect. Just about 10 seconds left. Ten, nine, eight. Keep breathing. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right. That ends the first round. Let's move right into our second round. When we write back into our front raise, you guys, you want to get as many reps in in these 30 seconds as you possibly can. So really push yourself for right into our second round. Perfect. Again, don't swing the weight. If you need Amber's going at a really fast pace, but if you need to pause at the top, squeeze and bring it back down. That's fine too. All right. And five, four, three, two, and one. Great job. You guys, right. Let's move right back into our cobras. Amber is down on the ground. Elbows are tucked and let's go. Make sure again, you're coming all the way up on those elbows. We want to make sure you're getting a nice squeeze right in the tricep. At this point of this circuit, you're going to be feeling fatigue. This is your last circuit of this workout. Keep your head in the game. Keep focused on what your goal is and exactly what you're trying to get out of this workout. Perfect. 10 seconds. Left. 10. Nine. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. So as you can see, guys, Amber's a highly conditioned athlete. And she's wounded. You should be wounded too. You should be constantly pushing yourself through these workouts. All right. Right into our narrow bicep curls. Let's go. Perfect. Again, keeping the body totally straight and still. All those are tucked at the sides. You don't want to let your elbows come out to the sides this way. I want to keep them nice and tucked and even use your own body as leverage to bring them the weight up so that you're not moving the rest of your body to complete the movement. Good. 10 seconds left. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Time. Let's move right into the next round. Front raise. And again, at this stage in the game, your body is going to begin to be very fatigued. You want to make sure you're really using your core keeping your glutes tight. That's what's going to stabilize the body so that you're really just isolating the muscle group that we're trying to work. And make sure that you breathe. Do not hold your breath. Good. Halfway there. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Moving right back into our cobra. And perfect. And begin. Perfect. So again, she's coming up. She's flexing the tricep. She's keeping those legs flat on the ground. By this stage in the game, you're going to be fatigued. That's to be expected. So important that you just keep pushing through, keep focusing on why you're doing this, what your motivation is. And you're so close to being done with this entire workout, by the way. Perfect. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Yes. All right. Right back into our narrow bicep curls. Perfect. Right away. Right into it again. Head in neutral position. The body is straight. With this stage in the game. The bicep are burning. That's okay. That's exactly what they should be doing. Just do your best. Each one of these rounds, 100%. You're so close to being done with this workout. Good. Halfway there. Perfect. 10. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Time. Perfect. So now we're going to move into our last round of this circuit right away. Front raise. Amber shows how it's done. Perfect. Keep the body straight. Keep the head neutral. Go at a speed that you can go where the whole body is completely still and just completely isolating that shoulder. Good. You don't want to be throwing the weights around. Good. 15 seconds left. We're halfway there. Keep pushing. Good job, Amber. Perfect. You are almost done with this exercise. Yep. Yep. Five, four, three, two, one. Drop right back down to the ground into your cobra. Perfect. Hands are tucked. Amber is ready to go. Hope you're ready to go to all the way up. Don't shortcut it. Come all the way up. I want to see that arm straightened out to the top. That's what's going to be that tricep that nice little zing. 10 seconds in. Good. You're almost halfway there. Yep. There you go. Now if you need to take a couple seconds, perfect. Take a breather and keep going. Remember guys, it's just as many as you can do within those 30 seconds. Each week you're going to get better within the 30 seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Like a boss into the last exercise of this round. Bicep curl. Here we go. And she's up. Perfect. A Bicep curl is obviously a lot less taxiing on the body than the cobra. But still, you want to stay focused. Focus on the Bicep really trying to work it. We're trying to get that nice definition. Trying to get stronger. You're in the last exercise of this entire workout. Keep pushing through. We've got 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. This workout is done. Good job at home. Good job. Amber is blowing up.

=== FILE: 45 Minute at Home Strength Workout： Day 24 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [Mt_XZjSqbEk].txt ===

Alright, let's get today started with your string two workout. Today we're going to start with your dynamic warmup followed by a stretch series and then go through three strength training circuits. You're going to need either a set of resistance bands or a set of dumbbells and a platform where you can perform dips. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete of fitness model superstar Amber Elizabeth Dodgeway. Remember for today's workout and every workout in the 24-7 fitness trainer you can follow along in real time on your phone, tablet, computer or television. Alright, so we're going to start today's workout with our dynamic warmup. We're going to start with jogging in place with each one of these exercises and the dynamic warmup you're going to perform each one of them for 30 seconds of peace. Alright, let's go ahead and get into it. Amber's going to start with jogging in place and again with every single one of these warmups you want to really be at a level 7 of 10 intensity. Not pushing yourself too hard but by the end of this warmup you should definitely be sweating your body should be warm. Halfway through. Coming up is jumping jacks 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 right into jumping jacks. Amber's taking a nice wide stance. A lot of times I see people doing jumping jacks are kind of short cutting the movement make sure you're coming all the way up with your arms all the way out with your legs. Also make sure with this warmup that you're keeping your core tight we really want to get every muscle in the body fired up. Okay, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to butt kicks. This is an exercise with more of the hamstrings. Go ahead and give them a twist so they can see what you're doing. The Amber's keeping her knee right underneath her hips and just bringing her heel right up to her butt. Make sure that the arms are moving. Keep your shoulders nice and loose. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 switching over to switch kick with arms circles. Okay, Amber's keeping her core tight. Her legs, her quads are straight. This is great to warm up your quads. So she's keeping her arms at a parallel angle to her shoulder getting the shoulders nice and warmed up. How's your core fluid? 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and once switching over to walking high knees your last exercise in the warmup. Okay, this is great for the hip flexors. You want to make sure that the hip flexors are really warmed up before you perform any sort of workout. It's been so much time sitting down. It's important to get all this stuff moving again. Everything nice and loose. Again, she's keeping her core tight through the exercise. She's not leaning forward, but she's bringing her knees up. 4, 3, 2, 1. So now we're going to get into our stretch series before we start the workout. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. Again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again on the second round you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. I'm going to keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel this stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch which is a quad stretch. Good, so for this stretch you want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable if you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch. It's okay to use a wall or whatever it's near by to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game so use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good. Make sure you keep your knee. Okay, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You know, if you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. People who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked and this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good. Two, one. Come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good. Again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up but we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout they you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one. Good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. But the other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. Bring it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, you're going to have to do this. Okay, so you're going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And I'm just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back. And she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll, you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. You're right back up. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. We're going to go three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. 10 seconds left on this side. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, shake it out, I'm back up. Okay, so that 10 more seconds left. Coming up we have the Iliosto-S stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Amber's going to get into the Iliosto-S stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good, okay, relax. Good, just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliosto-S is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it touches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good, three, two, one. Good, so what you're going to switch to the other side? Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first, put your hand up. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Five, four, three, two, one, good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I'm going to keep the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next, Amber's going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this, have done a stretch like this. Okay, she's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good and she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even fill this in parts of your blue. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one, good. Just going to come back over. And then come right back over. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. Good, 10 seconds, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So now Amber's going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one, good. Just going to shake it out. And move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That is, that's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine. Everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay, three, two, one, good and stuff. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up. Just going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keep in this leg nice and straight. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's going to shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Then second, it's left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Okay, just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber is shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you're using that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. Good. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout, stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So now we're going to get into our first strength circuit. It only has three exercises, but for each exercise you're going to be performing as many reps as you can during the 30 seconds. We're going to be starting with the overhead press. Let's go ahead and get your dumbbells. Okay, so right out of the gate you want to keep your intensity and your energy really high on these. So Amber's going to get it started and go. Good. So you can see the cadence at which she's lifting the waist. This is the exact speed that you want to be doing this exercise at. If you can't perform it with proper form, which is you should be bringing your elbows down to 90 degrees, your dumbbells should be parallel to the ground, lighten the weight. Good. About 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Moving right into dips. Now you can perform dips on any platform that you could find today. Amber's doing this on a medicine ball, but you can produce this on the couch off your bath tub. Any kind of surface that has a platform that you can secure your arms to. Good. Just about halfway there. So Amber's coming down to 90 degrees, keeping her elbows tucked. Good. Abs tight. Leg straight out in front of her. Good. 10 seconds, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Great. Moving right into bicep curls. Now you can do this with dumbbells, a barbell or resistance bands. So she's keeping her elbows close to her sides, coming all the way up and all the way down. So bringing those dumbbells all the way down. Good. Not swinging the body. You want to keep this part of your body completely still. Again, the intensity level is high. Just getting as many reps in as she can in these 30 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Going right back to the beginning. Overhead press. Good. Again, as many reps as she can in these 30 seconds, coming right down the 90 degrees, her chorus tight, her legs are flexed. knees have a slight bend. So again, you're going to be feeling slightly fatigue. The pace is high. Keep pushing. Just do as many as you can do in those 30 seconds. Each week, it's going to get better. You're going to be able to get more in per round. Five, four, three, two, one. Right into dips. Come on. Just going to move right over. And you can do different variations of dips. You can come down to 90 degrees or you can do a shortened version where you're only coming down to 45 degrees. Good. Got about halfway there. You're doing these at home and this is your first week. If you need to do five, take five seconds break, five, take five seconds break. That's fine. Just do the best that you can do. The key is that you're pushing yourself to 100%. Four, three, two, one. Great. Okay. Well, if you right back into your bicep curls, hammers got her dumbbells. Make sure you're not swinging your body as your body begins to get fatigued. You have a tendency people have a tendency to start doing this. If the weight is too heavy, just lighten the weight. The most important thing is that every one of these exercises is being done with proper form. Good. Got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Right into her overhead press. And again, at this point in this circuit, you really want to make sure you're focusing on form keeping your intensity up. But you don't want to start letting your elbows drop below 90 or letting the weight get in front or behind you. Keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Good. Okay. Right into your dips. But this point in time in the workout, your body's going to be feeling a little bit fatigue. That's okay. The most important thing, just keep giving 100%. If you need to take more time in between exercises, that's fine. Just don't rest too much. The idea is to keep the heart rate out. That's what's going to burn calories and create drastic change. Good. More than halfway there. 10 seconds left. Amber's doing it like a boss. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Moving right into your bicep curls. Pick up your dumbbells, your resistance bands, whatever you're using to perform this exercise. Again, Amber's keeping her body nice and straight. Keeping the pace up. Pushing it. Make sure that your body is staying stable. Good. But your head stays still. Go to keep the intensity up. Good. In 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Great. Moving into our last round. Right into overhead press. Amber's killing it. Keeping the pace the same as she was in round one. It's okay if you can't especially if you're on weeks one and two. It's going to take your body time to get acclimated and you should get tired by the ends of these rounds as you near the end of the circuit. Good. 10 seconds left. The intensity up. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. All right. Moving right into the dips is our last round. You guys, make sure you're pushing it. We go Amber's already well into it. Keeping the intensity up. Perfect. Keep those legs nice and straight. Keep your chin nice and neutral. Good. Half way there. Yep. If you need to readjust while you're doing this exercise, that's fine. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Perfect time. Great job. Moving into our last exercise of this round and this circuit. Make sure you're keeping the intensity up and really pushing it. So you've got our rest coming up after this. Good. You're not swinging. This is a new troll. Half way there. Good job you guys. Keep pushing through. We're almost there. Almost at the end. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Great job you guys. All right. So Amber's going to take a 15 second break because she's a highly conditioned athlete. But if you need more time, go ahead and just pause this video. First exercise is a lateral raise. Amber's got one foot in front. That foot is supporting the resistance band and let's begin. Good. Coming up just to shoulder height, perfect. Keeping the intensity up. Great job. Make sure you guys at home choose a resistance band that is appropriate weight for what you're about to do. Don't try and for the guys don't overboard it and do something that's too heavy right out of the gate. Remember we've got three or four rounds of this. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay moving right into the next exercise. We're going into an overhead tricep extension. Amber's moved her foot to the back and the band is right underneath that back foot and let's go. So again we've got 30 seconds of this. She's got our elbows nice and tight to her head. Keeping the intensity up. Core is tight and that front foot she's using to stabilize. Good. We're just about halfway there. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure that you're keeping your core tight. You can also if you're doing these using a dumbbell you can perform this exercise sitting down which will give more support to your lumbar. In five, four, three, two, and one. All right moving right into our hammer curl. So Amber's moving that band right back out in front of her and she's grabbing right below the handle. Okay and let's go. Keeping the elbows nice and tight to the body. Again the intensity is high. You can see the cadence at what she's getting these reps done. The speed is up. Perfect. Keep pushing it. Remember you want to do as many reps as you can do in these 30 seconds. Over halfway there. Keep your head up. Good. Make sure you guys when you're doing all these exercise your head should be in a completely neutral position. Five, four, head up, three, two, and one. Time. Okay great. So now we're going to move in right back into our lateral raise. So Amber's adjusted her position. It's going to come up. Now something important to notice about this exercise is that Amber is letting her wrist drop. So when you're doing the lateral raise, you're actually going to get a much better bird in your delt. If your wrists are dropped down a lot of times I see people trying to tense the wrist. That's going to put a lot of pressure on the wrist that should not be there. Okay good. We're just about halfway there. Keeping the intensity up. 10 seconds. Good. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Okay moving right into our next exercise and overhead. Try step extension. Good. Amber's got that band on the back foot. She's right into it. Her forearms are coming down just down to 90 degrees. By now your triceps are going to be 15. That's okay. You guys just keep pushing, giving 100% to each one of these exercise. Good. Keep those elbows nice and tight to the head. Breathing through it. Good. 10 seconds. Good. Just about five seconds left. Here we go. Five, four, three, two, one. Good job. You guys. Good job, Amber. All right moving into our next exercise. We're at a way our bicep hammer curls. Let's go. Good. Again, try not to jerk. Try and keep your body nice and still. Head is upright. People have a tendency to want to look down when they do exercise. I always tell clients to stay very neutral with their head. That's going to take all the pressure off your spine. Good. Halfway there. He goes elbows nice and tight to the body. Press the coming all the way up. And that's fine. If you need to take a slight pause in between, in between reps that's completely fine, just try and keep your intensity going. And time. Good. All right, moving right back into your lateral raise. Amber's in position. Perfect keeping those wrists nice and dropped. Again, by this stage in the game, you're feeling slightly fatigued. That's okay. That's what you're supposed to feel. Change in the body doesn't happen until your body's taken outside of its comfort zone. Use exactly why each one of these workouts is hard. It's designed to be hard because I want to get you the greatest result you can get in 28 days. On a one way, eight to twelve weeks. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. We'll be right into the next exercise. Perfect. Amber's got that band right behind her and begin. Now, if on this last set, if you can't come down to 90 degrees, if your triceps are just toasted, that's okay. Even to come to 45, the key is to just keep the body moving. Good job, Amber. Yep. Even highly conditioned athletes, they have to go through workouts that are difficult. That's how we continue to get better. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, perfect, two, and one time. Perfect. Moving into the next exercise right away. Scott our chord in position. And again, you're seeing that Amber's fatigue and you at home should be fatigued as well because she's going 100%. If she was half-assing this, this would be super super simple, but she's trying to take herself out of her comfort zone and you should be doing the exact same thing. Good. 15 seconds left. Perfect. Keep your head up. Body still. Try not to rock. 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. All right, moving into the last round of this circuit. Here we go. Amber's in position. Let's go with our lateral raise. Perfect. Again, remember on this last round keep the intensity up, but don't let your form suffer because you're trying to go so fast. Make sure you're focusing on both intensity and form. Amber's got it down perfect. Halfway there. Don't rock the body. Don't use any momentum to move this way. Even if on this last round you can only move the weight up there, that's totally fine. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Perfect. Moving on to our next exercise. Last one of the overhead tricep extension and go. Perfect. Again, don't use any momentum from your body. Keep in all these keeping both legs locked into place. Perfect. Perfect. Remember, do as many reps as you can do. Remember to keep pushing yourself through this last round. 10 seconds left. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Perfect. Last exercise guys. Right into it. Here she goes. She's got her resistance bands ready. Let's move right into our hammer curl. Stand up straight. There we go. Perfect. Nice and tall keeping the intensity up. Amber's speed is she's really got a fast turn over. You guys should be trying to match her speed. Perfect. Halfway there. Remember guys, you want to finish this circuit strong because you've got a rest coming up right after this exercise. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 time. Amber's going to take 15 seconds rest because she's a highly conditioned athlete but for everybody at home if you guys need to take more time, go ahead and pause the video. Let's go ahead and get her into position and start circuit number three. Alright, here we go. The very first exercise is a front raise. Let's go. 30 seconds. So you can do this exercise either by alternating arms or bringing both arms up at the exact same time. For her purposes, we're going to do alternating. Good. Again, the intensity is up. Her core is tight. Do not swing your body. Do not use the momentum of your body to move the way. We want to stay very still. If you can't complete the movement without swinging your body, drop the weight down. Good. Just about five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Alright, moving right into our next exercise. The cobra. Amber's going to go and get her mat. Pull it into position. This is a great exercise. Using an alternative to a tricep press down with no equipment necessary. So Amber has to go out her body firmly on the ground. Her hands are parallel to her body. And she's just going to go ahead and press up. Take a slight pause up top. Come back up. Top. Good. It's really squeezing the tricep. The key is to keep your elbows as close to your body as possible. That's going to put all the pressure right on the tricep. Good. Just about half way there. Good. Don't turn this into a push-up. So really pause up top. Take a pause. Now back down. Good. Ten seconds left. When you're doing these at home, make sure you take that pause. You should really feel this burning your tricep. Alright, in three, two, one. Good. Moving on to our next exercise. A narrow bicep curl. You can do this with using dumbbells or with resistance bands. So Amber's just going to get her elbows tucked to her sides and coming up. Perfect. Good. Again, you don't want to be moving your body. You don't want to be using your momentum to move the weight. If you are doing that, you need to drop the weight down a little bit. Perfect. Don't swing the net. Keep everything very still. You want to be able to do these exercises to where nothing else in your body is moving other than the weight. Perfect. Just about ten seconds left. Ten, nine, eight. Keep breathing. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Alright, that ends the first round. Let's move right into our second round. We'll be right back into our front raise. You guys, you want to get as many reps in in these 30 seconds as you possibly can so really push yourself for right into our second round. Perfect. Again, don't swing the weight. If you need Amber's going at a really fast pace, but if you need to pause at the top, squeeze and bring it back down, that's fine, two. Alright, and five, four, three, two, and one. Great job. You guys, right, let's move right back into our cobras. Amber is down on the ground. Elbows are tucked and let's go. Make sure again, you're coming all the way up on those elbows. We want to make sure you're getting a nice squeeze right in the tricep. At this point of this circuit, you're going to be feeling fatigue. This is your last circuit of this workout. Keep your head in the game. Keep focused on what your goal is and exactly what you're trying to get out of this workout. Perfect. 10 seconds left. 10. Nine. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. So as you can see, guys, Amber's a highly conditioned athlete and she's wanted you should be willing to do. You should be constantly pushing yourself through these workouts. Alright, right into our narrow bicep curls. Let's go. Perfect. Again, keeping the body totally straight and still. All those are tucked at the sides. You don't want to let your elbows come out to the sides this way. I want to keep them nice and tucked and even use your own body as leverage to bring them the weight up so that you're not moving the rest of your body to complete the movement. Good. 10 seconds left. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Good time. Let's move right into the next round. Front raise. And again, at this stage in the game, your body is going to begin to be very fatigued. You want to make sure you're really using your core keeping your glutes tight. That's what's going to stabilize the body so that you're really just isolating the muscle group that we're trying to work and make sure that you breathe. Do not hold your breath. Good halfway there. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Moving right back into our cobra. And perfect. And begin. Perfect. So again, she's coming up. She's flexing the tricep. She's keeping those legs flat on the ground. By this stage in the game, you're going to be fatigued. That's that's to be expected. So important that you just keep pushing through, keep focusing on why you're doing this, what your motivation is. And you're so close to being done with this entire workout, by the way. Perfect. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Yes. All right. Right back into our narrow bicep curls. Perfect. Right away. Right into it. Again, head into neutral position. The body is straight. With this stage in the game. The bicep are burning. That's okay. That's exactly what they should be doing. Just do your best. Each one of these rounds, 100%. You're so close to being done with this workout. Good. Halfway there. Perfect. 10. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Time. Perfect. So now we're going to move into our last round of this circuit right away. Front raise. Amber shows how it's done. Perfect. Keep the body straight. Keep the head neutral. Go at a speed that you can go where the whole body is completely still. Just completely isolating that shoulder. Good. You don't want to be throwing the weights around. Good. 15 seconds left. We're halfway there. Keep pushing. Good job, Amber. Perfect. You are almost done with this exercise. Yep. Yep. Five, four, three, two, one. Drop right back down to the ground into your cobra. Perfect. Hands are tucked. Amber is ready to go. Hope you're ready to go to all the way up. Don't shortcut it. Come all the way up. I want to see that arm straightened out to the top. That's what's going to be that tricep that nice little zing. 10 seconds in. Good. You're almost halfway there. Yep. There you go. Now if you need to take a couple of seconds, perfect. Take a breather and keep going. I remember guys, it's just as many as you can do within those 30 seconds. Each week you're going to get better within the 30 seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Like a boss into the last exercise of this round. Bicep curl. Here we go. And she's up. Perfect. A Bicep curl is obviously a lot less taxi on the body than the cobra. But still, you want to stay focused. Focus on the Bicep. Really trying to work it. We're trying to get that nice definition. Trying to get stronger. You're in the last exercise of this entire workout. Keep pushing through. We've got 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. This workout is done. Good job at home. Good job. Amber is blowing up.

=== FILE: 5 Back-Busting Exercises ｜ Dorian Yates' Blood & Guts [Fe7pzbZQ0Gs].txt ===

We're doing a full overs first because it's isolating the latch with that bicep involvement. Usually the weak link in a latch exercises a bicep is going to give way. So we're just trying to work the latch without having any bicep involvement. We had a pull over machine that's ideal because it's full range all the way around. Where a dumbbell is only a half range, but we're working with what we got. That's what we got today, so we used dumbbells. Good. Good. Good. We're going to have a good turn. We got you couldn't have best turn, that's 11. 12. Okay, I'll do it with him. Yeah? I'll do it with you. Good on you. Okay, boy. Hey, boy. This is the same dumbbell. Yeah. Nice and tight though. Good stretch, quick pull. One, two, three, four, five, good. Good, good. Good. Thanks, strong. Biggest. Seven. Good boy. Great. Great. Big pull. Oh, nice. One more. Last one. Oh. Big. Yeah, I got it. We're going to use a pull down with it by steps to come into play. I stretch, spring down, squeeze. All the way down, man. There. Squeeze, yeah. Pause at the chest. Good. Pause, good. Keep the body still, man. There. Good. That's better. Nice. Two more. All the way down, squeeze. One more. All the way down, squeeze. All right, it's nice. Nice. Arch of the bottom, man. Because if you pull down and you like this, you're not getting the contraction instead of me. Right there. Right. Right. There are 225 people that go, man. Stretch that body movement. Stretch out the shoulder go, bring down, squeeze on it. Good. And squeeze, nice. Two, good. Three, nice. Come on. Just look. Rats. More. Five, good. Come on. Please. Six. Arch of the squeeze of the bottom. Go. Man again. All the way down. All the way down. Squeeze it in. Squeeze it in. One more. Stretch and pick up. Squeeze. Squeeze. Good. One knee on there. Other leg. Out and back. Because you're going to be pulling it towards your waist. As opposed to no. If you're pulling up here, then that's going to be more traps and run boys. Rats. Pulling. I'm traveling close to side like that. Into your waist. And back down again. So, up and back, getting the rats with this one. Easy. Right. Right. Two. Six. Six. Right. Six. Right. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Six. Eight. Six. We're going to do a bike throws. We're going to do that like this. So we're going to go up there now. Run boys, traps. For the first few exercises, we're pulling in here. We're working on rats here. Working on rats. The elbows, arms. I'm traveling close to the body here. Pull down. Go. Those are latin movements. Now, elbows out. We're going up and back. Of course, the rats are still involved. We're pulling more emphasis on the upper back, which is. The lower traps, the rhombides, the terries, and so on. That's why they have a grip. We're bringing the elbows out. Nice. We're in there, yeah. Three. All good. Five. Six. Don't you reason to use them is if the power of my latin is greater than my grip. You know, it's my grip's going to give away before my back gives away. Then I'm going to support my grip, but if it's not necessary, I'm not going to use them. Because if you keep supporting your grip all the time, it's not going to get stronger, you know. All right. So, take a mic. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Three. Three. Three. Three. Four. Four. Four. Four. Four. Four. All right. Cool. It's good. Four of that. Six. Right back. Four. And again. Four. Come on. Four. One more. Four. Four. Four. Good. Good set. So we do it. Five. Four. Four. Four. Four. Four. Four. Four. I just do it in the initial one from the floor. Then I'm just going here. So if you got racks, you can just do it from there to start with. Keep the head up. Give me a back flat. Yep. You never want to lift with your back rounded like that. You're putting it back in a very vulnerable position. I like to do it in front of the mirror. So I can watch the form. Oh, the initial lift from the floor is more quiet than the glutes. That's why after he's lifted it from the floor, I'm just going to midshend and kick. So we're just keeping it on the back. People are tensioning on the back. Good. Up. Two. Up. Three. Four. Excellent. Up. High. Up. Big. That. Maybe just a tad higher. You know. Better to ask them to go. I'll see them working more lace. These are new work here, legs and more ones. You get out of the bottom. Just like midshend, kick the nice and tight. Just keep it on the back. Alright. Hold on then. Here's the strap down here. Nice and tight. Just do as many as you can where the form is perfect. You know, if you start breaking the form, that's toned for it down. No risk on this one here. Alright, spin it still all up now. Then all the whole back. Yep. So strong. Good. Okay. No. Except seven. Two. Three. All is good. Five. Five. Five. Five. Five. Four. Six. And again. Four. Seven. Five. Eight. Two more. Stop. Four. Perfect. Perfect. Muscle growth is an adaptation to stretch. You give your body stretch that is not used to. It's going to try to adapt in some way. And in this case, we're looking for a more muscle. So you've got to go beyond what you've done before. That's the idea. You're certainly the reps that you really struggle on. It gives you the growth in it really. When you're training, you're not just stretching that muscle group. You're stretching your system as a whole also. And legs and back. So attacks in that. Try to schedule loads with a day off afterwards. So you've got overall recovery as well.

=== FILE: 5 Lessons After Running the Berlin Marathon ｜ 26.2 THE ROAD TO BERLIN EP 7 [HEryHDA_JZM].txt ===

Alright, so the top five things I learned for running the Berlin marathon. Number one, make sure you have enough fuel and hydration. The biggest thing that I saw happen on race day was that a ton of people did not either pack enough gels or they had no sodium on them whatsoever. They had just water sessions that they were grabbing at every once in a while. I think the biggest thing that you can do is make sure that you had your hydration really mapped out nice and even. Big thing that I did was the night before I used a pre mix to get my carbohydrates in. And then throughout the race, I had six gels on me total. And every 35-ish minutes, I was making sure I was taking a gel. Each of those gels had about 40 grams of carbs in them. So I felt full the entire time. I didn't feel like I was getting depleted too fast. And I also felt that my hydration levels were great because I made sure to stop at every single water station. Number two, water station etiquette. Now this was something that was a little different in Berlin than probably other races. The water was only on the right side of the road in Berlin. And on top of that, the water stations use plastic cups instead of paper cups. It was plastic cups. So normally you can crumple something and throw it away. When this, it was a plastic cup. So you would try and break it and then throw it down. And it's something with triple brick because it doesn't break down as easily. So make sure to have great etiquette when you were going through those water sessions it really does help everybody else around you. Number three, make sure that you are fueling, properly leading into race week. The biggest thing that I knew a lot of people also did was they really laid the night before. And they just had this really heavy summer getting into race day. I was eating pasta all the way up into the day before the race. My last meal was at 2 p.m. 3 p.m. at the day before the race. And then I was making sure that I was getting enough hydration in throughout the entire night. So I made sure to get in my pre-pack of carbs, as well as my sugar, my glycusamine levels. I wanted to make sure that they were in a good place heading into race day so that I wasn't depleting as I was running and then from that, being able to put in any kind of impact or pain on my body. So very big thing to know, make sure your food plan heading into race day is as effective as possible. Little tip that I can say is the morning of I woke up my race, call time was at 9.15 a.m. I was up at six getting some carbohydrates into my stomach already. So I went through about three to four of these little caramel and honey waffles. I also had a pre-mix pack of carbohydrates. And then I had a banana and I was just drinking as many liquids as I can get in, leaning up into me heading out for the start line. Number four, make sure to use the bathroom before the race if you can. The amount of people who I talked to at the finish line were like, I wish I used the bathroom before the race and they didn't and then they had to stop on the side of the road and go to the bathroom. Like if you can use the bathroom before the race, do so I promise you would help you out. And number five, running in traffic. So not traffic is in the sense of cars, but traffic is in the load and volume of people in the race. There was 50,000 plus people riding the Berlin marathon. I went out inside the first wave of people with groups ABC and D and it was crammed. And the biggest thing I saw happen was running at a kit was kind of all over the place. The hard thing with an international race is also a language barrier. So I was really mindful to be using hand signals. As I went down to the right, I used a small little finger touch to the right. I was passing something on the left. I let them know I was passing on their left. Those things really become helpful in the race because when you have so many people around you, the smallest bump can trip somebody over and then lead into an argument. And then as I saw, lead into a couple little fights that were small and were de-escalated pretty quickly, but there was a bunch of people getting in people's faces. So be mindful of that. As you are on your run, just make sure to communicate with people around you. Make sure as I know it is a race, just be mindful that we're all here running at the same time. So that is a very, very easy tip to just take into your backpack. So those are my five tips in the Berlin marathon. I hope they help you in heading into your next marathon. So as you guys know, I got the New York City marathon on deck next. So I'll do the same video post in New York to give you some tips, tricks, and insights heading into that marathon as well.

=== FILE: 5 Move Leg Workout for Mass ｜ Hunter Labrada [g52tq_GtlEE].txt ===

Hey guys, under and Lea Labrata here today to take you through an awesome leg workout. The workout's gonna aim to a start with the calves because it's an often neglected muscle, so I've chosen to prioritize it by putting it first at the beginning of this workout. From there, we're gonna move on to leg extensions. And then moving on to pre-existing the quads, hitting some pause squats, and then finally finishing up with some cable stuff like a deadlift. Now let me give you the run down of what we're doing today. Let's go get after it. You ready to get after it? Just a waste! Yeah! So for our first exercise today, we're gonna be doing a standing calf raise. We're gonna do five sets and we're approximately 15 to 20 repetitions. We're going for a full stretch and a full contraction when doing the reps. You'll see me and Lea's we perform them. The top of the rep, it's almost like a double clutch. We'll get up there as high as we can, and then we'll really squeeze. And maybe only get an inch higher, but we're still really, really forcing the issue. We're forcing the contraction at the end of the rep. So, according to our end. Okay, so you're gonna notice that when he gets to the top of the move, he's stalling a second, then he gets another little pop out of that. That's to get that extra little bit of contraction. Which really a lot of times makes a difference between a good set of the batset. When you're doing a standing calf raise, you're training your gastric nemes, which is your calf muscle that muscle that people typically think your entire calf is. In order to keep the effort on the gastric nemes, you're gonna want to do a couple things. First, you're gonna keep your quads tense. What that's gonna do is keep your legs straight. And then also at the same time, you're gonna want to keep your glutes contracted. What that'll do is it'll completely isolate the calf as well as take the ability away for you to bend the leg and shift the focus from the gastric nemes to other parts of the calf. You're gonna notice that he's very controlled through the full range of motion. Very, very important, especially if you're handling heavier weights, when you come down to the bottom, not to hyperextend because you get to end up wrecking your Achilles. You tend to nerve. And you factor in the pace or moving at. There's not a lot of time for recovery, so it really starts to get to be a prince of your burn. It's not comfortable, but it shouldn't be comfortable. You're trying to make the muscle adapt to something if it was easy, it wouldn't need to adapt. All right, one more set. Okay, now that I almost got it. So what's next? To move on to seated calves. Let's go get him. Like I stated previously, when you're doing standing calf raises, you're training in the gastric nemes. Whenever you move to a seated calf raise and you put a bend in the leg, you're actually using your solius muscle. The solius muscle runs underneath the gastric nemes, and so when you have that very developed, it actually makes your calf pop out farther and makes you look like you have much bigger calves. So some pairative you develop both the gastric nemes and the solius equally. When he first started out, his calves were probably about this big round. And so his calves weren't as strong as him, but he identified that early on and he prioritized his calf training. And as a result, you know, with an a year, he had literally put almost two inches on his calves. He was just an amazing transformation. You know, it just came from prioritizing it. And one more thing that you'll see me do that I've just kind of done over the years is I really don't like to hold on to this. I actually almost hold on to the seat behind me. You're just kind of keeping my hands in front of me somewhere. It allows me to not pull on this and cheat like most people do. And be kind of killed to have a straighter spine and really get everything in line to be able to push and get to really rigid and locked in. You know, in the old days, when you were competing, you could get away with having skinny calves, but not anymore. And a well-developed set of calves like Hunter has really set off to physique. All right, two more sets? Two more sets? Yeah. All right, let's do it. All right, let's go. All right, let's go. Come on. Come on, come on. Good one. Yeah. Come on. There you go. Good. All right. We'll move on to some leg extensions. Wait, the quads up. Let's go get them on a waterlover. Some things to keep in mind when you're using the leg extension machine is to really get yourself set up in a proper positioning, both with the pad and the back of the bench first. Most leg extension machines these days do a pretty good job of telling you that your knee needs to be in line with the pivot on me. Leg extension machine. That's absolutely correct. You want to ensure you have the pad brought up enough to where you're firmly seated with your butt planted and your back able to be flat and not rounded. Another thing is you really want to make sure you don't have this set too far back. I know a lot of people like it's a full range of motion. No, it really isn't. It's putting an extraordinary amount of stress on your patel attend, then it's taking almost all of the stress off your quads whenever you get completely wrapped back there. Something I show a lot of people whenever they're learning how to do their leg extensions has on they can put their fist or I'll put my fist in between their legs right here and I'll make them actually kind of squeeze the fist with their legs. What that does is it keeps the quads both face to up and firing the same. Does that feel like it? Yeah, it needs feel good. Think of this almost as a concentration curl, they equivalent of a concentration curl for your thighs. You want to keep your toes straight up and down throughout the rep with the top and the bottom. Keeping them top facing up at the top of the rep will ensure the entire quads equally contracted and not stressing the knee or the vestus or the lateralism muscles more. Oh yeah, gonna be a lot of length here in a second. Definitely really important that while you're training your legs, you stay stretching throughout, really get stiff with all the blood flow and all the work you're doing if not. Come on. Good one. Good one. Good one. A couple things to keep in mind whenever I say pause squads, we're not going to be sitting in the hole for forever. What we're using in the pause for in this workout today is to completely take away the stored energy and momentum that you have. You're not sitting in the hole for three or four seconds, you're going to get down there, you're going to be down there for maybe a second and then you're going to explode out of the hole. All right guys, so this first set that we're going to do is going to be a little bit lighter of the set. We're still going to consider it a working set though. A couple things to keep in mind when squatting, you're going to want to keep a big chest, a flat back and you're going to push from your heels and have a base about as wide as your shoulders. Whenever you get set up on the squat, you want to have your arms as close as you can possibly have them together while still having the bar low on your trap shelf. What that's going to do is just going to create the most rigid upper structure you can have. You're going to be really locked into place and ready to squat. I'm still going to play that. I think that the most important role of a spotter is safety first obviously. But a spotter also adds a dimension of feedback during the set. In other words, this is a person that can help to correct minor variations in your form. Obviously adding encouragement and then in the unlikely event that they get in trouble to help them up out of the hole. Another thing that I would like to point out is that if you look at his feet, he's shifting his weight back on his heel so he's pushing through his heel. A lot of people don't do that and they push from the front of the foot which naturally throws you forward. Nice job. Oh, my. Which can leave it up this. Touch your breath. Often times we get asked, well, how long should you rest in between sets of squats? Well, you go by the clock but really the best way to go is just by your breathing. Once your breathing is normalized, then it's time to go to the next set. I feel him. Good. All right, man. How are you? Good job. All right. Get some bloody no stains, don't you? Oh yeah. All right, let's get your breath moving on to stiff legs. Our last exercise today is going to be a variation of a stiff leg of deadlift using a rope in the cable. What this allows us to do is take some of the stress off the lower back and keep constant tension both on the glutes and the hamstrings. As well as allows for even bigger pinch than you get from a traditional stiff leg of deadlift. So let me show you what it looks like. A lot of guys will basically spend all of their energy doing their quad work, you know, working on their thighs, then they're exhausted by the time that they get to their hamstrings, you know, with very little left. So I think that it's definitely been an area that's been overlooked. I think that for balanced like development, you have to have great hamstrings to go with your gloves. Definitely. So as you can see, whenever you're doing them, it really allows you to get a good stretch. And then being a cable, it really allows you to pull through and have tension throughout the whole motion. Good honor. You'll see at the top of every rep, you really want to get a good squeezing, contraction, both with your glutes and your hamstrings. All right, let's knock out this last set. All right, guys. So that's all we have for you today. If you have any questions about this workout or nutrition or exercise in general, be sure to shoot me a message on body space. My username's Hunter Liberada, all lowercase, no spaces. And for more great articles and videos like this, keep on coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: 5 Moves To Massive Shoulders ｜ Hunter Labrada [SeJJBCOi96k].txt ===

A name only gets you so far. Passion, discipline, hard work, humility. Those traits built my family's name, and I'm using them to part my own legacy. I'm Hunter Lebrata, it's my turn. It's no secret whether you have your shirt on or off, the big, huge rounded out belts are a very pleasing physical feature to have. That's one of the main aims of this workout is to add mass to your shoulder. You're going to do lots of laterals for that, because that's definitely given me the best results over the years in terms of shoulder cap. For today's shoulder workout, we're going to be focusing on two things. First up, we're going to focus on an often under-trained part of your shoulder, the rear delts, and then from there, we're going to go to side laterals. So the aim of this workout is to pre-exost your shoulders before going to a machine press. The premise behind that is you use the free weights to completely pre-exost the shoulders, and then once your shoulders are shot, we're going to go to the machine, and we're going to be able to press your shoulders past the point of failure. We're keeping the pace up, like I always do, 45s to 60 seconds worth of rest, or long enough for your training partner to go. So first exercise for our shoulder workout today is going to be a bent over rear delts fly. For this exercise, we're going to perform four sets of around 15 reps. Is in my experience, the higher reps really allow you to put a lot of blood in there and stress the muscle properly. Much in the same way when you do your side ladders, the two-an-bring them out slightly in front of you, and then like I like to say dump them out, like their water bottles or something. You're going to want to do the same thing with this. You want to stay over the dumbbells. And I want to jerk, you're going to want to lift the weight up, and truly dump it out as you come up. What that's going to do is really isolate your rear delts, at the top of the rep, it should almost feel like someone's shoving an ice pick in there. So moving on from those bent over rear-thulls, we're going to go to cable side ladders. For this exercise, we're going to do four sets of 10-12 reps. You're going to notice I might do them a little differently than you've seen before. A, because I'm kind of hanging off the cable machine, and then B, I'm doing them behind my back. The reason I like to hang off the machine is it creates a point of stress, if you will, like kind of overloads the muscle at the bottom, until you get it past a certain point, and then it becomes a little easier again. As far as from why I do it behind my back, whenever you do cables in front of you, you have a propensity to pull it back like this, and it becomes more of a rear delt and back exercise, and it does a shoulder exercise. Doing it behind you really allows you to bring it slightly forward and truly dump it out with the cable, keeping tension on it the whole time. Moving on from those cable side ladders, we're going to go to a Smith Machine shoulder press. For this exercise, we're going to do four sets of 10 reps. The reason I'm using a Smith Machine or a Hammer Strength shoulder press, if you have one, is that by this time, after doing those rear delts and those side ladders, your shoulders are considerably tax, and your stabilizer muscles are starting to not be where they used to when they started the workout. What that means is you won't be able to stabilize free weight to the point where you're able to use your shoulders to the complete point of failure. So we utilize the machine to be able to drive to that point of failure because you're not having to stabilize anything. You're allowed to put 100% of the effort into moving the weight and feeling it in your shoulders. A couple things to keep in mind on this, is we're going to want to bring the weight all the way to your chin. It's going to be a little bit past parallel with your arm right here. It's going to be right to there. Do not take it to your chest. It's going to place a ton of stress on your front delts. You're rotate or cut up on your ac joint, but you definitely want to get a full range of motion to about your chin. Another thing to keep in mind is when you're pressing it, the second you get it past your forehead, try and stick your head through the window a little. What that's going to do is to activate your traps and really lock you in and allow your shoulder to completely contract the top of the rep. We're going to go to a reverse pectic for our rear delts. For this exercise, we're going to be doing three sets of 15 reps. We're going to do this a little differently than you might have seen before. I'm a relatively short guy, five foot eight, five foot nine on a good day. I'm going to drop the seat all the way to the bottom. What that's going to do is I'm going to put your face in that pad, which is good because I don't want your face on it. I want you looking slightly up and with your head off it, what that's going to do is keep your chest out and really allow you to isolate your rear delts. What you'll also notice is I didn't use the handles on the machine because for my experience, they're low enough to where you can truly row it with your back. We're going to grip it up here and truly bring it out and isolate your rear delts. That's the only muscle that can move the weight whenever your hands are that high. From there, we're going to move on to seated side laterals. For this exercise, we're going to be doing three sets of 10 to 12 reps. At this point, your shoulder should be completely red. So we're going to be using a little bit lighter weight here, going for higher reps, aiming to just really fill the shoulders up with blood. You'll notice whenever I'm at the bottom of the rep, I bring them completely underneath me almost together. What that allows you to do is it stretches you the most possible and then also it allows you to have the greatest range of motion. You should never, ever be past 90 degrees with your back. You are obviously bent over to get them underneath you. Try and keep that angle as much as possible because keeping that angle, like I said, is going to really isolate your middle delts. To implement this into your current training routine, take your current shoulder workout and replace it with this swim. If you have any questions about this workout in specific, or training in nutrition in general, don't hesitate to ask, just get on body space and find me at Hunter Liberada, all lowercase, no spaces. And for more content like this, keep on coming back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: 5 Moves To Mile-Wide Lats ｜ Hunter Labrada's Back Workout [ZHQIZ6xKQtM].txt ===

A name only gets you so far. Passion, discipline, hard work, humility. Those traits built my family's name, and I'm using them to carve my own legacy. I'm Hunter Lebrata, it's my turn. My back development used to be at weak point of mine, so Le and I a couple years ago set down and really devised a training program to really pack the mass onto my back, especially my lats. Today we're going to really focus on getting a full contraction and squeeze, actually using your lats, not using your biceps, not using your body momentum to pull the weight or anything. You're really going to move the weight with your lats today. So for days we're going to start the straight arm push down, super-set with low cable rows. From there we're going to move on to a underhand lap pull down. From there we're going to go over to a back staple, the bent over row. I'm going to show you a couple pointers and form tips for that. From there we're going to go do one of my favorites. We're actually going to do a close grip with the V handle, lap pull down. That'll be a little bit higher up to really finish off the back. All right, so you ready to get into it? Get it, man. Let's go blow that back up. All right guys, so our first exercise of the day is actually going to be a super-set. We're going to do straight arm push down, super-set with low cable rows. You'll notice there's a slight bend in his elbows, but that angle is not moving at all. All the motions coming from the shoulder joint. At the top he's stretching and the bottom he's pulling his chest through. I'm going to say that a lot today, and all of our exercises are going to have a big chest and really try and pull our chest through everything we do. This movement's great for pre-exhaustion of your lats, as you can see, you're not using anything but his lats. To get that weight down. All right, man. And then from there we're going to move on to a low cable row, straight into it, and you'll notice when he does these, he'll get a full stretch at the bottom, but when he throws it up his back, it's never really getting past a 90 degree angle. He's also really pulling his elbows back. That's also really important on our rowing movements. You want to get your elbows back as far as you can. It's the function of your lats, it's the pull your elbows back and through. All right. All right. All right. Now that we've got a little blood in the muscle, and everything's nice and warm, we're going to move on into our working sets. Starting with that super-set, not only does it allow us to pre-exhaust our lats, but it also allows us to put a lot of blood in there, and the more blood you have in there, I'm always talking about a squeeze in a contraction. The harder that squeeze will be in the more the contraction will be, because the muscles so filled up with blood and has so much volume to it. Rowing with all that blood in your back really is like a whole new dynamic to the work of. Typically, if your partner gets stuck on this exercise, the way that you want to spot him is by grabbing the cable, so that you don't get in the way of the motion, and you just pull down towards his waist, keep it in a real steady. You need a spot for this exercise, though, you're definitely going to have it. Good. Another thing I'm really big proponent of is really stretching in between sets, and just whatever you can grab, just get on it, really stretch the lats, and get super tight on the superset. You know, this exercise really captures the function of the lats, which is to bring the upper arm both, the heel rest down and back. Two, one up already, where is getting started? One of the things you'll notice is that he brings his elbows back and down, and he keeps the chest high. You got to keep the chest high, they're on all your back movements, because if you let the chest sink, then it becomes an arm movement. It becomes a glorified by the circle. Sitting there, curling it instead of rolling it. Exactly. All right, what's next? I'm going to underhand that pull-ups. When I train back, I typically go row, pull down, row, pull down, row, pull down, and I'm like the alternate like that, or if I start with pull down, it's pull down, row, pull down, row. So moving from that low row, instead of going to another row motion, and really just kind of completely exhausting myself. I like to get in the lat movement, while I'm still fresh. And also coming straight from that superset, there's so much blood in your lats, getting that pinch that you get from underhand, pulled down really as an incredible feeling. A couple coaching points for you, see when it gets to the top, there's a full stretch at the top, and when he's pulling it down, he's not going to do a super far back. He's staying relatively up with the pulling all the way to his chest. Doing it underhand allows us to really pull the elbows down. And as we said earlier, that's the main function, and the little distance that says, is to pull your elbow down. So, put you at a very natural angle, and allows you to get a really deep pull and contraction. Whenever you're at the top of it, really kind of, I call it letting your head go through the window, and you'll see me in the video. On the top of the wrap, you'll be like this, and head up through it. That's allowing you to fully stretch, and elongate the muscle. You know, I think that, hundreds of very good jobs of learning my training techniques, but then taking them and adapting those, that have worked for him and his body mechanics, and then setting it aside the ones that don't. You know, that's helped them to refine and develop his own style. As far as grips with the goes, he'll do a little more narrow. I do a little bit wider. I'll come down to a personal preference person. I like to have my hands set my line up with my shoulders, so it's a straight line down. It's a little less straight on the wrists. My inner very inflexible, so it's probably why I like doing them that way. The important thing is to get the elbow down and back. Keep that chest high, and just get a really full contraction in the lats. You'll see Lee at the end of the hat last rat, help me force the rat. Whenever you're spotting your partner on this, don't grab the cables, but wait it's not finger off, get in between him just like this, and allow him to pull it and just keep his trap of motion going. Alright, last one. Come on. Good. Everything you got. Come on. Good. Good. Good, pump. Yes sir. You too. Alright, let's go. Went over Rose. Went over Rose. Alright guys, so we just got them hitting those underhand lap pull down. So now we're going to move on to underhand bent over Rose. Much for the same reason, we do the lap pull down underhand, we're going to do the Rose underhand too, because it allows you to have the most natural movement with your elbows. See how his elbows are coming straight up, and he's going to have full range of motion. Another coaching point with this, a lot of people who want to come up real high as they rode. If you're coming up too high, it's because the weight's too heavy. You want to stay over it, your back shouldn't move hardly at all. Finally, you'll see him when he does it. The bar is staying really close to his thighs, the whole time. He's not letting it get out in front of him and hanging. He's actually almost dragging it up his leg and really pulling it into his belly, but it's going to give you the fullest contraction. There's not a lot of motion on his lower back here. It just keeps a nice and steady. It all of the tension is across the upper back of his legs. Doing things underhand allows you to keep your elbow in a more natural track. When you do overhand Rose, you'll find yourself trying to win the weight, it's how you're kind of chicken-winging and getting out instead of keeping your elbows in. Whenever you're like this, you can't chicken-wing. The weight, the bar doesn't go like that. Your hands will go straight back whenever you pull it. And it just keeps you in a lot of emotion. This is one of those exercises where especially young trainees can carry the weight and try to pile too much weight on. A lot of time, it's not the size of the tool, but it's how you use it. So you've got to really feel it and contract in the back. You used to be able to grow a lot more than I do now, and it was more of a dude to me doing this instead of doing it. Being that bent over allows you to really pull with your middle back and your lats, instead of more of your biceps, because the more you stand up, the more it becomes a bicep. Curl unless it becomes a back motion. Being that bent over just gives you something to go off of, because you see lee or me touch the plate to the ground. It's starting to point for the exercise and it ends with that bar, pulled all the way into your belly button. Alright, that's what I've come on. You'll see whenever he's doing this, he doesn't have his head cranked way up, and it's not down either. Try looking at the ground like four or five feet in front of you, and it'll keep your spine really nice flat and a trilling angle. Okay, last one. Yes. Alright, what about you like other? I've got another plate on there. Hey! Hey! Right! Good job, my buddy. Alright guys, so this is gonna be the last exercise of our back workout. We're gonna do three sets of this. What we're gonna do is a reverse, closed grip lap pull down. Get my ass beat by Charles Blass, that's how it goes. And then it's going to be a little bit more intense. So it's something that we finished up with actually, and you'll see us do it. You have your butt really like kind of like wedged in, where you normally put your legs, and you keep your back on that pad, where you're absolutely no motion. It's kind of as bad as ice-slate as you can get for a lap pull down. See how these gonna get a butt wedge back into here, and has back on this. It takes out all the ability for you to be swinging around, and really locks you into position, as well as letting you get a good stretch. Also another benefit of this is you'll see how the pull he's out over him a little. So instead of just pulling it down, he's pulling it down, and two him and really is like almost like a flat row if that makes sense. Okay, so isolation is the key here. Really focus on the stretch, and then really focus on pulling it all the way to your chest. Squeeze. Okay. By this time, then I'm sure all of y'all will experience this if you give this work out of try. Your lower back will feel like you have like a little balloon animals for a wreck. Here's right now, you wanna be able to stand up, partly so it really helps being able to take your lower back out of the equation as well. Wow. Oh my god, I'm not going back. Oh my god. To where? Oh my god. Two more. Two more. Two more. Squeeze. All right, one more. Squeeze. Go. Good. Good. Sit. What? So that concludes our back workout for today. A couple key points to keep in mind when you're doing this workout. First, keep the rest low, 45 seconds to a minute. Second thing to keep in mind, on all of your back exercises, keep a big chest. Last point to keep in mind, on all your exercises, trying to get your elbows as back as you can. The farther you get that elbow back, the more activation you'll get from your legs. If you have any questions about this workout or nutrition and training in general, don't hesitate to ask community questions, just hit me on my body space, it's under the barata, all lower case, no spaces. And for more videos like this for me in Hunter, just check it out on bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: 5 Moves To Powerful Pecs ｜ Hunter Labrada's Chest Workout [upzg7m75jek].txt ===

The name only gets you so far. Passion, discipline, hard work, humility. Those traits built my family's name, and I'm using them to part my own legacy. I'm Hunter Lebrata, it's my turn. Alright guys, for today's test workout, we're going to start out going a little bit heavier, really trying to exhaust the muscle with free weights. Because of that, we're going to switch more towards the machines at the end. As far as rest time to go for this workout, 45 seconds to a minute or just long enough for your training partner to go if you're training with someone. But before we get started with that, I wanted to warm up my shoulders, as I'm just getting started and I'm cold. Basically, we're going to do a 10 arm circles on each side, but it gets some blood in the shoulders, really loosens them up. And then more importantly, we're going to do a rotator cuff exercise, which really puts blood in your rotator cuff, which is a little muscle that can really get injured on your presses if it's not really warm and ready to go. Once you get that warm up out of the way, we're going to move on to doing incline dumbbell presses. A couple things to keep in mind. I know everyone has shoulder problems. If you need help getting them kicked up into position, that's fine. But once through there, you can't press them out of the hole. They're too heavy. Drop the weight a little. I go with a weight that we can do like 10 to 12 times. A to keep us injury free and B, that's the prime time for growth. I feel like, and this is bodybuilding, so we're after growth. You'll notice the full range of motion. We use while we do this. A lot of people because they use dumbbells don't want to go as deep. I like to envision a bar going through those dumbbells. And when you do a bench press, you take the bar to your chest. If you're doing it properly. So that's a good kind of thing to envision when you're doing the dumbbell exercises. For this exercise, we're going to do four working sets of 12 reps. Typically, at any gym you go to the position that you do your incline dumbbells on. You're going to want to drop it just one notch. It's going to be just shy of completely flat. And the reason that I like to do this is when you're completely flat and keeping a big chest, like you're supposed to on your chest, exercise, places an in order to amount of tension on your front belt. But bring them that up just a little bit of places all the stretch into your chest and takes a lot of the stress off your shoulders. When you do the motion, bring it all the way down and feel a good stretch. I almost like the pause of the bottom of the me trap as you can see in the video. When you bring them up, concentrate not only on bringing them up together, but towards the top of your face as well. So you're kind of like trying to end up over your nose approximately. Never want to have your elbows completely locked out like this, but you're going to want to have to keep them all the way up with a slight bend in the top of the rep. Like I said, aiming to get the dumbbells right above your nose. Alright, next step on the list is going to be a flat machine press. Today I'm going to be doing them on the Smith machine just because more and more gyms have a Smith machine than any other machine press. I personally prefer to do them on the hammer strength machine. Is that allows to have it a great angle and you have to spend a lot less time getting the bench centered and angled perfectly to get the best feeling in your chest. The reason that we shifted from the free weights to the machines is after doing those incline dumbbell presses and the slight incline flies. Typically your stabilizer muscles are going to be pretty shot. So if you went to a flat bench, you might not be able to use your chest as much as you would have because your stabilizers are failing at before your actual chest. So using that machine allows you to really take that out of the equation and really force your chest to the complete point of failure. We're going for a pump with this. So we're going to go just shy of lock at and we're going to get a good stretch at the bottom. Alright guys, so at this point we've gotten a lot of our major work out of the way. This point we're going for a pump and a stretch. So what we're going to do is we're going to superset a peck with dumbbell pullovers. We're going to start with the peck back using a weight that you can get 15 reps with without being completely to the point of failure. What that's going to do is just going to saturate your chest with blood. You're going to go straight from there to a dumbbell pullover. Typically it's done for back exercises, but whenever you have this much blood in your chest, the stretch that it's going to give you is going to really elongate the muscle. The longer muscles, the stronger muscle, the longer muscles, the more safe muscle. Whenever you're doing the peck, something to keep in mind is at the top of every rep, I'm actually turning my hands in a little like this. What that does is that it takes out the propensity for people to concave their shoulders and really try and go like this. What that does is it activates your front without significantly more than your chest. By going like this it forces you to keep your chest up and it allows you to get a better pinch using your chest. All right guys, so that concludes our chest workout for today. Hope you liked it as much as I did. As far as frequency of chest training goes, I prefer one so weak. I'm sore sore for probably three to four days following this workout. So if you're hitting it right, you shouldn't be able to do it much more than once per week. If you have any questions about this workout in specific or training your nutrition in general, don't hesitate to drop me a message on body space. My name is Hunter Liberada, all lowercase, no spaces. And for more content like this, be sure to come back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: 5 Natural Ways To Burn More Calories [eN2VhWxLgvg].txt ===

What's up guys, welcome back to the channel. This can still cut here with bodybuilding.com. And we're going to talk about some natural ways that you can burn more calories. And we're even going to talk about going to paradise and how you can incorporate this supplement into your fat burning stack. Let's get right into it. Obviously, the first thing you're going to want to do when it comes to burning more calories is increase your physical activity. Studies from the international journal level BCD have shown that hit can burn a lot more calories and boost your metabolism and that's even after exercise. However, hit can be quite fatiguing. So you can also increase your step count in order to burn more calories. The next way to burn more calories is going to be to incorporate strength training into your routine. Muscle burns a lot more calories than fat by increasing your resting metabolic rate. Start weight training. Pick up a dumbbell. Now let's talk diet. If you want to look some weight, you're going to have to be in a caloric deficit. However, there are some ways that we could optimize your diet with food selection that can increase your caloric expenditure even more. First, step to optimize your diet and increase protein. It takes more calories to digest protein than any other macronutriomalicule. And this is called the thermic effect of food. A study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition showed that high protein consumption can boost metabolism by up to 30% so take advantage of that. Next quick tip is incorporate spicy foods. Catsayasin found that peppers can also temporarily boost your metabolism. All right, let's dive into the wonderful world of supplements. First, we're going to talk about greens of paradise, also known as Paracidine, which is a herb that's the part of the ginger family. It's known for boosting metabolism and increasing the amount of calories you burn during exercise. Studies published in the British Journal of Nutrition have shown that greens of paradise can help activate brown adipose tissue. This is essential for weight management and burning more calories. Now since we're already on the topic of brown adipose tissue, let's talk about mydo burn. Model burn can help change white adipose tissue to brown adipose tissue, which is a lot more metabolically active. Next, let's talk about caffeine. Also known as a stimulant has been shown in the international journal of obesity to increase fatty oxidation and burn more calories. So include caffeine and your calorie burning stack. All right, to summarize, burning calories naturally includes optimizing your diet, increasing your physical activity, and optimizing your supplement of protocol. We at Bodybuilding.com have this brand new supplement from the Elite Series, Thermo BCW which has a lot of the supplements I spoke about earlier in one convenient package and easy dosing. As with any supplement, it's important to consult your healthcare provider before taking it. If you found this information to be valuable and you enjoyed it, hit that like button. Hit the subscribe button, comment below and don't forget to share with all your friends. Coach K out.

=== FILE: 5 Steps to Bigger Arms [rwCpMjfoc-8].txt ===

What guys think about growing a strong and muscular physique, the number one muscle group that they want to grow the most is their arms. Having bigger arms can completely change your guys' physique. When I first started working out, that was my goal, but I was going about it all wrong. I understand how frustrating it is to spend countless hours in the gym only to see minimum results. I've been there. It wasn't until I started implementing these five principles that I'm about to show you, which made my arms grow so fast that my friends were literally coming up to me and asking if I was on the sauce. Over the next 30 days, I want you to apply these training principles to help your arms grow bigger and faster. Let's get after it. Number one is prioritizing your heaviest lifts first, focusing on progressively overloading the muscle. You want to perform exercises that require the most energy in place the greatest amount of mechanical tension on the muscle towards the beginning of your workouts. Studies conducted by scientists at Harvard Medical School show that mechanical tension, which refers to the amount of force produced in muscles, is the most important pathway to muscle hypertrophy. So for biceps, that would be any variation of a barbell curl, an easy bar curl, or a pre-tracurl, for triceps it would be any variation of dips, overhead triceps extensions, or skull crushers. Your goal over the next 30 days is to increase the amount of weight that you can lift for six to ten reps, focusing on progressively overloading the muscle. Progressive overload is a method of strength training that gradually increases the intensity or difficulty of workouts over time. This is an important principle when it comes to muscle hypertrophy and building strength. Let's say for example, on week one, I'm able to perform a 90 pound easy bar curl until failure for three sets of eight reps. The following week I'm able to perform 90 ten reps and by week three I'm able to perform 10 to 12. I would increase the weight gradually five to ten pounds until it was difficult to perform eight reps to failure, continuing this cycle over time until I reach my goal. Number two is increasing your training frequency. Your arms can handle a lot more volume than you think, and one day per week or simply sprinkling in a few exercises after hitting chest or back may not be enough to increase the demand to grow. That's why I recommend restructuring your workout program to have two designated arm days per week. I structure my workouts and a push pull split format to maximize my time in the gym and increase my overall intensity. For example, on day one I will do chest and back on day two, I'll train shoulders and legs and on day three I'll train biceps and triceps. I'll take one rest day in between and then repeat. This format is beneficial because it's an efficient way to target muscle groups, allows for optimal recovery in between sessions and promotes a more symmetrical and proportionate development of muscles throughout the body. Number three is supersetting your biceps and triceps exercises. Supersetting biceps with triceps, meaning you're performing them back to back with little to no rest, can offer several benefits for muscle hypertrophy. It increases blood flow and pump in the muscles. It's more time-efficient, it enhances fatigue and muscle stress, and it stimulates a greater metabolic response. This heightened metabolic response can promote the release of growth hormone and other factors that aid muscle repair and growth. Although supersets can be effective for hypertrophy, they can also be quite demanding. Ensure a proper form and consider the weight used in your overall fitness level to prevent overexertion or injury. Number four is incorporating drop sets. A drop set is a weightlifting technique where you perform an exercise to muscle failure that immediately reduce the weight and then continue the exercise without resting. This technique extends the set beyond the point where you would normally stop, allowing you to push your muscles to the limit and induce more muscle fatigue. The goal is to exhaust the muscles as much as possible to stimulate muscle growth and increase strength. It increases the time-eutitension which causes greater muscle fiber recruitment and metabolic stress, both of which contribute to hypertrophy. It's also an efficient way to use different muscle fibers. The heavier weight activates the more strength-oriented, high threshold fibers, while the lighter weight as fatigue sets in engages the more endurance-based muscle fibers. This type of engagement can lead to greater overall muscle development. Although incorporating drop sets into your workout can have many benefits over using this technique could potentially lead to overtraining and increased risk of injury. Rotate and vary your training methods to prevent platos and allow for adequate recovery between intense workouts. Number five, the most important and most commonly overlooked factor when building any muscle group is your diet. If you're serious about putting on muscle, you need to be in a calorie surplus. This means you're consuming more calories than you're burning. Now, there's a right way and a wrong way to do this and a lot of guys get this wrong. We've all heard the freeze, you need to eat big to get big. Well, a lot of guys in turpentis is a green light to eat, whatever they want as much as they want. Without any boundaries, you'll find yourself packing on more fat than muscle just in time for you to cut back down for the summer with little to no additional muscle to show for it. I recommend starting with a slight calorie surplus and letting your body adapt to the increasing calories. A surplus of two to 300 calories above maintenance is a good place to start. Of the three macronutrients that make up your diet, proteins, fats and carbs, you need to prioritize protein. A good recommendation is consuming anywhere from 0.7 to 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight. So, for example, if you weigh 185 pounds, you should be consuming 130 grams to 185 grams of protein daily. I used my fitness powder track what I eat daily to make sure I stay on track. If you find yourself consistently falling short of your daily protein goals, you might want to think about supplementation. Speaking of supplementation, one of the most beneficial supplements that you can take to increase your performance size and strength is creatine. When it comes to taking creatine, the benefits are clear. It helps you to build muscle faster and helps you get stronger faster and improves anaerobic endurance and improves muscle recovery. What makes it even better is it does all of these things naturally and safely. For all of your supplement needs, visit bodybuilding.com to help you get started on your fitness journey. Comment below if you found these tips helpful and as always, don't hoggle the gain see yourself. Share this video with a friend and enjoy the pop.

=== FILE: 5 Ways to Create a Perfect Workout [SvqmwJ_e3vM].txt ===

Here are five ways to make you work out more effective when you're short on time. Number one, you want to prioritize compound movements. These are exercises that require two or more major muscle groups or joints to perform the movement. Some examples include squats, deadlifts, bench presses, overhead presses, pullups, and rows. These exercises engage more muscles and burn more calories compared to isolation exercises, making them efficient for time-strap individuals. Number two, incorporate supersets into your workout. A superset is when you perform one exercise to the next with a little to no rest in between. There are two ways to utilize this method. You can perform two exercises sequentially that stress two opposing muscle groups. For example, performing a dumbbell chest press targeting the chest and immediately going into a dumbbell row targeting the back. Or you can perform two exercises sequentially that target the same muscle group. For example, performing rear-doubt cable flies then immediately going into cable lateral raises. Both methods have their place when designing an exercise program and can provide several benefits, such as increasing the blood flow and pump to the muscles. It's time-efficient, it enhances fatigue and muscle stress as well as increasing the metabolic stress placed on the body. This can promote the release of growth hormone and other factors that aid in muscle repair and growth. Number three is utilize circuit training. Circuit training is a combination of three more exercises targeting different muscle groups with a short and breast period. You can utilize this training method to not only increase muscle size and strength, but also cardiovascular endurance. A great example of this is performing a circuit that includes pushups, dumbbell rows, dumbbell squats and a variation of an absurice. You can add 20 to 30 seconds of rest in between exercises or complete one after the other in succession and then rest after the circuit is complete. You will then repeat this for a set number of rounds. This approach allows one muscle group time to recover while another is being worked keeping the heart rate elevated, maximizing both strength and cardiovascular benefits. Number four is you can shorten your rest periods. Reducing the rest intervals in between sets can keep the intensity of the workout high, leading to more calories burned and improving your cardiovascular fitness. Aim for rest periods of 30 seconds to a minute between sets to keep the momentum going. Keep in mind this method will make it more difficult to work with heavier loads because it is so taxing on the body. Number five is focusing on intensity, not duration. Instead of spending a lot of time at the gym, focus on making your workouts more intense. Increase the resistance, lift heavier weights or perform exercises with proper form and control to technical failure. By increasing the intensity you can achieve a more effective workout any shorter amount of time. You will also find that you will not have to perform as many sets per muscle group in order to see significant gains that's having to spend less time in the gym. Remember to listen to your body and choose exercises that are going to align with your level of fitness and your goals. As always don't high goal against yourself, share this video with the friends and enjoy the pop.

=== FILE: 5-Move Super-Shred Full Body Circuit Workout ｜ Sean Sarantos [AfwSbPt6TuQ].txt ===

Your life is defined by what you do. By the impact you make. To my goal to help people find fitness. To live healthier, have your lives. I'm Sean Serantips. I will you define your life. So when I was in the military, I didn't have a lot of time in between my long days workout. That's why I made a workout specifically for a full body to get every single second into your workout and get the best bang for your buck. It's low rest, high intensity, you're getting the best possible workout you can do. It's going to be two exercises per large muscle group, one exercise per small muscle group. And you want to try to do active rest if you can. Active rest means that during that time you're still doing things. You're doing jumping jacks, push-ups, burpees, mountain climbers. If you have the energy, do it. So most people don't like doing legs. That's why I like to do them first. Get it out of the way, stop bison about it and just hit it. We're going to go ahead and do barbell lunges with a squat. Every two steps, meaning that take left step, take a right step and do a squat. It's going to be three sets of 20. We really want to just go ahead and exhaust the legs right from the start. You want to make sure that the very beginning of your workout is going to be how you're going to go ahead and base the rest of your workout. So you want to be sweating. You want to be hurting and you want to make sure that you're feeling it. The active rest I'm choosing to do on this one right now is mountain climbers. You usually can do them in the very beginning, but near the end, I'm pretty worn out and I really do need that rest to get to the next set and finish. But if you have the energy to mountain climbers, it's a great core workout to go with the lunges and the squats. Exercise number two is just super set for back, meaning that right after the first exercise, we go into the second exercise. The rep range is going to be three sets of 10, 8 to 10 on the second one because you are going to be tired. We're going to go ahead and do seated wide grip pull downs on the first exercise. On the second one, you're going into neutral grip. We're trying to keep the back straight as possible. Elbows tight to the body on the neutral grip pull and down. Back to the rest I'm doing on this one is just pushups. It's getting me ready for the very next exercise. Third exercise I'm doing is sing along cable flies. It's going to be eight reps per part of your chest. Hopper mid lower. So I'm doing eight reps at the very top. Going straight to the mid eight reps and then right to the bottom eight reps. No rest really in between just because you're doing single arm on each side. That's going to be your rest time. Fourth exercise is going to be another super set. We're going to be hitting biceps and triceps. I'll be doing rope pull downs along with rope hammer curls. The sets are going to be three sets of 20 to 25 for the triceps and three sets of 12 to 15 for the hammer curls. I'm doing the triceps pull downs on my knees to help keep me from swinging the weight and using my back. I use it because it helps stabilize my core and tighten as well as get the exercise and good form. The fifth and final exercise is another super set. I'll be doing dumbbell lateral raises as well as front raises with a plate. The reps are going to be three sets of 15 for the lateral raises and three sets of 15 for the plates. For the lateral raises, I'm using lighter weight and I'm really focusing on form. There's a 90 degree bend in my elbow. So you want to start with your palms up and the finishing you want to go ahead and have them pointing down at the top movement. Plate raises. I have palms up and I'm going very slowly on the eccentric movement on the weight down to completely wear me out. So that's the workout. It shouldn't take you any more than 40 minutes. For those of you who don't have a lot of time, it only get one or two workouts a week. I really recommend that you try this workout. And if you try this workout by all means, go into the comments section below. Let us know how you liked it. Let others know how you liked it. Did you find something confusing? Did you find it amazing? If you have any questions at all, you can find me on my body space. It's rice 8787 and I'd be happy to hear from you. For more videos, just like this, just keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: 7 Must-Do Hacks For Huge Arms ｜ Hunter Labrada [v7FYHOUK3Po].txt ===

Hey guys, Hunter LeBraude here. Today I wanted to take you through some tips and tricks I've learned over the years for training your arms. Alright guys, let's get into our first exercise for biceps. It's going to be standing alternating dumbbell curls. Alright, so the first tip I have for you specifically for biceps is to internally and externally rotate your hand through the rep. What I mean by that is as you near the bottom of the rep, you're going to go from here down to here. You're going to allow it to rotate. What that's going to do is it's going to allow the long head of your bice to become fully stretched and extended at the bottom of the rep. Whenever you have to start curling from that fully stretched and elongated position, it's a much harder rep than it is when the muscles are already partially contracted. It allows for maximal recruitment of the muscle. So as we continue through the rep, that rotation will become up the external rotation will actually force both heads of the bicep to contract further than if you were to just curl it like that. The second tip I have for you today is one that you can apply to any bicep exercise that you're performing and that is to pull your shoulders back when you're performing your bicep motions. What that's going to do is it's going to take your front belt and your chest out of the equation. So whenever the rep start getting hard you're unable to go like this because your shoulders are going to be pulled back and all of the motion has to occur at the elbow joint. Whenever we're performing it, most people you see how my shoulders are over, we're curling, yeah it works. Whenever you pull your shoulders back, your bicep's are locked in, your elbows are locked in and you're able to get a much better contraction by doing this. So throughout the rep, whenever you keep your shoulders contracted, you're able to keep all of the stress on the bicep. The stiff involved use of a bench to change the point of attack on the bicep and allows for a truly isolated bicep motion. Now, let me show you what you can do with the bench to truly change the dynamic of the exercise. All of it is going to involve is taking the bench and one may be two holes down where to position where we lean back and we truly are with the shoulders back and the elbows back. But this does it places all the stress on the bicep. This variation of the bench curl, I like performing with a actual bicep curl instead of a hammer curl because you can truly isolate the bicep and get a better contraction by using this angle on the bench. What's important when you're doing it this way is to keep your shoulders back. To whatever you're at this angle like this, you have a propensity to come forward like this to try and curl it. That's not right. You're going to be using your chest and your front belt. You want to stay back with your scap you like contracted keeping your arms and elbows back in your elbows pin. Now that we've gone over the tips that I have the offer you for training your biceps, let's move on to the tips that I have to offer for training your triceps. So my first tip that I have for training triceps today is to not flare your elbows when performing the motions. What this does when you flare your elbows is it takes a lot of stress off of the tricep and places it into your elbow. Elbow joint and the various tendons that anchor your tricep and your forearm into there. Let me show you what it looks like when performing a school crusher. Whenever you flare your elbows like say like this, whenever you're coming back, I can already feel this and my elbows and my chest and my shoulders. All of the stress has been shifted from my triceps to the supporting muscles that I'm not even trying to train by doing this. Like I said before, we're truly isolating the motion so the only motion that's going to be happening is that the elbow joint, your humorous, the long bone and the top of your arm is not moving. So as previously mentioned, we're going to go just shy of lockout in an effort to keep constant tension on the muscle. So my next tip I have for you today is to internally rotate your hands or to turn them in as you perform the motion near the peak of the exercise. What that's going to do is it's going to allow for maximum activation and contraction of the whole tricep while placing an emphasis on the outer head of your tricep, which is an often neglected portion of your tricep. First, I'm going to illustrate this tip to you using a dumbbell kickback and then I'll show you what it looks like on a rope press down. All right guys, so to start, we're going to have the dumbbell here in a neutral position and then also we're going to have our arm like I previously said. We're going to want to keep the humorous as straight and isn't it's original position as possible. We're also going to want to freeze the shoulder joint in a lot for his little motion as possible having all of the motion come from the elbow joint. It looks like this. So as we extend, we're going to start with a neutral hand position and we're going to rotate back and tap truly allowing to isolate the tricep, especially the outer head. Now the left showing you how to really internally rotate your hand on a dumbbell kickback. Let me show you what it looks like on a tricep push down. Just like all of our other exercises, we're going to want to keep our humorous, really pin the shoulders back and as we move through the motion, we're going to want to internally rotate our hands. Keep our elbows pinned and truly externally rotate. There's a much, much heavier contraction and a lot more stress is placed on the actual tricep. You really can't apply this tip to absolutely anything that is an honor bar that's connected. Anything that you use a dumbbell for a cable for or a rope for anything, you can definitely use this tip and you'll definitely get a benefit from using it. Let's move on to my third and final tip for training triceps. This one has to do with close grip bench press. The problem I have with this exercise is people tend to keep their hands way too close. What this does is a places an extreme amount of stress on their wrists, be really places a lot of stress on the AC joint and your shoulder joints and see it takes a lot of the stress off of your triceps. What we're going to do is scoot your hands out just a little bit, you're still going to be close for me. It works out to be approximately my pointer fingers on the start of the knurling. We're going to get out here. We're going to keep our elbows tucked and you're going to keep all the stress on the tricep by doing so. So at the bottom of the rep, we're able to keep the elbows tucked, the stress on the tricep and we have a firm firm grasp on the bar and that an extreme angle on your wrists. Looks like this. All right guys, so now that I've gone over some general overarching training techniques to use for when training both your biceps and your triceps, I've included a workout at the bottom of the page for you to try and apply them to. The exercise is picked for this workout, really are conducive to applying these tips and techniques. So give it a try and make sure you let me know what you think. If you have any questions regarding the tips and techniques I gave you in this article or any of the other articles or videos I have on bodybuilding.com, don't hesitate to shoot me a message on body space. My name's Hunter Liberada, all lower case, no spaces. For more articles and content like this, keep on coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: AMP： Marc Megna's 8-Week Aesthetics Meets Performance Trainer, Promo - Bodybuilding.com [IAG-lnVvUhw].txt ===

Growing up, I always wanted to be a great athlete, but I didn't really have an athletic body. I wanted to look apart and perform extremely well. I did not buy into you had to have a great body, a great aesthetics if you will, or perform well. I wanted both. I wanted it all. And the only way to do that was to train like an athlete. And make sure I actually did movements and watch my nutrition enough to get a great body. I am just going to help you get both. I say you can have it all. Strength, character, athletics, and aesthetics. I would always get a kick out of people that looked like super heroes or super athletes, but they couldn't do anything with it. I would ask someone who looks the part that can you swim. I can't swim. Can you run fast? They can't run fast. The concept of AMP comes from wanting to perform extremely well and have great aesthetics at the same time. What can you do besides staying there and looking at the mirror? I would take magazines and I would pace the pictures of the sports magazines of athletes all of my wall and I would dream of wanting to look like a professional athlete. It was everything to me. I immersed myself and wanted to look like that super hero figure with the shoulders and the abs and the legs and the strength and everything that these special athletes embody. I enjoyed playing football, but I was still terrible. My high school football coach noticed of my effort. I wasn't a good player, but he noticed I gave great effort. In effort, nobody can control your effort. You can. There was one coach in the United States of America from college that gave me an opportunity to play college football. He saw something in me. He gave me a scholarship to the University of Richmond, Virginia. I went from a six foot, one six foot, two, two, two, hundred and twenty pound linebacker to a six foot, two, two, one, and fifty, five, sixty pound nose guard. I went from a guy that no one either wanted to play college football to a two-time all-American and an NFL draft choice. Health and fitness is such a huge part of my life that I don't know where I'd be without it. It shaped me as a person. Ever since I was a small boy, it just implemented so many wonderful characteristics that are everything that life is. You need to be dedicated, tortoise, you need to have discipline and anything you do. Desire is a great thing, but you can't just have desire. You have to want to put the effort behind it and it shows you that you're going to get back exactly what you put in. The ant program is the way I've lived my life for the past 30 years. The ant program is so an energy him who wants to look the part, but he do extremely well in performance. I would always get a kick out of people that looked like superheroes or super athletes, but they couldn't do anything with it. I would ask someone who looks the part they have a six-pack and have a great body. They have great shoulders and chest and legs and they just look like a superhero. Can you swim? No, I can't swim. Can you run fast? I can't run fast. What can you do besides stand there and look in the mirror? I wanted the person to perform extremely well. I wanted to perform extremely well. I wanted to be able to have my cake and eat it too. I wanted to be a strong bench presser, strong squatter, strong deadlift. I wanted to... There's a Spartan race this weekend. There's an obstacle course race this weekend. I wanted to be able to just jump in that and perform extremely well to drop a hat, be able to do it. The ant program is eight weeks of training broken down into four phases. We're giving you everything necessary to be put in a position to be successful. We're giving you the training. We're giving you the exercises, all the splits, sets, reps, nutrition, and approach to make sure that you have a great experience with the ant program. The state of experience performs. So the people that start the ant program are enjoying all kinds of activities. From Ossville course races, tough motors, Spartan, Maryland down in dirty. They want to do things that are in nature hard to do. Or they're people that just want to take their shirt off and look at. They want to be on the beast when I hang at the pool. They want to look the part. There's really no one that I can think of that I work with or on my co-workers, people in the industry, that want to be performance driven and they don't want to look good. They want both. They really want to look the part as well. So this will help you get there. The program is structured into an eight-week training platform. The first two weeks of the function phase, second two weeks are the application phase. The third phase is the strength phase and the fourth and final phase is the power phase. Eight weeks of training into four different phases, two weeks of peace. Now with each phase there's an incredible amount of detail that I've intertwined with the program. I'm not going to go over every component of each program in each phase. What you will need to do is watch each video to make sure that you're paying attention to detail and you're following the program to a take. At the end of the program there'll be certain needs that we've met. We've met the need of running faster, jumping higher, increasing force production, which is moving your body in a more efficient way and we also created a better body as a whole, better aesthetics, better look, better aesthetics, you feel better. I think in life like we always think about I'm going to wait till it's the optimal time to do this. I'm going to wait till the optimal time to be a better friend. I'm going to wait till the optimal time to be a better brother. I'm going to wait till the optimal time to be in the best shape of my life. I always say get used to working in chaos because there's never a perfect time to do anything. You're going to have a lot of balls in the air and life gets very busy in overwhelming. I don't care what you do to try to reduce your responsibility as you get older you have more responsibility and things get twisted and things get hard. Just like life, the program gives you an opportunity to set the stage to be successful, not only in training and health but also in life. You have to be determined. You just have to stay on course and every morning of your life you're going to wake up and you're going to think that everything is going to go in such a positive way but you're going to get punched in the face and things are going to happen. Huge obstacles are going to arise and you're going to have to overcome them. What are you going to do to overcome them? Are you going to stay focused? Are you going to keep your head in the game and what are you going to do to make sure that you can stay on course and you're not going to let anything else distract you. You decided you want to be healthier. You decided you're going to train. You've committed to this program. Dedicate all your time, effort and energy, be disciplined, be consistent and you'll get the body you've always wanted. So before you start the training program, there's two things you need to do. You need to watch the training program to make sure you get any and all details to make sure you understand what's going to be asked of you during the training program and during the days of training. Number two, it's important that you watch nutritional components. You understand the food requirements and the supplementation suggestions. Do those two things and then you'll be in a position to start the program.

=== FILE: Ab Crunch Machine - Core ⧸ Abs - Bodybuilding.com [JSBuaT1tHfM].txt ===

Select a light resistance and sit down at the machine. Place your feet under the pads provided and grab the top handles. Your arms should be bent around 90 degrees with your triceps resting against the pads provided. This will be your starting position. Now exhale while crunching your upper torso. Be sure to use a slow and controlled motion with a focus on using your abs to move the weight while also relaxing your legs and feet. After a brief pause in the contracted position, inhale and slowly return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Ab Roller - Ab Exercises - Bodybuilding.com [Q5MT5omGNJI].txt ===

Hold the ab roller with both hands while kneeling on the floor. Place the ab roller in front of you so that you are on your hands and knees. This should look like you're about to do a kneeling pushup and will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly roll the ab roller forward. Stretch your body into a straight position going down as far as you can without touching the floor with your body. After a brief pause in the stretched position, exhale and start pulling yourself back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Abdominal Anatomy & Training Program ｜ Built By Science [RVigLkx4Tz0].txt ===

You're on your team, is it a little prank? You are an architect. Beneath your skin, light the plans for your fastest, strong, and most powerful self. If you can learn the structure of your skill and the makeup of your muscle, and the mechanics of movement, you can create your best, and the possible body. How Mike Robertson this is built by science. There's no better way to learn and understand anatomy than to watch a real-life human being look. So we brought in WBFF Fitness Pro Genjuel. And I'm going to show you using Gen's physique exactly where all these muscles are, what they do, and how to target them specifically in your own training. So when we're talking about the abdominals, it's important to note that there are three unique subsections to your abs. We're going to work our way from the inside out, but you have a deep layer, you have an intermediate layer, and then you have a superficial layer. So the first muscle that we're going to talk about here today is the diaphragm. A lot of people don't talk about the diaphragm, but it's a critical muscle as far as respiration goes. So what you're going to imagine here from the front inside of your rib cage, your diaphragm comes up all the way around, and then it actually attaches onto your lower back. So when you take a deep breath, your diaphragm comes down, and in a perfect world underneath you have your pelvis, and most importantly your pelvic floor. So that is there to help catch that breath, and it'll press your eyes that entire abdominal wall. So when you go to squat or deadlift or overhead press, you've got a really strong stable spine. Also in that deep layer, you have what's called your transverse abdominis. And it runs from what's called your linia alva, here on the front, which is just a fancy name for a big attachment point. So it comes all the way around and attaches onto your lower back. So those three muscles work in concert to help press your eyes, your deep or your inner core musculature. Next, we have that intermediate layer, which is essentially your internal oblique. So everybody's familiar with the external obliques on the outside, but if you could imagine external obliques run this way, your internal obliques run in this fashion. So you can imagine a muscle that runs from again, that linia alva, and comes down in across and attaches to your hip bone. From there, working your way even further outward, you've got your external obliques, runs from your ribcage, all the way down, connects to your pelvis and your hip. Most people think of an external oblique as a trunk flexor or a trunk rotator, while that's all fine and dandy. What we're going to show you guys here today is how important stability or control is through your core and your midsection. So these muscles are actually very important for posteriorly tilting the pelvis, or helping it roll back. A lot of people have a tendency to fall into what's called an anterior pelvic tilt. So the pelvis rolls forward, you get a lot of pressure on your back. So these muscles are important for pulling your pelvis back. Probably the major player that everybody wants to talk about, your rectus abdominis. So your rectus abdominis is this broad muscle that runs from your lower ribcage and your sternum or your breast bone, all the way down to the front of your pelvis, which is called your pubic synthesis. So once you guys have a basic idea of the anatomy there, you can start creating or constructing a better workout routine. Last but not least, we're going to show you guys the muscles on the back side of your anatomy, or your posterior core. So I'm going to have chin turn around, and while there's tons of muscles on the back side of your body, we're going to focus on three main muscle groups. First, you've got these really small muscles that span about two to four segments of your back or your spine called multifid eye. Now you're never going to see these muscles, but they're important because they help give your spine or your back feedback to your brain as to where it is in space, and they help you control little movements throughout your spine. So you've got your multifid eye, you've got a big muscle called your quadratus lumborum, or QL for short, and it actually runs from the top of your hip all the way up to your lower back. Important as far as side to side motion goes, more importantly for our purposes, is really important for preventing side bending. As you're going to see, the lumbar spine is very important for controlling or resisting motion. Last but not least, you've got these big muscles that everybody knows on the back side, they're called your erector spine. And they run from your sacrum and the top of your hip all the way up, they connect to the back of your rib cage, all the way up to the neck, and even as high as the base of your skull. So these muscles are really important as far as controlling motion. Again, think about squatting, think about dead lifting, where you've got a heavy weight on your back, you want to maintain a little bit of extension through your lower back. That's where your erector spine come into play. Now that you understand the muscular anatomy, we're going to show you guys the exact bones and joints that you're going to use when you're training your core. There's two major joints we're going to focus on here today. The pelvis and the lumbar spine are the lower back. So I'm going to have Jen give us a profile here. When you're talking about your pelvis, there's two major motions. There's what's called anterior tilt, where you're kind of rolling your pelvis forward and popping your hips back. The next is the opposite motion, which is called posterior tilt. That's where you're kind of rolling your pelvis underneath you. So you've got those two at your pelvis, you have four motions through your lower back. The first is what's called lumbar flexion. Or just what you do when you bend over and you touch your toes. So you can see how she kind of relax for back. And then the opposite motion is what's called lumbar extension. So in this case, Jen's going to reach up to the ceiling, arch back, and you can see how all these muscles turn on back here. Last but not least, if you're thinking more side to side motion or rotation, you have what's called side bending. So if she's up nice and tall, she's just going to bend to one side. This is also called lateral flexion. And then last but not least, you have rotation. So if she's squared up, just rotating to one side or the other. Now as important as all these movements are, what you're going to find when we're actually coming down to the training is how important actually resisting motion is. Lumbar spine doesn't have a ton of range of motion other than front to back. So if we can teach you guys how to control or resist motion through this area, you're going to make your lips bigger, stronger, and you're going to stay healthier to boot. We've covered the muscles, we've covered the skeleton. Now we're going to show you guys the exact movements that your core is designed to do. Now people love talking about big bang exercises like crunches and sit ups and side bends. All the exercises that a lot of us have grown up with. But what's probably even more important is learning how to control your pelvic position, learning how to control your spine position, because that's what's most important for keeping your healthy and moving weights for a long period of time. So you've got five functions of your abdominals or your core. Number one would be your ability to create pressure through your abdomen and create pressure to stabilize your spine. So if Jen just took a deep breath in and held it, that's your diaphragm, pressing down into that pelvic floor, it's pressing out into your transverse abdominis to your TVA. So this is giving our strong, stable spine so that she can squat, deadlift, and overhead press effectively. The next motion is most people would think of trunk flexion, but instead the true second function would be controlling extension through your lumbar spine or lower back. So if Jen were to arch back, alright, this is fine, but you got to be able to control it, and a lot of people struggle with that. So this is where you have your rectus abdominis, you have your external obliques, you have your internal obliques. So all those muscles connect to that front side of your pelvis and they help you control your pelvis and your lower back position. Third, you've got what's called side bending or lateral flexion. So if Jen were to side bend to her side, you can see her external obliques, her internal obliques, that big muscle on the back, called her QL, those muscles are important for helping her stay neutral. So if you imagine carrying a bag of groceries, one side's really heavy, you need the opposite side to be strong to control that motion. Fourth, you've got what's called anti-rotation. So obviously people spin side to side, if Jen goes side to side, you can get a feel for that motion, but what's really important, you have your rectus abdominis, your internal obliques, your external obliques, and even your TVA, you remember that deep muscle that runs kind of side to side across your abdomen, all those muscles are important for controlling rotation side to side. Last but not least, the fifth role of your core is the ability to resist flexion. So if Jen went ahead and turned around here for me, the ability to bend over and touch your toes is important. But as you guys can imagine, if you're squatting or deadlifting in this position, it's not going to end well. You're either going to end up injured or you're not going to be able to move as much weight as possible. So the ability to resist flexion or keep yourself from getting rounded over is not only going to keep you healthier, but it's going to allow you to squat, deadlift and overhead press more weight. So far, we've covered the muscular anatomy, the skeletal anatomy, and the joints involved in your core, and we've also shown you some of the movements. Last but not least, we're going to show you guys some of our favorite exercises. Now make sure you guys remember, we're just showing you a handful of the exercises here today. There's tons more if you go ahead and check out the full trainer. So the first exercise I'm going to have Jen demonstrate is what's called a TRX fallout. So Jen's going to set up honor toes, her hands are going to be underneath her shoulders, and what I like to cue my clients to do is to exhale just a little bit. And if she does that, you can see her ribs come down. And then this position, all she's going to do, literally allow her hands to fall out in front of her body, keeping her abs nice and tight, and then pull herself back. So when you get out into this position, you're using your rectus abdominis, your internal glutes, your external glutes to help control that motion, and in that bottom position, you're really focused on what's called neutral spine. So a neutral position between her neck, her upper back, and her butt-ups. TRX fallout is a fantastic exercise, not only because it's going to help you scalp the kind of physique that you're looking for, but it's also going to create balance front to back. A lot of the clients that I work with are very tight are very stiff through their lower back, and they need a strong set of abs to help offset that. So if you train the TRX fallout, it's going to help you create that balance front to back, to not only keep your back healthy, but allow you to push more weight in the squat, deadlift, and overhead press. Our next exercise is what's called a dead butt. And a lot like the TRX fallout, this is going to help you learn how to control or resist extension through your lower back. So what I'm going to have Gen-Doo is go ahead and lay on her back here. She's going to take her arms and reach up towards the ceiling. She's going to bring her feet, knees, and hips up to a 90 degree angle. And then something I always like to cue with my clients is to exhale hard. That's going to allow them to bring their rib-tage down, and it's going to allow them to flatten their lower back into the ground. You're going to hold this position throughout the course of the set. So once you're in this position, Gen's going to extend and push through one heel. And again, she's really focusing on keeping her back flat throughout the set. But natural tendency is going to be to arch or extend your lower back, and you don't want to let that happen. So again, ribs down, back flat, and then pushing long or reaching long through the heel. The pala of press is a fantastic exercise for teaching your body to resist or control rotation side to side. What I'm going to have Gen-Doo here, she's going to go ahead and grab our attachment. She's going to pull to her chest, and then from this position, she's going to stand up nice and tall, and extend the weight out in front of her body. So this is again, the weight is pulling her back, she's going to work hard to prevent rotation. So she's using her internal bleaks, her external bleaks, her transverse abdominis, and even her quadratus limb warm. So she's holding this position for 20 to 30 seconds, and then she's going to do it on the opposite side. Now again, this may not be an exercise you're familiar with, but it's going to help tie everything together. The stronger you get all these unique movements and stability exercises, the stronger you're going to be when it's time to squat, deadlift, or overhead press. The final exercise in our demonstration is called a suitcase deadly. And this is a great exercise because it's going to teach you how to control side-to-side motions through your core and through your spine. So what we've done here, we've got Gen set up with one dumbbell. She's just going to pick it up off a bench. A lot of times we'll set people up a little bit higher than usual because it's awkward going all the way down to the ground to pick up a dumbbell with one side. So from this position, what Gen's going to do simply shift her weight back, and that weight is naturally going to allow her to prevent motion side to side. So go ahead and just shift your hips back, Gen perfect, chin down just a little bit, and then stand back up. And she can progressively work through more and more range of motion as she gets comfortable. But again, when you have that weight on one side, you're going to work really hard on the opposite side to make sure you're preventing or resisting motion. So not only is this exercise great as far as strength building goes, but it's also going to train a lot of the muscles that you want to develop anyways. Like your external oblique, your internal obliques, and your quadratus lumbar. Look, at the end of the day, your abs are everything. They literally tie your upper and lower bodies together. So whether you're in this for purely physique, focused results, or you just want to squat, deadlift, or overhead, press more weight in the gym, you got to have a strong, stable midsection to do that. If there's two things I can get you to take away from the video, it's this. Number one, it's not just about moving through your core in your lumbar spine, it's being able to resist motion through that area. Number two, again, the physique, I get that. I want you to have a lean sculpted midsection. But if you don't have the stability in the control front to back, side to side, and through rotation, you're never going to be able to move as much weight and perform at the level that you would like to in the gym or on the field. With that being said, you guys should have a PhD right now in the abdominals in the core and how to use all those muscles in the gym. But make sure you watch all the videos before you get into the gym and get after it. Run muscular anatomy by mechanics of calc, the skeletal system, muscle function, and the best exercises to build lean mass mass. Knowledge is power, know yourself to build yourself, build yourself with the best. Mind, muscle, masterpiece.

=== FILE: Abel Albonetti's Ultimate Back Workout [lA7dbOmxs5I].txt ===

I'm Abel Albinelli. My physique is a product of hard work in the gym and serious dedication to my nutrition. Today I'm going to take you through my back workout. It's going to be a high-purchar-fear workout. It's also going to burn a lot of calories. We're going to do drop sets, giant sets, and inter-set stretching. We're going to start off with the overhand wide-grip Barbell Roe. Going into weighted pull-ups and then we're going to move onto dumbbell rows. The fourth exercise is to underhand pull-downs. We're going to move onto close-grip cable rows. Then we're going to move onto a dumbbell incline bench row. Then we're going to finish off with a giant set. It's going to be a wide-grip pull-down. Then with a straight arm pull-down, then a low cable row. So, dear my high-purchary workout, it's a normally like to rest around 60 seconds. So, one minute to a minute, 20 max. The workout should last around an hour to an hour and 30 minutes. Alright, let's go ahead and get started with this workout. Alright, so we're going to start off with the wide-grip bent over Barbell Roe. We're going to do five working sets, we're going to start off with two warm-ups. And the last set will be a triple drop set. And each set, I'm actually going up and weight and down in reps. So, we're going to be going from 12 to 10 to 8 to 6 and then to 4 on the fifth set. That's where we're going to implement the triple drop set. When I do a bent over Barbell Roe, I like to start off with my back straight and then lean forward. So, about a 45 degree angle, I like to let my lats and arms go all the way down and then pull up. So, we're going to be using the triple drop set just to really get the reps out. So, we're doing really heavy for four reps. Then when we drop in the weight, I'm dropping it by 20 pounds. And doing as many as I can, which is only around four to six reps. And then I'm going to drop in again with another 20 pounds. And then doing that again for as many reps. So, we're hitting failure on every single set. On the second exercise, we're going to be doing wide-grip weighted pull-ups. We're going to be doing five sets of eight to 12 reps. Now, what I'm really focusing on when I'm doing wide-grip pull-ups is really just squeezing my back and going all the way down. Releasing my lats and then pulling back up. Trying to get close to perfect reps as I can, even with heavy weights. Now, of course, if you cannot do weighted pull-ups, bodyweight pull-ups is just fine. But you want to be hitting around eight to 12 reps range. Alright, moving on to the third exercise. We're going to be doing single arm dumbbell rows. We're going to be doing six sets. Three sets, normal dumbbell rows. And then three sets swinging dumbbell rows. For the standard row, I'm really focusing on going all the way down. And then squeezing, trying to get my elbows back, as far back as possible. Now, the swing rows are a little bit different. So, instead of just like a normal dumbbell row that you just pull and back your elbows, you're really trying to focus on the squeeze. So, I'm actually have to go down in weights, but I'm really focusing on the back of that motion just pausing for a split second. And then letting it release. What that is doing is actually working in a different part of the back. You'll feel the difference when you have it right. Alright, we're going to be moving on to the fourth exercise, which is underhand pull downs. We're going for four sets of 10 to 12 reps. Alright, when I'm doing the underhand pull downs, my hands are about shoulder width apart. I'm really focused on keeping my back straight and really pulling my elbows down as far as possible. And this part of the workout, I'm really starting to fill in in my lats. Doing all these pull downs and rows, you're really going to start getting fatigued, but you just got to keep pushing through it. Fifth exercise, we're going to be moving into a close grip seated cable row. We're going to go in four sets of 10 to 12 reps. During this exercise, I'm really going to be focusing on pulling my hands out and squeezing. See me go back and rest at the back position with my back straight. That really helps, it actually pulls rest, so that actually helps me get in a couple more reps during that set. Alright, moving on to exercise number six. This is going to be a prone dumbbell incongbench row, or we're going to be doing three sets. So the first two sets are going to be regular reps of eight to 12 reps. And on the third set, we're going to be doing a triple drop set with inter-set stretching. I really like doing the incongbench prone rows. It really helps you to squeeze your back, and you're going to motion, so you can't really cheat. You can't use your lower back or anything else, it's just your back. So you're trying to really squeeze your elbows back. On the third set, we're going to be doing inter-set stretching. So what this is, you'll do anywhere from eight to 12 reps. And then you're going to hold the bottom position for 30 seconds. And then you're going to drop the weight, grab another set of dumbbells, do another eight reps, and then stretch. For 30 seconds again, drop that weight, grab another set of lower dumbbells, and then do as many reps as you can. And then hold that stretch again. On the very last 30 seconds, you're going to end with a positive rep, and then drop the weight. So we're going to wrap up this workout with a giant set. All these rep range you're going to be from 10 to 15 reps. Just pretty much as many as I can do, so I'm going to be going to failure on each one. We're going to start off with wide grip pull downs, straight into a straight arm pull down, and then into a rope low cable rope. Now on the wide grip pull downs, you really want to focus on keeping your back straight, and it's all about the form here. So I'm going to drop the weight and really just focus on the squeeze all the way down, and all the way up, letting my lats release at the top, and then pulling back down. Now during the straight arm pull downs, you really want to focus on keeping your arms straight, and just squeezing the whole time during that whole motion. During the low rope cable rope, this is all about just squeezing pumping as much blood into that muscle as possible. You're not doing heavy weight, so just go through it and just pump it out. At the end of this workout, you should really be feeling it. This is a great workout to build muscle, and at the same time burn a lot of calories. Now if you're looking to really build your back, I would really recommend throwing this back workout into your routine, just to really break platos. Now the full breakdown of this workout is here on this page below on Bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions about this workout, or any other, just contact me here on Body Space, or on Facebook, or Instagram. For more free articles and videos like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Abs Exercises with Alec Musser - Bodybuilding.com [FWZoLDM5Iz4].txt ===

Hey everybody, I'm Alex Muszer, TV and Phil Mactur. People know me from daytime television. My role is Del Henry on all my children and you can check me out in this summer's lockbuster hate Corona. So we add them to Samler and then rest in the Saturday night live guys. Today we're here at famous bulls, Jim and Venice Beach, California. The guys from bodybuilding.com. That's going to come down and show you how I got ripped for that movie and how I stay in shape. The workout you're going to see today is a circuit workout. It's one of the workouts that I was using to get in the shape that I was in for the role that I played and grown up. It's going to combine at least one or two different exercises in each move. And what that does is it maximizes on the strength and muscle building while capitalizing on the short amount of time that I've got here and also incorporate a bunch of cardio into it as well. Okay, so I'm going to take you through the full body workout starting now. The first exercise is a push pull. So I took the pull up, then a push up, alternating one, then the other. Okay, so heart rate up, get you warmed up. I do about six sets of these. I start out with 10 to 15 reps. I don't take much time in between maybe 30 seconds rest. Okay, I want to keep my intensity up. All right, everything that I love to do in the sports world requires explosiveness and endurance. And so that's what I'm trying to capitalize here. Let's get started. Okay, that's it. Six sets I'm done, I'm ready to move on. All right, so you see how we're working here. This is all about keeping the intensity level high and moving on to the next exercise. Let's go. All right, the second exercise we're going to start bringing the legs into it. Okay, we're going to superset squats with the shoulder press, right? Guys, we're going to keep the reps again, still pretty high. Weight, pretty low, we're concentrating on our form, right? Checking the knees and back, the neck. Here we go. Starting this position, right down, and explode out with shoulders, right? Down, explode with shoulders. Two separate exercises, right? You're not using the squat to assist in the shoulder press. explode with legs, explode with the shoulders. As you can see, I've dropped my weight 10 pounds because I'm starting to fatigue and I want to keep the reps high. So low of the weight, so I can maintain the same number of reps that I've been doing. Here we go. Let's see, it's a six set. Let's move on. As you can see, another great thing about this workout, you don't need a lot of space or a lot of equipment. You've used a pull-up bar and some dumbbells and that's it. All right, so the third exercise we're going to do is a lunge with a bicep curl. Again, keeping that weight nice and light, I promise you, you will fatigue. So again, we're going to do about six sets, 10 to 15 reps. Okay, two separate exercises going on here, right? We're doing the lunge and then the bicep curl. I do it on both at the same time. We don't want to assist one with the other. Six sets of that, I'm telling you, you will start to feel it. Let's go. Okay, so for our fourth exercise, we'll go back to the pull-up bar. We're just going to be a pull-up with a plank. Now we're starting to work the abs, right? You guys saw those in front of us? If you think this is an hard drive for yourself, boys. Ah! That's six sets. Okay, as you see, minimal rest time in between sets. You might see your reps starting to come down, that's fine. I don't push everything into failure when I'm doing this workout. All right, we're in the home stretch, right? We're going to final exercise. We're super standing and push up, okay? So we're back to the chest, we're going to modify the roll. We're going to learn a little bit of a yoga twist in there too. This is a good one. So more content like you check out Bodybuilding.com. We'll see you guys next time.

=== FILE: Abs, Hybrid Training & Menopause Training ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Episode 11 ｜ Kira Stokes [uRifCH9bVhc].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Bodybuilding.com listeners, my name is Daniel Bits, and welcome back to the BB Compacast. Today I'm joined by Kira Stokes. Kira's a health and wellness expert based in New York City with over 28 years of experience in the fitness industry. I graduated a Boston College with a degree in psychology and a minor in health sciences. Kira's core business is a mix of our award-winning Kira Stokes fit up, KS fit fuel, and KS fit gear. In addition to running our own seven-figure company, Kira's a celebrity personal trainer. The Stokes method, Kira's science-back training system, customized client programming and unwavering attention to form and boundless energy, has gained her a passionate, devoted, global community of over half a million followers. Her partnership portfolio includes Therabody, ProMix, Hyperware, and Lulu Lemon. Kira has been featured in countless publications including Shape, Women's Health, Self, Bogue, Business Insider, Wall Street Journal, and The New York Times. Kira holds multiple certification such as NESM CPT, NESMPS, NESM WFS, FRCMS, Pre-imposed Neal, and more. Kira, welcome to the pod that is quite the resume. You had me, have me tongue twisted a little bit because I go through so much but excited to dive in with you today. Thank you for having me, M's, Doked to be here. Awesome. There you go. As always, we've got some new and fascinating topics to cut up for you guys today. We'll be breaking down Kira's infamous Stoke Method in just one second. We'll be defining Hibert training and how can Grayley benefit all fitness goals and we'll be tackling a topic that almost everyone out there wants to learn more about which is core building 101. I also have the teaser really great and interesting discussion we have planned towards the back half which will be centered around training and the menopause and post menopause era. So, Kira, let's get started with the four Fs and breaking down the Stoke Method. Today's episode is brought to you by Kodage, a nutritional and supplement wellness brand. Kodage is your go-to wellness brand dedicated to supporting your busy lifestyle with a wide range of cutting-edge nutritional solutions and innovative dietary supplement formulas. From multi-coloured and solutions to essential vitamins and minerals along with probiotics, Kodage has it all. Their premium college's selections, always non-GMO, are designed to seamlessly integrate into your daily routine, providing the essential support your body needs including five types of collagen. But it is redefining the way we nourish our bodies and expands beyond nutrition into the realm of beauty care, offering comprehensive holistic wellness solutions. And brace your health and won't be in today with Kodage. Shop the collection now, I bought a building.com. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, prevent any disease. Yeah, so the Stoke Method, you know, it's interesting how, as a trainer and group fitness coach, how things evolve over time. And you hear method a lot in fitness that different trainers or different coaches have a method. And I can truly say that I didn't have a defined method until about almost 15 years into my career because I truly believe that in order to call something a method, it has to be tested and proven. And you have to have had the experience and hands-on experience with actual humans, not just, I'm a firm believer that like just virtual, right, is really tough. Like you need to really have had one-on-one experience with people to know how your quote method truly works and how it evolves over time. So I don't take the word method lightly when I say the Stoke Method. It is something that has really evolved and continues to evolve over time based on my experience and education and continuing education. I always say, always be a student, but you know, and that's the beautiful thing about it. It's not stagnant. It's ever changing. So the Stoke Method is really, it's a science-backed, functional flow of movement formula. That's how I, that's the one liner that you get about the Stoke Method, but there are so many different pillars within the method and different offerings now as they are shown on the Kira Stokes fit up. Like you, everybody has access to them now that really do reinforce as we'll talk about later hybrid training. So let's bring down those four apps, right? That go into the Stoke Method. Those are form, function, fatigue, and fuel. Tell us what they mean and how they plan to fit in the schools. So the first step is to me the most important method that is form and proper form and being able to articulate proper form is really what has one of the things that has made my name in the industry I believe and that it's not just me having proper form and when you follow me on Instagram or you do my app, you do get those comments like, why your form is perfect. Well, in my mind, it better be if I'm the one, you know, trying to get the information out there. But most importantly, to those people that are taking the information in to feel 100% confident in what they're doing, why they're doing it. And the purpose of that movement is so incredibly important in order for that movement to have the impact that it should have on your body. So to me, if you're not performing a movement properly, there really isn't any point in doing it, right? And as a coach and a trainer, you know, you have to be able to verbalize and what I've found through developing the app, my virtual platform, which, you know, it'll be five years and March. The experience that I had one on one non virtual was so instrumental in being able to, as I say, articulate proper form cues. Because if you haven't done it yourself and you haven't experienced coaching that with someone, it's very difficult to be able to speak in Laman's terms too, right? Like, I can be a scientific as you want, but that doesn't matter to the person that's sitting on their couch, just trying to get off it for the first time, right? Like, you can say, group media, group, like, all these terms, but it's easier for them to understand side booty. I say, absolutely. Media. So, you know, it's having those, it's being able to weave in, you know, the more science, you know, anatomy talk, but also those little moments that, or the, the unforgettable cues that really make the difference. Like, when I say, you know, squeeze your glutes, like you have a check for a million dollars in between them and you have to hold it there. That sticks in someone's head. If I just said, squeeze your glutes, make sure you're engaging both the media, the maximum, like, you've lost over someone's head, right? So, so, form, it's not just like having it, but being able to articulate it. And you mentioned impact, too. I mean, you do a repetitive exercise over a number of years and you're doing it correctly. You're going to see the growth and the positive impact you're going to want on the contrary. If you're doing it incorrectly, it's going to be a quite a negative impact. You're going to set yourself up for injury. You're going to set yourself up for a lot of other things that you don't want happening. I think it's amazing how many, what I hear so often is, oh my gosh, I've been squatting for 10 years, but I just squatted for the first time yesterday, really, because they truly listened and connected to the cues that I was giving them. And that makes me feel amazing. It also makes me really sad because it is a problem in the industry, right? It is a problem that a lot, you find a lot of rep counters and you find a lot of people that are just yelling and kind of in it for their own workout. And you have to be in this industry. I mean, I've been in the Century for 28 years for the right reasons. And the right reason is to help others to be their absolute best. And that should be the goal with every, with your word choice is that you are trying to ensure that people feel safe, that what they're doing is effective and that it's going to have the most positive impact on their body. So, you know, like I said, it's amazing in one sentence, but then it's like, oh gosh, I know. And listen, and form is what's going to really make the differentiated factor between understanding mind muscle connection too. And so once you figure that out to me personally, it's game over, right? Everything starts to make sense. You start to understand what activating your glutes actually means. You actually understand all those years of a yoga, pilates and structures to tell and you do engage your core, you're like, no, I actually get it now. Exactly. It has to be explained. It doesn't come in eightly. All of these things when you say, you know, we throw these terms around and I think sometimes it can also sometimes work against you having been in the industry for so long because you forget that you might have someone in the room or someone pushing play for the first time that has never heard this because in your mind, like I've said this queue or I've said this had this moment 10,000 times in my career, do I really need to say it again or when I would teach a class and you see 90% of the people people that have taken your class 200 times. But then there are those three people who have never set foot in that studio and you have to teach to both groups. You just have to remember that both people, those that are super advanced in those that are new, everyone's going to take something away from that. You say something a little bit different every single time you coach as a coach and that has an impact on someone. So, you know, first and foremost, as you just spoke to, mind muscle connection is everything. There's going through a movement and then there's connecting, feeling and truly engaging with the movement. It's too completely different things because you can pass through movement and feel absolutely nothing, you're thinking about your laundry or what you have to do that night or what everything else is going on. But you're complete focus while you're performing movement should be on that movement. Right. If 50 mindless reps versus five, very, very cute, weird, rare reps. Yeah. That makes a ton of difference. Yes. Let's move into the second one. That's function. Explain what function means. Function, you know, when I come up with these four pillars of the stoic method, function means functional training, making sure that the way that you train presents itself in real life in some way because really what we're doing when we train, what we should be thinking about as longevity. We should be thinking about the, we have the long game in mind. Sure. Like, you know, when I was in my 20s, I was like, like, everybody, let's be honest. You're trained to look good too. Like, we're, people are fully, if they're like, oh, it's just, I just want to be all the, you know, walk where pick up my grandchildren when I'm 90, right? People aren't thinking of that when they're 20. Right. Like, you're just, you want to look good. You want to feel good. Absolutely. But all of the movements that we do apply to real life in some respect, right? So when you're, when you're training, you want to make sure that you train in all planes of motion, right? So you're a frontal plane, the sagittal plane, the transverse plane, and when you think about it, so many people train front about a sagittal plane. So they're, so they're training forward back, forward back, you're lunging, whether you're, we're walking, we're running. That's all, all those things take place in the sagittal plane. But when you go to open a car door, when you have your groceries, that's the transverse plane. You're rotating, right? So when you do a rotational med ball twist or a, a rotational slam, that's transverse plane, right? That's training you for when you have those moments where you're quickly turning to open the car door or you're grabbing your kid as you turn, like they're about to cross the street. Something happens, right? So always thinking in terms of like, you know, not every single movement you do, you're going to be like, oh, I can apply this to real life in this way. But in general, making sure that the function of a movement has more to do than just lifting away, picking up, putting it down, that you're thinking like, when the next time, like, you see all those videos, we see them on Instagram, right? If a trainer, like, this is, if a trainer walks through life and it's done like the grocery store that doing like a deadlift, pick up, you know, it's true. I like it to water bottle. Yeah, it's like, but that's, that is truly how my mind thinks. I get sent those all the time and I'm like, oh, I can't make one of these because it's already been done. It's been done. But like, that is how I think, right? You, you go to like your freezer today. You go to open the freezer. You squat to open it up. Like, you know, you do all these things. You know, because the end goal is to be able to, and you see it as your parents, you know, look your parents when you're getting older and your parents are getting older and you see them, you know, want to be able to, as I said, pick up their grandkids or just get out of a chair properly, you know, because these things, you know, as not to get, it's not to be like a depressing conversation. But, you know, it's like you go through this point in life where you start when you're young, right? And what are you doing? You're doing nothing when you're first born, right? You're just kind of like laying there and figuring out your land. Yeah, right. But then you start to, you start to move and all planes of motion, right? Then you start to play different sports. And then you start to focus on one sport, maybe, right? So you start to really focus, hone in on one, maybe one or two planes of motion during that sport, which is in great, like we go through this, these phases where all of a sudden, then you're out of sport. And what do you start doing? Things start going down the back end, right? Because you start training one dimensionally. And then eventually, when you're 70s, 80s or 90s, you're back to sitting too much, right? Which is, I always say that's starting to happen in our 40s and 50s now is that sitting is the new smoking, right? It's like, we are sitting more than we're moving these days, right? And it should be the complete opposite. We shouldn't be having to take a break from sitting to move. We should be taking a break from moving, like you should need to take a break from moving so much they have to sit. Couldn't agree more. And that's, you know, we've got it all mixed up now and we need to try to really change that. And so the functional, the functional F means, so you know, functional training S, but it's also like man, motion is lotion, like keep moving that body, absolutely. Absolutely. Let's talk about fatigue. So fatigue, there's two different ways to think of this particular F. Fatigue in that you want to challenge your body to a point where you're reaching muscle fatigue, right? That's where the growth that happens. Because what are we doing when we're really strength training or we're going for a run, you know, you are challenging your body or when you're strength training and you're, you know, it sounds awful to say, but we are tearing muscle fibers, right? There, that's how we build them up to become stronger. So reaching that point of fatigue during your strength training program is important. Same when you cardiovascular fitness, like zone two, yes, we're never going to really reach that point of fatigue most likely in zone two. When we're hanging out there, we need that for sure. We need zone two, but you're taking a hit class or you're doing sprints or something more explosive, your like your goal is to reach that point of fatigue, right? To create, to work on the integrity of the muscle. But fatigue also, it's counter to, it's like, I'm talking about proper sleep. So when you hit that point of fatigue and you really challenge your body, sleep is so incredibly important, which is also going to help repair those muscles that you just spent a couple of hours taking apart. Exactly. And trippy told when I first got into this injury, nobody really focused on sleep. Like it was not a topic like it is today. Like you didn't, or you didn't stress as much about your sleep as your workout. Like look at, we have all of these different forms of technology to tell, tell us, like, good a bed, or you slept this much, or you're not going to perform as well today, because you didn't sleep as well. You know, it is such a huge focus these days. And I think, which I think is amazing. But I also think you don't want to focus on so much that as I said, that you get stressed about it, because then you're not going to fall asleep. Like if you're so worried about getting your eight hours, you're probably going to lay there thinking about it for an hour of that, right? So the shift that I really love that I'm starting to notice too, I feel like we used to have like a lot of 5 a.m. warriors, right? And even for me, I was a college athlete. It was 6 a.m. You were in the locker room at 5.15. You were actually physically lifting by 6 a.m. That was not optimal for me. I did not lift my best at that point. I got injured when I would put my body through that early in the morning. I have found out that I am, I love to live in like that late morning spot. And that's going to be different for everybody trying to understand how much sleep you need, what time of day your body wants to move. Maybe you want to do cardio in the morning and strength at night. So I really love that we're starting to see people take accountability for owning what feels best in their body. Yeah, I think what I've always been a huge advocate of is like when someone says, well, what's the best time of day for me to be working out? Or when it, and it's like, I'm always that person that's like, it's step black or white. It's always gray. And I'm always like, what's the best, like when do you feel your best? Right. And they're like, like my husband, for example, is a night owl. I can't, that man is never going to work on the morning ever, ever, ever, ever. Not a clock at night is when he like literally gets up, goes downstairs, goes in. And it's like, I've had so many conversations with different, you know, natural public doctors were like, no, no, no. Like that's going to spike as cortisol level. Like right before he goes, just, and I'm like, but that's how his body works. That's when his body works best. So, you know, his levels are probably different than most people's levels. And I think like the best time of day to work out is when you're actually going to do it. Like I think we need to stop saying like, oh, first thing in the morning. Like that's when you've got to get it done because it puts a really, it's put a lot of pressure on people who, like, like you said, that just wasn't the best time for you. That wasn't your speech about someone like me who trains clients, right? Luckily now I don't have those, I don't have those early morning hours anymore. I'm like, I put a kabach on like the six a.m. client. But, you know, I am religiously training people from eight until noon. My time to work out is like noon to two, whatever that is. And sure, I'd love to work out at eight. But it's not possible with my job. So I think that it can be really discouraging to people, especially if you're just trying to get into fitness. When you hear, oh, you've got to do it first thing in the morning. That's it. And then people go, well, I can't. So I guess I just won't do anything. But let's just focus. And let's just get moved. Yeah. Let's just start moving. Yeah. For sure. Last one fuel. Yeah. Fuel. Can't do it. No, you can't do it without fuel. And I, you know, I've always called, I don't love the word diet. Like I've never, you know, has a word diet. Like I don't love the word diet. I've never subscribed to diet culture. My fueling program is called KSFit Fuel. And I always refer to, you know, the nutrition that we're putting on our body as fuel. Because we are like a car. We are, we are at the engine of a car. You don't run on empty, right? Your car won't go. You've got to fill it up. So how you fuel your body? I mean, it just has such a massive impact on your performance. And again, there are certain things that, yes, we all need in our fueling program. But it is so personal. It is. Everybody's likes, dislikes, possible allergies. There's so many factors that go into what makes a feeling program right for a certain person. So I think the number one question I've gotten over all of my ears, right? Is what do you eat? Like more so than how I work out. Like it's crazy. Like, because people don't necessarily, what I found over all these years, they don't really want to do the work. They work out. But they're like, if I could just change my diet, be what she's eating, maybe that will work. It doesn't work like that. Right? Because how I feel when I tell people on our kiss, if it fuel our, you know, live zooms, what I eat in a day, their face, their mouth drops. They're just like, there's no way that's going in that body. I'm like, how do you think I'm able to do what I do? It is, I'm constantly, I have always been the queen snacker. I'm like, every two hours, I'm putting something in my body. I have to, or I will, like a flower. And I've never been a big meal person. So it's like eight small meals. That's the way my metabolism stays revved, it stays going. It's always worked for me. I think you have to take a look at, you know, it's calories in, it's calories out, it's how many, how many, what are you doing activity wise to support, how you fuel and how do you fuel to support that activity. So obviously, that's as important as the actual workout itself. But I think people need to stop looking at what others are doing. But what I cannot stand is these videos what I eat in a day. That's not applicable to anybody else. Not applicable to the masses. It's not applicable to the masses. So when I started this feeling program, first of all, I partnered with the Register Dietition, because I'm not a registered dietition in an iPhone, I believe, like stain your lane. Of course, I know a lot about nutrition. But when it's something as big as an issue as this is, you need to make sure you have the right authority that you're working with. Three different programs, stoked, super stoked, super duper based on your activity level. Yeah, based on your likes and dicks likes. I think you nailed it right, intuitive. It just comes into a intuitive eating. Yeah, right. And I also think you have to understand that in different periods of your life, you're going to change. You know, I'll use myself. An example, right now, my body really loves breakfast and it really loves fueling before my workout. There was a certain time in my life where it didn't even want food until 10-11 I am. And that's what you have to listen to your body the way you move the way that you fuel and just understand that that could look different in a year from now, but you just have to understand where your body is. I love that you call intuitive eating is like 100% what I'm on board with. And I also kind of, I mean, this might be kind of controversial, but when people like intermittent fasting, I don't know. To me, intermittent fasting is like, if you stop eating at 9-9 and you just don't eating, it's just so good. She did it. I just slept. You didn't eat while you were sleeping. I'm like so, but also, again, that works for some people to have that a certain window. I know myself, I have to eat right when I get up in the morning or I get nauseous. I'll have my coffee, obviously, water before coffee, always 12-1s the water first because you got to start with hydration is really important. I'm like, oh, I can't even coffee, but if I don't eat something within like 20 minutes of having my coffee, I know what happens with my blood sugar level and how I feel. And some people like, oh, I don't eat for four hours after. And like, I can't imagine that. Right. I can't imagine that. Right. So everybody's different. I want to touch on something you and I spoke on before today as well. We're seeing two words floating around the fitness industry right now. They're screaming it from the rooftops and that's lift heavy. And yes, I think the both of us know the benefits of lifting heavy for body composition and overall strength. But how do you view cardio as an equal balance or here, leaving room for both, again, for any fitness goal? There has to be room for both. They're asking room for, I was so much to say on this subject. And you know, oh, gosh, I don't even know where to start. Strength training is incredibly important. At every age, it doesn't matter how old you are, you need to challenge your muscles with strength training. You need to, in order for body composition, for bone density, for lean muscle mass, for all of it. I've always been an advocate of that. Now, those words mean the problem with screaming those words from the rooftop to me is that, again, it's so individual. If you are hearing lift heavy and you're someone that is brand new to fitness and usually people or individuals who are brand new to fitness are looking for any and from it, like they're soaking in everything that they hear and they're really taking it to heart, like without maybe the proper due diligence on what that means. So when you hear lift heavy and you're brand new to fitness and then maybe you try to walk in a gym or you buy yourself dumbbells and you buy, and it might sound silly, but it happens you buy 20 pounds, right? And you go to use a 20 pound dumbbell and what happens? You get hurt, you get frustrated because it's too much for you. You can't lift it, but you're hearing you've got to lift heavy. So what happens? You end up doing nothing. You sit on the couch and like you're like, that was, I got hurt. I'm not doing that again. I'm not, strength training is not for me. It didn't work for my body. It's not that it didn't work for your body. It's that you didn't start, you didn't start the progression properly. So I think we need to be really careful when we say lift heavy. And you would think everybody knows that, but it's not necessarily true. You really do have to spell these things out. There is a proper progression to getting to the point where you can lift heavy. And it can start with body weight work, learning the proper form of your body weight, which is very functional because we deal with our body weight on a daily basis, right? You can't move the body weight around your neck. You're not going to get through life. Exactly. If you can't, if you truthfully, it is the best tool you have. And it's always with you. It's always with you. And then you incorporate some band work. And I feel like you and I talked about this a bit too, that, you know, there are band bashers out there. And I'm not, like, I, this could be a whole podcast on its own. I think we're doing such a disservice when you tell people like, cut up your bands. Like, there's no point in doing it. You're better off sitting on the couch. Well, what's the first thing someone hands you when you go to physical therapy? Or, you're, you're, you're, you're, you're going to physical therapy or you're using physical therapy as pre-hop, right? A way to stay out of injury. They hand you a band. And they teach you they first will show you how to do them. If you're going to your body weight, then they give you a band to apply a little bit of resistance. So you get used to working with resistance. Bands are a wonderful tool for activation, for education, for a finisher. And they can even enhance your workout when you're doing resistance training. So you add a band to a dumbbell. And you've just increased the impact of that work. So you're doing a bicep curl and you've got a super sized joke band attached to it. You're, you're so focused on both the concentric. You have to be focused on the concentric and the center contraction, right? So, so let's, I think we need to, that's one subject like stop poop-pooing bands. Just know where they, where they should be used, right? Do you want to work just use bands for your entire life as your workout? No, of course not. Do you want to only use dumbbells? No, do you want to only use barbells? No, like a little bit of everything is the way to go, right? You've got to learning all these different tools. It's fantastic. There are another tool in your toolbox. And your toolbox should have many tools. As far as lifting heavy, yes, you need to challenge your muscles by lifting heavy. Absolutely. You need to get to the point where you have three or four reps left where you are feeling like holy cow, I'm compromising my form. How do you, that's how you know, did I pick the right way? You've got great forms, say you're doing 10 reps. You've got great form for the first six, maybe seven, the final three. Hey, you watch yourself and you go, wow, this is, I'm struggling here. That's good. That means you're challenged. And the great news is you could always, if it's too much, decrease your weight. But I also see, is very dangerous when we say lift heavy, is that it's discounting the importance of cardiovascular training, as you spoke to. Your heart is a muscle, right? And your heart needs and deserves to be challenged just like your biceps, your triceps, your quad, your hamstrings, all the things. So I think it's important that, yes, we encourage strength training, we encourage picking up heavier weights and being challenged and not always grabbing two, three pound dumbbells, which also have their place, and I can talk about that later as well. But don't forget about your heart and that people will argue, well, if you're lifting heavy, your heart rate's going up. It's not going up to 80% of your max. It's just not, unless you're doing like a crazy power, you know, power lift, we're like red faced, but it, you know, that. And it's also not giving you the same effect as say a zone two workout. You're not staying right here, my hands going pretty straight across the board here. You're not sitting in a like that 120 throughout the entire duration of weight lifting session. Right, right, exactly, exactly. So, you know, and that brings up the point of like zone two cardio versus sprinting, right? There's so much research, you know, I know for myself, I take my calls and I take my, anything that I can that doesn't, that I cannot, you know, I'm not going to sound like I'm huffing and puffing. I do it from an elliptical because I'd rather be doing that than sitting here. Like killing me, I'm sitting here in this podcast like my, but already hurts, Danielle. I'm sitting, it's like I want to get up and move, right? If we could talk and watch, we would still get, maybe that's an idea. Maybe we had to start doing this like, yeah, man on the street style podcast. Oh, yeah, amazing. But, you know, I think people are getting very confused and they're, they're, they're, they're not doing the cardiovascular training that their heart needs because they're only focused now on hearing lifting heavy and or you go to the gym and you see, oh, my gosh, like the treadmill, right? Everybody's walking at a 15.0 on the treadmill. It's the, you know, the Hawker walk or whatever it is. And it's like, okay, like that's one way to do cardio, but like, they're, mix it up. It doesn't have to be daunting. No, right. It's not like, and you also don't have to do what's popular, right? You need to do what's right. And so whatever's going to get you and again, it's that like, whatever's going to get you moving and challenging you to the point where you're feeling like, like, it's a good feeling when you're doing cardio and your heart is pumping, you're like, wow, like, what releases that, you know, and this controversy over whether in dolphins really are something that are released when you're, you know, when you're running around, but no one's, nobody can tell me that when you go for a run, right, and you sprint and then you slow down, that you don't feel like this rush, right, of like, wow, I just, your heart's pumping and the blood's flowing, doing amazing things for your body. And it's also, you know, stimulating different kinds of muscle growth, right? So, um, lift heavy, but don't forget about like the most important muscle you have, which is your heart. Absolutely, and that could be playing basketball. Maybe it is walking on an inclined for you. That was for you. Awesome. It could be playing pickup games. It can be, you know, doing a hit class, whatever it is, whatever makes you happy to do it. I think you nailed it earlier. Whatever you enjoy doing, just do that. Yeah. I think we're getting to, and I know that like, you know, it's what, it's what, I guess gets more PR. It's gets more, it's the buzzwords in the media, right? When you, when you, when you stayed in absolute, it's what draws attention. But you're never going to hear me doing that, you know, because I'm such a firm believer that if you don't like what you're doing, if you don't enjoy it to some capacity, you're never going to continue doing it. So although, and this is a great, you know, I know we're talking later about how to help begin our, it's like, get started. But one of the things I'm always saying to people when their new to fitness is, you first need to like, take a moment and think about what, what really resonates you with you. Like, what do you enjoy? Is it dancing? Is it walking? Is it roller skating? Whatever it is. Make sure you start with that. But that's the thing that's going to get you off the couch and get you out the door, the thing that you love to do. I think this conversation lives itself well into topic two for today, which is really defining hybrid training and the benefits. And I think we can break this out into two different parts here. You know, I think hybrid training can, can mean a couple of different things, especially in a post-COVID world, right? Now we're seeing this new hybrid fitness model where people are doing a lot from their homes. They're understanding, hey, I can be successful and I can reach my goals right from my living room. We've seen obviously the sales of some of our favorite bikes go up quite a bit, right? They're understanding that, you know, things can get accomplished at home, however, you know, thankfully we've also seen them emerge, immersed themselves back into gyms. They missed the community factor. They miss sweating with people and accomplishing their goals with people. So let's talk about hybrid training in terms of the work from home model. And then in a second, we're going to get into hybrid training in terms of the actual programming, which is what we just spent a couple of minutes talking about. You know, when somebody says I'm a hybrid athlete, we'll talk about what that actually means and with the rise of things like hierarchs and Deca and things of that nature. So but first let's talk about that work from home, where that sweat from home model that we're seeing now in the mix between the two. So working out from home was relatively new to me. Like I've been a gym girl since I was 18. So trying at that point, I also like during COVID, started working out from home. And that was it. Or I guess people was a lot of worked out in my driveway for many, many years because I'm an outdoor person as well. So I bring all equipment out into the driveway. But I think what the benefit, like if we can think of something positive came out of COVID, is that it really did convince a lot of people that you can get a good workout in anywhere. Right? That you can't use the excuse that, oh, I can't get to the gym. You know, forget it. I'm not. It's too hard. I got kids. I've life is too busy. You can get just as incredible workout at home, depending on the platform you're using. As you can in the gym, the biggest challenge with it is the distractions around you. So, you know, or the ability, you know, people can turn gear off really easily. It can just pause me. You know, if they're in the gym, if they're in a class, in a group setting, in a gym, you're probably not going to walk out the door halfway through the class. So, you know, there are benefits and there are some, you know, some negatives to it as well. But what we're seeing now, which I think is greater, what I'm seeing a lot with my app is that people are taking their iPad or whatnot to the gym and finding a group ex room that's empty and using that room to continue to do the program that they love to do, right? Or incorporating it with, you know, heavier strength training days where they're in the gym on the on the strength training floor, right? Doing that work on certain days and then work from home using an app on the days where they're home. But I think it's also reinforced what I always like to, um, I'm such an advocate of these, you know, movement snacks, as I call them, or Stokes Nax, where, you know, working and moving from home the beauty of it is you can take 10 minutes, right? Where are you like we're sitting right now? The minute we finish this podcast, any of it say, like, get up, push play in some fine tuning 10 minutes or like, partial reset from the body shop because we just sat for too long, right? Grab these bite-sized snacks during the day that I like to say they all add up in your wellness bank. So when you have, in some ways better, right, that you have these little moments where you can get some movement and step away from your computer and, you know, the most important thing that people can do when they are working from home is to not get off a call and immediately grab their phone and just start scrolling like thick, this and looking at Instagram, but rather get up immediately, get outside, get some natural light, get out in, you know, nature and I always like, I have my bands here, but like bring a band with you, you can have a round of wrist and you're just doing some postural, you know, you just start pressing out on the band or you start flexing, you know, working your triceps, like, it gives us the ability to get these snacks in that long term can make a massive difference on your body. But it's made a shift of like, oh, I've got to be in the gym for two hours to get down one age to go to, I'm going to break it up into three different little bite size movements snacks. Absolutely. When I started seeing people bicep curling laundry detergent, I was like, oh, we're not it now. We're cracking the code. We're going to be just fine. Everybody, you're a whole house, can be a gym. Absolutely. Push that off your countertop and they kid you. It's like, just, you have to shift your mindset, right? And people, they can still be like, oh, you know, or they'll say, just give it a rest. It's like, no, like, this isn't how every second of the day is, but like, if you pass by a countertop and you're like, all of the sudden, you're like, gosh, I could use 10 push-ups. Do your 10 push-ups against a countertop? You don't continue on to the refrigerator. And like you said, those snack bite pieces throughout the day. You do a couple sets of that throughout the day. Okay, you're done. Exactly. If you do five sets of 10 push-ups every time you walk past a counter, you're like, there's 50 push-ups today, right? It's like 50 better than if you hadn't. So like, like, and then you're going to physically feel better. And then also mentally, but like, I did 50 push-ups today, all right? I'm going to go for 55 tomorrow. Absolutely. And when I'll often say to people who are like, you know, they struggle with hitting the refrigerator at night, right? Just like, they're like, oh my gosh, it's like, I guess you tell them like, turn the kitchen light off, like after nine or whatever you're not like the kitchen's closed. But that's hard for a lot of people. You still pass through your kitchen, right? So if you instead before you go to the cabinet, just do like push-ups off the counter or just a couple, you know, something something on your way there that can maybe distract you and then suddenly you realize, wow, I wasn't hungry. I was just doing this because I was planning some stimulation, right? Right. You know, I think also, you touched on it. I mean, people are bringing the phones and the tablets into the gym. And there's a reason for that. I experienced this yesterday, I hardly go into an actual gym on a Sunday like it to be a family in low-key day. But I said, I really want to move, but I don't feel motivated to do it here. So I went to the gym. And I think a lot of us didn't realize how much we are missing that component during COVID right, just being around other people. Even if you're not necessarily working out with them for a class, just being around that many people and understanding that they're all they're working, it's motivated. It's not going to get to that. And you're doing your pre-working, you're like, okay, I'm ready to go. And then it takes it up a level when you go into a class. You leave one of those classes and you're like, wow. I'm so glad I can't do that. So I think a lot of people are emerging themselves back into the community factor. And we're seeing experiential events come back. We're seeing more smaller. Vertiques come to rise with these kind of classes. We're seeing these types of apps bring people together for in-real life events. Yeah. That's really awesome to see. That's my, what I miss most. I mean, as someone who has taught group fitness or trained people for 28 years when COVID happened, I always said, I want to be able to choose when I hang out with my sneakers. I didn't want it to end that way. And I mean, I get such, it's like you get a high off of teaching other people at least I do. People who say to me after 20 years, are you tired of it? I'm like, no, this is like I love it so much. But balancing it out, not teaching 15 classes a week anymore. But I was teaching six, which was perfect, right? So as to have that taken away so abruptly, was it hard for me as it was for the people that used to attend my class? So what I'm, you know, what I'm now doing is these events, these pop-ups, these like, you know, I did a stoked up, stoked up for the holidays. I just did last month. Like these little pop-ups just, and it's amazing how hungry people are just to be amongst other humans again and have that real, as you said, that community feel. But trust me, I'd say it's not just the people taking the class, like I need it. Like if this is what you were meant to do and born to do and it's truly your passion, there is nothing more exciting and nothing that fills your soul more than being able to share what you do and make other people feel better. So I think it's awesome. Like I, in person events are like my number one goal for the next few years is to just make sure that I do as many of those as possible because you just bring people together and it just, it really does it creates, the motivation and the inspiration it creates, just being around others is so huge that that can't be, that can't be duplicated virtually. You know, like, I do my best. And I know I do on the app to keep the energy high and keep people in, I have the most wonderful community in Facebook group. They are so supportive of one another. But there is nothing like then having an in-person event where they get to actually meet one another, you know. So I think if anybody is scared to go to the gym, I think sometimes people got out of the habit, there are those people that are now kind of a free to go back, right? Because if you're more of an introvert and you got really used to also work around at home, you're like, I'm just gonna stay in this cozy app, people use for a while. I think it's even more important for you to step foot into a gym and like I said, bring your app with you or, you know, find a class or something. That it is really important to make sure we do so much in life now with technology that's so that is so introverted. That try to also go to a gym and one thing if you're using an app, but it's another thing if you're just sitting on a criminet staring phone between sets, try not to do that. Right. I mean, especially for introverts, I would argue, jump into a class. I'm absolutely full. I'm absolutely full. Believe me, they're not gonna be looking at you because if it's a good class, they're gonna be focused on getting that free. That's really, that's really, that's a good point. As people aren't like it, you may think people are like, and you, they're not, first of all, everybody's been. Everybody's looking at themselves and they're not gonna do like, trust me, like, it's go, and if you go, like, fine, go, if you're only comfortable being in the back corner, go in the back corner, like, totally fine. But like, I think people will be, you'll be amazed at how inspired you are just by being, like we said, being in a room without the people. I, you know, as long as I've been a trainer, I still take class twice a week. Like, since I started going back to the gym, I take, it's a bar class. It's, you know, because my stoked up, let a court curriculum is based on bar. And it's like, people will look at me sometimes like, why are you taking a class? It's like, I freaking love it. It's like the camaraderie and just, it feels good to have somebody else tell you what to do. I was gonna say, there's a mine, there is a mindless component to it. A lot of you did just zone out. You just get the work done. Yeah. Yep. And, you know, I think again, back to that intro for peace, you know, if it's a great way to meet people and you're gonna have to play around, especially if you're at a new gym and you go to a Tuesday, 6 p.m. You're like, I don't think that was my crowd. Go to Thursday at 12 p.m. If you're schedule allows and find your people. Find your people. You'll find someone eventually and you'll find people to, you know, maybe hit weights with after or work out with at a separate time. Yep. Let's segue into the actual definition. Now there's no hard definition here. There really isn't in our field, but hybrid training, we're seeing, like I said, these events are popping up now. People are actively training to be a hybrid athlete. It's almost like a bragging point now. You used to be on an ultra endurance racer. I'm a, you know, power lifter or bodybuilder now. I'm a hybrid athlete. What does that mean? Yeah. I mean, I, I define hybrid among, among my method as, I mean, that's kind of, it maybe it was unconsciously what my method became a little bit, a little, a little subconscious, but also became deliberate once I realized what I was doing. But, you know, within the stoic method, there's, let's say, there's the stoic shred series. There's the stoic strength series. There's stoic deathletta core there. Very pinpointed, I call them anchor offerings on the app. And they really are working to create a hybrid athlete because you've got one where it's, you're really focused on heavier strength training. Stokes strength 360. You've got stoked shred 360, which is stokes dial hit, right? So you're not going quite as heavy, but you've got those amazing intervals of explosiveness. You've got a fledicore, which is Pilates bar, because you need that in order to stay healthy and strong to be able to do the stokes strength 360 and the shred 360. Excuse me. So when we talk about a hybrid, it's, it's, it's basically making sure that you're well rounded. So hybrid training is kind of being instead of like a master of one, right? You're almost a master of none, but you're proficient in all. I guess it's the way to define it. You know, it's like, it's almost like an ultra cross training athlete, right? And I think it's, it's almost like, you know, with an iron, with your defling and endurance athlete, if you're an ironman, but you're biking, you're running, and you're, you know, you're swimming. So that's one form of hybrid, because you've got three different modalities there, but real hybrid is in corporate making sure you incorporate that strength training and you incorporate the fine tuning and the calistetics and the conditioning, all of it, right? So finding a modality or a method that gives you all of that, like the talk method. It's an, it's a little jab there. It's really, really important, but it's also because it creates wonderful symmetry in your body. And the ultimate goal is to be as symmetrical as possible at prevent injury. It's, it's wonderful for muscle growth and the integrity of your muscle to be, to be training it in different ways. It aims toward longevity. And it's also exciting, right? You don't get bored. If you are just constantly, I mean, if you go in the gym and you're just lifting, lifting, lifting, sure, like, you get your lifting, but, but make it a little boring over time, but ensuring that you then have, there's some hit work in there and then there's some really, like, you know, hardcore conditioning, jumping rope, whatever it may be. And then the fine tuning aspect that keeps you healthier, the mobility work, right? All of it is so important. And it's, you know, it's going to help with your body aesthetic goals. You're going to look better than you probably did before. And it's also going to play into the longevity goal that we spoke on earlier, right? Keeping your body, I don't want to say in that guessing state, but keeping your body on its toes, right? Not getting to rely on the same, you know, four or five lifts that you're doing every week. And then just walking on a treadmill, like move your body that you said earlier in that episode, and new unique ways that can be applicable to life. You know, it's, it's funny. I've changed my terminology that you're like, you know, you're allowed to do this or you learn more over life, but I used to say, one of my taglines was shock it to rock it. I love it. That's interesting. Like when I first, you know, figured out the stoic method, and it's not that I hate that now, but at the same time, it's not all about, you know, the shock it rockets. It was like muscle confusion, right? It was like the premise of muscle confusion. And I agree with that to some respect, but I think there needs to be a balance there, right? So you need to keep your body guessing, right? Which hybrid training does that? But within that, you also have to have consistency in your program as well. So the consistency is how you can see how you're getting stronger and the benefits of the hybrid training. Right? So you're always going to, and you know, I've talked about this a bit, but there are certain movements or patterns that are, you're always going to do, right? You're always going to find in programs that you have squats. You have dead lifts, you have lunges, you have a push, you have a pull, you have all of those things. Those basic fundamental movements are where you're going to be able to see, oh, I increase that by 10 pounds. Or, you know, my, my lift, I feel stronger. I feel better. I'm at, I've added more weight. I'm definitely getting stronger. It's the work around that that you can change to make it more exciting and constantly evolving. You can take your anchor strength moves, always have them in there. But make sure you have variety around those moves. Proper variety, let your, you know, that you're moving the body in a way that makes sense with the anchor move. Right. And obviously, you know, a lot's going to be dependent on your goal too. You know, if you are going out for your first triathlon, you're going to have to have a really dialed in program. You're going to have to do the same things in the same day and every week, but at the same time, when it comes to your strength training, your hit training, etc, those kind of, not accessory days, but those complimentary days to the swim bike run, right? That's where we can add these sort of components in. But when you zoom out for a second, yes, look at your skeleton of your program over a seven day week. Let's say, you know, I want a factor and maybe you need two rest days because this program is so intense. That's okay. Factor those in first. Look at how much volume you need, you need to get in for your swim, your bike and your run. And then, of course, you have to keep strength in order to one stay strong. And then to prevent injury to even get to that starting line, right? So first steps first, just look at that seven day window, understand where I need to pepper in some rest days. How many days a week I need to do more of that volume based training and how many days a week I need to do strength. And then you start kind of, you know, potting those, you know, in there. Exactly. You know, one of the words, one of the worst things I've heard or that I see, like I, you know, and I've gotten comments like this on a post and then I'll actually DM the person be like, no, no, no, no, where they'll say, oh, I'm taking a pause from from your app because I'm going to start because I'm going to be running a race. Now, now is the time. And literally, I'm like, yeah, I'm like, and now literally DM them be like, this is this is when you need it more. Right. I'm like, trust me. Like, do not just throw all your strength training aside and all the other work you're doing to just run. It's the worst thing you can do. It's like, it's that you're never going to be able to actually run the race. Right. Well, and you're sticking yourself in that such a pain that you said you're just training that linear movement. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. And sure that you're getting in that lateral movement, up to prevent injury up and just again, keep, you know, 360 degrees. You need your muscles working. 100%. Yes. Let's talk about the core specifically. This one, I argue with myself about putting this one up front because everybody wants to know more about building a core. So core building 101, you know, Kira, it's no question that you're near the core queen. So I want again, same thing. I want to break it down to two different areas. There's the functional benefits of working core and gaining a stronger core. I always like to use that apple analogy. You bite out the middle of an apple. You can easily snap that apart. But then two, break down when everyone's always chasing visible ads. So one, let's talk about the functionality of the core and why it's important to have a strong core. Well, the core is the powerhouse of your body. Right. It's like playing in simple. It's, it is where movement stems from. It's where proper movement stems from or should. It is, you know, when we define the core, the easiest way to, without going into like an hour along dissertation of what your core, it's everything but your limbs essentially. So I think, you know, we throw the word core around so loosely as trainers and again, I think there's so many people out there who don't understand what that means. They think core, they just think gaps, like immediately. They're like, and you know, we toy with even just saying like, I hate just saying the word apps. Like it's very hard for me as a trainer to just say apps because I truly am always talking about your core when I'm talking about your apps. Right. Or when we're working your apps. So important to know that essentially, aside from your arms and your legs, the core includes everything up to the insertion of your lap muscle, right? All the way down through your, so your pelvic lumbto complex, that whole complex is part of your core. So training your core, one thing it is not is just doing crunches and just working your abs and time and attention of domino work. And it's not just even just doing a plank, right? So I think plank is what people think when you say, what's the best core exercise they immediately go plank. Not saying it is and it's a wonderful one. But I always say within, within training your core, I call it the core four movements and with a bonus there's five. I just like core four rhymes. But so it sounds really good, right? The first most important thing is learning how to truly engage and activate your core. And I think that's like the hardest part is really understanding not only the breath work that goes into training your core, but just the position of your pelvis in relation to your rib cage, in relation to your glutes all of it. And there's so much information out there about it. But in the easiest way to explain it is one of the moves in the core four, which is tabletop resistance. It's what I always start people with. So really simply if you lay on your back, right, you bring your knees over your hips and see of a 90 degree angle between your shin and your hamstring, feet are flexed. You want to feel in that position that your low back is anchored on the ground, right? So we often talk about doing a posterior pelvic tilt, like that posterior pelvic tilt. And the reason we say that is because the natural position for most people when they lay down is that they're going to have space between their low back and the floor, right? They have a little lord dosis, which is the curvature of the spine, the lumbar spine, right? So we have a natural lord dosis. And in order to alleviate that space, you have to do a slight tuck to the tailbone, right? That tuck often gets exaggerated. So what we're really meaning is like a neutral spine, right, is what we're looking for. And I think when you say, I think as a trainer, we say tuck and we tuck and draw in and we show that. And then people start to feel like they got to walk around, like, tuck, right? They're like, well, but wait, I'm like tucking. I'm screwed. It's horrible position where I live now. This is where I live. Like you see, and I'm always in this to kind of like, I don't want to just see you walk around town like this. Like this is not like life doesn't sit here, right? This is just giving you this is an exaggerated example to help you learn to engage your core. So I think it's important to remember that that, like, sometimes you'll hear trainers talk and just with a grain of salt, take it with a grain of salt that you want to tuck and draw in to the point where your low back is anchored on the ground, but not that horrible, like, over, you know, that nobody would want to see. Like it's horrible posture, because it creates a rounding of the shoulders as well. But when you're laying down, that slate tucked at the tailbone. And then you place your hands on your quads and you drive your quads into your hands at the same time you are pressing away. So you're creating massive resistance in your entire abdominal wall, right? By driving those quads toward you, pressing the quads away at the same time, low back is anchored down and your ribs are wrapped. And that's a confusing term to people sometimes. So when you say ribs are wrapped, all that means is that a rib flare. This is a rib flare where I'm standing and I'm like, chest out and I'm arching my back, right? But to wrap the ribs, you do that slate tuck and draw in and it's like knitting your ribs in. It's like going like this, right? And you hold that for 10 seconds and you just push and that's where you're really going to feel. That's the first step I always have people do for activated in their core for really feeling what's going on. And it takes time. It is like, it is not easy, you know, when someone says engage your core. Nine percent of people are like, I've annoyed over the means. Like, what is that? Like, so that's the best way I can describe it. Like, I feel like that gives you the best connection from there. So that's like the first core move that of the core for. Then dead bug. I love our dead bug. The dead bug, all variations of a dead bug. They're so important, right? But the biggest, the, what you need to do with the dead bug and the big mistake is that people just pass through that movement. Like we talked about before. And I'm connecting your mind to your muscle. So when you extend opposite arm and leg and it's great to do dead bug after table top resistance, because then you're set up knees over hips, right? You go into dead bug, extending opposite arm and leg, parallel out of the ground, low back, hang, or down. You got to hold that. When you extend the arm and leg, you give at least a two second hold so that your body and can connect, your mind can connect to your core. This is the form I'm talking about. There is such a massive difference between passing through movement and truly engaging your muscle. You have got to give your muscle time to engage and sit in that moment. So it knows what's going on. If you just move and move and move, it doesn't have the time to create that neural pathway to truly connect to make a difference. Yeah, it becomes more of a hip flexion and a shoulder. Don't believe that point. I don't feel it's in my core. I feel my flex or my shoulder. And we see it all the time, right? So getting people to slow down and this isn't just for core work, but in general, slower movement in general is much harder than moving that start to be honest. If forces you do engage and try it, like if you're someone that's always moved fast, I hate to use men as an example. But if you ever watch men do push-ups, like if you just say dropping in me 10, it's faster. They're going army, aren't they? And they're not yet. They're chest isn't even near the ground. They're going like, like the bend is like this. I'm probably losing half the listener. But it's really that's it, I'm out. It's at the right. So if you ask them to slow, I do this with my husband and they're like slow it down. He's like, that's harder. I'm like, yeah. Yes, it is. It is a full range of motion. Focus on that core. It's not just get it done. It's like, let's do it right. You know? So do five bucks. Again, five reps there versus 50. 50 exactly. So with dead bug, two second hold with the extension of the arm and leg to give your body a chance to feel, but also as you have that extension, you have to squeeze the glute of the extended leg and squeeze the quad. So it's not just letting the leg fly out and extend. It's you've got to extend and squeeze. Like think about what you're doing, right? And a low back is angered down. You do 10 of those each side after tabletop resistance. And then you've got a really great connection with your core. It may seem, you know, simple or it may seem boring. But those I never go day without those moves, right? And then I flip over and I do burdog. And what is burdog? Burdog is exactly a dead bug, right? But you're in a prone position. So dead bug, you're in a supine position. It means you're upright. Prowen means you're looking at the ground, right? So in a dead bug, again, man, you see people just arm and leg, you're just flanling, right? Squeeze the glute of the extended leg, right? Feel the extension in the arm. And when you extend, right, you're working on glute engagement, shoulder extension, as you draw the elbow to the knee. I love a burdog, I'm so much, that's when you feel your abdominals, right? So so much of engaging your core is taking the time to really, really, really feel the connection. And not only in the moment, but it also takes a period of time to even develop that core stability. Because it's not just strength that you've got to fadult the stability before you develop the strength. So we've got our activation, we've got our dead bugs, we've got our bird dogs, that's from number four. So number four is a plank. Love it. So it's great all together. So the plank and you can do an elbow plank or you can do an extended arm plank, I personally feel an elbow plank more. I always, that's just me. I talking for our plank. For our plank. Yeah. So on your elbow. So I feel when I'm on my hands, I tend to start to feel my shoulders more than my core. If I lower the lever and go to the elbows, it depends on the person. So that's another thing like it really is a person like I'll train clients, I'll be like I feel it so much more. My hands are like great. So that's your plank. That's your challenging plank, right? Some people feel their core more in a bear plank than they do and extended our extended leg plank. So, you know, there are so many variations within that, within, you know, they can make a plank I guess more exciting. But sometimes just holding a basic plank. Sometimes doing like knee taps or that's just a distraction. You know, oftentimes like it's so much harder just to hold a solid plank. Because you're also staying deep in your thoughts. Right. You get down to that forearm plank. You think about driving your elbows to your toes and your toes to your elbow and you create that transversal activation. You're going to be shaking with intense. Yeah. You're going to be there. Let a, you know, you see some people in the not so perfect form that you mentioned. They're like, I can hold it for a minute. Well, let's tweak a few things and let's see when you start, you know, quick, quick, yeah, shake your hair. Yeah. You know, I think it's important to when we talk about functionality for core. Yes, these are all things to to build a strong core. You know, we said, you know, posterior chains involved here. We're talking about obliques. We're talking about that 360 degree view of your core. This is going to help with injury prevention. It's going to help with muscle and balance. This is going to help with pain that you're feeling. 90% of the people that I talked to who are complaining of back pain get a stronger core. Absolutely. You know, how many I'm we're not going to go down this rabbit hole too much. But how many people complain of chronic lower back pain and they're debating surgery. Oh, yeah. I was like, no, hold on. Let's, let's get a core circuit going for you every single day and talk to me in three weeks. Right? Yeah. It is. So 90% of people will have a little back pain at some point in their life. 100%. Not 90% as is that. So. So. And that as you just spoke to, the number one cause is a weak core. Like it is it is not surgery as a last resort to me. But you know, I can tell you, sometimes you learn the most when you have an injury, right, as a trainer, especially because you can hear someone say, you know, in my younger years, the number of people to come and say, oh, I've got low back pain on my head. You know, everybody is like back pain. Well, I myself experienced low back issues when I so ran a half marathon and asked Ben, got on a plane. No, stretch and it's when it was 40. Did not stretch in front of me on nothing. Just jump right back in the plane to come home. Got back to New York couldn't stand up. Like when to get out of the seat of the plane. And I was like, I can't stand up. So L5 S1. So her knee to disc in my back. But to the point like, I couldn't stand up straight. Like I suddenly realized what people meant when they said they had low back pain. Like I was like, this is excruciating. I can't walk. And through that, I always knew the importance of core. Obviously, it was 40 at that point. Like I've always been such an advocate of like a stronger core. And clearly I have one, right? But what I was not focusing on enough was the group need. So I was so focused on like, yes, the rotation, the anti-region all of this. But the glute media is partially responsible for stabilizing your low back. I pesky glute me and guys look up glute me on Google. You see how small but how mighty the stabilizer quality. Yeah. And it when I started like again, bands, right? Put the band above my knees be on the ground doing bridges, pressing out on the band when I started incorporating clam shells. All of these things that, you know, yeah, I do them, but not not diligently enough. When I started really focusing more on the glute me and learning more like deeper dive into what, you know, as you said, small but mighty, what the impact it can have in your body, I haven't had low back pain since. Like that was like, when once you have like everybody has her native disc, it's whether they decide to present themselves throughout the course of your life. Sure. Well, since that time I haven't had that again, thank God. Like, I was so in and now, you know, with my clients, it helped me with my clients because then I became more focused on work with them on the glute me and you can see it on the app. Like, we do so much glute me and the number of people, there's nothing more refreshing than people emailing you and saying, oh my gosh, since I started, I always had low back pain. I didn't think I could run again. I didn't think I could, you know, every time I get off a bike, I couldn't stand up straight. Started doing your workouts and focusing on the glute me and I, I zero back pain now. And so like, you know, you learn a lot through injury and I think sometimes it can be super helpful, super frustrating, but like that's oftentimes when you gain your most insight as a coach or a trainer. And it almost makes you look back in the time before you were intern and go, wow, I wish I could take, you know, have a time back to know this. But you compete. It's like your mom, your mom can say to you to your blue and the face, right? Tell you something to your blue and the face, but until you actually experience it yourself, you're eating the words, right? Right. So your core, I mean, I can't stress enough, you know, and longevity wise as we age, like the first thing that starts to, you know, when you see someone walking down the street and they're rounded forward, right? And you're like, and my husband said to me for, I was like, how do people get like that? And I'm like, because of not focusing on their core when they were younger, right? You don't develop that strength, that pillar strength. You know, down the road, it can be really detrimental. Right. And I mean, a lot of them are walking around. They don't even know. Don't know hardest part, right? Yeah, that's what's so impactful about this work, you know, that we're all talking about here. And, you know, I think predominantly when you're when you're experiencing pain in a part of your body, I think it's important to take inventory in the areas above and below it too. So if you're low, the lower back is screaming at you the second year and at a bad one, let's look at those hips. Let's look at that thoracic spine. Let's take a look and let's see how we can make things better. I think all that is super important. But let's talk about getting the core that everybody will. Let's talk about the six paths. Yeah, right? So we all hear the expression ads are made in the kitchen, but let's do bunk it. Yeah, let's talk about it. Yeah, so my quote is abs are made in the gym revealed in the kitchen. Love that. Because it's the honest truth, right? You can't tell like you're not going to get abs by eating salad. Like it's not, it's a muscle. You're abdominal, you're abdominal ball, you're core. There's muscle there. Everybody has that muscle. You couldn't get out of bed in the morning if you didn't have abdominal muscles. Now, the it's the fat over the muscles that people like, oh, no, I don't have any abs. I don't have any abs. I mean, you do absolutely during there. They're in there. There's just, you know, this is a fat, or on top, but now and that's also genetic. Like, you know, where are you hold fat or where and we need fat? We need fat on our stomach. You can't just, you know, it's not, I will say I am genetically blessed too. Like I have had abs since I was five. Like my dad has abs these eighty four, you know, so, but I've also worked really hard on it because that was an area for me that was like, oh, you know, abs are kind of my thing. Abs and triceps. Well, I'm going to make them my thing by being the best I possibly can in that area in understanding the core and what makes them like why I have them like this, right? So, when you train your core, we talked about the core four, but it's not just that. It's not like you can't just do this four moves and be like, oh, I'm going to get abs from this. You have to train your core like every other muscle group, right? So, it's working rotational work into your routine. It's doing carries, right? So, we end different kinds of carries, whether it's a suitcase carry, whether it's a, you know, a loaded or unloaded, you've got an unstable load, you've got a, you know, you're doing a high carry and a low carry rotational anti rotational work. Like your core is such an intricate there are so many layers, right? And it really takes time, like anti rotational work, pal-off press, so freaking important. But then rotational work is important as well. Don't discount the time and attention work, right? So, that gets a bad name now. Crunches are any kind of work where you're laying on the ground and working your abs. You still have to do it. You still have to do it. People may, you know, they disagree with me. I firmly believe that as much as you need the functional training in your core that we do and we do carries and all the other things, I just listed. You also still have to hone on them time and attention wise. I believe that with every muscle group. That's why I have a fine tuning section on my app because after you work in a broad manner, you then need to give it that like five minutes of really deep attention afterwards to really finish off, right? So, no one's saying you have to spend 20 minutes of day on the ground doing abs, but you've got to get to that point where you feel, you know, burn is an ascensation that it doesn't mean it's a good workout, right? But it does mean that fatigue is starting to set in. You need to fatigue your abdominals like you do any other muscle group. Does that mean you can work your abs every day because you hear a mix of that. Like abs can be done every day because they're in endurance muscle. They could be, but they shouldn't be. They should be given proper rest just like every other muscle group. So, if you have us and this is reminding everyone that every movement you do uses your core. So, your core is getting a workout every single day because when you squat or you deadlift or you row or you the only things that maybe might not work your core, I mean it still should be engaged if you're in proper position on a bench but like it tries to extension, but if you have your knees bent feet on the bench and you're tucking, right, and you're drying and you're still working your core. So, there's really no way around working your core every day, but that actual honing in on it you do need to give time for your abdominals to rebuild and get stronger. As far as seeing them, there are so many factors there. It could be another hour here, but genetics is one factor. Obviously, how you fuel your body is a big factor. You know, there are a few things you can do like cut down on your sodium, making sure like it's a muscle group, right? So, you've got to make sure that your protein intake is high. Sitting in a calorie deficit, you know, calories and then calories out, but even then it doesn't mean that you're going to be able to see your abs. It really is something that depends on the person. It really does. In your stage of life, absolutely. You know, and if your number one goal and your life right now is to be able to see those abs, okay, you need to find another goal. Yeah, but I mean, I'm again, it's that people want to see like like, and listen, I love having it like, I'm not going to say, I don't like, I sure I love being able to see them. And easy for me to say like, find another goal, you know, because because I have them, right? But, but I will say like there's so many more important things to be focused on because you can see a six pack doesn't even mean that it's a strong core. Well, and if, you know, for example, one of the, one of the tidbits you said, if that means cutting down sodium for you because that's not applicable for everyone. Well, then one of your body needs that sodium because you're working that so hard in your sweating and you're someone who loses a lot of sodium and they're sweat. Exactly. Now you're going to feel shitty, right? But you're getting those abs. You know, so like, I mean, if you want to make the sacrifices, that's ultimately your call, but just know, I mean, there's a lot of the things that are going to have to do with a lot of the things. And you may also be surprised by just changing other things in your training, right? Like adding in those more explosive movements or adding in, maybe of two days of hit, like you add in a little bit of running, like you're doing a little more zone two cardio. A lot of, you know, if you add in, if you've just been lifting straight heavy and you've discounted the cardio as we talked about earlier, you just haven't been doing it. You add some cart really specific, focused cardio in there. You may start to see the abs, or if you've only been doing cardio, which I hope isn't the case. And you start strength training, you know, a lot of people start seeing more visible abs when they start squatting heavier or deadlifting. You know, there are other factors. It's not just right because of the bracing factor. Yes, it comes to heavy lifting. But I think, you know, I think people look at it a little too black and white. I think, you know, if I do nothing, but running, I'm going to have a six pack, but you know, if you're lifting heavy, you're going to have a strong core. I think a lot of people want, you misunderstand and the sense like, if you can't see someone's abs, they don't have a strong core. Right. Look at some of the most impressive power lifters in the world, or strong man's, they have some of the strongest cores. Now, does it visibly maybe quote unquote not look like it? Sure. Right. But their ability to brace their ability to put 500 plus pounds, 600, 700 pounds, and they're back and squat that. Yeah. That's a lot of cool. You can't do that if you don't have a strong correct. Right. And, you know, same for running. I think people underestimate running. I mean, running is going to help your core a ton, just that slight rotation that you're getting. Yeah. The fact that you're pushing yourself harder, but the actual movement of running is going to help your core quite a bit slowly. Absolutely. So, I think we also need to, I mean, to interrupt you. No, I think we also, what I hear sometimes that, to me, you know, it goes both ways. I've also heard people say, in different, you know, not, not on this podcast, but on different podcasts. Like, if you see someone with visible abs, they're not healthy. And I don't think it's fair to say that either. I agree. 100% not fair to say that. We always need to remember that everybody's body is their body and different, right? And you can't judge just by what you see. Like, you don't know what, like I said, I've had abs since I was five. So, when someone says to me, oh, she's like, she's always had a must be starving or something. What? Right. Like, no, like, this is, like, I could, when someone, it's interesting, people say, like, can we see her before an after-picker picture? I'm like, I don't have before an after-picker. This is consistency. Like, I'm sorry. Like, I don't have that, like, you know, she, I don't have that story of, I was this and now I'm this. I've been consistently this, which I think is, it says a lot. Since I was, you know, like, 15, right? It's always, I've always been this bad. I've always been, you know, when someone says, oh, you look the same as you did 10 years ago. Yeah, that's a, to me, that's a compliment. It means you're not in a work. And it means that what you're doing works and you're consistent, you're doing what's right for your body. That you're able to, this is, you can maintain this because you're, you're feeling your body properly and you're working your body properly. Right. So, I think we just all need to, you know, it's obvious, but sometimes not because you hear it all the time, where people are, like, oh, but if you, if you don't have abs, you don't have a strong core. If you have abs, you're not healthy. It's like, come on. You got to find what works for you. Yeah. Ultimately, I think almost every topic, every guest that we have on here. Absolutely. At the end of every conversation, it always ends with, well, no one body is the same and you have to figure out the right formula and the right equation that works best for you personally based off where you are in your life, based off of what your goals are, your own genetics, you and I sitting across from each other, are extremely different. Yeah. So, we have to find out what works for us in the kitchen in the gym. You have to find out how much rest you need. I'm finding that I need more rest days than I day when I was 20 and that's okay. When I'm 40, I'm looking, you know, but like I look and I feel better than I do when I'm 20, right? So, you know, you just have to adapt and you have to, you know, have some patience. You have to be willing to, as I always say, like, one of my, when I, I'm constantly saying this, whether when people ask like how my business has evolved or how my method is of all they'll say, you have to be willing to evolve with the times, not necessarily change, but evolve, right? So, you don't change your core values, you don't change, like who you are as a person or what you believe or what you know to be true, but you're willing to evolve the style that you have or, you know, who you are as a person or what feels better at that point in your life, like you can't, you have to be willing to evolve because we never stay the same, we're creatures that are constantly changing, that's a beautiful thing, but instead of saying constantly changing, say constantly evolving, because you're, you're gaining knowledge, you're gaining wisdom, right? It's a gift to be able to continuously evolve. I love that time goes on. I love that. Care, let's head into our final topic for today and that's movement in menopause. Now, listen, we've only got a little bit left in the studio today. So, we need to come back and do a part two, we might have to, but, you know, there's a giant misconception that women should decrease the amount of plyometrics and running, and all of these movement patterns as they age, but I want to spend some time busing a few myths here. So, first, let's start by addressing the changes that the female body goes through in menopause. Hormones made to climb energy systems, can shift and be impacted, but how does emphasis on an impactful fitness routine potentially negate the negative effects that some women face? Yes, so there are so many, this is, it's such an important topic, right? And I think thankfully, we're starting to talk about it more. I especially am starting to have more because of 49 years old, right, whether in parry menopause or menopause, whatever it is, like, everybody's going to experience these changes. Like, you can't, you can't get out without it. There's no hiding from it. It happens to everyone. So, you know, one of the key benefits to exercise, no matter where you are, in life, but especially going through this phase, like you may feel like your emotions or that you're on a bit of a roller coaster emotionally, right? Like you mood swings is like it is one of the unfortunate side effects of parry menopause. So, what does exercise do? Well, it makes you feel better, like immediately, even just 10 minutes of moving your body is going to make you feel better. And I think almost like when it's almost like taking it back to when you were a beginner and fitness where it was just really hard to start. And I think it's that same feeling that women, you know, late 40s, whatever, whatever age you may be, 50 start to feel that they just like can't get themselves going, right? And you just have to remember like, nobody can make you do that by yourself. But if you just give yourself 10 minutes of simple movement, it's probably going to lead to 20 or 30. So, just start, like even if it's just getting outside and starting walking, you might start to walk and go, you know what? I actually feel like I could jog now. Or I actually feel like I could get to go home and I like I actually want to live some way. So, I think mentally, it's really important not to just sink back into that mentality of like, I'm just not going to do it today because it's just, I'm not in the mood, right? You say physically set a timer for five minutes. And it may not be your day and that's okay. Yeah, at least you made that effort. Yeah. But I would say 90% of the time to your point, that five minutes and you're like, hmm, nope, another five. Exactly. Another five. And it's amazing. It's like, I always say that energy breeds energy, right? You're an energy maker. So, motion is lotion, right? If you're just going to sit, like what's like in a, it's no balls, right? It's no balls. You sit a little more. I sit a little more and before you know, you're like laying on the couch watching Netflix. If you could just like shift your mindset and be like, you know what? I'm just just going to start and then it will lead to more. And I think women going through this phase of life, you become like hyper aware of everything, like any little thing. You wake up. You feel bloated. You're like, oh no. Am I getting like a menopause, belly? Like what? Like it's no, you're just bloated because you ate something last night. Like I always, I think we can also overthink it a little bit and be like, yes, your body's going to change. And there are things you need to do to combat that or you can do to help they can help with that. But also, you know, becoming hyper sensitive about it can also be a negative like anything in life. Right? If you just, if you start to like zone in on it too much, you start to stress about it too much, right? So continuing to exercise, but also, you know, I get a lot of messages or women will say, you know, well, I can't I'm 50. So I can't jump now. Who told you you couldn't jump at 50? Like, where is this coming from? Because you hit 50? Like, it's over. Like there's no more. They're coming yet. I mean, yes, I jump one time. Yeah, it's like this misconception. So what, what, you know, what happens in your 40s and 50s about becomes really important training wise is is strength training, right? We are trying to, if you're not strength training properties, we talk better earlier, lifting in a way that is really stimulating your muscle, right? The increasing the integrity of the muscle. And that can come in various ways. It's lifting heavy. It's maybe it's spending more time in a movement. Maybe you're doing pulses within a squat. It's tempo training, right? There's other ways to challenge the muscle, the size just lifting heavy. Right? So finding all those different ways and finding the way that works best for your body is really important. But we're trying to hold on. And it is possible to gain more muscle as you as long as you're feeling your body properly and you're doing the proper workouts, gain more muscle as you get into your 40s and 50s and get into that phase of life that is menopause. But you have to be willing to put the work in. You can't just grab a two pound dumbbell and it's just fine. This is going to keep my muscle mass on target. You lose between 3 and 10% of your muscle mass every decade if you're not challenging your muscle enough. That's scary. That's like, that should scare you. It should scare you to the point that you want to pick up weights, right? That you want to pick up a band more, that you want to incorporate more strength training into your routine. But explosive power, that is an area that, as I said, I get messages all the time, I can't jump anymore. I don't want to jump anymore. And when I say, why, I don't get an answer back. Because there is no why. They're just thinking that they're too old to do it. Well, I think a lot of them are afraid of the brain. I think I love that we're starting to see more women in their 50s and 60s continue to pick up weights. Or maybe you're picking up weights for the very first time. They are afraid to jump. They are afraid to continue running. They think that's going to break a bone cause a stress factor. They think it's doing the opposite of what it's actually doing to your bone density. So people have the misconception that jumping, yes, it sure it creates stress on your joints, right? But so does lifting weights. Like anything that's like good for your body, honestly, creates stress on your joints and on the muscle tissue temporary stress. That's a long term success. Yes. So let's that's like the best quote to remember. Temporary stress for long term success. You want your bone density to, you want to be focused on it, you want to increase your bone density. And the only way to do that is to create stress on your joints and your muscles, right? So explosive training is actually challenging your muscle and the genes within in a different way. Like part of the muscle that's likely been asleep for quite some time is now going to be stimulated by this explosive movement. And I think the misconception is also people think explosive. They think they're doing box jumps. It's got to be box jumps. It's got to be explosive movement. It can be as simple as standing up and just bouncing on your toes. Like that's where I tell a client to start if they're in their 50s and they're like, what do you mean explosive training? It's like, we'll just just bounce on your toes for a bit and then sit into a squat. Bounce on your toes, sit into a squat, right? Or get up on a step and stand on the step and then jump off it land in the squat. So you're working on the deceleration, right? And you're working on controlling the explosive movement on the way down. Then you turn around and you jump up, right? So their ways to progress it. The most important thing is if you're if you're just starting to incorporate explosive training is like anything else, start with a proper progression and learn the proper form. Because that's what's going to again make you turn it off from it. If you start doing, you know, box jumps, you're like, oh, now my knees are killing me. Well, you didn't start with the proper progression. Give yourself two through weeks of just bouncing on the toes. Jumping rope is an incredible, incredible. Explosive movement. But done low impact if you're doing it correctly, right? Because you're not landing like you're trying to, you know, killing insect, you're landing like you're trying to land on glass as you're jumping. But they've show many studies have shown that even incorporating jumping rope like twice a week for three to five minutes at a time can have a huge impact on your bone density. I have an entire section of my app that's jump rope. And the number of women who first down to the app will email me and go, I can't jump rope. I'm 45. I'm like, I don't understand, like I don't understand why there is an age limit to jumping rope or jumping. Like we need to completely shift that mindset. Yeah, we've got to reset it for sure. It needs to be talked about it more. People need to, you know, be educated on it more. I think the deceleration drill is probably one of my favorites for that age, right? Because you are going, you know, and this is not for the 45 or 50, but as you get into those 70s and 80s, right? You should know how to land. You should know how to catch yourself. You should not forbid trip off a step. Something in your like, and you don't want to land in your face, you want to land on your feet. Right. So, you know, you're in a better position for, you know, in long term understanding how to stick that landing. And maybe, you know, maybe the slight chance of if you're doing it too much too quickly, you know, developing something like stress fracture. Again, if you're progressing properly, that likelihood decreases significantly. But again, would you prefer to add that in a couple of times? It would you prefer to, God forbid, like you said, something happened. And now, you know, you know, they say 73% you know, once they experience that first fall, it goes down that front. Yeah. So, I think it's inherently becoming more and more important. I've had this discussion with E for men, right? And it's equally as far as for men. You need to be emphasizing these things more so when you get to this point in your life than you did in your 20s. Absolutely. You know, in your 20. Oh, your 20s. Your 20s. Like, you could basically do anything. Like, you are just, you know, and it's all, you know, I, her purrophy, like, you're working like, and you're still listening. I still love training for that. Like, no, I love to lift. I love to lift for that with, you know, but but again, like, I get such a kick out of what I see. Like, I, I just turned 30 and I'm in the best shape in my life. Let me show you how on Instagram. And I'm like 30. Oh, yeah. You can really choose any movement pattern and you'd be fine. Like, it's kind of, but when you see someone who's 49 and in the best shape of their life, you're like, I want to know what you're doing to get to that point. And what I'm doing when I encourage my clients and my athletes to use the app to do is like, you have to, you have to focus like, it's so like the, I guess the string training, but the, not being afraid of the things that seem, seem like they have an expiration date on them. Yeah. Right. Like, the jumping. Like, the, like, I just came out with a stock step, right? And people think step aerobics. Well, yeah. Like, we do do some really cute, like, stock step sport with it. But really, the purpose of coming out with that stock step was to make sure we could do up and over with it that we could do weighted step ups with it in a proper way that you could sit on it, explode up off it. Right. So it was like another tool so that I could ensure that people were doing the proper explosive training in the proper progression. So they don't, so they are doing the right things for the body. Like, your, your greatest defense against aging is muscle. Muscle is medicine. Muscle is medicine. The more muscle you have in your body, no matter what age you are, what, what decade you're in, the more you burn into resting state. It's, it's that simple. I want to start seeing more 16, 7-year-old hybrid athletes here. I want to start seeing those age groups over in Deca and, um, and high rocks and I, you know, I, we see them in Marathons. We see, I mean, I've been, I've done a couple of our man's and I've got, you know, this 85-year-old guy cranking it out and I'm like, wow, it, like, it's just so impressive. But I want to see them doing everything. Yeah, I want to see them jumping and running and lifting and playing basketball. I think we will because people are starting to understand like, you can't be afraid of it. Like, you can't be afraid of movement. Like, there's really no movement that you should stop doing as you get older. Like, the focus within changes, right? Like, yeah, we're doing more like mobility. Like, truth be told. Yes, obviously, like, I added the stoke body shop category on the app, right, which are 10 minute mobility sequences that you do because I knew that I needed more mobility. I'm like, if I need it, other people do. And people like, oh, yes, focus more on, you know, you need more mobility after 40 after 50. Well, no, you also need it in your 20s. Like, I can kind of kick out of some like, well, that the 20s lay the foundation for every other decade, right? Your 20s, your 30s every decade before the one you're in, lays the foundation for the one that comes after it. Right? So if you, I wish I did more mobility work in my 20s and 30s. So, yes, I think it's important. We do it in our 40s, 50s and 60s, but it's equally important to do it in your people want the magic pill. And they want to hear this is all you need to do. And this is the exact decade you're doing it in. It's a form of a tool. It's like, the formula is like, you need a little bit of everything, no matter what they gave you in. Absolutely. You know, and I think to your point, it's not about doing less things as you get older, I think it's also about implementing the correct rest. It's about doing them smarter. Correct. And it's not supposed to do that wisdom from the decades before and exactly, you know, I have a guy who he's about 55 years old and he goes helly skiing and he does all these phenomenal things that he's so lucky, you know, to have access to. Yeah, injured every other month. Broken finger, bro, you know, torn hip-layer arms, you know, torn rotator cloth. Come, come, come, it's excuse me. When we got him into the point of listening to his body and making better habits outside of the gym, decreasing alcohol, getting better sleep, taking the proper rest days. Hydration, getting better mobility, drinking more water, his life is completely different now and he still does all of those things with less injury. Isn't it amazing? It's like, I mean, so it really all comes back to what we start the conversation in, which is like form, form, whether it's, it doesn't matter what activity you're doing, right? But really connecting your mind to your body, no matter what age you are is so incredibly important because if we don't continue to do that and if we're not taught to do that kind of in-eately, if it doesn't become a consistent habit, when you reach that, you know, 80, when you're 80 or 90, like, and you can't, to not have that connection to your body is so detrimental because you end up not even be able to get out of a chair, right? Because you don't know, it's not, it's the strength, but it's also the fact that you can't connect to yourself, right? So it's all, you know, we're all thinking long-gaming mind and it just becomes more, I mean, I think I think about it more now than I'd for sure did 10 years ago, you know, as you gain more wisdom, you're like, wow, I need to, you know, I'm thinking 10 years from now, versus just tomorrow, you know? Absolutely. Kira, you know, we're headed, and when this day views, I think we're just gonna be shortly before Christmas. We are in the thick of the holiday season with the holiday season comes January. We all like the same new year, new year, new year, well, let's, let's be a little realistic and let's focus on optimizing and getting a little bit better in 2024, but also there are, you know, this is the time of year where a lot of people say, this is my year, this is the year I'm going to get started and that's whether they're 18 or 64. So, you know, what's a piece of advice or a piece of wisdom that you can get to those people who, you know, like we said in the beginning, they don't even know where to start, maybe they're intimidated to go to the gym to go into that class, what's one piece that you wanna leave them with? I think, you know, what's so important to me, my method and my community, and I found that it resonates with everyone, is being grateful for the ability to move and challenge your body because it's a gift. And if we can remember that it's not just, it's not a given, right, that you're gonna be able to do that. It is truly a gift. That alone will spur you on to start, to just start in your stronger than your excuses. You know, you can come up with a million of them, everyone can, but truth be told, like you are stronger than them, and it has to come from, you know, so much of it, like I, yep, you can, my apps there for you, there's a million options on there, there's 380 different workouts, but you're a million person they can push play. And so you have to take some pride in that, the ability you have to control your destiny, essentially, to control your own health. You have to really want it, and people will be there to guide you, but it really has to come from within you. So, you know, I always say you get to, you don't have to. And I think that's such an important thing to remember every day when you go to either step in the gym or just get outside for a run or whatever it is that's starting you on your journey. It's, it's, it truly is a gift to be able to move your body. So, and moving your body well. So, take the time to do a little research, right? And do your due diligence on whatever program it is that you decide that you want to be a part of. Find something that you love, as I said, that really resonates with you and make sure that that stays a part of your routine. But it is important that you are, you are taught properly. So, I mean, I think that, you know, you're investing in your health, right? There's no greater investment in your investing in your longevity. So, whatever it takes to help you get to that point that you're doing that the right way is a worthy investment. To the words, right out of my mouth, I was going to say if you're going to invest in anything this holiday season in 2024, put it to it your health. And I mean, it's the best, the best return that you're going to see. And on the spend that you're putting out there, higher a coach, higher a trainer, get the app, get the proper resources in place, you know, Google and can only go so far. So, get somebody who can work with you, find someone who can really cater to your needs, and help you understand how to get your fitness journey started. Kira, thanks so much for joining us today. Thank you for having me. Tell the audience how they can follow along. I didn't get in touch and maybe even take a class in real life with you. Yeah, so Kira Stokes fit on Instagram, that's my Instagram. As Danielle said, Kira Stokes fit app, will give you everything you need. There's all the Kira Stokes gear, the fake gear. So, I have a whole product line that goes along with the app and then CAS fit fuel, perfect time, January 1. So, you're going to get your fitness and your fueling right in check. And then in terms of classes, hopefully coming back to more regular classes in New York City after January, but definitely events coming up. So, everything I put, I'm such an Instagram girl. I'm not really a TikTok person. Oh, yeah. I'm just like a dry, it's not my thing. But everything would be right there if you follow me along on there. You'll hear all the details. What's coming up? Great, thanks again, Kira. Thanks for having me. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at Bodybuilding.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: Absolute Ava Series： Perfecting Your Figure! Episode #1 - Bodybuilding.com [xK4HCR3nAns].txt ===

How am I? I'm Ava Kallan and welcome to my bodybuilding.com video series. This is my kitchen. Welcome. Today I'm going to make my protein pancakes for you. I decided to kind of start this whole series off. I don't know what I do in a day of my life and I definitely have to eat before I go to the gym so let's start. I start by the half a cup of oats. Come on around this way. Let's see what I'm doing over here. Now I can also do a whole thing because this is my last season. I want to try and eat a duck in just a little bit. I'll do this. I take on my supplements. I'm doing this on my body. I don't know what I'm doing. I'm going to try to grow for this month. Then I start training in August for another show. I'm going to give myself a little week's this time. I like this for a figure dinner. Hopefully it kind of really, really, really, really, really, really good. What's it up? Yum, yummy. All oil cooking spray. Anyway, so let me cook and now what you do is you go ahead and put a core cup of sugar free syrup. This is the bomb, especially when you're like dying and you're dying. I was heated up with a hate cold syrup. Then I put a little smart spray. I'm not here. This is really, really tricky. Check it out. It says no fat, no sodium. It's made from a lot of salt. So, you're okay with this when you're trying to get laying on your dining ground. It's off season. I'm doing it. It gives a little flavor. Okay. Let's warm it off. Take a look at my protein pancakes. See, when you see my, you won't feel so bad that your zone messed up. Because mine's really ugly. But you know what? It gets dropped down. I get my, um, the complex carbohydrates. I get my protein and that's the few lighting to go to the gym. So, that one's ready. Okay. A little water spray. Here one. And there's some really good frame.關係. Well clinicians. Dock-<|hr|>. Little grease. There are some really good fat-martnails inside. Oops. These are gone, my plate's worked out nicely. So I'm going to let you see. Alright. I'm going to set the minutes, then show you what I take. I just did a supplement article, so you won't have to write this down right now. Go to our friendsit on bodybuilding.com, and that's it. So I'll see you in a few minutes. Okay, the pan cake was great. Now I'm going to use take my pre-workout supplements. And right now I'm a 3-team loading. I'm going to take 10 grams a day for about two weeks, so I can load up my 3-team stores. These are 500 milligrams. 500 milligrams of capsules. So I have to take 10 before I work out and 10 right after I work out. And then I'm going to take the pocass, and so it basically utilizes the creatine better. I really don't know the technical terms, but you get the idea. Then I'm going to take in a scene and I'm going to take the rebels. And these are just ways to help produce Adenosine tripe phosphate or ATP. So basically I'm trying to get more reps in my workout. It's going to give me more energy and that's what I'm going to do. So let me try out some of these pills and look at the tube. And I'll take one of the innocent, this is 500 milligrams. And then I'll take five grams of the work D-ribos, and that has little scoop. So let's five grams. Oh yeah, I can feel the work. And three extra. Okay, let's do it. Thank you.

=== FILE: Adam Meyer  & Billy Beck Workout - Bodybuilding.com [Z-skEBYIT84].txt ===

Hey everyone, this is Adam Meyer, president, CEO of Real Money Sports. I'm here with Bodybuilding.com and I'm going to show you how living a healthy lifestyle, not only transforms your mind, transforms your life and shows you how to become the champion inside. You'll get an inside peak of what it takes to be the nation's number one sport handicaper. See what new traditions I take, the food and you'll even get to meet role famous trainer, Billy Beck III. You'll get to see when everything's on the line, how I stay focused. So you can make it sound arrogant, but there's nobody in the country that could do what I do. As CEO of Real Money Sports, my job is to beat the Las Vegas points great every day. I employ over 130 skilled analysts, scouts, former players, managers, coaches. We break down film. We study intricacies of the game. How I can make you life-changing money. Everything I do is plan and calculate it just like my workouts. When I talk, better listen. I appear on national television all over the country. Every Friday, you can catch me on 12 radio shows all day long, 130 networks. I've been featured in ESPN Insider, Las Vegas Review Journal, USA Day, Wall Street Journal, a list goes on and on over $10 million of major for week on my advice. I can't afford to leave anything to chance. I would have come to building your physique, you should and either. You can take a look at my workout where it starts at 6 a.m. while people are sleeping. I get the edge. I'm going to show you how to get the edge and become just as successful as out of my eye. Since the age of 20 years old, I've been building this empire. In life and in business, you're going to get knocked down. I'm going to show you how to get back up and stay on top.

=== FILE: Add Strength & Size With Mike O'Hearn's Power Bodybuilding Program - Bodybuilding.com [NL-d92jM9A8].txt ===

You can't save this world. That's a try. How you guys doing, Michael, we're here. I'm up here with bodybuilding.com. You might know me as Titan from the American Lab here. They wanted me to talk to you guys about a little thing I call Power Bodybuilding. How you can power this in bodybuilding. So we're going to show you that today. I'm going to start out with a little chest here, a little incline press. I recommend you guys warm up, though, alright? Alright, so you stop 5 reps there. Now, this is my little trick. What I do is low reps, but a lot of sets. I'm going to stay here for about 6 sets of 5. Now, the reason why I do that is I like the poundage. I don't go 10 to 12s, like a lot of people do, because I come to do two things together. Powerlifting and bodybuilding. So that is a little trick I want you guys to try both on bench press, squat and deadlift. So get up to that max weight that you want to do. Hit 5 reps, and hit it 6 sets of 5 reps. Key points. If you can get cowbell, and the shirt comes up, that's good too. But one of the big things is rest. I take about 3 to 5 minutes rest. Reason why is I want to recover completely for the power and the strength. The shape and the size just come in right now. I feel it. Oh wow. Oh, help, stop, oh, I'm just kidding. You can't fall for that. I don't take spots. But you should, alright? How are we doing? We're doing good? We feel good? Alright, so we've just finished in clients. The reason I start with an in-cline is to develop more of my upper chest. I'm still creating that physique that I want. You can either start with flat bench or in-cline. Start with that heavy power movement to start with. And then we're going to come over to date flats now. Now, when you do the in-clines though, key points is, don't arch too much. Take it down to the chest, nice and controlled and explode up. You know, get through that exercise, power through it. Now for the dumbbells here today, we're going to do about 10 reps. Alright? We're going to basically just, you know, get us spider to help you throw them up there that way you save your back if you want. And just watch the form here, right? Watch the form, you don't swing it, you don't bounce it. Take it down nice and slow and just pop this up. It's easy enough, right? It's no problem. So, I stay with, obviously, you can see more free weights than machines. Now, that's just my take. I like to do three weights relative to machines. Just brings it more of the whole body. And I also power it. So, you can use machines, you know, same kind of thing. Go heavy, five to six reps, you know. On this exercise, obviously, you can go more, six to 10, even 12 if you want. I don't change it up, getting ready for a bodybuilding show. Now, a lot of people might go do high, high reps. I let the diet control back. And I just keep the heavy weights. I'm a natural bodybuilder and always have been. And so, the one thing I noticed is, when I go light, I fade away. So, keep the heavy weights in there if you're a natural bodybuilder, and you want to just build that exercise. Now, this is me a week off from the guest posing. Now, I still live heavy. Nice, just recommend it. If there's one of those things, you can try it, but again, it works for me. I may not work for everybody. My acting can pass. Ah, that's it, this is me. This is me. You guys in me. So, what I did was the incline, flat dumbbells, and I'm going to finish off with some incline flies again. Just because it's a bodybuilding phase right now. But I'm going to keep it heavy. Now, here I'm going to go about 10 reps, three sets. Same thing on the flat bench, on the dumbbells. Do about four sets there, okay? We already did that huge six sets to start with. So, let's finish this out. Now, I can incline flies, same thing. You watch the form, you see what I'm doing. Take the arms out, stretch the chest, switch you want to see. Huh? It's good working it out. That pump's already there. Even though I take long breaks in between that pump is there, even though I'm card to plate and two, it's because it's that pounded. It's tearing down the chest, the fibers get torn up right now. In a good way. Trust me. All right, so let's recap. Basically, heavy on the incline or flat bench, a lot of sets, six sets, three to five to eight reps. If you have to go eight, but I say, go heavy, go heavy made. Then, when over to flat bench dumbbells, get in good form, go up to ten reps, you know? And if you go four, even five sets there, I'm okay with that. Again, heavy though. And then we're going to step with nice stretch, flies incline flies today, three sets, eight ten reps, and that's it. Now understand, this is what I do for chest, but I also do this for back, and I also do this for legs, but after doing about six sets of squats, we'll have to leg breast, leg extension, but my stain philosophy applies here. Go heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy, and just, you're going to love this man. You're going to love to have that strength. That's how you build the muscle, tear down those fibers. All right, I got a bounce.

=== FILE: Air Bike - Ab Exercises - Bodybuilding.com [i6mPCVUrtNk].txt ===

Life out on the ground with your lower back pressed against the ground. You'll want to put your hands beside your head, but be cautious not to strain your neck while performing the exercise. Lift your shoulders into the crunch position and bring your knees up so they are perpendicular to the floor while your legs are parallel to it. This will be your starting position. Now go through a cycle pedal motion by simultaneously kicking forward with your railing and bringing the knee of your left leg toward you. Exhale and bring your right elbow close to your left knee by crunching to the side. Then inhale and return slowly back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Alex Savva’s Must-Do Arm Exercises! - Bodybuilding.com [5yGWUxHv95k].txt ===

I'm Alex Sava. I have a degree in physical and health education. I'm the owner of Circuit Fitness Studio and I'm co-founder of Farmifreek and I'm here today at bodybuilding.com to give you my top 10 tips for arms. We all know we love doing arms but the major complaint I get is hey I didn't feel my try-sips I'm not soaring my buy-sips and the reason for that is you're doing the same old same old. So let's switch it up. Let me give you a variation of those basic exercises that you've been doing but tweak them in a way that we can bring your workout to that next level. Okay so here we go with my first exercise, try-sip dumbbell kickback. What I'm going to do is I'm going to add a twist, take the exercise to the next level. With your elbows tight to the body you're targeting the middle head of the tricep but again we're adding that extra range of motion with that twist. So one of the main mistakes I see when people are doing the tricep dumbbell kickback is they'll actually start to engage in a swinging motion where the momentum takes over. What you want to do is lock the elbows in high and tight bring it through that range of motion and the controlled fashion so you can maximize muscle fiber recruitment. Right at that peak contraction rotate the palm upwards towards the ceiling. Here we go. That's your basic kickback. Take it up a notch, turn the palm up and add that extra challenge and intensity. To this basic tricep exercise. Okay so we just finished tip number one dumbbell kickbacks with that extra rotation at the end. We're here at tip number two and I'm going 21's on the preacher curl. I'm taking that traditional preacher curl and I'm breaking it down into three phases breaking down the range of motion so we can get that bottom end of the bicep, that overall bicep and that top end of the bicep. So here we go inside grip. Secure the position all the way down halfway up seven reps. It's going to get that lower end of the bicep. Now you're going to bring it right to the top. So you're going to go halfway down here for your next seven, top end of the bicep. So you're going to force that extra blood and volume into the biceps. Last phase all the way down, all the way up. This is where the pain starts. By doing 21's on the preacher curl, you're increasing the muscle's time under tension. And what that is doing, you're forcing extra blood, extra volume, oxygen, nutrients, into that muscle and it's signaling the muscle to grow. All right, here we go tip number three. I'm going to go to that overhead kettlebell extension for the triceps. So why kettlebell over a dumbbell? It's a different tool kettlebell hangs below the palm of the hand. It's different than having that weight right in the palm of the hand. As you do with the dumbbell, again, offering a shock to the tricep with any overhead movement. We're hitting that long head of the tricep. So go ahead and grab that kettlebell, move it into position, back behind the head, elbows, tight to the side of the head, brace the core, doing the standing, making it more functional, and extend overhead and really force that tricep, that long head of the tricep muscle to work. Big mistake here is you see people flaring out the elbows. You want to try to keep them as tight as possible and really control that movement for quality reps. So here we go with tip number four. I'm going to the in and out barbell bicep curl. So here we go grab your barbell, tight grip, but four to six inches apart, elbows tight to the body, bang out six to eight reps. Again the focus here is that outer bicep head. So that inside grip is a great way to add width to the arm because you're hitting that break your radialis and that break your allus muscle that's often neglected. When you're done that inner grip, put that barbell down, switch to a wider grip, a little wider than shoulder width, keep the elbows tight, that's the key here, keep the elbows tight and curl that weight up and now I'm feeling that stretch shift to that inner bicep head, bang out six to eight. And that's your in and out bicep barbell curl. Tip number five is going to be the twenty ones on that lying skull crusher. So I'm going to use a bent barbell for this one. I find that it takes the pressure off my wrist and allows me to concentrate on the muscle at hand, which is the long head of the tricep primarily. So take that grip, lie back. And here's the key right here. Don't start right over the chest like this because that's going to move all that tension to that elbow joint which is a main complaint. Once you move it back over the forehead and I want you to lock that in position and just start and finish right there. So from the top we're going to go all the way down over the forehead and halfway up seven reps. Trying to keep your elbows locked in. From there all the way up, still keeping it over your forehead halfway down and up. We'll extension for seven reps and then blast them full range. Tip number six is the V dip. I'm taking that traditional body weight dip and I'm shifting all my weight to one side one tricep and then again shifting all my weight to the other side. And I want to start at the top. Lock my legs back. I want to be straight up and down. This is a tricep movement. If I was hitting chest I would hit a forward lean but for tricep straight up and down. So I want you to go dead center down to the bottom and shift all that weight over to the tricep on the right side. Again take that negative center at the bottom, upper arms parallel to the ground and then drive and shift all that weight over to that left tricep. Dead center shift. Tip number seven is going to be across the body with the hammer curl. So one arm at a time adds more focus to the exercise. Cross the body is going to hit that break you already Alice and that break the Alice muscle which is key because it's going to add width to your arm. So if you're used to just doing straight up dumbbell curls or barbell curls you're going to want to add across the body hammer curls to your repertoire to get more out of each arm section. One mistake I see is people are swinging. They're throwing that elbow up and forward. You're going to get that shoulder taken over and taking away the straps from the bicep. So let's keep the elbow tight to the body. Let's focus on form and technique. Tip number eight is my closed grip, bench press, that basic math builder for the overall tricep muscle. I'm going to be using a standard 45 pound bench bar. I'm going to lie back. Take a grip position with the hands about six to eight inches apart. I'm going to start right over the chest. Keep the elbows tight to the body. Drop them down to the ground. Keep them tight as I press up into that tricep muscle. As I'm pushing up, I'm driving my shoulders back into the bench to maximize that tricep involvement. I recommend that you do the closed grip bench press, tighten with your chest and shoulder day because it does hit the inner chest and it's a great compliment to that workout protocol. Alright guys, tip number nine I'm going to go under hand grip on your tricep press down. So glue the elbows in tight to the body. Again, under hand grip, squeeze out that rep, come up about chest level and then full extension of that elbow joint. What that under hand grip is going to do is target the medial head of the tricep. The exercise is a little bit tougher than your overhand press down so you need to cut down the weight a little bit. Tip number ten final tip for you, the Zottman curl. Literally anybody does this move and you should be doing it. Here's why you're going to hit the biceps on the way up, you're going to hit the break your radialis and the break the allus and you're going to hit that forearm on the way down. It's a complete bicep forearm exercise. The first thing you want to do for this exercise is grip the dumbbells tight to the body. So when you curl up, you're going to pause and when you go into that reverse grip, you have optimal positioning to hold onto the forearm and slowly lower in that reverse curl. You're going to supinate palm up, biceps, then you got palm down, break your radialis, break your allus and forearm on the way down. When a great movement and I know you're not doing it and you should be doing it so throw it into your arm workout. Take it up to that next level. You're going to want to check your ego on this one, drop the weight and get proper technique and quality reps in, make the most of this exercise. So those are my top 10 tips for arms. I'm not giving you new exercises. I'm really just giving you variations on exercises that you're probably doing to take them to that next level. I'm going to give you three different programs on how to use these tips. First one, just take these exercises, run through them back to back and just bomb your arms. Second one, take the bicep exercises and add them to your back routine for back and biceps. Third workout protocol, take some of the tricep exercises, tag them on it, chest and shoulders, and hit chest shoulders and tricep. You can follow me on social media and on body space at Mr. Rift3. And you can get more of my programs like this one on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Alicia Harris' Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [7G8-19-hxNw].txt ===

My name is Alicia Harris. I'm a bodybuilding.com sponsored athlete. Also, I'm an nutrition sponsored athlete and have been blessed to have been a two-time cover model 2009 muscle infant nurse and oxygen magazine 2012. My background I come from a pretty athletic family. My dad played basketball, football, and track and college and my mom also ran track. My brother's play football and my other brother is still a professional track athlete running from a mom's country, South America, Guyana. So I've always had the athletic genes in my family. I ran track and college. After track I didn't know where it was going to go. I always wanted to be an athlete. I always wanted to compete so I decided to embark and figure competing. I knew nothing about it. I was working at internship. I was working with a friend who was actually a bodybuilder. I went to one of his shows. I saw the girls on stage and I was like, I can do that. He kind of told me a little bit what to do and stuff like that. I did my first competition. I got fifth place and of course I wanted to do better. So I kept on doing it learning more and it's brought me very on today. Five years in it. My focus in this sport I think that it's not just working out but it's also helping my mental and my spiritual and kind of just discipline factor in all of those different sections. I have to be physically fit but I also have to be motivated enough and mentally strong to get through it all. And then I also pull my strength from God. I'm a believer and I'm very spiritual and I have to pull strength from that too and just to make sure that I can get through it right and stay focused and not get off course. People send me messages on Facebook or Twitter saying that I'm inspirational. So when I go to different events and festivals and stuff like that, I hear it. So I mean it motivates me to keep on doing it and do better for myself and actually it gives me motivation that I'm motivating somebody else. Most of the time I will do cardio for maybe six days a week, maybe a long cardio maybe short cardio and then I'll also be in the weight room for four to six days depending. But I always keep my body guessing like I never do the same thing every single day because I will get bored. I do like doing it. It's a sort of cross-it-type of workout. It's more of a dynamic workout so you work with sleds, you work with prowlers, you also get some weights in so it's kind of like a bunch of everything into one workout so I'm actually like working out as an athlete. So it's not just ones that doze it all that stuff. So it's more functional stuff. I feel like it hits my body a little bit better, it keeps my body guessing and it keeps my mind going and it is hard, my heart rates always up and I actually see results within my body fat and stuff. Just keep it on moving and circutaining and stuff I usually do it on like a four-day split but I'll compile different muscle groups with each other. So like I'll do chest workout with my shoulder workout, two days later I'll do my leg workout with my shoulder workout. I'll have one day for a back day and my last day I'll do tri-step arms. So I'm getting hit and most of my body. I'm always working to better myself and I always have a different goal every time I do stuff so I never play until I always have things to change. When I'm training for a show I don't think there really is a rest day. Like I'll do what's the call an active rest I guess. I'll do some walking. I'll get my heart rate up just for a little bit so I guess you can call that a rest day. It's not like I'm going to the gym doing weights, doing cardio, getting my heart rate up super duper high. So I will just do some walking but more like fun walking like going to mall or something walk fast. So I guess it is kind of like a resting active rest day. I do a good amount of shows so like I guess you can say when I'm not physically training for a show it's my off season but I mean it's good to stay somewhat in shape and kind of close so it won't be as hard training for the next show. I do really take like two or three weeks off because I'm just so tired and it's really draining to prepare for a show. It's all worth it. You just gotta get up and go. I mean like I said an insanity is doing the same thing over and over and getting the same results so you have to change things up. You have to get motivated. You have to uplift yourself somehow and just you just gotta do it. With my meals and how I diet it all depends on my shows. I am not a calorie counter. I just make sure I get a good amount of protein in my meals. I'm a good amount of carbs, less carbs than the actual person actually thinks that they need. For people who walk up to me I do say like if you haven't took your breasts this big you probably have like a carb count about this much so like half of your protein you always want more protein on your plates and you do carbs. With my schedule I will wake up first in the morning. E-breath this that around 11 30 I'll have my next meal. Two o'clock I'll have my next meal then four and then seven. That's what works with my schedule. That's when I can get my meals in. Everybody schedule is different and everybody eats more or less. Just have something to chew every two or three hours. In my diet I eat a lot of chicken. I boil my chicken sometimes it's easiest if I make a bulk amount of it so I will bulk a whole bunch of chicken and boil it all out. Cook it, eat it, bag it. Lean fish, tilapia, I eat, um, hell of it. I eat tuna sometimes because it's easy to travel with if you have it in the little packet. Those are the main proteins that I eat. Um, for fats sometimes on my diet I'll have almonds for fats. Some people use peanut butter for their fats as well and guacamole are usually my fat sources. For my carbs sources I do incorporate sweet potatoes. Sometimes rice, oatmeal of course in the morning, and my vegetables. I'm like this general public. I like eating out sometimes I like, um, M&Ms like I eat cake, I eat cupcakes, I eat cookies, but I will minimize my amount that I snack on. Like I won't have like three bags of M&Ms. I'll just have a little bit of time snack on this and snack on that. When I'm freeing for a show I'll try to have it more in the morning so I can try to work it off later in the night, but I just have to watch how much that I eat of it and I don't eat it every day. So if I want to snack like I'll have snack. If you're going to restaurant there's a cook you're paying for your food. So you ask for what you want. If you don't want them to cook with oil or cook with butter you tell them that. Some people make fun of me because I order stuff. I ask for a salad. I'm like okay well you put the cheese on the side the dressing on the side that's made of the side we put everything on the side so I can put it in the strip of it myself. They usually do it. I mean it takes a long time to order but there's always chicken. There's always vegetables. There's always salads at restaurants so I really don't have a problem eating out unless it's like a week or two weeks from a show but others in that. They don't put that much crap on the stuff. I mean it's not going to kill you so you can order what you want at a restaurant. And I think you should stay away from them. You have to enjoy like you can't just live in the box. Well I hope this is a give me a trouble but I do do do go to haul. I do love decorations but I know how much sugar is in them so I kind of just kill back off my decoration. My degree doesn't stuff like that but I will have whenever so often. Now when I'm training for a show and sometimes if I do need something a shot of alcohol it's got less calories. I'll consume it. Not a lot. I don't get drunk. I'm not a drug or anything but I do consume a shot or two or whatever. It's less calories that I decorate your margarita. So I just try to be smart on that end too. Just pick it in right choices. I do feel like I have pretty good genetics so I probably could do it without self-immentation but I probably wouldn't be consuming the right amount of calories without like my protein shakes and getting a good amount of food in and I know I wouldn't get nutrients I need but with my workouts and something that I probably wouldn't be able to recover and feel as good as I would. If I did take them so it's a lot more helpful when I do have those nutrients in my body when I do have that right amount of calories for my system to help it recover and prepare. I don't get the nutrients from my food so like the month I've had a minute is very beneficial for me. When I don't have all my food with me, everybody's busy, everybody's doing this, doing that. They don't have time to carry food around with them all the time so protein powder, protein shakes are really good to incorporate as meals when I'm hungry when I need to eat. And those are two main things that I really, really believe in and I really think that supplementing things that you don't have. It's really beneficial to get those products that you need in your daily life style. While I'm training, I do take a moth-eye vitamin in the morning when I get up. I usually get some cardio in the morning so I will take a fat burner, not recommended for everyone but it just helps me with my cardio and trying to burn more fat, give my heart rate up. I'll also take CLA which helps with losing the body fat, I'll carnitine as well. So those are the some of the main tablets pills that I take. I do have a protein shake in the afternoon and sometimes when I'm hungry at nighttime, I'll take a casing protein. It's a thicker protein and it's kind of beneficial at night so I don't consume a whole meal or anything like that just before bed. Throughout the year, I think that I actually get really lazy so I drink more protein shakes when I'm not competing because I'm not making my food and I'm not so disillusion as I should be so I probably just get lazy and drink protein shakes instead of making actual food and I do I'll season it. I'll forget to take pills like I honestly, I just forget that as regimented, I just feel like I can take a break on everything so during when I'm not training for a show, I get kind of off a little bit but every once in a while I take them just not on a regular basis. I think there's so many supplementations out right now. If people have concerns with certain proteins or any supplementations, there's so many out there that you can find the ones that fit with your lifestyle. There's natural proteins, there's vegan proteins, whatever their daily life is on, whatever their beliefs are, there's something out there that can fit them. I don't think anybody should be scared of taking them. There's certain things for your certain goals if you want a certain thing, you can find a certain product. Wherever they're at what story you can talk to the people behind the counter and ask them these questions and ask them if this is the right product for you or ask people who take the product by the ability that account has the reviews, who likes the product, who doesn't and what benefits and all that kind of stuff. So there's different sources that you can look up and it's really good to get the products for you that you need. That's what I do for my training nutrition and supplementation. I know it's all over the place but if you have any other questions, please contact me on Body Space or if you want more videos, articles or contents like this, please go to Body Building at Count.

=== FILE: Almond Banana Protein Shake ｜ Lais DeLeon [4f4UyUYzYNY].txt ===

Hi everyone, I'm Lys Delion, NLA for her athlete and today I'm going to show you how to make my almond banana protein shake. To start we're going to add one cup of almond milk to our blender. Next we'll add two scoops of NLA for her vanilla cupcake flavored protein. Then we'll add one tablespoon of almond butter and one frozen banana. Last we'll just throw in about a handful of ice. Then blend. And four. For this recipe we use vanilla protein powder, but you can use any flavor protein you like. This recipe is great because it's quick and easy and portable for when I'm on the go. The step I step guide and macro nutrient breakdown for this recipe can be found in the article below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me you can find me on Instagram at Lys Delion or on my website LysDelionBitness.com. For more free recipes and articles like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Amanda Latona's Fitness Program [Y6pBO6Rsx2I].txt ===

Hi everyone, my name is Amanda Latona. Today I'm going to talk to you about my training, nutrition and supplementation, but first, here's a little bit more about me. Actually, I started as a singer. I started in singing professionally when I was 18 years old and I had three record deals when I wasn't recording or traveling, I had like all this time off. So I started working now and the day I stepped foot in a gym, I just fell in love with it. I saw this woman and she had like six pack and I was just like, I went a little like that. So I decided to hire a trainer and he recommended because of my love of being a stage, she recommended that I could be. And in 2003 I entered my first show and I won my first show. So I was kind of really, I just loved competing, I loved setting the goal, getting on stage and it was kind of like, it was really rewarding to me and it was really good for me to have that goal, especially being competitive person. I competed all the way up until 2009, where as when I feel like it was the highlight or the changing point of my career. Because it's one I won, the flex-pecking model search championships. That day I was given two contracts, one from a leader as a leader athlete, which was a huge accomplishment. And the other one was a BSN athlete contract. So for me that was kind of the turning point in launch means that fitness industry. Most of what rewarding part is, inspiring people. So for me, it's to be able to inspire someone to do something, to not only change their physical appearance, but their health, that's in me, it's extremely cool in the morning. Training. I love training. I've always believed in heavy weights, clean diet, and minimal cardio. That is what works for me. Some people have to do two hours a car a day. I don't have to. However, I've been training for 12 years. So I have a really good base of muscle on me. I could gain muscle easy, and I can also lose weight easily. So I'm blessed in that area. I just believe in doing constantly switching things up to keep your body guessing. I mean, that's just the way it is. Whether it's reps being 10 to 12 or 20 to 25 in leg day up to 30 reps, switching up like that, switching up exercise or doing climatrics for your low body doing a circuit, doing jump-ropping in between or mountain climber or something that you know keep your heart rate up. So I just, it gets to the point where you just, there's sometimes I'm in a gym and I just say, hey, today's like I'm just making stuff up because I feel like the more your body adapts, you've got to keep it guessing. So I just say the more knowledge you can have about training, the better, the more that way when you're in a situation your body adapts. So like, what do I do? How do I switch it up? And then you've already got the information and the tools to keep your body from plateau and keep getting results. If I'm not prepping, which would be maybe just the majority of folks, I do maybe three days a cardio 30 minutes just to kind of keep condition. I'll do four to five day weight split. Well, I always feel like putting your priority, beginning of the week when you're fresh, so I like to start off Monday with leg day. And that would be probably my most intense, my heaviest session. That's when I like to do the Smith-Linders and put heavy weights on there. I like to do hack squats, one of my favorite exercises. I love doing cable kickbacks. So that would definitely be my first day, then I'll do a upper body after that. My upper body right now is shoulders and back. So shoulder for me would be a lot of supersets. It's more high volume, more of faster pace, you know, just switching at my rep range. Then I would take the next day off from weight to just do just a cardio only day, the day after that, then I would go back to lower body, and then I would do a plyometric stay where, you know, always doing jump squats or, you know, speeds, skaters, one of my favorite exercises. And then the next day, I would do like to the back of the shoulders. So my back routine is it's pretty much focusing only on laps. If you have a little wider back, your weight is going to come in, and then your hips will go out, you get that nice outer less figure. So that's kind of like what my week looks like. And then I throw in abs twice and calves twice depending on where I've just feel necessary. I do a lot of permitting while I'll start if it's a heavy day. It'll be like 12, 10, 8. So I'm going low with 8 and I'm going up to 12. And on a light day, I'm going, you know, 15 to 18 up to 20. And that would be like for my legs. There's days where I do a lighter leg day, and then that would be just more of a circuit. I don't think I've ever gone in and done the same workout exactly the same. So there's ways to change it toward in a little small change, and then there's completely different change. Six weeks of you want to stick to a program. I say that's a good time where you just want to be like, okay, let me just do something new. But you work out, you should be doing something different each week. I'm a big believer in rest. Not active rest folks. I like rest. So for me, a rest day is if it's a summer, it's chilling at the pool. I will go to the movies, whichever is just kind of just taken off. Rest day is rest. I used to never do cardio, never, never, never. And everyone asked me, oh my gosh how much cardio do you miss two hours? And I'm like actually none. And I'm so so nice and none. If I squished in a 20 minute session, that was good for me. Now, since I turned pro and my prep is instead of doing three weeks, I would walk on stage in three weeks. It's now it's like three to four months of prep. I'm a big believer in incline walking on the treadmill and stairs and stair step or anything that can really incorporate the glutes. That's what my cardio is based around. So people ask me all the time about my butt. It's my thing. Women want to know how do I go to good butt because of the fact that butts are now. It's cool to have a butt. Back in the day, you're just like everyone wanted to be just thin thin thin. It's something that I work on really hard. I actually just train really heavy. So I feel like I have a really good muscle base. And I think that sometimes people die it too much for too long and not able to actually put that muscle on. I believe that the way you butt gets your shape is because of the muscle that's on it. I love nutrition. It is my general philosophy on nutrition because there's just so much information. There's so many different body types. What do I say? Experiment with the works for you. So you know some people do low carbs. So people with me know carbs. For me personally, I'm just a believer in good carbs. I like oatmeal, brown rice, yams, green vegetables, healthy fats, avocados, nuts, oils, flaxseeds, fish, salmon, things like that. And then high protein and small meals. I would say if I'm doing 60 meals a day, the last three aren't going to have carbs. If I train later at night, then I'll take my carb meals that I want during the day and I'll put them at night. So I basically put my meals around my training schedule. If it's just a cardio only day, it's kind of just I like to do the low carb meals around the cardio, that way I'll be learning more fat. I love cheat meals. For me a cheat meal could be anything like if you want to diet, I say for two to three weeks of cleaning. Then I think a cheat meal is good. Not a cheat day. I think it derails you so much because you can put on if you're eating clean for a good two to three weeks. And you have like a crazy cheat meal of like just heavy sodium, french fries or like you know popcorn at the movie. You have a lot of sodium stuff Mexican food which I love. You can literally gain like three pounds of water. And that kind of messes with you mentally because now you feel like oh my gosh, I just kind of lost all of the progress. I just derailed it. Which isn't necessarily true because it is a lot of water but at the same time it's going to mess you mentally. So I'm not a big believer in the whole cheat day. A cheat meal to me could be, you know, it could be something that you know just being really bad. Like I want some french toast, talk to pancakes and bed and Jerry's and a burger in one sitting. Yes, I've done that. Or could be something like I just want a steak and potatoes with a glass of wine. It just isn't really bad. It's just different. You know, but that's could someone cheat meal. However, cheat meals could be taken, you know, to the extreme and we're looking at you know, hey, I was good for two days of eating. And now I'm going to have a cheat day and then like why are I seeing progress? You know, I was good for two days. You got to remember consistency is key. So if you are doing that consistent clean eating, that's when the cheat meal is beneficial. It can help me set your body like I said, he's keep it in control and do it with works for you. Something we're going to weigh with a whole cheat day, you know, you got to learn with best for you. What's going to help you not only progress physically, but mentally. I don't eat out pretty much ever. You know, it's really weird. But when I'm on a diet, it's almost like anything that's not on the diet feels like a cheat. And then it mentally feels like you're messing up so then I think that can spiral into something else. I'd rather save those times to make them special. And then to me, it's more of a reward. And I get more satisfaction out of it when I'm actually doing it, you know, in moderation at certain times. Your special events, special occasions. Supplementation. Supplementation to me is once again, you've got your training, your nutrition, and we just cap it off with supplementation. I do however feel supplementation should be just that. So my top three supplement choices would be protein, glutamine, and then a pre workout combination of say creatine, or gene. I love protein because I feel like if you are doing the six meals a day, it's hard to get in. Only is it hard, but it gets expensive if you're trying to get those meals in every couple hours. But you do need to have that protein and take high in order to build your muscle. It's quick, it's convenient, you can just, I mean, if you're running on time, you're doing your morning breakfast. So you get your oatmeal, you just throw in a scoop of protein powder, which is awesome. You know, right before bed, I like to have couples with the protein and throw in some flaxseed or something. Or some peanut butter and have, you know, great way to keep your body with those amino acids throughout the night. And then my second favorite big glutamine, just because of how overall it's great for recovery. Also, I love a pre workout. I've been using pre workout supplements for years. I love doing that pre workout. It gets my energy up between 10th and those three have really been the core to my supplementation program. As far as competition, I take my pre workout down to a half a scoop to work off season. When I'm trying to lift it, I have a year to rebuild my body. I can do two to three scoops of something, but taking it down to between like one scoop and a half scoop, it just helps to not hold on to any extra water that might be because of it. I also add in quarantine, and that's before my cardio workouts, which is what I really like. I take a lot more vitamin C. That's probably the main thing is keeping myself healthy, exercise is form of stress. You're a pretty more stress in your body, so lots of vitamin C. I think the great thing to do is cycle off supplements. I think your body gets used to whatever you take. So, certain amount of period of time, three or four months. It doesn't have to be like two to three weeks, you know, I say three to four months, and then it's just a small, like even a break, up two weeks off. I think it's really good. So, there you have it guys. That's all the info on my training, nutrition, and supplementation. If you want to see more of me, go to BSN Online.net and follow my weekly blogs there. You can also check out my blog on muslimfitnesshers.com and check out my Facebook fan page. Click like, and you can keep up to date on all the info of what I'm doing, which shows I'm doing. Where my photos are at, but from more content like this, always come back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: April Fools Bloopers - Bodybuilding.com [ZXxVJL1MdGA].txt ===

The next 12 weeks, we'll see the exact program that I follow to get an amazing transformation. What else was there? I'm not gonna do that. Am I saying it or is it? On the floor. On the floor. Yeah. Good boom. You're watching bodybuilding. Whoa, bam. Explode up. Oh, oh. Woo. Oh, wow. And bam. Oh, you got it. Oh. My name is Jamie Eason. I'm the fifth year of the fish. Oh, what the hell it is. Rough five minutes in your workout. And I cannot say that word. Hi, everybody. I'm here. No. Okay. Now that you know a little bit about me. So that's my training philosophy on... No. That's where citrillion comes in. Just not. That will actually cause you to lose more calories. Totally messed that up. Yeah, what am I explaining again? If a cowon, I'm an IFBB figure for that. Never mind. I don't know the little bit. Now you need to be doing shit. You got to remember what I was talking to being... Beginner or advanced. Shit. That else was there. I forgot what it was. Shit, I forgot again. Dedication passion. Shit, cardio. Okay. So shit. Oh. And shit. What was I finishing on? Shit. Just through a blank. Shit. Now am I drunk blank again? Shit. Cut. What are you doing? Fuck. That's my boy. That's my boy. Another victim. When you spot Barbiel's girls, you're a... Oh, my god. Oh, yeah. He's a guy with a big fat. Oh, it's a lot of homes. What's up? Baby got back. You're metal, civil... I'm looking at the man in the mirror. Oh, what's your prize for five? Yeah, dude. You're ready for this jelly. I'm only ready for... I don't know where I can go. Bodybuilding.co. You got more hateful than we got to know. Fick day and week. You ready? Oh, make you sorry about that, don't you? Yeah.

=== FILE: Arm Building Superset Workout ｜ Brian Casad [fxxFIJDJAz4].txt ===

Hey guys, this is Brian Cassette. This is a hard arm workout. It's more of a muscle building workout and endurance at the same time because we're doing high reps, we're doing heavy weights, we're doing supersets. So we're just hitting it at all angles. The reason why built the supersets the way I did is because you don't have to go clear across the gym to do the superset. To use you done with one, go to the next one. It's also there to get you in and out of the gym as quickly as possible. For today's workout we're going to start off with a more amount. We're going to superset tricep pushups with closed hand chin ups. During these tricep pushups, I'm actually doing 20 reps on each side. Going from side to side with these tricep pushups. You're isolating your tricep even more on each side. It's kind of like doing an aided, one-handed pushup. So during my chin ups, reason why I don't bring all the way up to the top or lock it out at the bottom is I want to keep a constant flex on my bicep. At the end of this warm up, I'm almost feeling like, man, I'm already getting a good workout in, but at the same time, I'm just getting ready to go. For this superset we're going to start off with the dumbbell curls. You're going to do 16 total reps that's eight on each arm. They're going to move right on to the skull crushers. We're going to do anywhere from 12 to 15 reps. On both of my mucing the bench, so it just goes back and forth. It's really easy transition periods. So going into my seated dumbbell curls, I am going with a larger weight. I like pushing it as hard as I can, but I did choose a row or a rep level. For rest periods on these, I want you to go anywhere from 30 to 60 seconds, try not to exceed 90 seconds. You just sit there and put your headphones in a new concentrate. You think about that next set. What am I going to do? Am I going to push it even harder this time? It's a don't f*** with me mindset. So for this next working superset, we're starting off at the standing straight curls. We're doing anywhere from 10 to 15 reps on those, and then we've got cable tricep pushed downs. We're doing 15 to 20 reps. So for these standing straight curls, I call them straight curls because I've locked my elbows in, and I don't let them move it out or anything like that. But at the same time, I still let my body have a little bit of a sway in there. Say if I'm doing 15 reps on this one, if I'm down to 13 and 14, and I'm kind of struck one a little bit. I'm going to give it a little bit of a kick. The dirt needs cable tricep pushed down and I keep it swollen controlled. Reason being, I like feeling that contraction at the end. So it's like when I push it down, it's just really contracted at the end and bring it right back up slowly. Contract it at the end right back up slowly. After this working set, my biceps and triceps are on fire. These first two weighted supersets that I have in the middle. These are the hardest ones and I did it on purpose. You want the hardest ones you get it over with and then the last one you just exhausted out. So this is the last working superset in this entire workout. It's what we're doing, we're going to do tricep kick backs with the cable, doing 25 reps on each arm. That's 50 reps total. They were switching right over to the standing cable curls and we're doing 25 reps on that. You're going to be doing six sets of all of this. So that's six sets of 75 reps. That's a lot and that's a way to post exhaust your body. The reason why I put this at the end of the workout is this is my finisher. This is the grant for now. It's not going to be a killer, it's not going to be like those heavy ass dumbbell curls that I was doing but it is going to just finish out the pump in the end. I would recommend somebody here on this arm workout into the routine once every two weeks. The full breakdown of this workout is detailed for you here below on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me on this workout or any other workout, check me out on body space at Cassad 44 on Facebook, Brian Cassad on Instagram at Cassad 44 or Twitter at Brian Cassad. For more articles and videos from athletes like me, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Arnold Dumbbell Press - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [X60-yTMOJfw].txt ===

While sitting at an exercise bench with back support, hold two dumbbells in front of you at chest level with palms facing your body and your elbows bent. Your arms should be next to your torso. The starting position should look similar to the contracted portion of a dumbbell curl. To perform the movement, exhale and raise the dumbbells upward while rotating the palms of your hands outward until they're facing forward. Continue lifting the dumbbells until your arms are extended straight above you. After a brief pause at the top, slowly lower the dumbbells to the starting position by rotating the palms of your hands toward you.

=== FILE: Arnold Schwarzenegger's Blueprint Training Program ｜ Trailer [Zh411Gg8DRg].txt ===

Not every legend is a myth. Some are flesh and blood. Some legends walk along us, but they don't belong, they're built. Legends are made from iron and sweat, mind and muscle, blood and vision and victory. Legends and champions, the grow, they win, they conquer, as the legend behind a lead legacy. There's a blueprint behind every legend. I'm on my choice, I will. This is my blueprint.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's 21-Day Clutch Cut Training Program - Meet Your Trainer - Bodybuilding.com [LnynxkfWZi0].txt ===

I'm sponsored athlete for Adidas. I'm a celebrity trainer. My clients include people like Bradley Cooper, Kate Hudson, P-Ditty, and some of the world's biggest professional athletes. I'm a CEO and founder of Clutch BodyShops. My mission is to change the way you think about your body and what is possible. I'm Ashley Conrad. Growing up, my parents were parents that would never let us be inside watching TV. We always had to be outside doing something. The president was set really early on in my childhood and from his early as I can remember, even three years old, I was enrolled in soccer. Sports became a part of my life. They've been a part of my life for as long as I can remember. It is still such an important part of who I am. I've really shaped a lot of the methodologies, especially the psychological aspect, a lot of the stuff that I do today with clients. From a very, very small age, my dream of someone ask me, what do you want to be when you grow up? There was always, I'm going to be a professional athlete. Even at seven, eight years old, I didn't matter what sport I just knew I was going grow. So I remember when I was like eight years old, I was on an all-boys baseball team and ended up making all stars. So now I'm on this all-boys all-star team and the first day home from practice that day, I was like, crying because all the boys were so mean to me. I remember my dad looked at me and he goes, honey, they're just jealous because I don't know that you're going to be a professional athlete. It was really special because my parents always supported that dream and me and athletics and then when I moved into my high school years basketball had become the central sport. I was standing in the canteen and watching around and they're sharp, she's an astronaut, just inside, you are getting along. I began adhering to a much stricter training regimen. Going into my freshman year, it was the first time I had lifted weights. It was the first time that I began to kind of understand that outside of actually playing and practicing the sport, there was kind of this whole other world and way to train your body to become a better athlete. About my freshman or sophomore year, I said, you know what? I know exactly what college I want to go to. I want to go to USC. So my goal from there on out was just how am I going to be able to play basketball at USC? And at the time it was nobody, I mean nobody thought that it was actually possible. I was a great athlete for the small town I came from but when you consider the rest of America and the recruitment pool that they have the pull from, it was kind of one of those things where everybody was like, yeah, yeah, that's great. USC, whatever. So that was kind of the beginning of a four year journey for me of training by the time I left like a professional athlete and a lot of my, a lot of my methodologies around nutrition and training specifically, I still pull from those years of training for that dream. Well before I got to USC, it was really about, okay, here's the end goal. The end goal is to play basketball here. What is going to need to happen in order to make that dream or reality? And so at the time I had this really amazing coach, he would really taught me how to look at what the big, the long term and then how we're going to break that down short term. So every day was something different. So by the time I was a junior in high school, I had not only transform my body but going into training sessions, all I thought about was where I wanted to go. That was it. And it wasn't just USC, it was the next game, playoffs, all the visualization that went on and how am I going to get here. Learning in my teen years, okay, you have something you want to do. It's not going to come easily. It may take you four years, five years, but if you set that plan up and you know what you're supposed to do every single day and you're willing to actually commit to that every single day. At the end of those four years, I ended up playing basketball at USC but it was only because I had that plan. For me going into SC, I was aware of the athletes that they were bringing in. The bar was set extremely high. So once I got there, it was I would do everything that the team would do but because I felt like, I was really the underdog because I was never the fastest. I trained really hard to get faster but there are certain people that just have that genetic advantage over you. That there's nothing, not a whole lot you can do. So for me, I would go from our conditioning workouts to basketball practice and then we would lift and then I would do another hour and a half, two hours of working out outside of what the team would do. So while I was at USC, I actually sustained a couple of pretty serious injuries. One was a knee and one was a back injury. And doctors basically told me if you continue to play, you're basically not going to be able to go on leisurely runs but time is 30, you're not having any cartilage left in your knees. So I had at the time, I'm going to an amazing sports medicine doctor who saved me from a number of from surgery, actually having to operate on the knee and through watching the way that he was able to dissect the human body and look at, okay, here's a different way that we can treat this and through rehabilitation exercises. Here's what we can do to prevent you from having to have surgery. I thought, you know what, this, if I can't be a professional athlete because of these injuries that I sustained. I think I'd like to work with athletes. I'd like to train them and I'd like to help rehabilitate him the same way this doctor has done with me. So with that after I got done at USC, I ended up enrolling in medical school and that's what I thought, that's really what I thought my future was going to be. While I was in medical school, I wasn't training six, seven hours a day anymore. And obviously when you're not doing that and you're now eating whatever you want, I've been so disciplined for so long that I kind of allowed myself to say, you know what, I'm just going to eat what I want to eat when I want to eat it. I found myself suddenly 20 pounds heavier and I woke up one day and looked in the mirror and took a good hair and looked and thought, it's time to do something about this. This is not, I really didn't recognize myself because my body had never been as heavy as I, as I was in that time I was about 175 pounds and on my frame, that's pretty big. So without having all that time to train, I thought, you know what, what I need to do is I've got about 45 minutes to an hour every day. What can I do to take this weight off? So I sat down and I combined everything that I knew from my background at USC, all the canysiology classes, I took all the exercise prescription and nutrition, then I drew from everything I was learning in the pre-med classes and everything that I knew as my background as an athlete and I put together this program and at the time it was funny because I don't even think I even realized what I had just created. But as I began to go, put myself through this program and watched how dramatically even within the first couple of days my body was beginning to change without working out two times a day without, you know, depleting myself of carbohydrates or water or anything, just really my metabolism was just speeding up. So I thought, wow, this is, I think I've really got something here. And as I began to continue to go through the program, I began to think, you know what, this is something that in LA could be extremely valuable. I think that I could have something that nobody else has. I made the decision that this is what I wanted to do. The problem was at the time that there were such high expectations from my family and from everyone around me, I was, you know, everybody was so excited about the fact that I was going to be this doctor and it was so amazing because there's a lot of disappointment when I decided to kind of walk away from basketball because you know when you've been an athlete, your whole life and you've been praised for being such a great athlete and then you kind of walk away from that. It's like, well, what makes me special? I don't have that. But I knew I said, you know, I think this is something that I have to do. So I flew home and I'll never forget I sat across a table from my mom and my dad and who have always been so supportive of every decision I've ever made and so supportive of every dream I've had because I've always been an underdog and they've been like always in my corner and I sat across from them and I said, I am going to drop out of school. And their face is just dropped and I said, why is that? I said because I'm going to be a trainer. I said, and I've got this program and I'm telling you, it's really, it's something that is going to be huge and I think if I just focus on this, 100 percent and I execute this plan that I put together, I think that by the time I would be getting out of school, I'm going to be really far ahead and they said, you're making a huge mistake, like you're throwing away your future. Like, how are you going to do this? And it was looking back on it, I think any parent myself included would go, you're going to drop out of school. Like you don't even have a job at a gym. You have no experience with this. How are you going to make this happen? And I honestly, I didn't have the answers that they wanted, but I remember just, I just knew that this was what I was meant to do. And I looked at them and I said, you just have to trust me. I know what I'm doing. After I had had that conversation, I withdrew myself from school and I began looking for a job training. And I thought, I was a basketball player. You see who wouldn't want to hire me. I have all this background and training. It's going to be easy for me to get a job at a gym, but the truth was, I could not get a job. Like, literally, not a single gym in Los Angeles would hire me. And so that was kind of like the first, my first lesson in complete humility. People don't know this, but I had to go into 24 our fitness and Hollywood every day for two weeks and literally go into the fitness manager and say, I need you to hire me. So finally after begging them, finally gave me a job. And I then had to sit through like a week of training eight hours a day where they described to you how you train somebody. And it was just further confirmation for me that I was on the right path because the way that they were dictating to the class that you're supposed to train somebody was completely opposite of the program that I put together and what I know to be true literally within the first month I had more clients than I knew it to do it. As I was building out clients at the gym, people were getting these really incredible results. People were saying a difference in their body in the first three, four, five days. And word at that time began to spread around Los Angeles, it's kind of like wildfire about this young trainer who had this program that had the ability to transform somebody's body in less than a week. And so things were just kind of starting to kind of bust out at the seams and I get a call one day and at first I thought I was a prank call. But I got a call. It was just huge, a list celebrity. And they said, I've got a film coming up that I need to train for and I've only got a couple of weeks. Can we do a training session? I'll see if I like what you do. Sure. What gym do you work out of? And I said, we're not going to go to the gym. This is going to be the address to your house. So I showed up that day purposely with a medicine ball in one hand and a resistance ball band in the other. And I showed up to the door, she opens the door and literally like I'm standing there with two pieces of equipment and she literally does this. It goes, what are you going to do with that? I'm like, we're going to train with it. It goes, you think you're going to be like, kick my ass with that? I train like five days a week. And I said, we'll see. So go out to the backyard, set the equipment down, start putting her through the circuit. And about two minutes in, she's hunched over, pouring sweat, who looks up at me like this and she goes, what are you doing for the next four months? I need you to come to sat with me. And I said, let's do it. And so that was the beginning of my career in celebrity training. And I texted my mom and I said, I'm on a private jet right now, flying the Boston. I told you that it was going to be okay. And from that point on, that was really the beginning kind of of everything. My entire career and also it was my family, obviously, from that point on, what's extremely so important because they were like, how the hell did you go from having nothing to this? It's six months. It was just completely baffling to sort of everyone around me. My dream now, which it has always been, even at that time, was to be able to take what I've done behind the scenes with these now, you know, Hugh J. L. Celebrities, professional athletes, these huge transformations, and I give it to everybody. So the mission is really just to inspire people through exercise and through fitness and through nutrition because having those things without being inspired, if you can inspire somebody, you can actually change their life. There are six pack abs that aren't going to change anybody's life. But if you can get them the six pack abs and you can actually create a positive change within them, that person can do whatever they want to do in life. And my life has been a perfect example of that. Ash LaConra, we're going to be everywhere. You're going to, you're reaching in the fridge for a piece of cheesecake. I'm going to be there on the bodybuilding.com site, watching you. So keep going to bodybuilding.com. We're going to get you the tools, the weapons, the content, the truth that you need to make that change. And we're going to do everything together. It's going to be fun.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's 21-Day Clutch Cut Training Program - Nutrition Overview - Bodybuilding.com [WQKdeuxQNm4].txt ===

I'm sponsored athlete for Adidas. I'm a celebrity trainer. My clients include people like Bradley Cooper, Kate Hudson, Peter D., and some of the world's biggest professional athletes. I'm the CEO and founder of Clutch BodyShops. My mission is to change the way you think about your body and what is possible. I'm Ashley Conrad. I'm a celebrity trainer. With this program or any program, nutrition is like killing. Because it doesn't really doesn't matter what you do to work out. If you're not giving your body the right fuel, it's not going to respond the way you want to respond. So for me and the transformations I do, a lot of people will say it's 80%. Nutrition is, but for me because of the limited amount of time I have, it's really more like 90%. The basis of all of my nutrition programs are based on principles of thermogenesis, which is, basically, how your body burns calories. So all the foods I'm putting in have been proven to be high thermogenic foods, which means they speed metabolism your body can break them down. A few just super simple principles of the nutrition program. One is you're eating every three hours on the dot. You're eating 30 minutes within waking. You're drinking at least a gallon of water every day with the equivalent of two lemons squeezed into that gallon of water. Other really important component is you're eating completely gluten and dairy-free outside of your weight protein isolate. And the reason I'm not allowing things like gluten or milk or things like that is because those things are very difficult for your body to actually break down. That's not what I want. My goal is to speed everything up. Everything that you're putting in your body that's not that isn't a fruit or a vegetable is single ingredient. So you're not dealing with anything nutritionally that has multiple ingredients in it, has fillers, preserves, coloring. All of those things play a role in the hormonal balance of the body, which as we discuss, it's extremely important to keep in complete balance. That's the kind of method behind the madness if you will have been nutrition program. So for me whether somebody's trying to lose weight or they're trying to gain lean muscle, all I'm doing is I'm keeping their meals all day, extremely balanced, protein carbs, healthy fats. Somebody's trying to build lean muscle. I'm just adding extra calories, but they're clean calories. Their calories at the body can be used. I'm not necessarily messing with carbohydrates and pulling carbs from this person and giving because my theory has always been why if our brains need carbohydrates to function. That's common sense why am I going to pull them out of this person's body if I want their body to be running at optimal levels? That doesn't make any sense to me and it never has. The other part of that is when you pull something out of somebody's diet, the second the body gets that thing, what is it going to do? It's going to hold on to it. So what that tells me is okay, I pull this out now. It means weight gain later and that's why so many people get on this vicious cycle of yo-yo dieting. One of the reasons that nutritionally my program has been very successful is that I have found ways to make foods taste amazing. So people don't feel deprived of the foods that they love. Like on my program, people are able to eat pancakes, they're able to eat French toast. They're able to drink shakes that taste like ice cream and frozen yogurt. They're not having to stuff the blender full of fruit to cover up a nasty tasting shake. It's like for somebody like me, for example, who has a really busy lifestyle. The last thing I want to do is not be able to enjoy the food that I'm eating. So when you set somebody up where you're setting them up on a nutrition program that's easy to follow, it's accessible wherever you are, it makes it easy to adhere to and then you're never feeling like binge eating on sweets, binge eating on carbs because you feel like you're getting all of those things daily. People come in, they expect me to take everything away from them. And instead, I'm giving them all of these new things that they get to eat that they love and they're going and I'm losing weight or and I'm building tons of lean muscle. I can't believe that I can actually this, this is the way I get to live my life and have the body I want. People overcomplicate the diet part, if I can be, we're telling the truth, it's because there's been so much BS that other people have gone on TV or put out a book or whatever. When people put out a product, they tell people what they think they want to hear. And instead of just telling them the truth, and the truth is it's not complicated. If you understand the processes of the body, if you understand the way that digestion works, if you understand the way that you're adrenal glands and cortisol works inside the body, it becomes abundantly clear what the truth is. And once you know that, then you look at all these other things, all these other theories, all these other products, everything else and you go, that doesn't even make sense. If you're trying to make the body change rapidly, literally every single thing you're putting in your body counts. So it's very, very important that you kind of set yourself up for success in allowing you to be supported in what that nutritional plan looks like. A lot of times it becomes really difficult, the same way with drinking or drugs or whatever it is in life. When you're doing something the right way and people around you are doing something the wrong way, sometimes when you make the change, they kind of, they're not 100% in support of it because it's a mirror back to them of what they're doing wrong. So one of the things, there's a few different things I like to do with clients. One of them is to encourage people, family members or the people that they spend the most amount of time with to join them. For me, like when I go home, my family knows that there are many things that I'm not going to eat. So when I come home, they prepare healthy meals and they'll prepare whatever, whatever I think we need to have as a family and that's actually helped everybody, you want mom, my dad, extended family members, get healthier because it opens up the conversation. Hey Ashley, why are we eating this instead of this? So it's like you really have an opportunity when you take control of your life to affect every person around you. So keep going to bodybuilding.com. We're going to get you the tools, the weapons, the content, the truth that you need to make that change. And we're going to do everything together. It's going to be fun.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's 21-Day Clutch Cut Training Program - Overview - Bodybuilding.com [mJMQzBH1P4Y].txt ===

I'm sponsored athlete for Adidas. I'm a celebrity trainer. My clients include people like Bradley Cooper, Kate Hudson, P.D.D. and some of the world's biggest professional athletes. I'm the CEO and founder of Clutch BodyShops. I'm mission is to change the way you think about your body and what is possible. I'm Ashley Conrad. What is 21-day program? It's five days a week. So day one, you're doing full body circuit. Day two, you're doing cardio. Day three is a resting and then you just repeat that cycle. But the program continues to build because the first day you're going through chest, there's one exercise, then you swap to leg exercise. But the second week, you're super setting. By the third week, you're doing three different super sets of each body part and you're going through the entire circuit six times. So the program continues to evolve. Your body is continuously guessing. So your fat stores are having to be utilized by the body to keep up with the demands that your place and upon yourself. It helps you burn fat. It helps build lean muscle and it builds a ton of strength as well. So with regards to the cardio side of things, it's built very similarly to the full body workouts where you're continuing to build upon what you did the last workout. The cardio workout it is interval training. But your intervals of maximum output are getting longer in your rest period. You're going to shorter as the program continues to progress. Every day that you work out on this program is going to be difficult and it's supposed to be. Typically on any given day, the circuit, there's about 12. I mean, there can be anywhere from 12 to 20 different exercises that you're going to go through. So on how many exercises there are, you're going to go through the entire circuit three to six times. So as you get towards the end, the number of times you go through the circuit is going to increase as well as the number of exercises. A typical workout is going to last anywhere between 45 minutes to an hour. And then what I like to do is I like to throw in something like my abs circuit at the end of it and just do some core work. Core is incorporated into the into the full body workout. But if I really want to bring strength and definition into that area, I like to kind of focus on it at the end of the workouts. The program is 21 days. Well, first and foremost, yes. There's so many times early on in my career. I was getting calls from agents and studios and saying, we need to get this person ready and we've got three weeks. And that was the normal amount of time I had to get somebody ready for project. This is my tried and true program that I go to every single time. The second part of it is all of my programs. I like to set things up in pockets of just a couple of weeks because what that does is when even for myself, psychologically, I go into a situation I know I've got three months. I'm not going to be as focused. But if I know I've got two weeks or three weeks and I can get the results that I want, I'm going to go at that as hard. I'm going to give 100% to it. This is a very short period of time. What I find is after people go through this initial program, the results that they get motivate them to continue on because they're like, I was able to create this amount of change in this short period of time. I can't even imagine what would happen if I actually stuck to something for two or three months. And that is really psychologically is huge for people. The type of exercise that you're going to be doing with this program are everything from plyometric clap pushups to jumping lunges, to medicine ball jumping jacks, all things that incorporate body weight and very minimal equipment. On the cardio side, you really have a choice. You can do this workout on a treadmill. You can do it outside. You can do it on a bike. I mean, you really, that's a beauty of this program as you can do this program anywhere. There's really no excuses with this program. So this program is really designed to get in there and get out of there and get the results that you need because your body is being pushed to its absolute limits. So keep going to bodybuilding.com. We're going to get you the tools, the weapons, the content, the truth that you need to make that change. And we're going to do everything together. It's going to be fun.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's 21-Day Clutch Cut Training Program - Supplementation Overview - Bodybuilding.com [5IbMzHUlRDo].txt ===

I'm sponsored athlete for Adidas. I'm a celebrity trainer. My clients include people like Bradley Cooper, Kate Hudson, Peter D., and some of the world's biggest professional athletes. I'm a CEO and founder of Clutch BodyShops. I'm a missionist to change the way you think about your body and what is possible. I'm Ash Lacanara. For anybody who wants to build muscle, lose body fat, whatever your goal is, supplements are extremely important, but I think we're in a day and age where they're becoming increasingly more important. Studies are beginning to surface that the food that we're eating, the nutrient levels are actually decreasing because of the way that we're actually manufacturing food. Studies are showing that we actually cannot get even from a multivot on a vitamin level, vitamin mineral level. It is impossible to get everything you need in the day. From food. If you start to think about protein sources and carbohydrates sources and all those macro nutrients, I think there's been a lot of confusion when people come to the table and they say, well, I'm eating right, so my body's getting everything that it needs. But anytime you're putting a strain on the body with exercise, especially the type of exercise that I put my clients through, it's so important that you're putting back what your body is burning through. And that's where supplements are completely crucial. My philosophy and supplements has always been to keep it extremely simple. In regards to multivotivants, it's extremely important that the multivotamin that you're taking, your body can actually absorb. Now, I know that that sounds really silly, but there have been an increasing number of studies done on a lot of multivotivins that are in the marketplace that maybe it has 3,000% of this in this, but if your body can absorb it, there's no point. So for me, and looking at multivotivins, I'm looking at the way they're made in the ingredient sources, I like plant-selling ingredient multivotivins. And studies they've been shown to absorb in the body up to 300% in some cases, better than the leading USP or synthetic multivotamin. In regards to fat burners, I go completely stimulate free. The reason for that is because I don't want to mess with cortisol levels, I want to keep cortisol levels completely stable. So there are plenty of ingredients like CLA, Fugos, Anthony, that have been shown to help your body burn fat, increase their magenesis without having to speed the heart rate. With stimulates, I have this thing that I like to say, it's science, not stimulates. There are other ways to burn fat off the body without having to use caffeine. In regards to building lean muscle and protein powders, my protein powder has been one of the things for me that has been one of the biggest obstacles because it can be a blessing and a curse. When you have somebody on camera and being able to maybe use a protein shake as a meal replacement allows digestion to take a break so you can actually shrink the stomach, but so many protein powders blow people out. So it's like you can talk about way concentrate and cast in and all these different forms of it. Always been way protein isolate and it's extremely important that in dealing with a way protein isolate that it is 100% hormone-free. You have to actually do your research on what these ingredients are and where they're coming from. If you don't understand that as a consumer, you're going to make mistakes and buying and you're just going to throw your money away. And I think with supplement sets, when are the biggest issues that people have had is like they're a bit disenchanted, just like all the diet books that are going around is because people have spent good money hoping to get a result that actually hasn't delivered. So when you kind of educate yourself on what different ingredients do, why it's important that they're sourced in a certain way, you can't be fooled by paid athletes in a brand. You can't be fooled by gimmicky marketing anymore. You know looking at that panel, whether it's food or a supplement, you know what you're getting and you know what you want to buy. And that's extremely important. I think that for people that don't think that supplements work, they obviously have not found the right supplement for themselves. They haven't found the right line because if for somebody like me, when I am taking my supplements, I'm taking the mom time, I'm taking them the way that they're used as directed, there is a major difference in my body. A clear difference in my body. The clients that I work with, the difference between somebody who's taking supplements and not, they're just not going to reach that goal on time. Since our design to speed the body up, to take what you have and make it better. So that's why it's important to do your research and find what is the best thing for you and for your goals. Supplements are something that will for me, they're completely mandatory for my clients because I know what they're going to do. They're going to help accelerate the results. I think that they should not be used to replace good nutrition. They can't be used as a shortcut. It has to be the right nutrition program, the right exercise program, and the right supplementation program to get the results that you want. If one of those things is missing, you're just not going to get there. I would recommend a microfiltered, cold process, hormone-free, way-prosing isolate. I would recommend a pre-workout supplement that does not have stimulants in it, but is instead loaded with a ton of V-vitamin's ulcerates, citrillion, L-organine, and L-Ornafine, L-Carnitine. All of those things make up a great pre-workout stack. The last one is not necessarily a supplement. I would find one food product that is healthy, that is low and sugar, that you can use as a snack, that you can use as a meal replacement, that you enjoy eating. A lot of companies are coming out with pancake mixes and these sorts of things, that becomes an integral part of your nutrition program. It's allowing you at least to eat something you love to eat without feeling deprived. Keep going to bodybuilding.com. We're going to get you the tools, the weapons, the content, the truth that you need to make that change. All we're going to do everything together is going to be fun.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's 21-Day Clutch Cut Training Program - Training Overview - Bodybuilding.com [G69YMbrgVKA].txt ===

I'm sponsored athlete for Adidas. I'm a celebrity trainer. My clients include people like Bradley Cooper, Kate Hudson, P-Ditty, and some of the world's biggest professional athletes. I'm a CEO and founder of Clutch Body Shops. My mission is to change the way you think about your body and what is possible. I'm Ashley Conrad. The belief behind the Clutch system is really just to hold there's a few different things. One is that clients are never resting. They're just never resting. So as opposed to programs where you go and you do set you rest 45 seconds at for me is out the window. Whether I'm having to shred somebody down or build muscle, so I've had clients come to me and they need to get ready to plan action, start in a movie. My methodology is completely counter to what most people would do. They're moving the whole time, which is the only way I'm able to get their body to build muscle and burn fat simultaneously. It's also for me a situation where I want to get the most out of them in the shortest period of time. Whereas a lot of programs will take an hour and a half of the gym, a lot of times clients from your early work mouth 30 minutes. Because for those 30 minutes, their body is at maximal, VL2 levels. After 30 minutes are done, they can't do anything. So really it's about time management and it's about the way that I structure different exercises together. When I was training to be an athlete, I didn't use any equipment and they were the hardest workout I ever did was just with my own body weight. When I became a trainer, I thought, you know what? I want to train people like athletes. And with that being said, I can use anything. I can use a boxing bag. I can use a medicine ball. I can use one set of dumbbells. Anything that has any sort of weight to it and a body is enough equipment to complete any workout that I've ever created for client. My theory behind that is if you can't move your own body, you have no business. You have to move weights. If you watch any person, most people have them just hold their hands above their head. They can't even hold their hands above their head for more than two minutes. So for me, having somebody go into a gym and doing crazy shoulder presses, which is just going to continue to shorten the muscles that are prohibiting them from being able to hold their hands straight above their head, doesn't make any sort of sense. So I like to build, I think of it as almost like building a house. And I think many times people go into a gym setting, they have no idea where the imbalances of their body are. They have no idea where the weak parts are. We point rather. And then they go in and they start throwing around all these heavy weights while they're just perpetuating the problem. So for me, it's really about identifying those weak spots and then using your own body to correct those spots. And for me, I can build muscle on somebody without equipment or I can go into a gym and use heavy weights if necessary, but I can honestly say in almost all cases every client I've ever transformed for a movie, I've never had to step foot in a gym. Every program I build for somebody is actually completely custom, but it follows a certain protocol. The first thing I look at is actually not somebody's body. The first thing I look at is what their lifestyle is. And the reason I look at that is because if they need, if I need to take them from point A to point B in a short period of time, I want to know immediately what their hormonal balances are their body. So if they tell me, for example, I just came off of a movie who were shooting nights. I have been really exhausted. I've been feeling exhausted all day. And I've been working out two hours a day trying to get my body in shape. To me that's that screams, okay, this person probably has a adrenal fatigue. Their cortisol levels are probably all over the map, which is then going to suppress their growth hormone into testosterone levels, which is going to make my job much more difficult. So the first thing I want to look at is what's going on inside this person's body. Because if I can fix that first, then the physicality of what we're about to do is going to, it's going to be accelerated. The results are going to come a lot faster rather than saying, okay, I need to build out your shoulders and then I need to take your waist down. Okay, let's do this. Our bodies are designed to survive. So if you've been putting it under an immense amount of stress, and then you go in and throw in these exhausting workouts on top of that, a lot of times it will work against you. That's why a lot of times I'll have clients that will come to me and they'll say, I'm working out two hours a day. This is my diet and most of the time they're not eating enough. And I literally can't lose weight, I'm gaining weight. Well, that's because your body is your action working against your own body right now. So the first thing I do is look at what their lifestyle is. Then I go in and I design the nutrition plan and the supplement plan. Because without the nutrition and the supplement plan, the exercise doesn't really matter. Right? And then based on that, how long we have, I'll go in and design the workout portion of the program. The first thing that has to happen, any time you want to dramatically transform somebody's body in a short period of time safely, is you have to remove the stumbling blocks. And what the stumbling blocks are are the toxins that are slowing the metabolism down. So this is something that I think is one of the most overlooked areas of fitness. If you look at how the body actually works and the liver being kind of a garbage man of the body. So the first thing I do is put them on just a couple of detox fine supplements. So the first thing I do is put them on just a couple of detox fine supplements. And along with a mandatory gallon of water a day, most people would say in a program is extremely important because water is going to help flush everything out. But the other things I do are having them add about two lemons to their water a day, which is a natural diuretic and a natural cleanser. So instead of having somebody take a diuretic that's going to dry everything out, I'm going to use something that's going to naturally cleanse out the organs of the body as well. And then next step of that is dealing with their lifestyle. So I think that whether you're a celebrity or a business person, professional athlete, everybody today is just pulled all over the place. Like we never actually take time to just sit and be still. After the initial detox and cleansing, things are moving faster. The metabolism is moving faster. You've gotten rid of a lot of the initial water weight. Now a lot of times people say, you're it's impossible to lose 10 pounds in 10 days. That's true. 10 pounds of fat in 10 days can be impossible to lose. But what I have found in my experiences when people are eliminating toxins, things that are like stuck in your stomach, things that your body has just held onto when you release all of that from the body. The way the people lose, it doesn't come back. Because that weight would be held for a reason. So cleansing is step one. Step two then is then you get into the intensive part of working out. Back when I was at USC, we started doing all this really heavy power lifting, right? Which they said was going to help us with sport, whatever. So there I am like hand cleaning and squatting, like 285 pounds and bench pressing 190. And I remember going through this whole four week training program, we had to go out to the track and going into USC, I was like a freak of nature athlete. You put me on a track, I was fast, I was agile, I could run for two hours at a time, you could not exhaust me. So I go through this whole camp of all this heavy lifting and we go out to the track and we had to run 400 yards. And I remember about being about 200 yards in and thinking, I can't move and I'm out of breath. I had put on so much muscle and my body looked so strong. And if you took me in the weight room, I was strong. But I couldn't even run around the track. And so knowing that feeling, then going into training clients, the most important thing for me is not just to make them look a certain way, but to actually make them be legitimately almost feel like a deadly weapon. Because that's that psychological aspect that's so important. It's one thing to look, ripped and big and all of that. But if you can't actually use it, if you could get your butt kicked by somebody like me with one pike. Ninja Kick to the leg, because you can't actually move. It doesn't make any sense to me. And so in my training, I've trained people who are fitness models or their bodybuilding athletes and I'll go through some of my training workouts with them. And like three minutes in, they can't even lift a pair of three-pound dumbbells. And to me that says, okay, we have to kind of evolve things in a way that makes sense for the body. Because in that there's so much power. There is so much power in not just looking a certain way, but knowing that you're powerful and that you can move and that you can run and that you can jump and you can punch. So often I see these overbuilt bodies and they can't even get their arm all the way out to there. So it's like, okay, you're going to have all this muscle, but if you get into a bar fight, what are you going to do? Nothing? You know, so when working with somebody like Bradley Cooper for 18, the most important thing to me wasn't just to build his body out. But with all my clients, it's also taken through a psychological transformation where they are the strongest that they have ever been. And that comes with being able to move and being connected to your own body and being able to move. So keep going to bodybuilding.com. We're going to get you the tools, the weapons, the content, the truth that you need to make that change. And we're going to do everything together. It's going to be fun.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's 7-Day Clutch Cleanse - Bodybuilding.com [0RAY3S_iJsM].txt ===

So often when people are starting a new program, they've been totally off track. And so when they jump into something that's extremely taxing on the body, it puts your body under it, enormous demand to go from kind of zero to 60. On top of that, when you haven't been eating well, if you've been consuming a lot of sugar, processed food, artificial ingredients and not exercising, your body builds up a lot of toxins. There's a lot of junk that is hanging onto one of the ways to accelerate nearly every single system of the body. So from burning fat to building muscle to producing energy is to cleanse. And that's exactly why this seven day program that I've put together and used time and time and time again should be the first step to any program that you decide to take on. Unlike most programs that people start with the cleanse what we're really trying to do is just speed up the metabolism. We're not trying to tax your body. When you go through this program, all you're doing is 30 to 45 minutes of cardio daily. First thing in the morning on an empty stomach, that's it. When I talk about cleansing, when I implement a cleanse on the nutrition side, we're not cutting out food. We're giving your body foods that are easy to digest, which means that we are taking away a gluten, dairy, artificial ingredients, red meat, processed foods and most grains. Now let's talk about the things that you can have. So there are a variation of different types of protein sources that you can have that range everywhere from different types of fish to eggs to vegan protein powder. When it comes to carbohydrates, again, we're cutting out hard-digesting grains and we're replacing it with carbs that are easy for your body to digest like sweet potatoes, different types of fruits, keywaw, which is technically a grain, but it's also easier to assimilate than many of the other grains that are in the grain family. If you will. When it comes to your vegetable sources, majority of the vegetables that I want you to be consuming during the seven days are green vegetables, that's because they're nutrition benefits with, say, kale, as opposed to cauliflower, or on opposite ends of the spectrum. And the whole point of this is every single thing that you are consuming, I want your body to be able to draw nutrients from it, draw vitamins from it, draw minerals from it. In regards to fats on this seven-day program, you'll be eating everything from coconut oil to flaxseed to flaxseed oil. I really want your healthy fats that you are taking in to very, so you'll see that there is a list of about eight different variations of the fats that you can incorporate into your diet. In regards to your water consumption, on this program, you're going to be drinking a gallon every day. I'm not locking you into specific food at a specific time. I'm giving you food lists. So for each food group, you get to choose, so which makes it very manageable because I don't like to be told what to eat. And I don't expect you to be told what to eat. I just need you to stay within the parameters of the program that I'm outlining, which you can find below this video article right here on bodybuilding.com. What I implemented this program, people were so happy with the results because so often we will go into overtraining motor over dieting mode and we can't get the results that we want, which forces our body to work harder, harder, harder, harder. The powerful part about this type of program is we're allowing your body to actually rest and allowing all the systems of the body to speed up around you, which makes it such a powerful option because a lot of times when you go into these hardcore programs, you may have five pounds that you're holding right in your stomach where if you remove all the junk out of the body, those five pounds disappear. The water retention disappears, the inflammation disappears, and that is why this is such a powerful way to approach transformation with the body and a great way to start any transformation that you're about to begin. So every single thing that you need to know for the next seven days we've detailed out on the article below right here on bodybuilding.com. For any additional questions that you have for me in regards to this program or anything else you can find me on Instagram, Facebook, or right here on BodySpace. For more videos and articles from me and our whole clutch team keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's Fat-Torching Circuit Workout - Bodybuilding.com [z1tQTcZEg7U].txt ===

Today's workout is my insane, fat-tourcing workout. It's six exercises. You're going to do each exercise for 30 seconds followed by 15 seconds rest. Today's workout isn't just great for burning fat, but it's also great for anybody looking to get in better shape. Anybody from an athlete to the guy who's building muscle, this workout is great for all those things. The other thing that is important to note about the workout is we're not going for reps, we're going for time. So within the 30 seconds the goal is to do as many reps as possible and to improve that every single week. Paced of today's six exercises that we're going to be performing are the following. Standing medicine ball throws, medicine ball wall throw with a push up, shadow boxing, half burpees, five yards, shuttle drill, finishing it off with jump rope. So remember guys, this is a circuit so you're going to be completing this entire circuit three times at the end of each circuit. You're only resting 15 seconds and you're going right back into the circuit. This entire workout should take you around 15 minutes, which is great because you can get in the gym and out and get the job done. The weight of the ball that you're going to use for this exercise really depends on the person. It's a potential like to go lighter because we are going for 30 seconds and I want you to be as explosive as possible. So a heavier ball may fatigue you within the first 10 seconds, but that's kind of a personal preference. So probably the most important thing that you need to focus on with the medicine ball throws is keeping your core really really tight because that's what's actually going to allow you to perform the movement the way it's meant to be performed. The other important thing to note is that you can perform this exercise by standing in one place or by moving in a circle, which just adds another element of movement to the exercise. You want to be performing this exercise at 100%. But when you bring the ball overhead, that's when you really want to focus on tightening the core because that's going to actually allow you the ability to slam the ball on the ground really hard. The next exercise that we're doing is a medicine ball throw with push-ups. So probably the first thing that you need to figure out is spacing between yourself and the wall and test it out. When you perform this exercise, you're throwing the ball against the wall and as you're throwing, you're going to come back down and go into the push-up and as you're coming back up out of the push-up is when you're going to catch the ball coming off with a ground bouncing close to you. Do a couple of reps, balancing the ball onto the wall and getting the ball back to you in one bounce. The second thing is to make sure that you are coming all the way down in a full push-up position. This is a great exercise on the push-up side because it is myometric because you're explosively trying to get back up to grab that ball. On shadow boxing, you want to make sure that you have your feet staggered apart normally if you're right handed, you're going to lead with your left and if you're left-handed, the exact opposite. The point of this exercise is to really keep your core really engaged and to be throwing punches as hard as you can. You're going to feel this in your shoulders and it's going to start to really burn and I love this exercise because you are able to achieve shoulder definition without lifting heavy weights which gives your joints a nice break. The other thing that's really important to mention with shadow boxing is it is people's tendency to want to hold their breath when they're doing this, make sure that you're breathing during this exercise and during the entire workout. Half-perfect, you're obviously doing the second part of the burpee movement which is you're excluding the push-up. So you're going to come down on the ground when you bring your feet in underneath you, the most important thing to do is to really keep your core tight. Make sure that your hands are hitting the ground, you're right underneath your shoulder and you're just standing up as explosively as possible but you're never leaving the ground. So this is a great exercise for bringing your heart rate up, increasing leg definition and strength but we're not doing a high impact exercise which again gives your joints a nice break while elevating heart rate. So remember you only have 15 seconds rest and then you're right into the five yard shuttle drill. This is a drill that I used during majority of my sports career. It's a great drill for legs, you build strength, definition. The key is it's multi-directional so you really want to get in and out of those transitions as quickly as possible. That's what's going to really burn your legs out which is exactly what we're trying to do within these three seconds. So don't shortcut it, go as hard as you can for 30. The last exercise that we're going to perform is jump rope and everyone has a different skill level of jump rope. The most important thing is you're doing the exercise. Don't just throw the exercise away because you're not the best jump rope or in the world. Jump rope is a great exercise to master because it has an amazing cardiovascular benefits and you can do it anywhere as long as you have a jump rope. For this workout, you can integrate this into any program that you're doing. You can add it before a workout or after a workout or both. You can split it into ten minute segments or you can expand it into twenty. That's what's great about this workout is it's a standalone but can also be implemented into any program that you're doing. To have you any questions for me about this workout or anything else, you can find me on my body space or Instagram. So for more videos and articles from me and my entire clutch body shop team, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's High-Intensity Leg Circuit Workout - Bodybuilding.com [uG0d6mmZF7U].txt ===

So today's workout is a lower body leg circuit. And the difference between this workout and most leg workouts is that you have minimal rest between sets. I love this style of training for legs because it will shock your body into change. So if your person that's used to doing a lot of stuff on the leg press and taking a minute and a half, this is a great workout to really shock your body into changing once again. Over time, if you continue to do this workout, you will see a massive increase in muscle definition in the legs. So the exercises of today's workout are kettlebell side squat, leg extension, reverse lunges, seated hamstring curl, bodyweight squat, and finishing off with a defensive slide drill. So for today's workout, each exercise is going to be 30 seconds, as your rest will be as you're transitioning from machine to machine or exercise to exercise. You're going to complete this circuit three times in this workout should not take you any more than 15 minutes. So on the kettlebell side squat, you want to make sure that your proper spinal alignment and that your knees are not coming out over your toes. So those are the two things that you really want to focus on during a exercise. If you don't have kettlebells available to you, don't worry. You can use a dumbbell. On the exercise, you want to select a weight that you're going to be able to perform for the entire 30 seconds. Once you get the weight, you're going to perform a squat and then on the weight up, you're going to side step. With this exercise, you're going to take three steps to the right and then come back and three steps to the left and just repeat that for 30 seconds. This is going to work the legs in a multi-directional way, whereas a lot of leg exercises only work front to back. So this exercise is great for definition on the lateral and medial parts of the legs, as well as for athletes, because athletes obviously need to move multi-directional. So moving without rest right into leg extensions, with leg extensions, the thing that you really want to focus on during this exercise is choosing a weight that is not too heavy. You want to be able to do it in a manner that is fast-paced, but you're not going to blow your knee out while you're doing it. So make sure it's something where by the end of the 30 seconds, you should feel uninsane amount of burn and that you're keeping the movement very, very smooth and not jerking the weight up and down, because that does place and completely unnecessary stress on the knee. So with the reverse lunges, you do not have to do this exercise with weight, but if you want to, you definitely can. The biggest thing with lunges, you really want to be aware of your knee placement. A lot of times I see people doing lunges in the gym and their knees come and weight out over their foot. So with this exercise, you're simply taking a step back, dropping down, performing the lunge, and then coming back up, going back to your starting position and doing the same thing on the other side. For the hamstring curls, kind of the same principles as the leg extension, you want to choose a weight that's challenging, but you're not going to be burn out after the first 10 reps. The second thing is, is you want to make sure that you're keeping your butt firmly planted on the seat, and you're not sliding all around. It's very important to make sure that you're preserving your spine and other areas that can get injured during the exercise. For the body weight squat, you can perform this exercise obviously using no weight. Same principles as the kettlebell side squat, you really want to pay attention to your spine alignment so you don't want to be bending forward and cheating the exercise. The other thing you want to be aware of is that knee placement, not coming out over your toe so that you're dropping straight back and placing the majority of your weight on the heel. That's how you're going to get the movement to really place stress upon the glutes and the hamstrings rather than your claws and your knees. Alternately, if you prefer to use a leg press for this movement, knock yourself out on that, you're going to want to go wide foot stance and again, same thing, don't come down below 90 degrees. With the defensive side, you want to get into the squat position and you want to transition again, explosively out of the turn. For these slides, you're going to be covering about five yards of distance. This exercise is specifically for side to side movement and it really brings in the beautiful lines of definition of the size of the legs, which is what everybody wants and gets you kind of away from getting locked into that front to back movement, which most leg machines offer. So again, you're going to go through each one of these six exercises for total of 30 seconds with no rest in between and you're going to perform the entire circuit of total of three times and this workout should take you around 15 minutes. This workout can be integrated into your training split by it being the mainstay leg workout for you for up to four weeks and then I recommend switching into something else or it can be an additional leg workout. So if you're up for training legs twice a week, this is a great supplement to doing other things that most people do in the gym on like day. You have any more questions for me, you can find me on my body space or my Instagram. For more videos or articles like this, from me and my entire clutch body shop team, keep coming right back here at BodyBuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ashley Conrad's Upper-Body Circuit Workout - Bodybuilding.com [56H7_r3IgSw].txt ===

So today's workout is an upper body circuit. The goal of this workout is to increase muscle definition of strength in the upper body. I love pairing circuits together because unlike pairing simply muscle groups, you're really placing a different type of stress on the body. So from going from a push up into a dip, similar muscle groups, but performing those exercises back to back in a circuit just stresses the body in a completely different way than it's normally used, which is why workouts like this work so effectively for fusting through platos and really making a difference in muscle definition and even the first week. 5 exercises for today's workout are push up to freak, half burpee pull up, body weight dip, bicep curl the overhead press, and a bow-soup plank push up. For today's workout, you're going to be performing 5 exercises for 30 seconds of peace with no rest in between exercises and you're going to perform the total circuit three times. For the first exercise, you're going to wrap a resistance band around a stable source, and you're going to get down on the ground in your normal push-up position, holding the resistance bands in both hands. If you do not have a resistance band, you can perform this exercise using just body weight. You're going to perform one rep of a push-up, and then bring one arm up like you would a front belt raise, go back down into a push-up and do the same thing on the other side. My tips for this exercise are to make sure that your core stability is on point, so you don't want your stomach to come down to the ground as you're performing the push-up and coming down to the ground. If this exercise is too difficult for you to perform with perfect form, then feel free to go to your knees and perform the exercise that way. Also, with this exercise, if your wrist begin to bother you because you are holding the ends of resistance bands, feel free to do this with one arm at a time, so you would hold the resistance band only in one hand, the other hand would be freed up, and do 15 seconds on each side. With the half-burpee pull-up thing you really want to stay aware of is the way that you're positioning your feet under your body when you're doing the burpee portion of the exercise. You want to be keeping your core really stable and contract it, so when you bring your feet in, you can get them in quickly and make sure you're pulling them right under your body and again, standing up trying to place the majority of the weight in your heels so that when you explode off the ground, you're not putting pressure in your knees. Once you're in the pull-up portion of the exercise, you really want to make sure that your core is stable because as you're coming up off the ground, you have a lot of momentum working against you to get up to that machine and to do the pull-up without sliding everywhere, you're really going to have to keep your core contracted. This exercise is actually great for people who aren't super skilled with pull-ups because you do have a lot of momentum already doing a portion of the work for you. So if you're somebody that's looking to master pull-ups, this is a great exercise to help you with that and improve your conditioning. So the body weight dip, the most important thing that you need to do is make sure that you are not coming down past 90 degrees. You can do this exercise using a different variation of angles, but the most important thing is to not break that 90 degree angle because that does place a lot of stress on the joint what you do not want. So when you perform this exercise, you need to have your feet all the way out in front of your body. Do not scoot your feet in so you're in kind of a weird chair position with your body. Even if you can only perform five reps at a time in this position and rest, that's better than performing it incorrectly. So when you're doing your bicep curls to overhead press, the two major things that you really need to be aware of are not using your own body movement to perform the bicep portion of the exercise. If you need to swing your body, you need to lower the weight. That's number one. Number two is when you're performing the overhead press, if you are standing up, it's very important that you're keeping your core stable and that your feet are shoulder width apart. If this exercise you find does place stress on your back, you can perform it sitting down. I like to perform overhead press standing up just because of what it does to the core. It really places a lot of stress on the core, but for that reason you need to make sure that you're engaging your core while doing this. The bozu plank push-up is a great exercise for defining the triceps without spending hours on tricep extensions. It's also an explosive exercise which I love for upper body because anything explosive is going to work fast twitch and fast twitch as we know builds muscle and engages the tissue responsible for muscle definition. This exercise need to be very aware again of your spine alignment. Your back should be completely flat. You should not be sinking down to the ground while you're doing this. If this exercise is too hard for you to perform in an explosive manner, simply walk your hands up the ball until you're strong enough to do it explosively. This workout can be implemented into a split one day a week just to throw your body a curve ball or it can again become kind of the main focus of your upper body workouts for a total of four to six weeks. With clients that I work with, I like to do it both way. So I may use this as something that we build a foundation upon for three or four weeks and then I all split into a circuit training upper body workout once a week on top of everything else that they're doing just to keep their body guessing what's coming next. For more videos or articles like this from me and my entire clutch body shop team keep coming right back here at abodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ashley Hoffmann Legs Workout ｜ Build Legs You'll Love [vdcACykBa9I].txt ===

I don't live till it's pretty. I lived because I don't know any other way to live. Being a woman has never stopped me from getting busy. It's wrong or better. I'm absolutely hot here. Today I'm going to take you through one of my brutal workout. The whole goal is keeping the intensity up and being able to not walk after you're done working out. Hopefully you guys can keep up. Today is the workout we're going to be doing six exercises. When I go into the gym, I want to be using a weight that I feel comfortable. I know that I'm not going to hurt myself, but at the same time, you want to change. I really want to push yourself. Let's stop wasting time. Let's go in the gym and let's kick some ass. So I start five to ten minutes on the stairmaster. Just to loosen up my joints, get the blood flowing into my muscles. I have bad needs and bad hip flexors. So that's really important for me to loosen up before I end up potentially hurting myself. First squats today, we're going to do three to four warm upsets, ten reps. Really loosen up the muscles before you start adding on the weight. I don't increase weight too quickly because I don't want to end up hurting myself. So increase slowly and work your way up to 70% of your max weight. I like doing back squats because I can focus on my hamstrings, my glutes and my clots. And I've always had trouble growing my clots. So I like throwing them in there just to keep my muscles. For front squats, you want to do one more moxet, making sure that your form is good. And then you're going to go into your working set, resets of 12 to 15 reps. Making sure that you're going a little bit below parallel. The front squats, you want to make sure that you're not arching your back too much. That's it, it is a lot of weight on the front half of you. So it's kind of pulling you forward. We're going to do single leg extension. And we're going to do three sets of 15 to 20 reps. And then after that third set, we're going to do a drop set of double leg extension. With leg extensions, I really try and focus on squeezing my bar. You can point your toes in, you point your toes out. When you get to the double leg extension, you want to still keep the same form that you had for this single leg. And you still want to squeeze at the top of each rep. It's going to be hard. That's the whole point. You're really fatiguing the muscle. Make sure that you're really sitting back in the chair too. Grab those grips on the side and hold your ass down. After your double leg extension, you want to do four sets of 30 steps of walking on this. You want to do one set of 15 on this with weight. You're comfortable with, but still pushing your limit. You want to perform one set with weights, and then drop the weights. Rest 10 seconds. Perform a set without weights. Rest 10 seconds. Grab the weights again. Perform 30 steps. Drop the weights and then do your body weight back. For another 30 steps. We're going to work our way into line line curls. We're going to do two to three warm upsets and then three working sets. Follow the 15 reps. You really want to focus on contracting the hamstring. Squeeze in, near your butt. Slowly letting the weight back down. You never want to slam the weight back down with hamstrings or any exercise. Next we're going to do a stiff leg, deadlift. We're going to do one more set, three sets of 12 to 15 reps. Making sure that you're really feeling that contraction in your hamstring that pull. If you're arching your back, your weight is weight-mevgy, and you need to lighten up. It's not about the weight per se with stiff. You want to make sure that you're feeling that pull. If you need to go a little bit lighter, that's fine. Not so much about the weight. It's really concentrating on your foreman, feeling that pull in your hamstring. That's it for today's workout. I usually recommend working this into your split once a week. If you guys have any questions, you guys can find me on Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and BodySpace. For more videos and content like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ashley Horner's Full-Body Tabata Workout [It-B8xhkZy4].txt ===

Today I'm going to be taking you through my 20 minute restless workout. I am a new mom now and I have three little boys running around the house and sometimes I can't always have that block time to get to the gym and I need to do something right in my own house. Today's workout is based on Tabata. Now if you've never heard of Tabata, this is going to be your new best friend for getting those kick ass workouts in a short amount of time. Typically with Tabata, it's 20 seconds on and 10 seconds of breath. But since this is a restless workout, we're actually going to utilize those 10 seconds and get in at different type of exercise, whether it's another lung burner or a core type exercise. Exercise is for today's workout. We'll be man-makers with planks, thrusters and shoulder taps, body builders with body weight squats and kettlebell swings with jumping squats. So to time here to bottle workouts today, I'm going to recommend a few free apps that are available to you on the page below. Are you ready? For the first exercise grouping, we're going to be doing man-makers with planks and that's 20 seconds on the man-makers and 10 seconds on the planks. For the man-makers, I want to show you two dumbbells. You're going to go down into a plank position holding the dumbbells. You're going to go straight into a push-up, a row with your right side, a push-up, a row with your left side, bring your feet to your hands, jump up into a standing position while holding the dumbbells. I love this exercise because it really works your upper body and your chest and it also elevates your heart rate. You're really going to fill it with the push-ups whenever you're having to push-ups in between the rows. So then we're going to go right into the planks that's your choice if you want to do a straight arm plank or a plank on your forearms, whichever is more challenging for you because you're only holding it for 10 seconds. Never allow your back to sag and never push your butt up into the air. You should have a straight plank position just as if you were a board. Going right into our next paired exercises for this to bottle workout, we're going to be doing dumbbell thrusters paired with the straight arm shoulder taps. Again, everything's going to be four minutes to 20 seconds for the thrusters this time and 10 seconds for the straight arm shoulder taps. The dumbbell thrusters your feet should be a little bit wider than shoulder with the part. Grab your dumbbells, squat down into a full squat position, extending straight up and pressing your hands overhead. Moving right into our straight arms shoulder plank taps, going down into a plank position, you're going to alternate by bringing up one hand in touching the alternating shoulder. It's very important that you are not rocking on these and that you are keeping your core engaged and your legs and your glutes the entire time until the 10 seconds are complete. Our third exercise grouping is 8 count body builders paired with the bodyweight squats. 20 seconds for the 8 count bodybuilders and then 10 seconds for the bodyweight squats. For the 8 count bodybuilders, you're going to mimic a burpee when you go down into your straight arm plank position before doing the push up, you're going to jump your feet out and jump your feet back into your narrow stance, push up and then come straight up and jump into the air just like you would have for me. Keep in mind that this is called a restless workout so I really encourage you to try to take no breaks for the extent of this workout. If you feel like at this point you need to take a break, go ahead and push stop on your timer and take the least amount of rest as possible and then get back to it. For the bodyweight squats, your feet are going to be shoulder with the part, make sure your feet are in line with your shoulders and your knees are not traveling over your toes. Keep your core engaged and your chest and your shoulders up and back. For our fourth and final exercise pairing today, you will be doing kettlebell swings, paired with jumping split squats. If you don't have a kettlebell, don't worry. Just pick up your dumbbell that you're using for all the other exercises. But they kettlebell swings, make sure you're engaging your glutes, your quads and your hammies as well as your hips. You're going to keep your core nice and tight. Let the momentum of your squat bring the weight up. A lot of people think this is an upper body exercise and you just try to lift the weight but the momentum and the power really comes from your hips. For the jumping split squats, I want you to explode up as high as you can while you're switching your foot placement. I want to make sure that you're landing not flat on the balls of your feet but on your toes and rolling your foot down into a proper lunge, making sure your knee does not travel over your toes. This restless workout is great if you want to make it a finisher at the end of your workout or a starter getting you warmed up before you really hit the weights hard. I also love it as a supplemental workout when no matter how hard I tried, I just wasn't able to get my training in for the day and this one will make you feel so much better at the end of the workout. For a full breakdown of this restless to about a workout, check out the page below. If you have any questions about this workout or anything fitness related, you can find me on my body space at Ashley Corner or on my website www.AshleyHunter.co. For more free information and videos just like this, check out BodyVille.com.

=== FILE: Ashley Horner's Stronger-Legs Workout [qJUy5QRbmD0].txt ===

Today's leg workout is going to be focused on gaining some strength. We're going to be doing three sets and ten reps of the following. Reverse lunges with back squats. Moving into a superset of bulgarians, split squats, and plié dumbbell squats. And the last superset is cable kick backs paired with cable lunged rows. This is a strength-building workout and it's really important that you try to push yourself and lift heavier weight than what you're comfortable with. This leg workout should take you about 45 minutes, so times waistin, let's get started. With the first superset, we will be doing reverse lunges paired with the back squats. With the reverse lunges, you're going to start by loading a bar just like you would for your back squat. Standing feet together, you're going to step one leg back and lunge down all the way until your knee almost touches the floor. You're going to press straight up through your front heel, bringing your back foot forward, standing into an upright position. I recommend that you stay on one side until all reps are completed for that side and then switching to the other side. And without wrecking your weight, I want you to move right into the back squats. Your feet will be a little bit wider than shoulder width apart. You're going to squat down, keeping your chest up, your shoulders back, and your core engaged through the entire lift. For your second superset, we will be doing the Bulgarians' foot squats with the pli-a squat. Again, we're doing three sets and anywhere from six to ten reps. And keep in mind, again, I want you to try to go a little bit heavier than what you're comfortable with. Putting the weight on your shoulders, you're going to step back, elevating your foot onto the bench behind you, placing your shoelaces on the top of the bench and lunging down, putting all your weight into that front extended foot, pushing up through your heels, really making sure you're contracting your glutes and your quads with every press up. After completing all the reps on your one leg, then you're going to transition into the other side. It's really important that you make sure your stability and your balance is in check, keeping your core tight the entire time. Moving right into the pli-a dumbbell squats, you're going to grab the dumbbell using both hands and your feet are going to be much wider than shoulder width apart. Your toes will be pointed out and your heels and toes both stay flat on the floor, the entire lift. You're going to squat down, grabbing the dumbbell and fully extend, really squeezing your glutes and your legs just like elevator doors closing. Moving into our third and final superset, we will be doing cable kickbacks paired with cable lunge rows. For the cable kickback, she will need at least one ankle cuff. You're going to begin by standing on one leg and the opposite leg that is attached to the cable machine, you're going to extend back squeezing your glutes through the lift. As soon as she have completed all the reps on one side, switch to the other side. I really like this exercise and in fact it's one of my favorites because it really isolates your glute muscles and you get three reps into it and you're already going to feel the burn so you know it's working. Again, make sure that you're lifting with heavier weight. For the cable lunge rows, you're going to start by taking three steps away from the cable machine. So there's tension in the rope. Stepping into a lunge position, the foot forward should be the opposite one of the hands holding the cable machine. You're going to go down into a lunge and as you stand up, you're going to perform a cable row. I know this is a leg workout and although we're doing a row, you're really not going to be able to feel the road that much in your back but it's providing tension for whenever you go down into your lunge. I would recommend incorporating this training into your split at least once a week. The full breakdown of this workout is provided on the page below at bodybuilding.com. If you would like more information about me or have questions, you can find me on my body space at Ashley Horner or you can find me on my website at www.ashlchonard.co. And for more free workouts, articles and training videos, just like this, check out bodybuilding.com. Ashley Logue's content, take one. Do you guys ever do like cutouts where you're like take like this stupid part out? She, I just had like a brain fart. Cable and trolls. Rose. Your legs work hard. Yeah. What's that? No, no, no, no, no, no. Let's just take a win or do it. For everyone. Hallelujah. It was nice to see you. Bye.

=== FILE: Ashley Horner's Sucking-Wind Stair Workout! ｜ Outdoor Workout [olZUnp04JwA].txt ===

Today's workout, sucking wind is taking you outside into the stairs, getting you out of the gym. And more than likely you have stairs that are pretty close to you that you can utilize for a really great workout. We're doing five different exercises today. Each exercise we're going to do it 10 times. And the exercises that today's workout are stair burpees, skip jumps, stair great fine, single leg hops, and bounding sprites. Alright, let's get into the workout. The first exercise is stair burpees, so you're going to stand at the bottom of the stairs and go immediately down and do a push-up. After the push-up you're going to jump your feet all the way up to the stairs right below your hands. You're going to repeat this until you get to the top of the stairs. When you get to the top of the stairs that is one set, you're going to run down to the bottom and repeat 10 times. The next exercise we're doing is skip jumps, and it's called skip jumps because you are jumping and skipping a step every time. You're going to do this all the way until you reach the top that is one set and then you're going to jog it back down and reset. Next exercise is one of my favorites. It's the great fine, but we're going to mix it up and make it a little bit more difficult and do it up the stairs. The great fine is a little bit more technical than the other exercises we're doing in this workout. So you might want to take a little bit slow even practice a little bit on flat ground until you take the stairs. I'm simply just crossing my foot, one over the front, and then the back until you get all the way to the top and that is one set. You're going to jog it down, reset, and repeat until you get to 10. So with the great fine we're going to alternate which side we're going up the steps. So make sure you do five on the right side and you're going to turn around and do five on the left side. For our fourth exercise today we will be doing a single leg hops all the way up. Make sure you're getting five sets of each side. Five sets for your left and five sets to your right and you will really feel this in your calf muscles. So I would recommend that you stretch that out just a little bit before. As far as speed for the single leg hops, I would recommend just going in your own pace because your calf is going to get really tired. But you want to get up the steps as quickly and efficiently as you can. Last but not least, the bounding sprints is a really fun one to do. Whatever you're comfortable with and depending on the type of steps that you are working with, you are going to jump three to four steps at a time and basically sprint up the steps as fast as you can. This is a great finish exercise because you're really elevating your car and rate. I recommend you incorporating this into your cardio days when it's really beautiful outside and you don't want to be stuck inside. I'm going to try and mill. This is going to hit every aspect of your cardio-bascular endurance and your conditioning. The full breakdown to this video is found on the page below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, you can check out my body space. It's Ashley Horner. If you would like to visit my website, it's Ashley Horner.co. For more free workouts, videos and articles, check out Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ashley Johns Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [PhmihmFRS7E].txt ===

Hi, I'm Ashley Dunn. Stick with me and I'll take you through my training, nutritional and supplementation program. I've been at a spot where I was a lot heavier than I am now and it really had to start with my mind. Me deciding to commit and deciding what I wanted out of my life if I was going to move forward and progress as a person. Or did I want to stay there and continue to go at a downward slope? It seems like people want to know the secret and how do you get started or how are you accomplishing all the things you're accomplishing? How did you do it? How did you lose 40 pounds and how do you keep trying to lose, you know, or gain muscle or whatever my goals are? And really what I found is it's an attitude. For me, I don't give up and you know, I've been it this weight for about eight months and it's been my biggest plateau and I've done everything under the sun to switch it up. And you know, it can be discouraging and I know how that feels. You know, I've been on the other side of it and I'm still living it. I do have other goals and it's just, you know, it's really not giving up because even in life, if you have a goal and you say, you know, I put this much effort in and I haven't obtained that goal yet and I'm done. Well, then you're not ever going to get to that goal. You just have to constantly keep overcoming these battles and knocking down the walls until you get what you want. So really for me, I think that that's the most important aspect of any goal, whether it's in fitness, health or life in general. My overall approach is to constantly switch it up. I like to shock my body. I have been overweight before. So what I'm learning about my body in the past two years of training is that really my body is trying to hold on to the spot. Basically, as life supports, so I'm constantly trying to switch it up and find what works for my body. How my body reacts to different ways of training. So I've pretty much done it all, I feel recently with my goals to shed more body fat the last like 10 pounds. I feel just to get a little more lean. I've been adding low intensity to my week. I weightlift five days a week and recently I've been doing the German volume training and I've really just been kind of doing each muscle every day of the week. And then I'll do abs and calves, basically just all throw them in a couple days a week. And then I also do high intensity interval training about three times a week for 20 minutes after my weight lifting. German volume training, it's basically about choosing one exercise for a muscle. The way I've approached it is doing like 10 reps and then you're doing 10 sets. And so then you've pressed no longer than 60 seconds in between those 10 sets. You follow with other exercises for that specific muscle. But then basically it's pumping out that muscle. I don't ever just pick a rest day. I usually listen to my body if I feel more tired than other days. It's not just like, okay, I'm done with work. I'm really tired of today. I don't want to go in. It's more like, you know, my body feels fatigued. I'm going to take a break today. I don't do cardio. I completely lay off and I just basically take a break from the gym. And I still try to maintain my calories and eat well on that rest day. But I just try to, you know, step away from it. If my body isn't responding after a few weeks, I can tell. Like, I know my body to a team now. And you can just tell how close they're fitting. And, you know, after a matter of time, am I seeing a change that's sticking? Is it permanent? For me, diet is a huge majority of whether you're training gain muscle, lose body fat, or just maintain a healthy lifestyle. And for me, I like to incorporate lots of fruits and vegetables, protein, carbohydrates for energy. And recently, I've been carbs cycling, which I've found has been working for me well. I think it's just a new approach for my body. And it's responding well to it. But to me, nutrition really is just about finding what works for you. Never leaving anything out. Making sure you're getting all of the nutrients that your body needs for energy. For my specific goals, I do, and I think everyone should do this. Five to six meals a day, and I eat every two to three hours. So right when I wake up and less I'm doing low intensity, cardio in the morning on an empty stomach, I will eat. And I try to do the majority of my carbs from breakfast, and then I take her out by night time. So when I have my last meal of the day, I'm having protein and vegetables. And a lot of people think that, you know, it's the American way where you skip breakfast. And then you eat the biggest meal at dinner. And for me, it's actually, I believe it's the opposite. And then there's actually a saying that says, eat breakfast like a queen, lunch like a princess, and then dinner like a pauper. So I think that's a great way to look at it. I really watch my carbohydrates. I know my body, and I know I'm very sensitive to carbohydrates. So if I just have carbohydrates throughout the entire day and to see, you know, whatever type of bread it may be, whole wheat bread and, you know, any type of carbs, I know that my body is going to blow a little more than usual. So I really try to eat on the majority in the morning for, you know, energy throughout the day. If I eat a midnight, I really don't feel like my body needs the energy from the carbohydrates because I'm going in the rest. I'm never going to deprive myself of carbohydrates because I feel that they're really important for everyone's body for energy. And I'm not ever going to take it to this extreme where I would deprive myself. So I'm constantly trying to approach as until I find what works for me. When I see a piece of cheesecake at the table, I would love to indulge, but I say no. As far as cheat meals go, it really depends on what your goals are. You know, if you're trying to build muscle sure why not your body, probably want that those extra calories. But if you're really trying to lean down, personally, I think you really got to get serious and eliminate them. Now, there's lots of different takes on it. And that's the whole thing about, you know, this industry is that everything works different for every different person. So for me, I found that if I indulge, then I can tell the next day and I feel like I'm kind of hindering my progress. I realize that what I wanted outweigh that temporary fixation because it's just easy when you want something bad enough. It is very, very challenging to make that decision to put that over, you know, having a really great meal. Because this is life and that's kind of how I think we justify, you know, you want to, you know, enjoy yourself and, you know, enjoy yourself, enjoy in a nice meal and good food and friend time and, you know, eating with friends. But my advice would be, um, try to pick your competition. Pick something you want to be involved in. It's going to make you really push yourself for that end result. Because I swear, if you set a goal and you have just like a competition date in mind, it's going to make it easier. And that's going to help, you know, tell you, know, you can't have that because you need to be here and in this condition for that. And in order to be there, you have to give that up. Nutrients that may be lacking in the food that you eat on a daily basis. You know, you have a busy day at work and you aren't able to bring that chicken breast to work or prepare it for that day. You know, the supplementation would be the protein powder, which is there to help maintain your muscle and build muscle. When you go into the gym, you know, you're breaking down your muscle fibers and your muscle needs that extra protein to help rebuild it and sustain it. So that's why I supplement with protein powder. And as far as the extra nutrients, you know, vitamins and fish oil, I just think they're so important because internally is just as important as what's going on externally. If I'm trying to build more muscle, I would definitely supplement it with more protein powder than I do now and just make sure, you know, like I would do case in at night right before I went to bed because then that's putting more protein in your, your body. And that's what your muscles need to build more muscle. And I would also add in BCA, so branch chain amino acids and that's just replenishing refueling your muscles as well. So I think they're both very important and when I am trying to build muscle, I do incorporate both of those together. So if I were to recommend for you just starting off, you're just starting to go to the gym, whether you're trying to lose weight, build muscle, the three most important supplements I would recommend are protein powder, branch chain amino acids, and then a pre workout. Sometimes you know after a sluggish day, I'm feeling really tired and I make myself get to that gym because I have a goal, so I'm there. And sometimes pushing out those last five reps, which is where the muscle really grows, is really hard to do without a pre workout. And for me, that pre workout really gives me that intensity I need or maybe lacking from a hard day's work and gets me to finish those five reps. So now that you know about my workout nutrition and supplementation program, check out the page below for my full plan. But the most important thing is motivation. To me, to you, really finding your motivation, it's not inherent, it's learned. Anyone can make it happen for themselves with the right attitude, just a couple little tips. And then I put out little sayings, I find in magazines, and then I post them on my fridge, so then I'm looking at them every day. To me, that really works. Also finding someone that inspires you, checking out what it is that they do following them, finding out what they do to attain their goals. That's key. If you wanted to find more information on me or wanted to ask me any questions, check out my body space, hot-y-i-m. For more content or any information like this, check out bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Ashley Schutz  - 'Lift Life' Bodybuilding.com Ad Campaign Interview [jb8BN2kr1-0].txt ===

Hi my name is Ashley Sheets and my body is Ms. Profile as Heidi I am. I had first come to bodybuilding.com through my decision to change my life and change where I was healthfully. I had lost 40 pounds and in the beginning of my journey I went to bodybuilding.com to look at transformations of the week which my boyfriend sent me a link to Tiffany Furnace and I just found motivation that way and seriously at work I would look every other Friday and every day actually just it like what was going on and just find people that inspired me to push harder and move forth and that's what I found at bodybuilding.com. I was also a transformation of the week which when I saw Tiffany Furnace transformation at thought in my head I want that so bad like this is what I want. So I don't even know if I never visited bodybuilding.com. I mean honestly I don't even know if I would be here. Standing here right now today I feel very grateful is the word I want to use because you guys chose me to be a part of this photo shoot and it's really emotional for me because I just think it's so great that you guys are giving someone else an opportunity and everyone's been so great and I'm just really happy to be here.

=== FILE: Ask The Expert Panel： Dr. Jacob Wilson And Dr. Robert Wildman - Bodybuilding.com [oWuBB8_n3lw].txt ===

Welcome to Bodybuilding.com's Ask The Pro Panel. My name is Chris Ellary. I have the distinct honor and pleasure of hosting two fantastic experts here today. I'm joined by Dr. Jick Wilson, who's a PhD in skeletal muscle physiology. As well as Dr. Rob Wildman, who's a PhD nutritionist. I think both of whom are also certified strength and conditioning specialists. We're going to cover a wide range of topics today. We're going to talk about nutrition, supplementation, timing. Basically anything under the sun that we can cover in about 30 minutes. So it should be a great conversation. I know that was a brief intro. So if you want to just add a little bit to it and kind of talk a little bit about where you guys live in the world of fitness, that would be awesome. My lives at University of Tampa. So our specialty is basically skeletal muscle. How do you gain muscle tissue? How do you lose fat? You know, can you do it at the same time? And the latest in supplementation and also training variables that go along with that. So that's kind of like our it's a 24-7 thing. Best job in the world. Best job in the world. Best job in the world. Next to my job. Best job. Forgive me. Forgive me. So I'm based in Dallas, Texas and I'm chief science officer for diamond-ties nutrition. So I have the pleasure of designing products that people can use and get benefit from. So it's really exciting for me. Also, I have the pleasure of working with researchers like Dr. Jacob Wilson at University of Tampa to prove out that the products actually do what they say they do. Absolutely. That's phenomenal. Well, since we're kind of already just as to segue from the supplements, let's just kick start it and go right into that room. There's a lot of talk and numerous questions from our users about specific protein intake. And I think people often target and talk about, you know, a specific number of grams per pound, like one gram per pound to body weight every day. Is that the most useful way to think about it in terms of building muscle or is it better to think about a minimum maximum range? Or what are your guys thoughts on the ideal protein intake? Well, that's a real interesting topic. Basically, I think if you look at the original research on protein, what they were looking at is what happens, what happens over 24-hour period. But really, if you look at protein balance, like protein synthesis, protein breakdown, it's regulated on a per meal basis. So what I always recommend is how much protein do you get in a single meal? And then how many meals should you have in a day? And we know it's probably anywhere from depending on the quality if you have weight protein, you might need a little 20 grams. You know, if you have chicken, you might need 30 to 40 grams of protein in that meal. And then, you know, you're going to have that fairly frequently, probably every three to four hours. And that will determine your total protein intake today. Because you got look at typical Americans. They wake up in the morning. They'll have like a bagel or whatever. And then at night, it's full-pull, which I'm pumped up this coming out. And they'll have, you know, a couple of stakes. So most of the proteins with a dinner, but a bodybuilder might spread that out. Same amount of protein, the bodybuilder is getting more effective dosing. So, yes, is that the best way to think about muscle proteins synthesis in terms of peaking it every few hours? Is that kind of the intent with that three to four-hour meal timing? I think so, yeah. Okay, so you're sort of looking for the right amount over the course of the day, it's specific time. That's right. And so if you look at the number of meals per day, if you go from five meals a day and you go down to three meals a day, that means that you need more at those three meals per day. Plus, at the same time, then you just add it up. So, you know, what Dr. Wilson was saying, I mean, it's very easy for somebody to get well and excessive 100 grams of protein. And this is really just focusing on muscle, you know, and you're getting the maximum benefit out of a training session or, you know, a training lifestyle. But there's other benefits of protein as well that, you know, people would want to consider. There's an effect of a thermogenic effect. It's the most thermogenic nutrient. So, it's very strategic if you want to burn more calories throughout the day. It's the most satiating of the macronutrance. So, if you're looking, you know, if you're looking to sort of minimize and pull back your caloric intake because you are trying to either cut some weight or whatever, you need to bring your protein up, not only to meet your needs for muscle, but you got to go beyond muscle, meet your other needs as well. Is that why? Well, and so, let's talk about dosage for different weights. I think you kind of mentioned based on the source, say, 20 to 30 grams. But if I'm a 200 versus a 250 pound guy, you know, do I want to increase that? Or as soon as I turn on muscle proteins, synthesis with the right dose, you know, do I need to go over? Is there any benefits that adding more protein per meal? That's a great question. Well, I think Dr. Rob definitely brought some other benefits besides protein synthesis, like satiety, the thermic effect. And, you know, we're always thinking about protein synthesis, protein synthesis, but if you look, what about saying lean, you know, overall? You know, there's body fat issues as well. And one of the things that bodybuilders deal with all the time is, they die it down, they lose a bunch of body fat, and then most of them rebound, and that next month, and gain a ton of fat. Well, there's a recent study that came out out of Dr. Jolian Tonio's lab, where basically there is the overfed people on protein. I'm not saying that I recommend to me, but they gave like four grams per kilogram, four and a half grams per kilogram. It's like, you know, over two grams per pound, and they didn't gain any fat. So someone's coming out of a contest, it's hard to gain fat, eating more protein. So maybe if you've been in a calorie deficit for a long time, you raise your protein intake up to get your metabolism back up. You know, that is irrespective of the maximizing proteins of this is. Yeah. And certainly the timing of the next meal as well. So if this is, if you train in the afternoon, and this is your meal after, and you're not going to eat again until either right before bed or not at all, I mean, you definitely will gain greater benefit by having a higher protein intake at that meal. And we didn't even even begun to touch on like nighttime. Oh, yeah. And that, you know, 68 hours of sleep when, you know, most people aren't digesting and absorbing protein at all. I mean, how strategic do we need to be right before bed time? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's chat about that a little bit. I suppose the other end of the protein spectrum for muscle, not necessarily synthesis, but minimizing protein breakdown, especially overnight when yeah, you're kind of devoid of nutrients for that period of time. What is the right approach before bed? What's the ideal meal, I guess, you know, to sort of hopefully keep yourself anabolic or at least minimize that breakdown. So you're in a good position the next day to train again or, oh, you know, before you break your fast. Yeah. I think that where that you used is right to consider it more of like a meal and and to think about it along the same lines that you would think about other meals throughout the day. So you're going to want to hit a minimal protein intake level. You're going to want to drive looseen up to above two grams during that time. And because it's going to be a long stretch during the overnight period, I think where things will move to in the future is how do you potentiate that? You know, how do you extend it out? Is there time released options? You know, because it is a pretty significant period of time. And I don't know if we really understand that whole nighttime, you know, what's happening at night and how much protein we really do, break down over that period of 68 hours. But, you know, we did some back of the napkin mathematics on it and it came out around 10 to 15 grams for an average size individual like myself that you would lose over the course of it. It doesn't sound like a lot, but when you start, you know, adding it up over the course of a month, then it equates to about a pound of a protein that you would lose during sleep. So, you know, then you're thinking first thing in the morning and how important is that morning meal almost as soon as you get up and then what what should that look like as well? Exactly right. You know, the thing is we really have very little studies on actual, you know, protein balance throughout the night and stuff like or how to optimize nutrition throughout the night. But I can't tell you the studies that we do have tell us that you're gut and your metabolism functions at night like it would in the day. You know, I remember when I was in grad school, you know, like a lot of people just trying to put on mass, you wait until you know, maybe a protein shake, right? Well, maybe there's something to that. You know, we really, we haven't tested that, but that's one of the studies we're thinking about doing our lives. We're all simple. Just middle and night, just have guys chug a protein shake or a placebo. Right. You would have been very common practice. A lot of the bodybuilders that I worked with, you know, when I was faculty is that's exactly what they do. They said they're alarm clocked, hit the, you know, hit the button, knock it down and go right back to sleep. Yeah. So in terms of the composition of those meals when you're bookending your sleep, can we at least say, you know, different sources are better at those times like casing is more ideal before bed because of that slower lease and way we'd be ideal in the morning or is it too general to say that? There's like two schools at the IO say, you know, short-animate, no one's really. There's not a lot of studies putting them head to head before bed. Okay. That's what I said. Some kind of new recent research coming out on it, but not like a ton comparing the two going before bed. I mean, way protein is great for, you know, increasing protein's assist. The theory behind casing is that it's long lasting. You know, how that pans out in the middle and I don't know. But I think you have to apply like some of the other studies that were done putting different proteins head to head, whether it's way casing, soy, and then maybe other vegetable proteins and looking at the impact, you know, how quickly do you mean you know acid drives and do you get above a like a loose-eam threshold? So it would only seem like you would need, you know, an extended acting protein that would get, you know, that would definitely get you're loose-eamed up over a threshold level. So, you know, if you use casing, you might need to use more of it. If you use, if you use way, then you might want to blend way in casing to get it up and then let the casing carry it for a couple of hours. Yeah, and Dr. Rod makes a great point on this. If you look with casing, you know, you look at way, you give 20 grams of each. You know, casing is going to be down here, ways going to be up here, but casing's longer lasting. So maybe if you double the dose, maybe you have 40 grams or something like that, 30, 40 grams, it hits that threshold and it stays all the way for a long time. You know, one thing I will say about nighttime feeding and I want to emphasize this for all the, any athlete who's out there, any recreational athlete, they didn't have to, you know, be in a contest or things like that is the importance of sleep in general. So maybe the best thing for pre-bed is something that's going to enhance your sleep overall. So like we know for example, magnesium before bed, enhances sleep. You know, I was recommended maybe even their sleep monitoring systems that people can get to see how well are they sleeping. Black everything out before you go to bed, you know, like dark, completely black. You know, don't be, don't check yourself on 100 times in the middle of the night. You know, if you wake up in the middle of night, yeah, most people do at one point down the shape go back to bed, you know, but really trying to open an environment, your bed should be comfortable, but what happens is if you don't sleep, you become insulin resistant, you're hungry the next day. What you eat is has a greater probability of turning into fat. So what you do for bed can impact your nutrition and your metabolism the entire day and that can impact your training adaptations. And so that's all endocrinology is that hormonal because you're not getting the same hormonal response with a lack of sleep is that the endocrine is. Yeah, a lot of it could be and you become main hormone that gets impact a lot of this insulin, you become insulin resistant. And we all know that you don't want to be in some of this and have body compositions the goal. When you guys talked about loosens specifically and the importance of hitting a certain threshold or getting a certain amount to go past that threshold, so loosen one of the branch chain amino acids, I just kind of wanted to cover why is loosens so important? What makes it kind of, you know, why are you focusing on mass specifically? Go ahead. All right, so you know, here's the thing we have 20 amino acids, right, that make up a protein and for years scientists were trying to figure out is just protein or is there a certain, you know, aspects of the protein that are doing it. So this one scientist Dr. Garlic came out. He actually worked with my brother when he was doing his doctorate and what he did was he took all the amino acids and basically lined them up. And the only one that could simulate protein synthesis by itself was loosened. So that's one of the branch chain amino acids like the side chain branches. And so basically now we know protein quality like Dr. Robb said, it seems to be based on this loosened content. Like you can get the same amount of protein for months and if one's low quality and one is higher quality has more loosened, body composition will be so different, drastically different, just with this one amino acid. So you know, there seems to be sort of a threshold which Robb was talking about. Yeah, I mean the bottom line is muscle is just highly responsive, you know, I think of the tissue in the body that is most responsive to either stressors or nutritional balance or whatever it is. I mean it's out of post tissue and it's skeletal muscle. I mean skeletal muscle a lot of times it just reacts and based on the challenge it changes to get bigger stronger faster, more enduring whatever it is. It also responds to nutrients and nutrient intake because it has to. It has to be signal as to when food is coming into the body. So and, you know, loosened the highest content and loosened as in a protein is milk. So it makes sense that there's a signal in there that babies bodies received when they consumed milk. And this is across all mammals. So, you know, it makes sense that there is some type of signaling amino acid in there. That was found in milk that was part of our first food that is also important to us throughout our entire lifespan. And it's becoming even more important as we age as well because the signal for loosened and the impact that it has may actually be desensitized as we get older. So there's a lot of research going on in that area now and looking more specifically, loosened. How, you know, how aggressive should we be targeting it, do older individuals need more loosened to get that same trigger effect as maybe somebody who's young and sprite like Dr. Wilson here. But those of us on the other hand, who aren't looking through binoculars, they're kind of looking more through a magnifying glass that they're rest in their life. I mean, we're hyper aware of, you know, getting more loosened into our diet. Well, and so this may be slightly hypothetical, but knowing what you know now, given all the protein research, all the research on loosened, what would the ideal protein supplement label look like? What does it contain? Well, one thing that definitely contains pure protein. That's the only thing that everyone thinks that you get half because you can put a lot of stuff in there a sort of filler. So I was like, is this actual protein? And, you know, then look for the loosened content. Every serving should have two to three grams. I think those are the two the simplest things that I would recommend when looking on a label. When you mentioned pure protein, and I want to go too far into this topic, but, you know, there's been some press recently about amino spiking or protein spiking. So how do you sort of look beyond the label to figure out, you know, that my protein is actually 20 grams of weigh, and not necessarily 14 or 15 grams, with a lot of extra glycine or touring or something to make it look like it's 20 grams away. The doctor of the expert, and that's not much. You know, we just have to be detectives. You know, as consumers, we have to, you know, look at the product that we're buying and ask the basic questions. You know, if a product is $5 cheaper, $10 cheaper for like a, you know, a three pounder or a five pounder, why is that? It's just on discount or is there, you know, is it formulated less expensively? One of the ways you can formulate a product less expensively and still hit, you know, a protein level on your nutrition facts panel is by adding other amino acids or other factors like creatinine, derived from amino acids that has nitrogen in it. So really, you just have to look at the ingredients that are on the back, and as Dr. Wilson said, if it just says, you know, like weigh protein or soy protein or whatever protein you're targeting, and then it goes into things like flavors and sweeteners, you're golden. But when you begin to see, you know, the list just sort of broadening out, you begin to see things like creatinine or branch, not branching, but creatinine or glutamine or glycine or tarring, then you have to ask some questions, you know, how much is in there and how much of the protein claim is counting for that. So, you know, recently there's been some good guidance laid out by CRN and OPA for how branch should be labeling protein on their package. And they've also submitted those recommendations to the FDA to help change how products are labeled in the future. I think it's really going to help consumers and, you know, to bi-exactly what they're buying. When you buy a protein supplement or you buy a protein product you are targeting protein. I mean, that's what you want. Right. Exactly. But Dr. Wilson's right. I think the best barometer is specific call out to loosing content because nobody's going to add loosing to spike it. Because loosing is more expensive than the protein that's in there. So, if it calls out two grams of loosing or two point five grams of loosing, that's really helpful information. And that that should be the barometer at which somebody looks at this. And almost determines the value of that protein. Yeah. Is that right? Well, let's dive into your shaker bottles for a second. Just kind of take me through a day in the life of each of your shaker bottles. What's in your shaker bottle throughout the day at specific times? Yeah. Okay. Well, I'm a scientist. So, like, I'm always putting a lot in the shaker bottle. So, people are not aware of yet. But I would say obviously, you know, I'm a big fan of weight protein. So, I have weight protein definitely my shaker bottle. I have a lot of different supplements. You know, people who know me know I have HMB MSNK bottle. You know, and other metabolites of loosing. I will put in there. Creatine, we were talking earlier Dr. Robin, I should be, honestly, I think it should be a nutrient. That's somebody different impacts. Everyone just thinks muscle. So many areas, things besides that actually going there. And then I have things that enhance my cognitive function. So, you know, certain phospholipids, which we talked about later, like phosphatidal serene, helps cognitive function, helps buffer stress. And, at their phospholipids as well, that I'm looking into like phosphatitic acid. And so, before bed, my shaker bottle has those sleep aids as well, like magnesium, you know, and things like that. So, that's kind of like, what I usually have in my shaker bottle any given time. That's great. Yeah. So, my kids, they kid around with me, and, you know, they, they can hear that sound several times over the quick. Like, like, there's that music again. Yeah. So, I mean, I'd like to have it a holster because I'm like, my shaker five to six times a day easily. So, usually in the morning, it's, it's a pre-workout. And in that pre-workout, I'll have things like pomegranate extract, beetroot extract, because I want to polyphenols and some nitrates, a caffeine source in there, maybe some natural tea sources in there. I think that's fantastic. Plus, to create it, and I'll have in there, in some branch-chain amino acids, usually, you know, three to five grams of branch-chain amino acids, I'll have in there as well. And to shake that up, before I go to the gym. And, you know, for me, most importantly, you know, I just want to dial in, concentrate, focus. I want the, the amino support, you know, going in, plus I want, you know, to sort of get that pre-circulation going that, that the pomegranate, the beetroot seem to do so well. Very, very exciting area of sport nutrition moving forward is, you know, pomegranate and beetroot. Exciting stuff. After training, usually it's protein-shake, way protein. I may add a little extra, create tendon there as well. Pretty simple at that point, and then I'm off to a meal about, you know, an hour, hour and a half later. So, usually, for me, that's a bridge, the post-workout period, just get my loosey in, you know, sort of spike it out, and then move into my meal after that. And then, throughout the day, what's really important for me is, really, just, you know, as I consume beverages, I want to maximize the value of the beverages throughout the day. So, I'll use, you know, branch-chain amino acids, combination of, you know, different products that will have branch-chain amino acids a little bit of citrline tarine. I like to get tarine throughout the day. I think there's some really nice data on the combination of, of, of, of tarine and branch-chain amino acids throughout the day, during work-out, and then throughout the day, to help in the recovery process and reduce soreness for, you know, somebody like me, you know, making my day more comfortable, but being able to train hard is everything. You know, I just, I, I mown in a grown every time I get up now. So, if I can minimize that, and I can get back into the gym as quickly as possible and have, you know, a great workout that's really, really important to me. So, the shaker cup is, is always active. That's a good thing Dr. Rob Wright was the branch-chain amino acids, you know, like, we travel all the time, you know, and it's, I love being home, but it just didn't happen as much. And when you're on the road, you might only be able to get three meals, you know, breakfast lunch dinner. So, what research has shown, like, my brother, Dr. Gabe Wilson, Dr. Doug Patting Jones, has shown us that, if you have branch-chain amino acids between your meals, you basically simulate so much more protein synthesis throughout the day. It's also another way to be calorie efficient. You know, you can trigger the same response of muscle growth with less calories, maybe 30 calories or something like that with the branch-chain amino acids. So, I'll typically well, at least one or two, and if I'm on the road three times, have branch-chain amino acids between my meals. You have five to ten grams or... Yeah, about that, as long as I have, usually it's, you know, the two to one ratio, the loosing to isolosing, just because that's the composition of muscle, and that's what all the research has been done. So, talking about specific applications for BCWA's versus way, you kind of talked a little bit about using BCWA's to bridge meals. Would way have the same effect in your just using BCWA's, because it's more calorie efficient, or is one better than another, in that sense? Well, I think it just, I mean, you know, we've talked a lot about, you know, looking at your total day, you know, we talked about sleep, or what, and, you know, how much you should have a different meal. So, I really just think it's a matter of serving your entire day, and whether or not you want that extra protein in there, or do you just want to kind of raise your, your branch-chain levels, and you're blood a little bit more. You may have already had a big meal like two hours prior, and, you know, you got another one coming. So, maybe another way, shake, may not make the most sense at that point, maybe just the, you know, the bridge BCAA's, and that's where, you know, a lot of my focuses a lot of times when, you know, when I hit the shaker with the BCAA's, and, you know, in the afternoon and then the early evening. Yeah, like the cool, I guess, not so cool things, but three hours after you eat a meal, you kind of stop synthesizing proteins, right? You know, and, but so, but the thing is you have all these amino acids in your blood left over from the meal. So, all you need is the signal. You've got to turn the signal on, and that's where branch-chain amino acids are. So, if you had way, you're just kind of adding to the pool, don't be wrong. That would turn the signal on as well, but if you already have the amino acids, when I just trigger proteins in this instance, you already have the building blocks in your blood. Gotcha, great point. Yeah. Well, and I don't want to go in. So, people with intermittent fasting talk a lot about, you know, fasted autophagy, right? Like using what you've already gotten your body. But it seems like it's kind of an undiscus subject when it comes intermittent fasting. So, it's interesting to hear you bring up using what you've already got, right? So, that's kind of a neat point. Random tangent. Yeah. You talk briefly about a pre-imposed workout shake, and the composition of those shakes. For a long time, it feels like the antibiotic window, this, you know, postwork out, time 15 to 45 minutes postwork out was the thing for supplement manufacturers. But is there still that same emphasis, or is there, you know, a more important shake for your postwork out? What's kind of the strategy there? Well, this is probably one of the more controversial topics that are out there. I'll tell you that for sure. There's actually only been really two studies looking at this, and one of them probably the highest and one was done by Dr. Paul Kreb. And basically what Paul Kreb did was he gave protein and treating the foreshadden after exercise, or he gave it with breakfast and dinner. And the group that had it before and after exercise had larger muscle fibers, larger muscles using MRI. And so, this was gold standard, published in the top journal in our field. Based on that, I would say, certainly can't hurt, you know, having, you know, but one of the things that Dr. Robin, I've talked about is that, you know, if you wake up and more, you have a big breakfast, and then you're going to train like an hour and a half later, that was your pre-workout meal. You don't necessarily go, oh, I got a down a shake because of the Paul Kreb said, you already have amino acids in your blood at that point. So that's a timing issue, you know? But if you wake up cold-fasted, you know, like, you know, he's training in the morning, then that pre-workout is going to be huge because you probably should have nutrients. One thing we do know is that if you train on an empty stomach without nutrients, then you will actually not optimize protein metabolism. In fact, you'll be in negative protein balance. It means you're losing muscle until you get nutrients. So, a lot of people will go, oh, the window lasts for 24 hours, yeah, but it fades. And you know, let's say it was the same amount for 24 hours. Why not take advantage of every minute? That's always my thought. So, like, oh, I could wait three hours because at last, you know, 24 hours. Okay, but why are you not taking advantage of the street hours? You know? That's my thought. I think the right way to look at is, is there sort of a post-workout period where the muscle is primed to optimize muscle protein synthesis and have an impact of nutrition. And the answer is clearly yes. So, is there potential for nutrient timing? Absolutely. And then Dr. Wilson makes a point that if you had a big meal before you train, you know, you still have the residual effect of that meal for a few hours afterwards. So, you know, do you have to run and knock down a quick shake immediately after probably not, but it wouldn't hurt. And you should be thinking about your next protein-dense meal, you know, soon after you train anyway because that would be part of your normal day anyway. So, you know, I think nutrient timing is very, very real, but the, you know, actually putting the food in there where the supplement in there really depends on what your day looks like. Yeah. You know, so one of my top guys in my lab Ryan Lairy is doing a lot of research on what to eat in the morning, you know, what to eat for breakfast, what to eat before your work out. And there's, he pointed out a recent study to me as real cool. You know, a lot of times like, especially college students, you know, I'm the University of Tampa, so, um, I'm going out tonight, I'm going to party right? And so, they'll go in and they'll train, like, as hard as they can. It's like, oh, I can go eat whatever I want, drink whatever I want. Well, there's a recent study where they basically had people eat kind of like that, but they did it before they trained or after they trained. And the ones that did it before they trained after several weeks had, like, half the body fat, you know, as their body fat was much lower, you know. So, um, my point is it seems that having a lot of your nutrients before you train can prevent negative things in fat gain, you know, um, and I think so that's important. That's kind of a nutrient timing, you know? And that's because you're utilizing that fuel when you train. Yeah, yeah, possibly that, you know, um, maybe training just turns on signals that prevents you from storing a lot of that. Um, whereas maybe when you're in recovery mode, you're more prone to store certain nutrients, you know, we're really trying to look further into this. So, kind of talking about, you know, you mentioned a lot of studies that kind of bridges the gap to a topic I'd love to chat about for a little bit. And that sort of science versus bro science, um, and one being, you know, a specific measurable stuff in the lab with the desired outcome. And the other being doesn't have to be derogatory. A lot of people say bro science, and, you know, they're kind of demeaning it. But there's probably a lot of value in what guys are figuring out and trying in the gym. Um, so I guess just broadly to start, you know, what's your thoughts on the topic itself kind of on that conversation? Well, you know, I'll tell you what, um, it's real interesting, you know, we were talking about this earlier, but basically, traditionally with scientists, you have the guy with glasses, the lab coat, who's never been in the gym. Like, doesn't know what a weight looks like. And there's studying protein synthesis, right? So you have this guy over here and basically like, oh, if I give, if I tube feed this or give a cell this, this happens, right? And you have the bro over here and they're like, what, what did you just say, right? So how is that relevant to me, this molecular pathway? So what Dr. Robin I was trying to do is say, hey, wait, what is this guy interested in? What, you know, what is a practical question? He has some practical questions. He's living in the gym, day in and day out, maybe two times a day. Maybe train six, seven days a week. You know, giving everything here, here she has, we want to find out what are those questions they need to be answered. So we're trying to do as bridge to gap between science and application. We actually want to know what are they interested in, what, what, what are they going through? It's important to know like, hey, like, even if it's somewhat bro science, like, hey, bro, like, I'm telling you, this works. Like, I'm telling you, dude, this works. Well, we actually picked that up. We listened to go, maybe that could be true. Let's test it. Sometimes it works. Sometimes it doesn't. So that's my take on it. Yeah. In a lot of times, I think the, the bro science can lead the laboratory science. And I think this is probably the case with, with, like, nocturnal nutrition or the idea of, I mean, guys have been doing this, guys. And girls have been doing this for decades now, you know, setting the alarm clock and knocking down protein in the middle of the night. You know, they, they look at an opportunity yet, you know, and they see what's happening during the night. And they're like, how can I reverse that? You know, how can I address that? Well, what is the research say? There is none. There's no research in that area. So they go ahead and they're just going to do it. They're not going to wait. So, you know, that's an example of, you know, where sort of that, what's happening in the real world eventually is driving, you know, the laboratory studies that, you know, Dr. Wilson is doing and other labs are now doing. And I think that, you know, this is one of those really, really fun times where there's more practical research happening. And I think there's more interaction between industry and universities, more now than ever before, usually, in the past, it's been more separated. You know, coming from coming from an academic background, industry was looked upon, you know, in a completely different way than it is today. Today is, you know, federal funding kind of tightens up for research grants. Industry becomes more of a driver for a lot of research programs. In sport nutrition, there is more dollars going into universities to test out some of these more practical applications and finished products. Because I think that's what we really need to know is, you know, the claims that are made on packages, is there actual research on the finished product? Which could be a blend of ingredients, the said ones. That's right. That's right. I mean, it's just incredibly important. And I think, you know, now we're just seeing more and more research on finished products that include multiple ingredients, that, you know, it's really helpful to consumers to make smart decisions. 100% yeah. So they really sort of are both essential in that they might fuel and not know. I think so. I think they're they're melding. 100% and I, you know, like a lot of where I came from, scientists would look down like, they're just training. They don't know what they're talking about. No they do. And you know, I mean, they've actually been going through this a long time. They're saying some valid stuff. You just need to pick up on it and test it out. You know, some of, I can name probably 100 things off top of my head that was considered gross science. Now we know, oh, that's the mechanism people grow. Like, look Arnold talked about, oh, you know, the pump. Right. And a scientist 10 years ago would laugh at that. Oh, yeah. Ah, whatever. Now we think that's one of the three major mechanisms that makes you grow. And actually getting a huge pump. And actually it's something that Dr. Robin, I already doing some research on as seen what happens if you maximize the pump will that increase. It maximize protein synthesis. You know, we know if you take cells and actually cause them to swell. They stimulate protein synthesis right there and every cell type including muscle. So, you know, I definitely think it's something that we, we as scientists have to consider. And I would say that to the person that Jim, you know, trying interact with us as much as possible. And let's feed off each other. I do kind of want to talk a little bit about new research because we kind of gone into that territory a little. But you brought up, you know, mechanisms of muscle growth. Yeah. And the pump or, you know, metabolic stress. You kind of want to cover the other two and sort of their ingium application for somebody looking to build muscle how they would apply those. Yeah, sure. So, we have obviously the pump, like, says Dr. Robin, a lot of research on that right now. So, that's going to be, you know, higher repetition, short-resperated lengths. Just trying to drive fluid into this cell could be hydration status. You know, the other mechanism is going to be like metabolic stress. You know, people talk about, they fill that pain. You know, when they're doing supersets, giant sets, that seems like lactic acid and a lot of other things besides lactic acid. A lot of what we call metabolites that we know actually trigger growth. One of my friends, Dr. David Gunderman, took cells, muscle cells, put lactic acid on them, and it's simulated protein synthesis. So, we know the more you get in there, the better it goes. Then the last thing, which you kind of say is one or two different mechanisms is mechanical stress, which leads to muscle damage. And inflammation. You know, you can say, well, are all of three of those things. Mechanisms, you know, the actual mechanical stress you have on the muscle, the damage you have in your muscle, the inflammation, are they three separate? Does the mechanical stress lead to the other two? You know, we're not sure, but we know those are important for growth. And so, that means that you basically need to go in the gym and let's heavy your weights. That's one thing, yeah. You know, one thing, William Kramer, one of the top-strength conditioning scientists in the world, said he's like, look, you know, I even tell my daughter this, you need to squat heavy. So, that's awesome. So, you know, the thing, it's true though, right? So, you know, lifting heavier weights is going to be a stimulus. Training to the pump is going to be a stimulus, building up metabolic stress is going to be a stimulus for growth and you need to factor all those in. Yeah, I think if we know anything now, we know that muscle is highly complex. And there's numerous factors which trigger internal signals, which causes the muscle to change in the direction in which it's being challenged. So, muscle is just highly responsive that way. If you train, you know, high intensity aerobic, then a lot of the protein senses that occurs will become, you know, in the area of more aerobic enzyme systems. And so, if we're to make you better at that, if you train high intensity, you know, resistance training, then you gain, you know, gain proteins, that will help you get stronger, more powerful and bigger. So, it doesn't, it actually doesn't make sense for muscle to miss an opportunity to see some type of metabolite or to register some type of event or mechanical damage or whatever, not register it and not feed it into the processes that will help it adapt over time. So, I mean, this is great. It's almost like a buckshot approach, all these different factors feeding in and, you know, helping drive muscle in the direction. One hundred percent, and you know, one of the things like I really want to emphasize, you're talking about like nutrition and sport nutrition, you talk about training. A lot of athletes will view them almost as separate entities, but they interact with each other. You know, so, oh, I got to say hydrate it. Well, if you're a bodybuilder, why, you're maybe it enhances that pump, that self-swalling. So, you want to think, why am I doing this, and how does it interact with training? All the time you can't separate it to someone might go, oh, this supplement doesn't do anything for me. It doesn't work. I've tried it. And then you look at their trained split, and it's kind of pandy. So, you know, it's like, you know, it's not causing enough damage to warrant the use of it. Exactly. Yeah. There's a recovery aid. You're not training hard. They are for don't expect it to work. Right. So, you know, that's always the thing. You've got to emphasize there's just interaction between the two. Well, I think we've got time for probably one more question. I think we might be a little over, but I do just since you're kind of both on the bleeding edge of research, just want to ask, what are you most excited about sort of in the research world, whether it's, you know, a supplement study or something more directly with training or nutrition? Oh, wow. That's a, we're excited about a lot of things. I'm going to try in there this one day. Top three of it. Yeah. Nutrient programming. Well, we think is that basically you can programming metabolism when you wake up in the morning. And it's very controversial because people nutrition is very controversial in general. I talk about training like, oh, yeah, that's it. That's awesome. You talk about nutrition, and it's different than what someone's been thinking. It's like, oh my god. No, that's false. Religious information. I know. It's, yeah, nutrition is like religion. So, the thing to think about those is that what you eat for breakfast, that's programming metabolism the rest of the day. And so, actually, you lose 15 grams of protein overnight. You know, I know Dr. Robbs is where you wake up in the morning. You should optimize protein intake. But what are the most people doing in the morning? They wake up. They have a ton of carbohydrates, right? Because you need energy. You've drained it overnight. Well, in actuality, if you're lifting weights, you're muscle glycogen, your muscle carbs stores are intact. You're levers somewhat depleted, but your muscles kind of intact. So, what we found is what we've been testing in our lab. Ryan Lauer has been doing a lot of work in my lab on this. It's basically wake up in the morning. You have a lower carb, higher fat breakfast, things like medium-change or glycerides, eggs, things like that. And the rest of the day, you will use more fat as fuel irrespective of how many carbohydrates you have throughout the whole day. So, basically, people are like, oh, you know, it doesn't matter. As long as you hit a certain macronutrient range, it doesn't matter when you hit it. But we're finally a research test not actually true. So, if you have low carb or breakfast, it's an irrespective of how many carbs. If you had 300 grams of carbs for the day, if you had most of them with breakfast, you'd actually fix your metabolism to use carbs of rest of the day as fuel. So, what we're trying to look into a lot is what should you do to optimize breakfast and nutrient programming? And for, I know you've got an answer to, before we pop that subject of kind of meal composition, is there an adaptation period? Or is that 24 hours, you know, if I say, for example, woke up and had high fat, high protein breakfast, would I automatically program the rest of my day? Or is there a sort of an adaptation period required? We're kind of like keto adaptation, where I need to do that for a certain amount of time before it really takes effect. Yeah, that's actually something more awesome to the research time. We look for this. We just did a huge study and a huge anecdote, but yes, so you have a cute adaptation and long-term adaptations. You do see effects that day, but it gets better because you become more insulin sensitive. You become more, we call metabolic, we flexible, and that only improves over time. But any diet or any intervention that you use is going to take a couple of weeks, and actually with keto-jank dieting, with our research, we found the first week they felt horrible. After two weeks, like, oh, this is great, I'm eating like bacon and... This is awesome. I'm like leaning up. You know, but there's always a period of adaptation, but one thing, this anecdote and when we work for keto-jank athletes, six months they actually feel better than the two weeks. Wow. It's a long process for sure. And how low do they... Is there a carb threshold for that six months? Do you know, gradually increase it or do they stay pretty low? What can induction? Yeah, what we definitely found is like to get in for most people, their fats gotta be like, and everyone's gonna what the hell, you know, to get in, you gotta have 75% fat, 20% protein. That's a lot better. That's a lot better. 5% carb, right? So, you know, keto-friendly foods are like bacon and eggs and whole cream. Your body, yes, there's a two week, maybe two week adaptation period, but it gets better with time, I'll let you. That's great. What about you, Robinie, exciting research insights? You know, I think for me, I mean, the top three would be one that we seem to be in the decade of protein. I mean, we're finally focused on protein. Being a nutrition, being schooled in back in the 80s, being a registered dietitian, you know, protein was sort of, you know, that left behind nutrient. Can't go above 15% of total calories. Can't go above 0.8 grams per kilogram body weight. Why? Because you leech calcium from your bones and your kidney shut down. You know, it was, you know, it was basically the forgotten nutrient of the three. We went through, you know, low fat high carb, we went through low, I mean, we've gone through all these, but I think the thing that we're really focused on now is the important protein throughout the day and trying to better understand how to make it work for you, because it's nutrient that wants to work for you better than any other nutrient that we're ingesting right now. You know, beyond muscle, you know, satiety, thermogenesis and others, you know, hair skin nail beauty, you know, recovery from injury, whatever it may be, the foundation of all that is going to be protein. So I'm really, really excited that we're, you know, in hyperdrive when it comes to protein, research and protein research in more practical applications. The other things that I really like before I get to create them, which is my outside of protein is one of my favorite nutrients is that we're beginning to look at ways to potentiate protein. So, and I think this is really important. That as we begin to realize that we need more protein, especially as we get older, you know, our needs for protein are probably increased over, you know, the younger years by percentages of like, you know, 20 percent or so. So, but at the same time, we may be sort of calorie restrained, or, you know, we may not want to eat that much food, or whatever the reason is. So, how do we potentiate the protein that we ingest? So, that maybe, what was 30 grams of protein yesterday may only be 15 grams of protein tomorrow with the right potentiating factors. And I think like Stu Phillips Lab has done some really nice stuff with lower amounts of weight protein, but that has been augmented with looseene, and you get, you get sort of a comparable impact on muscle as you do with 25 grams away. So, the idea is that trigger nutrients like looseene may be able to reduce the amount of total protein that you need to consume. So, I think that's really, really exciting. And the last is, you know, I always like to talk about creatinine. And just as, you know, a creatinine consumer for 20 years, get your creatinine. And there are not many things that we now understand about creatinine, you know, beyond, beyond muscle. And even, even application of muscle, sarcopenium, metabolism, bone health, neurodegenerative diseases later in life. You know, all of these things may be, you know, positively impacted by prophylactic creatin consumption over the decades before. And, you know, I just think that's absolutely critical. And we, you know, Jake made the point earlier. Maybe we need to begin to look at it more of as kind of an essential nutrient, because it's very, very difficult to get efficacious levels of creatinine you know, in the diet on a regular basis. I mean, if you're trying to get five or six grams, I mean, it becomes, you know, fairly challenging. So, you know, how do we, you know, how do we do that? Supplementation seems to be the way to do it. Awesome. Well, just as kind of a quick ending takeaway, we talked about efficacious dose. So, not even to get into different forms of creatinine, which is with creatinine on a hydrate for people who want to harness and take advantage of all those benefits for, you know, performance as well as health. What sort of the just dosing strategy long term do you need to cycle off it, or can you kind of maintain it? I think you maintain. I think there's no reason to, you know, let go of it at all. And I mean, you can go through laps, and that's a beauty of creatinine. If you look at, you know, muscle saturation of creatinine, you can go through periods where, you know, when I asked you earlier, do you have some creatinine? Because I didn't pack it, you know, and if I go a day without it, I'm okay. If I go two days without it, I start to get worried. But you do actually have a few days that if you miss it, and you can come back and, you know, not, you know, for average individuals, I'd say anywhere between like three and six grams, depending on size. It's probably, you know, women probably sliding more, you know, down towards three, and then as, as you train harder and as you get bigger, and accumulate more muscle mass, or, you know, I think you're up in the five to six grams. So somewhere around like 0.06 grams per kilogram body weight will get you there. And, you know, I think that's good. I don't think there's any reason to cycle off of it. Yeah, I mean, and safe. You know, I mean, there's been a lot of research. We did some research and cardiovascular research using loading doses. And if anything, the effect that we found on the heart maybe had strengthened the contraction of the heart. Yeah. And it's a nine-ortropic effect that, you know, that was really kind of interesting. But there was no negative effects of it whatsoever. And there's been a lot of long-term studies that suggests that it's, you know, that's benign. Well, thank you guys so much for joining us on this edition of the Pro panel. If you've got any questions whatsoever for our pros or our experts, please just drop a note in the comments below. Feel free to sound off. Or connect with these guys on their social channels if you guys kind of want to share those. Yeah. I'm on Twitter. It's J. Wilson PhD. And just Jacob Wilson on Facebook. Or you can always hit me up any other way. I'm looking forward to your guys comments. Yeah. So it's the Nutrition Doc on Twitter. So it's DOC. And then I have a website, which is NutritionDr.com and it's D.R. So it's the NutritionDrDR.com. Awesome. And for more great content like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Awesome.

=== FILE: Ask the Expert Panel： Nutrition and Diet Roundtable - Bodybuilding.com [u40zJA3RqM8].txt ===

Welcome to another episode of the expert panel. My name is Chris Ellary. I'm deputy editor of Bodybuilding.com. Once again, I'm joined by two phenomenal guys, Dr. Jake Wilson, PhD in skeletal muscle physiology and director of the Human Performance's Lab University of Tampa. My man Rob Wildman, nutrition PhD and chief science officer for Dymatize. Thank you guys so much for being here. It's great to be here again. It's phenomenal. Yeah. Really appreciate it. For people who haven't seen our first episode, do you mind kind of just elaborating a little bit on your positions of what you guys do? Sure. Well, I'll start this time. So yeah, I function as chief science officer for Dymatize, which means that I get to really drive the science of the company. So, you know, we get to design the products, we get to do and design research around the products to show that they work and they have what they say they have. And really just you know, create phenomenal products that people love to use and taste great. Yes, it's probably the best job. But, you know, well, basically what we do is I'm most of my time spent in the lab. So, like I direct the Human Performance and Sports and Nutrition Lab at University of Tampa. And we weren't through a lot of experiments and the majority of them are centered around changing body composition. Like, you know, how do you gain muscle, how do you lose fat? And we run through about a dozen studies of semester. And I'm also, yeah, it's crazy. Looking at what how do you optimize fat and things like that. But, or decrease fat mess and things like that. But, the other thing is I'm also the associate director of the graduate program at University of Tampa and exercise nutrition science. So, we sort of tied it all together. Fantastic. Yeah, thank you guys very much. Well, for today's session, we're actually going to focus primarily on nutrition and broadly and then actually segue into more popular diets. So, this will sort of be a nutrition round table. We'll recover some basics in general. Gold-based nutrition, say, for fat loss or muscle building. And then, dovetail into certain diets like ketogenic dieting, if it fits your macros, intermittent fasting. And with each of those, we're going to try to discuss the practical applications for their best for some of the limitations. And other factors you should consider if you are going to choose a specific diet to follow. So, I guess to kick things off in a very broad sense, if someone wants to lose fat or build muscle, what are the first things they should consider when either selecting a specific diet or just looking over their nutrition plan? Well, there's a number of things you've found about gaining muscle or losing fat. You really have to think about one, can you actually do them at the same time? And there's probably one of the more controversial topics there. You know, I've had already calls for people like, there's no way that could happen. But I can tell you, we've run hundreds and hundreds of really high-tech scans and look at body composition in our lab. And we've seen time and time again that you actually can do both. Usually you select a direction. So, someone's trying to lose body fat. Some of the things they'll think about is, well, you're probably going to create a slight calorie deficit. And that could be created through exercise, because it also be created through diet itself. But most people are when they're dieting or just thinking about all I need to lose fat, but they also need to spare muscle. You know, or maybe gain a little bit of muscle while they're doing it. So you have to think of those things as well. And I know Rob's got a lot of stuff. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, what's interesting is it's really kind of changed the thought process around this. And if you go back 10 years ago, you would say, well, I'm trying to lose fat. Therefore, I have to be catabolic. I have to break down body tissue and protein body protein is going to go long for the right, which means you will lose muscle mass. So, slowly, you know, and to your point, you would try to minimize or spare body protein while you maximize fat loss. How do you do that? But I think over the last few years, I have been some nice research papers that have come out that even in a weight loss scenario, you can actually make gains in muscle mass at the same time. But there are some things that you have to do in order to make it happen. Well, what I'm going to talk about those specifics a little bit. Is it a matter of meal frequency or a certain number of calories or even macro composition? I would say probably all those. So, we definitely know your macronutrient composition is going to impact the quality of that mass change that you have. You know, so protein needs to be obviously higher. The distribution of it needs to be, you know, on point. Also, your calorie deficit of your tongue about losing fat can't be too drastic. That is the more proportionally you'll lose muscle mass. So, it has to be somewhat conservative. And then obviously the training as well. You know, someone starts to increase their cardio from one to one hour a day to two hours a day. Our labs actually found like a dose dependent response. The more you do cardio, the more selective, you don't just lose actual body fat but you're actually losing muscle mass and a dose dependent fashion. So, these are all things that people have to consider. Yeah. And, you know, macros are important. But I think what's interesting over the last, you know, it's really gone on for decades now. But people can go anywhere from less than 10% of their calories and get into more of a ketogenic diet in Xenario and go all the way up to 65% of their calories from carbohydrate where it's more of a high carbohydrate type of Xenario. And you can have great results either way. So, there's really kind of a personalized approach to it. You know, there's a compliance factor there. But I think, you know, a seminal concept that just threads through both. It's really protein and resistance training. I mean, both have to be strongly considered. You need higher levels of protein. So, if it's one time a day, you need to maximize that one meal a day, you need to resistance train. But, you know, I think some of the really fun data that we've seen is even if you split it up into six meals a day, as long as your protein levels are high enough at those meals, you get great results in losing fat mass, as well as keeping your metabolism revved up even in a weight loss scenario. So, what is the research show as optimal protein intake while trying to lose fat for either lean mass maintenance or even potential muscle building? Is it a gram per pound every day or is it meal specific? It's both really, I think, you know, because you can say six meals a day, you can say three meals a day, but you're going to need probably for most people well over a gram per kilogram bodyweight, probably closer to one and a half to one point six or even higher. So, you need adequate protein. The best way to do is sort of funnel it down and say if I'm going to do three meals a day, I'm going to do six meals a day. So, if I'm going to break it into six meals a day, I'm still going to need at least 20 grams of protein at those six meals a day. And the reason for that is is that just protein itself has an anabolic effect. Protein itself will increase muscle protein synthesis. We always talk about resistance training in enhancing muscle protein synthesis, but protein by itself will do that as well, but you need enough just like you need after you train. So, 20 grams, I think the studies that have been done where they've split it up into five and six meals a day and haven't shown really good results with that. And they say, well, you know, six meals a day really doesn't work. It's because they restrict the calories too much. And even though they increase protein percentage in the diet, there's still wasn't enough at each of the meals to really keep metabolism high and to keep muscle protein synthesis optional, not a optimal. Yeah, that's absolutely key. I mean, the main thing is if protein is really high like Dr. Rob says, if you distribute it out, you know, to more frequent meals as long as each of those meals is hitting a sort of a threshold. You know, 20 to 30 grams, if you're one of the bigger guys out there, 30 or 40 grams per meal, then you're going to get a benefit. Well, and so protein might also provide, well, we could talk about the thermic effect of food a little bit. Does protein provide additional benefits for somebody trying to lose fat beyond just an abolism? Yeah, it seems so. I mean, just the way that protein is handled in the body requires more calories. So typically, the thermal effect of a protein is said to be around 20 to 35 percent of the calories that you consume from protein. For fat and carbohydrate, I believe it's 10 to 15 percent. So it's kind of double then, you know, what you would expect from carbohydrate or fat. It's not that simple, but in general, you can use that as an easy, easy rule. Yeah, and one of the keys for that is the fact that it's driving protein synthesis as well. So that's obviously going to increase calorie expenditure. Where do you get to consume a carbohydrate? That's not going to necessarily drive proteins synthesis. So that's one of the reasons you get a higher, you know, thermic effect, greater calorie expenditure. And protein actually caused your muscles to adapt. I think increase more of your fat-burner machinery, like mitochondria when you actually consume it, as opposed to carbohydrates, so it could actually suppress that. That's a great point. So when you're starting even just to look at your calories, should you begin with a calculator or a formula? How should you sort of begin to just kind of craft your strategy for calories I'm consuming now versus what I should be consuming in a deficit to lose weight? Yeah, all right. So that's basically, obviously this is one of the more difficult questions. Like in our lab, we put people under a metabolic cart and it's like, oh, boom, okay, at least we get a baseline calorie, but obviously people can't just do that. So what's the best alternatives? Well, if you look one thing you could use a calorie calculator, I know body one on a calm has some really good calorie calculator, they'll tell you, well, this is what we estimate. Your baseline is. But one thing we know about humans is that, you know, they have a process of homeostasis. They want to stay at the same weight. If you're kind of just eating and tracking your calories, you're probably at the end of the week and a stay around the same weight. If you just let it happen naturally. So what you do is you track yourself over a week and you're like, how's my weight fluctuated? If it hasn't changed, that's probably your maintenance calories. You know, in your case, you're going to need a fault to maintenance. If you've gone up like two pounds, you probably need to adjust a little bit down. But once you find that, then you can create the deficit. And that's probably more of the most accurate way you can do along with maybe using a calorie calculator. You could do that as well. That's what I recommend. Yeah, absolutely. It's sort of the intersect between the two. You know, if you keep a log, you know, we always talk about starting out with a good self-imintory. And you have to define where you are before you know where you can actually go. And so, you know, it's sort of the intersect between, you know, how many calories you currently consuming? What types of foods are driving that? You just come up with sort of a general or rough sort of macro and pro king content. And then also use a calculator, which will apply equations like Miffler St. Sure, or even the cutting hand equation, which is good for people that have more lean body mass or fat free mass, muscle mass. And then once you've established that baseline, is there a recommended deficit per day to start, where should people kind of begin finding tuning or tinkering? Yeah, I was like to recommend. So once you know your maintenance calorie load or level, then about 80, 75 to 80 percent of that is a good place. And if you want to get more aggressive, because the big thing is, you know, there's daily activity and then there's exercise activity on top of that. So you have to factor that in. If you're spending a lot of energy training, like 600 calories, which is a lot of training, then you, you know, you need to bring that up a little bit higher. So, you know, 75 percent of your total daily energy expenditure is probably going to drive, you know, good loss of fat mass. Well, at the same time helping the spare protein. And if you take your training up and you get your protein levels up high enough, you can actually build muscle or at least maintain where you are. Exactly. And also it's important for people to understand that, you know, how much weight they're going to lose to start, how much fat they're going to lose. It's going to be dependent on their starting body fatness. You know, so if someone has a lot more body fat, they're going to lose a lot quicker than someone who's super lean. So they have to put that in perspective as well. What's the reason for that? You know, obviously, does your body just cling to those energy stores as you sort of start running through them and thus it's harder to use them when you're say 10 percent or below as a guy or, you know. Strategically speaking, there's this one scientist Forbes did a bunch of research based on looking at what happens from when you're obese to just overweight to lean. What did your body preferentially select? And it seems that the more body fat you have, the more it will say, oh, cool. I can use as much fat as I want, right? But as you get leaner and leaner, your body changes its strategy because it actually wants to hold on to some of that fat mass. And I'll change its strategy so it'll start to sort of catabulize muscle. The leaner you are, the more and danger you are. And I'm not recommending this for people watching, but someone who has a lot of body fat can go on sort of extreme calorie deficits and not lose muscle or especially if they're resistant training. So they're like, you know, over 25 percent or something for example, they could go on a thousand calorie deficit and they will actually barely test their muscle at all, especially the resistant training. But then you got a guy who's, you know, ripped like Dr. Rob. And basically what's going to happen is he has to be more careful because his body actually will now strategically try and lose muscle. There'll be a much higher proportional loss from muscle in fact if he's not careful. And so then he may have to be more conservative. Yeah, I mean, I think that's a great point. I think people who are leaner before they begin to manipulate their caloric intake actually have more to lose when it comes to lean body mass. So they really have to be careful. So you really have to monitor yourself on a daily basis, find out if you're being overly restrictive, you know, way yourself. You know, I always recommend that people do monitor their body composition more frequently than once a week or once every two weeks. I think if you are in that scenario, especially a leaner guy, maybe a guy that's like 10 to 15 percent body body fat, pretty lean to begin with who's trying to, you know, try to knock off just a little more fat, trying to bring the abs out a little bit more. I mean, they do, you know, they don't want to lose muscle mass. So they do want to stay on top of their fat free mass and monitor it. And maintenance strategies for lean mass. We talked a little bit about, you know, protein intake totals and permeal. What about like branch chet amino acids or just other ways to kind of some other anti-catabolic strategies? Yeah, branch amino acids for sure. Like, there's a lot of studies, you know, a colleague of mine actually want the top scientists out there, Dr. William Kramer has then studies where they've extremely like overreached individuals which would be similar to like a dieting situation. And found that branch research was able to spare like that decrement that we see, sort of in muscle. And then obviously, you know, the one of the main branch chet amino acids we think about is looseine. And, and basically, that has a lot of metabolites like Hica for example, or also HMB. Those seem to spare muscle, right? So those are like anti-catabolic. We know if you're in a calorie deficit, they'll spare actual muscle when you're in a calorie deficit. I was wondering when HMB is going to come up with an eight-conversation. This is the weight for HMB for HMB. We got through like a few minutes and so. The record. And same timing strategy. Would you use the BCWAs as a bridge between meals? Yeah. So I think for sure, one of the things that we know actually some of my brother, Dr. Gables, and did a lot of research finding that basically branched amino acids between meals will keep you sort of like, you know, or from going catabolic. So yeah, it's definitely beneficial especially your dieting. But the other thing that is important to realize is that as you cut your calories, your calories need to be more efficient. So you need to move to, you know, if you're having a bunch of excess calories, well, maybe it's not as you don't have to be as cautious. You're probably going to hit your thresholds anyway. When you're restricting calories, everything's got to be on points. In a sense, especially when you talk about protein, and the quality of protein needs to go up in the looseine content needs to go up. And branched amino acids, you get you stimulate protein synthesis at a fraction of what it would cost to have a whole protein meal. I think I can't remember when the study was published, it was probably about a year, a year and a half ago where they actually showed, and I think it was at a Stu Phillips lab where they actually showed lower protein intake, lower amounts of weight protein, like six grams of it, but stacked with more looseine to get it up to a looseine content of about 25 grams of weight protein, concentrate. And they actually are, that you still get good muscle protein synthesis with less protein but with the added looseine. So it's the idea that you know that you want to stimulate muscle protein synthesis throughout the day. You always want anabolism happening in the muscle all day, and a ball. And so how do you do that? So it's hard to plan out six protein adequate meals over the course of the day. So what if in between it's a little bit lighter, can you come in there with an amino beverage that drives, branched in amino acids up over five grams, giving you two grams or higher of elucine, triggering muscle protein synthesis, that can only help. So I think that takes us back to one of the things you first said, which I want to talk a little bit about before we sort of dive into specific diets, building muscle while you're in a deficit or while you're losing fat. And I think a lot of people don't think it's possible because they sort of assume you need a calorie surplus in total to build muscle. So can you talk a little bit about how you might be able to build muscle while cutting fat? Well we think about building muscle and losing fat. It's really just it's signaling. We're trying to switch on the signals for muscle. We're trying to you know switch on the signals to catablyce fat mass. And you don't necessarily really have to have a calorie surplus to do that. The one thing I will say is that you could be in maintenance. And if you have a little bit of a lot of your providing all of the protein for example, if you're just distributing your protein optimally, while you're timing out protein you send my protein synthesis. That puts a drain on the muscle cell itself. And that actually causes it to go, oh, I need more energy. I'll increase my amount of control, increase fat metabolism. So just by optimizing protein, you're actually switching on one signal for growth and then you're going to switch on one signal the catablyce fat tissue itself. The other thing is you can be real smart and how you optimize like your cardio for example. If you're not doing long duration, if you're doing short bouts, that'll create adaptations in your body that make you sort of have greater advantages for using fat. Again, you're doing like high-intensity interval train like we do in our lab, you don't increase mitochondria. Your body by nature is going to actually shift its actual body composition. So just switching signals on and switching other signals off. And you'll still be able to cause it to happen. What I can tell you is that if you're trying to lose fat or weight in general, which may be not be what we totally concentrate on is just weight, but if someone's going down, then basically they need to be real careful on how they're structure in their calorie deficit. Again, it needs to be more conservative. They're trying to gain muscle at the same time. The more drastic, the less of a shot they have to do that. Yeah, I mean, because you're trying to optimize lipolytic processes. You're trying to optimize fat breakdown from fat tissue. At the same time, you're trying to optimize an avalism within muscle tissue. So, you know, I think there's been really nice work that's done, you know, again, out of Stufilps lab, but they showed a, um, that in women that if you put them on a calorie deficit, so they're geared towards fat loss. They're geared towards weight loss fat loss. But you give them higher protein. And if more of that protein actually comes from dairy. And because of the effects of dairy on muscle protein synthesis, you know, seeming to be in especially way, seeming to have really strong anabolic effects that the women with resistance training actually gain muscle mass while they lost body fat. So, you know, it's, it can be done. You just have to do it smart. And we've seen it in our lab with really high level train guys. I mean, guys are, you know, like, it's our labs, somewhat uncarraculous. You'll go in there and love guys dead, like 600 pounds and stuff like that. Which mostly it's just a convenient population. And I'm telling you right now, those guys, you're seeing the same thing. It can happen even if you're well trained. You can still make this change. Is there, you kind of talked about does dependent cardio? I'm what about resistance training if you're trying to do that? If you're trying to lose fat, maintain or build a little muscle. Can you overreach or is there an optimal frequency for training or structure somebody should follow? Wow. Very question. That's a very, very, very. What's optimal level of frequency, basically, is that's one of the most complex. Yeah, but okay. And this is, this will sound strange. Obviously, like a lot of times you open an amazing. It's like, why did legs on Monday? Right? It'd back on Tuesday, you know, arms on Wednesday, whatever. And you do one body part per week. Well, it turns out there's, there's research at a Norway at a raw said's lab. That's actually showing that training a body part every day actually is increasing more muscle mass than two to three times a week. But the trick, and this is one of the keys I have to emphasize that frequency is not the same as volume. They're related. So if I did 30 sets of legs today, right, and I did it tomorrow, and the next day in the next day, next day, yeah, probably overreach, right? You know, you probably count on that, especially if you're trying to cause a calorie deficit. But what if I trained, like, for example, I don't know, 20 sets of legs twice a week, that's 40 total sets. If I broke that up in the four workouts of 10 each workout, I would actually increase muscle size more. And this is even in elite athletes to normal people, and I would increase protein sense this more. Because what happens is the more well trained you get, the lesser the protein sense this response last. So if someone's untrained, yeah, the one day a week thing works, the two days a week works. Because protein sense this might last 72 hours, 96 hours, maybe. And so is untrained. As someone's like, who's highly trained, it might last, you know, a matter of hours. You know, maybe 12 hours after the train session, it's done. And they're wondering why they're plateaued. Maybe they need to adjust their training frequency. So I would say volume you have to be really careful with the training frequency, maybe a good way to hold on to lean mass while you're dieting. So you get more of a frequent stimulus. And being very, very cautious incentive to overtraining. Yeah. And yeah, what about intensity on a deficit? Should you be lifting lighter? Or should you still, if you want to still hit a three or five or max or do five sets of five or something, should you be training for hypertrophy or for strength or a little bow? Basically, wanting, like I want to emphasize that, like we know whether you're a deficit or you're in a surplus, you still are trying, if you're trying to hold on or gain muscle while you're dieting, you're still in a maximize the sort of mechanisms of hypertrophy. But you're going to be like tension. And that's going to be with the heavy loading, motor unit recruitment, which is going to be the heavy loading. And then, of course, the cell swans. So I'd have a mixture of all of them. The difference is what we're finding our lab is basically this. The way that you perceive where you're at and a day might dictate somewhat how you train. So you need to get your work and during the week. I know that if I'm dieting, okay, I have to get a heavy lifting, at least say, I know I need to train for hypertrophy, like once or twice a week, maybe blood flow restriction, want to week. But of those, the least taxing to blood flow restriction. Maybe high perjury, you can zone out. Maybe you need the most focus for strength. So basically we're finding our lab as if you came in like on a Monday. And today was supposed to be your heavy day. You know you got to get the end of this week. But on our scale, zero to 10, you're like at five. You probably should do blood flow restriction that day. Because it takes the least out of you. And it has a basically no muscle damage. Not a lot. Whereas on Wednesday, like, oh, I feel 100% and you get your heavy day. And then Friday, you sort of get into your hypertrophy. She need to vary your work at about how you feel. And you need to be more sensitive to that when you're dieting because the chance to overreach and the importance of paying attention to your own internal cues becomes even more important. Just not as simple as going to the gym three days a week. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I guess the key is, is just to pay attention to your body. You know, understand the signals that are, you know, that are being presented to you. And then to adjust your work out accordingly. So yeah, auto regulate a little bit. Auto regulated. That's where you got. That's an ex level right now. Well, I'm at my fee. A whole another whole other expert. Yeah, so from here to keep the nutrition focus, I think it'd be great to move into some specific diets. And maybe we could start with ketogenic dieting and just talk first and foremost, what is a keto diet? How to do it? How do you get into ketosis? What's the benefit of it? Well, ketogenic dieting. It's one of the more interesting diets, right? And basically, what I can tell you from my experience what most people think ketogenic dieting is. Most people think it's eliminate carbs, you know, intipally a bodybuilder will eliminate carbs and then they'll kind of go clean. You know, basically like moderate fat, high super high protein. Okay? And then what happens is after five days, they're like, I feel horrible. I try to like, I tried ketogenic dieting, didn't work. And then I ask them what they did. Well, you know, my protein was super high. Lower my carbs, I had low fats, you know, and they were all like unsaturated, right? So, but that's actually not ketogenic dieting. Kewogenic dieting and this is sounds kind of crazy, but over 70% of your actual calories are coming from fat. Like maybe 75% and so, you know, and then 20%, 20% 25% have come from protein and 5% or less is going to come from carbs. So, basically, your carbs are going to come all from like green vegetables, essentially, at that point. Then your protein is going to be higher fat protein. Do you know how to me? Bacon. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, whole cream, cheeses, you know, all the stuff that you like you thought was horrible. It totally changes on a ketogenic diet. Okay. But you can't have the carbs whether that's the thing. I mean, your protein is moderate. So, that's ketogenic dieting. And basically, what happens is most people are carbon-adapted. It means these carbohydrates are primary and field source, right? When you become fat adapted, right? Or one of the main researchers in the field see, funny calls it keto adapted. Basically, now your body is like boom, now my main field source is fat. And what happens is, fat, skip, broken down, also converted into ketones. And that's I can't emphasize that enough because your brain runs off, can run off of those and they have a lot of muscle sparing effects. So, what's going on is that the bodybuilder who does kind of a bro kind of keto diet, right? The high protein type of thing. What happens is they never get into ketosis. Never. And that's why they feel miserable because you've taken away carbs. But that's what they're adapted to still. And you know, they don't have them. So, basically, that's the biggest problem. You have to become keto adapted. The other thing is, of course, when someone goes into a keto diet. And then I try to for three days to try for five days. I felt miserable. Well, it takes time to adapt to any diet. And that's one thing that we would emphasize. Any diet you do, you know, you have to adapt. Your body adapts to dieting. Your gut, your body overall, adapts to dieting. Just like it adapts to training. It takes that minimum two weeks before you're fat adapted. And they'll actually the longer you go, the better it actually becomes. So, the main benefit to ketogenic dieting is that now fat is your primary source of fuel. And ketones are very high. And ketones spare muscle mass when you die it. And so, you don't lose as much muscle. Also, you don't crash. Normally, you're dying like, oh, I can't think. I can't concentrate. You've been around athletes or bodybuilders contests. I just can't think. I just can't think, right? Well, ketones, you're constantly tapping in your fat and producing ketones. So, you can't think you don't crash. And ketones are very satiating. Which means that you're not as hungry. So, you can have a more sustained diet with that. So, those are the benefits that you see. Yeah. Well, I think, you know, Dr. Wilson brings out some really, really good points. And that is, I mean, if you're going to try ketogenic dieting, if you're not going to climb in, you have to do it right. Yeah, you have to keep your proteins at a moderate level, you know, 25% or so. Because proteins, broken down to amino acids, some of those amino acids will become glucose. So, you don't want to flood your bloodstream with glucose. A lot of it's going to go into liver, liver takes it and says, let's keep making glucose. And so, you never really generate significant amounts of ketone bodies. And that's where the magic is. Without the ketone bodies, you really can't reap the benefits. You know, the brain is, you know, red blood cells can only use glucose for energy. And so, you need about 50 grams of glucose a day for red blood cells. That's all they can use. The brain, on the other hand, will go glucose or to go ketone bodies. So, you know, it just gets a little bit confusing if you go very low carb diet, but very high protein diet, because you never really get into full ketosis. But yet, at the same time, you make yourself miserable because you don't really go hyperglysemic either. It's just, it's metabolicly, it's confusing. You don't have a consistent fuel source for your brain. So, you get that nice fog. Yeah, a hundred percent. Yeah. I mean, we're just understanding, we're beginning to understand like so many benefits. But at the end of this isn't new. You know, researchers have been playing around practitioners, have been playing around ketogenic diets now for almost a hundred years. So, you know, over the last couple of decades is where we've really invested more time. And I think now it's just so much more exciting because there's more food options. There's more people doing it. And there's better understanding of how to do it effectively that will guide people into it and then help them stay on longer and reap the benefits. But I think the ketone bodies themselves being having effect on hunger is really really exciting stuff. And, you know, there's been a few studies now that have shown that, you know, over the course several weeks when you become keto adapted, some of your hormone levels go down that are directly involved in hunger. So, you know, it's playing a direct role there. Plus, the higher protein intake can stimulate higher levels thermogenesis. So, there's metabolic benefit and then there's also hunger benefits that go with it as well. So, there's a lot of really cool benefits. You're a lot of other things too that I think are exciting. I know you're just about to talk about that. Great impact on blood lipids. So, you know, you may have, we may have, you know, worked with a lot of clients out there that, you know, and I don't think we look at it the way that Jake just mentioned it. We are carbon adapted. So, you can either carbon-dapt or with very low carbon-taken model. You can keto adapt. And, you know, the body will run well either way. And, you know, some of the reflection that we're not carbon-dapted optimally might be elevations in blood triglycerides. Elevated blood cholesterol levels. Elevated blood glucose levels. Meaning that we are carbon-dapted and we're overloading the system. We're just not doing it optimally. So, a lot of that gets corrected when you go over to a ketogenic diet. You can lower triglycerides. You can lower LDL in cholesterol levels. And, your, your, your cholesterol, your LDL particles are actually bigger, which are less atherogenic. So, there's a lot of benefit for somebody who's struggling over here. Maybe with a little extra body fat and maybe they're, you know, they're hypergalicemic. Trying to deal with like some medication to try to control blood glucose levels. Their lipids are up a little bit and their doctor is telling them, hey, you know, you need to statin drug. Maybe this is a really good option for them. Yeah, and it seems a paradoxical. Right? He's like, way, way. He's a good word. Well, it's like, way to second. Way, you're telling me that I can take in a bunch of cholesterol, like, bacon and blue cheese and, you know, and ranch. And, um, I can actually lower my, you know, cholesterol levels or increase my, like, good cholesterol. Yeah. Yeah. But basically, the, the paradox is solved by this. When you think about fats, the paradox is basically fats go into the muscle, they go into the mitochondria, and they get used as fuel. But that requires a transporter to get in there, turns out that carbs and insulin block that transporter. Okay. Um, so basically now, you have a, if you eat high fat, um, like, if you ate like a huge pizza or something, and cheesecake, super high fat, you know, a lot of people, I can eat high fat, right? Yeah. But if you have the pizza and then the cheesecake, you have super high fat, but now you have the carbs and the insulin and boom, where's that fat going to go? Yeah. So, you know, it's, you know, you have the problem. You know, you have the problem, but basically there is even a study where, um, Bob Wolfe, he infused fat at a high level in the people, and basically, with no carbs, it just got used as fuel. Use as fuel. He infused carbs with the fat and basically, you have an elevation and blood fats and blood lipids. That's the problem. And that's one of the keys that we've think about. The other thing is, um, that when we have a lot of fat, you know, one of the things that happens is testosterone plummetes. Um, but we actually did a study where we saw people lose a lot of fat. These are well-registered train guys. They lost a lot of fat. Um, I want to say, probably like, uh, seven or eight pounds of fat, and their testosterone levels jumped like a hundred points. Uh, yeah, on keto. Um, because basically you think about fat is a lipid, right? So, um, so it's really cool to see that. That's great results. Yeah. And that's fantastic. And I would assume just to kind of touch on the wellness benefits for the health benefits, um, good applications for type 2 diabetes as well, right? Great applications. That's one of the things that a doctor, I've never talked about over Daryl last night was like, who responds better? It may always say that people who are insulin resistant, people who are tenet towards type 2 diabetes, um, have great, great benefits from this, you know, or someone just doesn't respond well to carbs. If you have a guy who can, you know, take in like 600 grams of carbs and say shredded year round well, you know, why don't know why keto might not be the best diet for that person. That's why it's all about customization, you know, basically. So, but someone who has a harder time, that's where sort of switching over to sort of keto could be something at all for them. Yeah. And I think that's one of the things I find most interesting is you have different people that follow different macronutrient ratios and get great benefit. So it really kind of drives home the point that there isn't just one diet out there, but there is just one you and you have to let the diet that's going to work for you come to you instead of trying to go out there and find one that, you know, all of your friends say works. But at the same time, you know, it is great that if you are going to try ketogenic or another tyzone or another type of diet, it is great if you have friends and family and whatnot who may be trying it with you because, you know, that camaraderie and that partnership that can go along with it can really help, you know, compliance and success. Absolutely. 100% and then, you know, there are concerns people have I know and it's importantly address all the concerns of keto. One of the things before, like, like, our lab our last year has been doing a monories search with this resistance train guys before. It's mostly type 2 diabetes overweight people or just normal people who didn't like left or anything like that. And basically what we're finding is one of the things is, oh, I know if I don't have carbs, there's no way I can have the same training point. I know that for a fact. We found no differences in training volume between groups. We found no differences in the ability to gain muscle between groups. We found no differences in the ability to gain strength. So in some sense, that's where it becomes like what is your preference, what tool do you want to use, et cetera, et cetera. Now, with dieting, it becomes a little bit more complex. That was a maintenance sort of phase. With dieting, it becomes a little bit more complex. You have different variations of keto, jank dieting. But sticking to this trick one probably is a good idea. So yeah, people are often afraid of dropping carbs because they think of carbs as the performance nutrient. But you'd say, based on that research, that there's really no fear if, you know, regardless of how hard you're trading of cutting carbs. Yeah. And we, you know, you say, we basically saw all the benefits. Now, one of the things that people will do is they kind of will want the best of both worlds. And what they'll do is they'll do sort of a cyclic keto-jank diet. Right. It's very famous, very popular. You know, in five days, I start to feel horrible. So I'm going to carve upon the weekends. Then I feel great. And then after five days, it's a horrible game. Let me carve up. Well, the reason why they kind of feel horrible after five days, because the carbs on the weekend never allowed them to adapt. So if they're going through this vicious cycle, so we just did a study where basically we took guys and we put them on a calorie deficit. And we had them go cyclic. Basically, they did keto during the week and they carved up on the weekend. And then another group basically just went straight keto. Now, both of them lost, I guess, about three kilograms of total body weight. Okay. So about three kilograms of total body weight. The keto group all of it was fat. All of it. I predicted, because I was, I was believed it was actually what they were saying. I predicted, like, oh, my prediction is the cyclic keto group will actually lose maybe less fat with their gain a little muscle. That's what I predicted because they have more carbs. They're getting kind of the best both worlds. But guess what? Two of the kilograms they lost was muscle or lean mass. Two of them. And only one was fat. So it's like, whoa. I mean, that's why I looked at that and, you know, Ryan Liner and my lab kind of just was going over the day is like, what's going on, doc? And like, and then kind of the light kind of just went on and I'm like, well, it makes sense, I guess. We looked at their ketone levels throughout the week. Basically, they weren't getting back into ketosis. So like, light Wednesday or Thursday, ketone spare muscle. So if you go in Monday, now you go back to low carb and you don't have the ketone tie to spare muscle. What's your body going to do? It's going to go to muscle and kind of catabalize it. So you have a fuel source until you can get back into ketosis. So people who do that, I can say this. If they're doing a cyclic bed to be a lot more careful, you know, and probably even take fat that might raise ketone levels a lot higher. You know, I think what's interesting, your point about guys who are weight training and who are also following ketogenic diets, they're still able to have great workouts. You know, the muscle movement purely anaerobic, you know, highly anaerobic, but yet they're still able to drive, you know, good, good solid resistance training workouts. So it seems that, you know, they're still glycogen within the muscle, even though they're ketogenic. And there's probably enough fuel in the tank from a carbohydrate standpoint to really, you know, help them have great workouts. As long as they're not overly long workouts, or, you know, even like somebody who does, you know, high intensity cardio or something like that, that's, I think, where ketogenic dieting may fall a little bit short because you do become a little bit more. You become more carbohydrate dependent once you go past your anaerobic threshold. As far as carb cycling goes, it is really popular. So based on those results, should somebody give themselves a couple weeks to get keto adapted before cycling carbs? Is that the better way to do it? That's a really good question. So basically in this day that I talked about, we let them get a keto adapted for two weeks and they still have the decrements, but if someone goes maybe six weeks, maybe two months, it's conceivable at that point they could start to cycle because now they're so fat adapted that two days is not going to throw them out of that, you know, so that could be something that they do, or maybe they start playing around with having some carbs around the workout. These are all things we're trying to figure out right now and in the one. I can tell you that after probably two months, you know, we've done like, sort of case studies and, you know, we're on individual subjects and we've seen that after like two months, three months that they can actually stay in ketosis when they throw in a little bit of carbs. But at first it's probably not going to happen. It's not the best idea. So moving on from ketogenic dieting, I kind of want to touch just briefly on a couple other popular diets. If it fits your macros first and then intermittent fasting. So let's start with I-I-F-Y-M. Okay, yeah. So basically, there's sort of diff somewhat different versions of if it fits your macros, but I think basically the general concept, if you go to like read the websites and stuff like that, it's basically that the the main thing that matters is your total macronutrient content, your calorie. So carbs, fats, proteins, general premises that it doesn't matter how you get those. When you get those, how you time them, that's irrelevant. So long as it fits your macros. Right. So it's also called flexible sort of dieting. So basically for example, if I saved up all my fats for night time and I had cheesecake and pizza that fit my macros, that's just as good if I had like grilled chicken or if I space out my protein and opt only distributed it doesn't matter. Sort of the benefits for that people can kind of eat what they want. Maybe they can stay longer with it. But I have my thoughts on it, but I want to see what Dr. Rob says first. Well, I mean, I think the beauty of it is in the simplicity. I think it's a concept that people can understand and apply readily. And I think the real key is will you be successful, probably. And I don't think it's any different than you know high carbohydrate or even ketogenic. I think if you apply yourself and you structure it correctly and you're able to be compliant against a calorie level, instruct your protein correctly and then optimize your food choices within you will be successful. But I think it's very important sometimes when we oversimplify a program and say it just comes down to one to three things that you have to take into consideration the quality of your choices. So the cheesecake and the pizza, I mean, that may have taken up 40% of your calories for the day. Well, what if some of your fat came from fish? So if it comes from fish, you drive, you know, great protein, omega-3, polyunsaturated fatty acids. We know that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids help optimize muscle protein synthesis in response to carbohydrate and protein within the meal. So make good choices within your macro, I think would be my recommendation. That it's just not as simple as you know a simple tally board that you also have to sort of score along the way as to what's the quality of the foods that you are consuming. 100% agree. I think we have like this. We have what's sustainable and also understand, yeah, macronutrients are important. Total calorie load is important. No question about it. We go, what is sustainable and then what is optimal? And you know, we have this sort of of sometimes chasm between the two. And it's always going to depend on the goals of the individual. How serious are they? How close are they to their event or their competition for example, or their goal or photo shoot? It does turn out that basically. The premise is good for as far as following a diet and sticking with it in simplicity, but like Dr. Rob says, that concept is not optimal. You know, for example, not all fat's are the same. I mean, for example, if you look at a long chain fatty acid versus a medium chain triglyceride, long chain fatty acid takes longer as a more complex process to use as fuel, compared to medium chain triglycerides. I actually will oxidize or use more fat. I'll be more associated. I have greater concentration and lose more body fat compared to the longer chains. If you look at corn oil versus the omega-3. Same thing Dr. Rob said, I'll actually induce more life policies, more fat oxidation, increase more mitochondria. But if you look at the if it fits your macros, the macros are the same. But it's not the same. And then we know protein quality. Makes we there's tons of studies on protein quality. Like Dr. Rob said, dairy was better than other sources. Well, if you look at your macros, the same thing. The distribution matters. You know, we know there's a lot of good research from Douglas Pat and Jones showing that. Basically, if you look at most of America, they will distribute their proteins with breakfast. They'll have lower protein intake. You know, like a pop tartar or something like that. And then, then money and football comes on. It throw a few stakes on the grill. Boom. And that's they get most of the opportunity. If it fit your macros, protein will be the same. But the body composition is much more different. So that's why you have to understand your goal and say, what can I sustain to optimize, you know, the way to that goal and what can I not and try and find a happy medium or how far you can actually go. Yeah. So yeah, that's so not to oversimplify and try and summarize. But it sounds like if it's your macros can be awesome for compliance. But you have to go a level deeper than the raw macron numbers and still concentrate on choices. I think so. Yeah. And I even think that it's, you know, for a lot of people can be a phased approach where they climb in and, you know, they get their macros right and then they, you know, then they continue to make better food choices or something along this way. But even going back to an earlier point, if you start with a food inventory, I think, you know, it'd be interesting for a lot of people to see where their macros are at that point in time. I mean, a lot of people may may already be at, you know, a macro level like a 40 30 30 or, you know, like a 50 30 20 whatever it is that, you know, I guess one big question is, you know, how do you, you know, how does an individual go? Well, this isn't working for me. I'm going to dial it down or I'm going to dial it up. How did they know how to navigate that path? So, you know, I think starting with a personal inventory knowing where they are and what they've done in the past, what they feel is worked for them from a compliance standpoint, what could they stick with? What was comfortable, where, you know, where do they think they can be successful? And then begin to move in that direction. Awesome. Well, last diet, I want to chat about briefly is intermittent fasting. And sort of just the same general overview or outlook, sort of, you know, who's it best for, practical applications, what is the diet in general, and what do the approaches? Well, it seems to have evolved over the years. I think some of the earlier concepts were that intermittent fasting was in every other day. You would eat heavy one day and then, you know, like, a meal, a large consumption of food, and then you would need the next day and then you would come back and you would do the same thing again. There's been modifications over the years where the second day may include five, 600 calories, where you get some essential nutrients in there and some base protein and so forth, and then you go back to the next day, which is the heavy protein. I've seen intermittent fasting programs now where it's you consume one big meal within, you know, an hour to two hours daily. So you're almost going through like a 22-hour starvation period. And then, you know, fasting period where you're not ingesting any food. And then I think we were talking last night that, you know, there's a stretch of time now that some people are following where they won't consume any food for 16 hours. So they'll have a sort of a feeding window in there where they'll consume and then they'll let themselves not consume any food for another 16 hours. So I think the biggest considerations, and I think everything that we really understand right now about how muscle, you know, I was like to focus on muscle first because I think at the, you know, at the end of the day for most of the people that we work with that, you know, bodybuilding.com I mean, muscle is the core tissue that you serve. You know, it's the tissue that works for you. It's the tissue that works for you. And the gym, and it's the best looking tissue in the human body. You know, muscle is sexy tissue. It gives form and shape. So you always focus on muscle. So what we understand about, you know, the effects of exercise on muscle protein synthesis. And then the effects of protein that you consume on muscle protein synthesis. It's, you know, I think some of some of the issues or some of the considerations around it is what happens during that long stretches of time to muscle protein synthesis when it's not being stoked up when muscle protein breakdown begins to exceed it. And that happens over a 22 hour period or, you know, 20 hour period or shorter periods or whatever it is. You know, I think what we see more of now is sort of a, you know, every three to four hours, you want to elevate muscle protein synthesis either, you know, from food or with exercise then with food adequate protein. So what really does happen during that long stretch of time when that's not happening? Yes, this or the concern. So look at the benefits. You're restricting your time that you can eat or they're like Dr. Ross said that could be, you can only eat a hour today or every other day. The benefits are that your calories lower. If you create a calorie deficit, you'll lose that. The majority of intermittent fasting studies have been done in obese individuals, which is difficult because we can't, we can't take that information and apply it necessarily as long as it's lean. Going back to Forbes, remember what Forbes basically showed is that essentially if you're super lean, you're in danger of losing muscle. So those periods of time where you're fasting, everyone knows her of M tour, the switch for protein synthesis, that gets the press when you're super lean when you're fasting. So this is something that you'd be so on obese. There's a lot of body fat when they're fasting, they create a lot more keytounds easier to create keytounds, they'll spare muscle. When someone's super lean, those periods of fasting become very careful. So it'd be really careful that. And obese individuals, the use of intermittent fasting, they lose almost no muscle. Healborn in 2005 did a study. And basically what he and his team showed was that when you took non obese people, essentially, and you had them intermittent fast, half of what they lost, almost half what they lost was lean. And the other half was fat. Now, but they weren't resistant training and they were lean, but they were sedentary. When you add, basically if you take someone who is sedentary, you have them resistant training and do intermittent fasting, it prevents you from losing that lean mass. If you take guys already resistant training, you're not adding any more resistant training to that. And if they're already super lean, then they can lose lean mass. And that's where those periods of time we have to be really careful. Yeah, I mean, so for those individuals in an intermittent fasting, you know, may not be the right path. Yeah, and if it is the path they decide, they have to be really, really careful with those periods. They had to pay attention to preventing catapulism. It could be the intermittent fasting, I don't know this, but it could be it works best with a ketogenic diet because you're in ketosis. So when you are fasting, your ketones are super high, you're super in muscle. You know, that would be, that's a high hypothesis because that's what's happening with obese people. Well, if you're lean, you're switching over to that. You're definitely going to take like anti-catapulcs and one thing done to rob and I talked about last night was using a modified. Yeah. So during those stretches of time, you know, where you know that there is the possibility, especially for a guy who or a gal who who starts off and who's pretty lean that and they're looking to shave off another percentage or to a body fat and they're not getting there like other means so they want to try this. I think if you went intermittent fasting, then you would want to supplement throughout the day, sort of like you know, like a customized or modified, where you do supplement branch chains throughout the day, maybe some hick in some other nutrients, HMB, which and MCT is even that will help get you there. 100% and that could work, you know, so, but that's definitely would recommend being very cautious of those time periods, the way that you are. Yes. Awesome. Well, I think, yeah, if there are, I mean, there are obviously a lot of phenomenal takeaways from this discussion, but one of the main ones it seems for people watching is there are a lot of ways to skin a cat. There are a lot of ways to diet effectively and obviously compliance is important, but it sounds like optimizing your diet is important through all the tactics we've talked about, distribution and macarutrient composition. I mean, it sounds like you can do that pretty well with a variety of areas of the dietary strategies, whether it's keto or IF, right, if it's your macros. Well, thank you guys very much for the conversation. Well, that is our time today and the next time we get to do an expert panel, we may delve into these topics even more specifically if there are specific user questions. So, as always, please drop your questions and comments down on the page below. Let us know what you want to hear about next time. And also, if you have questions about this particular discussion, so these again, Dr. Jake and Dr. Rob, if you want to get more content from them, Dr. Jake has a column on our site called Ask the Muscle Prof as well as the project mass trader. And Dr. Rob is written a number of specific articles so you can do a search for him and pull up his author page. And for more articles and videos from experts like this, please keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio & Core Workout： Day 5 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [oCB6Cu8PEdI].txt ===

So today's workout you're going to start with a dynamic warm up. You're going to move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd's white. Ready to kill it. So remember for today's workout and every workout in this trainer you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay so let's get started with the dynamic warm up. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. Starting now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You're really just trying to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard but you definitely want to be an intensity of probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one switch. Okay so again she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise can you just rotate for them? So the butt kick exercise you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay 15 seconds left. Again keeping the arms nice and loose throughout all of these exercises we're also warming up the upper body even though what you see is the lower body working. Good five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles ready. Go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. 15 seconds. Good she's keeping her arms. Perfecticular with her shoulder. Good five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise you go through dynamic movements like this so make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. We've got the set, five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again on the second round you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. I'm going to keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch which is a quad stretch. You can go for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable if you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch. It's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds. Let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good. Actually, keep her knee. Okay, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. If you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good. So five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked and this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good. Two, one. Come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good. While she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching, you're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up but we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. But the other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. Bring it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract. The whole body, don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Okay, switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. But, and again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which, again, can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one, shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout. They're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And I'm just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back. And she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll, you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back. If it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. You're right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good. Good. 3, 2, 1. Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. 10 seconds left on this side. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. Shake it out. I'm back up. Okay, that's 10 more seconds left. Coming up we have the Iliosto-West stretch. She's going back down on the ground. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliosto-West stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Relax. Good. Just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliosto-West is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good. So she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay. Go ahead and get right back into it. Going to keep being the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So next Amber is going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this. Have done a stretch like this. Okay. She's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good. And she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even fill this in parts of your blue. Good. Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Just going to come back over. And then coming right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side. If you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip, if you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. Got 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So you can shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay. Three, two, one. Good and stuff. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. She's just going to sit up. She's going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Good. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's just going to shake it out for a second and bring it right back up. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling. The knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber is shaking now. She's breathing the leg right back across. Again, using that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch. You can also twist your body slightly. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow control jog. Hey, good. So Amber is just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. As you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going. We've doubled the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. So you're going to get in her stance. She's going to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight. Working that transverse plane emotion is great for the core. Every one of these exercise in this cardio workout really works the entire body. If you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school in your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two, and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, it's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up through your hamstring and really work the glutes. You got 10 more seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to tap the due defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many, so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good, three, two, and one. Good. Okay, so next step is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have to mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good, she's pushing all the way up. Good, she's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a killer cardio exercise. It's deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next step is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight, bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber is using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. It's got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next step, we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up. And a half way up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs. Your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control to complete this movement. So just engage the core. Get your core going. At this point of the workout, you're getting tired. You're sweating. You're breathing hard. Keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise of this round. It's a square hot. So Amber is going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time. You're going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements. Just bring in beautiful lines of definition to the legs. Amber and a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility. They're moving on the field and on the court. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. Get your energy back up, get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one, flow control jog. This is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid. If you're going to get out of this program, exactly what you put in. Just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, moving right into a high knee jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. There's about 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Great. So next we're moving right into punches, getting position. Ready? Go ahead. Good. Again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it at half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up, slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to. And begin. Go ahead again. You want to stay as low as possible with this slide. By this last round, what your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Going about 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. 10 seconds. Five seconds. Five, four. Three, two, one. Go shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. And again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time, like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really, if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet, really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Got to take a breather if you need it just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up. Like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing through these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Got to just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay, moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an abstrate, core straight intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition in. You'll bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Shake it out. Alright, moving right into half tough jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me. Like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything that's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise. Shake it out. Last exercise of this round. Square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity of speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on. You guys push through. Block it out in your mind. Keep going. Keep up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right. Guys, we are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get us started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at a count of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not play it that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Good about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds. Three, two, one. Good. Right away, we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds. She's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two, one, drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Two more. Good. Good. And drop. Last one. And drop. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. You went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine. But please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good. About 10 seconds left. Keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second countdown five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So this is like a normal jumping jack. Except amped up, right. So as you're coming up, you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so you need these amazingly. Again, get all the way out with your arms, all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys are split squat, except you're not coming down all the way. Again, it's a fast move. You want to get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise, you're not leaning forward. You want to stay totally upright and straight. Good halfway there. Again, make sure that you're staying straight. Keep the front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. All right, so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got her legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit. So you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going. Like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good. Stay light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving. Again, a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four, three, two, and one. All right, shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. Just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then you're moving right into a knee jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One, two, three, and four, one, two. Good. One, two, three, and four, one, two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want, you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going, keep pushing through. Good, five seconds. Two, and one. Good. Shake it out. Now, for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge, you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half-jacks. Okay, so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber, go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump, but she's going to be covering ground. She's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees, then jumping out, landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it, you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have, you can do three jumps. You can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds. Just depends on where you're working out today. Good. Five more seconds. Four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Speed skaters. Right. So Amber is going to go ahead. So another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. Great. So this is a great movement for the leg. This great movement for the glutes. Sure again, you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. About five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Next exercise. Jump rope. Have Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have it jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope, you can do this without one. Just use your own body weight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them. And then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. Ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great job. You guys, that's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again, keeping your energy up, you've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. Doing this program. Boasting solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we've got five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Great. Okay. Moving right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good, down. Good, down. Down. You got two more. And down. Last one, you guys keep going. Keep going. And down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up, we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember, you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jumping jack. Should those arms are coming out. This movement, even if it's bodyweight, still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So again, you're exploding out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. Your halfway there. You guys, I know that you're tired by this point in the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. About three seconds, three, two, and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. There we go. So again, you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really, this is a great exercise not just for the legs, but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements, but if you ask them to stand on one leg, they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds. Here we go. Four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. To the switch kick. I can't keep your legs nice and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms, the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jack feet on a four, two count. One, two, three, and four. And then two of the jack feet. One, two, three, and four. Jack feet again. If you're doing this at home and this movement is two advance for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. About halfway there, you guys keep pushing. You're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, good. Take a couple seconds, shake it out. Take a couple deep breaths of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. All right, let's get us started. Here we go. Good. Amherst got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again, dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again, land like an ninja. Don't. Land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. All right, moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. Go ahead and get behind here. All right, Amherst going to push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet, you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Job. Take five seconds, shake it out. All right, go ahead and get your jump rope. This is going to be our last exercise of this round. Good. And again, you best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again, you guys. This is the last exercise you really want to go 100%. Keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job, you guys. Get some water. Take a break. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. First exercise is sitting twist. Let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated. His feet are up. And he's just going to twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell that's completely fine for our first day, we're just going to straight up body weight. Good, about halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Right into a plank. Good. So if you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him cut up just to tack. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs to acceptable on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. Good. One. Okay. Right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up. And he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already at a flex position. His starting position is flexed. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into V-sit. So Michael's going to sit up. Modified V-sit is good at yep, and he's crossing over. Perfect. The three-quires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just five more seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to come all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And ten seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. Five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see that want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tries up in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of his knee. Really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down. You're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. He's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about 10 seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One. Let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. Oh, he's on it. His feet are up, coarse tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big, big, big, big, no, no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D-C-C-Bin-eraps. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing you cardio-vascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. Twenty seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. Ten seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into butt-up. Right into butt-up. V-sets. All right. So he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. They're deceivingly amazing too for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice, deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step-up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah. That's right. Every exercise we're doing, we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working core front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go to three, two, one time. Right into a cross crunch. He's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. He's really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five. Four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One lets move right into circuit two with his shoulder bridge. Michaels is going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing right through his heel. Head is firmly on the ground, his hands are on the ground, he's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're gonna move into the quadra-ped alternating. You know, flip back over, he's coming right out, giving it a nice second or two to stay in that flex position and then switching right back over. We've worked the front of the body, now we're working the back side of the body. Perfect, this is a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes and one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect, so he's back down, perfect. You really wanna be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment, we'll take a lot of pressure off the low back, squeeze it, good. Two and one, right back over. Good. Last set, we are so close, perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael isn't just swinging, he's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out and he's stabilized before he's moving on to the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. Time. I feel, I can feel it. Got the abs? Yeah, great job you guys, that's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio and Core Workout ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [11WLF24-5iM].txt ===

So today's workout you're going to start with a dynamic warm up. You're going to move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd-White, ready to kill it. So remember for today's workout and every workout in this trainer you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay so let's get started with a dynamic warm up. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. Starting now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You really just try to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard but you definitely want to be an intensity of probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one switch. Okay so again she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise can just rotate for them. So the butt kick exercise you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay 15 seconds left. Again keeping the arms nice and loose. Throughout all of these exercises we're also warming up the upper body even though what you see is the lower body working. Good five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles ready. Go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. 15 seconds. Good. She's keeping her arms perpendicular with her shoulder. Good. Five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise you go through dynamic movements like this to make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. Yeah, we got the set. Five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds as she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice are really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. Okay, keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel this stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. You can go for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever it's nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. You know, sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game so use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out, she's going to go right back up again. Good, make sure it's keeping her knee. Good, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You know, if you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good, next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good, so Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running. This is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked and this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one, come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good, again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. We don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout they you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. From bringing it across again. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath so often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Okay, switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout. They're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your ego better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. Amherst is going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up. Her arm is back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. All right, back up. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good, three, two, one. Amherst is going to go ahead and switch to the other side. 10 seconds left on this side. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Shake it out. I'm back up. Okay, that 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliosto West stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amherst is going to get into the Iliosto West stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good, okay, relax. Good. It's going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliosto West is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, a tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good. So she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first, put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling the stress through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back. So you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay. Go ahead and get right back into it. Gonna get keeping the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall. While she's doing this, she's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So next, Amber is going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this have done a stretch like this. Okay. She's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good. And she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your blue. Good. 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to come back over. And then come right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side. If you want to get a better stretch, to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner, help you use stretch. That'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. Good. 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So you're going to shake it out. And move right back across. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That is that's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay. Three, two, one. Good and stuff. So Amber is going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just going to sit up and just going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. So she's going to shake it out for a second and bring it right back up. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two and one. It's great. So Amber is shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, using that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow controlled jog. They good. So Amber is just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. So as you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going. We've doubled the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. She's going to get in her stance. She's going to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight, working that transverse plane emotion. It's great for the core. Every one of these exercises in this cardio workout really works the entire body if you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school in your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, step-mil, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, what's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up through your hamstring and really work the glutes. You got 10 more seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to have to do defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good. Three, two, and one. Good. Okay, so next step is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have to mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good. She's pushing all the way up. Good. She's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a, this is a killer cardio exercise. It's deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next step is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight. Bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber is using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. Good. It's got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next step we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up and a halfway up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs, your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control that can complete this movement. So just engage the core. Get your core going. At this point of the work out, you're getting tired. You're sweating. You're breathing hard. Keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise of this round. It's a square hot. So Amber is going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time and then she's going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements. Just bring in beautiful lines to definition to the legs. Amber and a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility, their movement on the field and on the core. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. Get your energy back up, get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one, slow control jog. So this is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid. They're going to get out of this program exactly what you put in, just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, moving right into a tiny jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. They're about 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Great. So next we're moving right into punches, getting position. Ready, go ahead. Good. So again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it at half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up, slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to. And begin. Good. Again, you want to stay as low as possible with this slide by this last round. What your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. 10 seconds. Five seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. Again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time. Like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really, if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Good. Take a breather if you need it. Just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up. Like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing through these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Gonna just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay. Moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an ab straight core intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Shake it out. Right. Moving right into half tuck jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me. Like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything. That's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact, kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise, shake it out. Last exercise of this round, square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity in speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on, you guys push through, block it out in your mind. Keep going. So often people give up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right guys, we are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get a started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at a count of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not plant that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Good about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds three two one. Good. Right away, we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds she's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two one drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Good. Two more. Good and drop. Last one. And drop. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. We went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine but please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good about 10 seconds left keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second countdown five four three two and one. Okay moving on to the next exercise. This is a plyo jumping jack. So this is like a normal jumping jack except amped up right. So as you're coming up you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so these amazingly again get all the way out with your arms all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs five four three two and one great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys it's a split squat except you're not coming down all the way. Again it's a fast movement you want to get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise you're not leaning forward you want to stay totally upright and straight. Good halfway there. Again make sure that you're staying straight. Keep that front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good five four three two and one. All right so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got our legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit so you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good say light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving. Again a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four three two and one. All right shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. I'm just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then moving right into a feet jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One two three and four one two good one two three and four one two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going keep pushing through. Good five seconds two and one good. Shake it out. Now for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half jacks. Good. Okay so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump but she's going to be covering ground she's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees then jumping out landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have you can do three jumps you can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds just depends on where you're working out today. Good five more seconds four three two and one good. Moving on to the next exercise speed skaters. All right so Amber is going to go ahead. This is another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. Great. This is a great movement for the leg. This great movement for the glutes. Make sure again you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. About five seconds left five four three two and one. Okay. Next exercise jump rope. I have Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have a jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope you can do this without one. Just use your own body weight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them and then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. 10 seconds left five four three two and one. Great job. You guys that's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again keeping your energy up. You've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. Doing this program. Boca seeing solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we got five seconds left four three two and one. Great. Okay. We'll be right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good down. Good down. Down. You got two more. And down. Last one you guys keep going. Keep going and down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jumping jack. Sure. Those arms are coming out. This movement even if it's body weight. Still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. Good. So again you're exploding out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. You're halfway there. You guys I know that you're tired by this point and the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. Got three seconds, three, two and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. Here we go. So again you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really this is a great exercise not just for the legs but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements but if you ask them to stand on one leg they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds here we go. Four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a switch kick. Again keep your legs nice and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jack feet on a four, two count. One, two, three and four and then two of the jack feet. One, two, three and four. Jack feet again. If you're doing this at home and this movement is too advanced for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. About halfway there you guys keep pushing. I know you're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two and one. Okay good. Take a couple seconds. Shake it out. Take a couple deep breaths of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. All right, let's get us started. Here we go. Good. Ambers got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again, dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again, land like an ninja. Don't land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. All right, moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. Go ahead and get behind here. All right, Ambers gonna push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Take five seconds, shake it out. All right, go ahead and get your jump rope. This is gonna be our last exercise of this round. Good and again, you best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again, you guys, this is the last exercise you really want to go 100%. Keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job, you guys. Get some water. Take a break. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. For a exercise that's sitting twist, let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's gonna get seated. His feet are up. And he's just gonna twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell that's completely fine for our firm system today, we're just going to use straight up bodyweight. Good. About halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Right into a plank. Good. So, you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him cut up just to attack. Good. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs susceptible on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. Two, one. Okay, right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up and he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already at a flex position. His starting position position is flexed. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Go in five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Right into V-sit. So Michael's going to sit up. Modified V-sit. He's good at yep. And he's crossing over. Perfect. The three pliers leg strength, the domino strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight. His hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just five more seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to come all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And 10 seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. Five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see they want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tries up in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walk out. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of this knee really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down, you're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. It's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about 10 seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One, let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. He's on it. His feet are up, chorus tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect plank position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big, big, big, no, no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D, C, C, B in your abs. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing you cardio vascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. 20 seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. 10 seconds left. Good. And five. Four, three, two, and one time. Right into modified v-sets. All right. So he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. There's deceivingly amazing too for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? That's perfect. There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah, that's right. Every exercise we're doing we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working core front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Good. Three, two, one time. Right into a cross crunch. It's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in a position where the average constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. Really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One, let's move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Michael's going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. His hands are on the ground. He's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into a quadruped alternating. You know, flip back over. He's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to to stay in that flex position and then switching right back over. We've worked the fun of the body now. We're working the back side of the body. Perfect. This is a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes and one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. So he's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment will take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one right back over. Good. Last set, we are so close. Perfect. 20 seconds. Again, notice Michael isn't just swinging. He's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out and he's stabilized before he's moving on to the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. I feel I can feel it. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio and Core Workout： Day 12 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [Og12jfLMrJw].txt ===

So today's workout you're going to start with a dynamic warm up. You're going to move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd's white. Ready to kill it. So remember for today's workout and every workout in this trainer you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay so let's get started with the dynamic warm up. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. Starting now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You're really just trying to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard but you definitely want to be an intensity of probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one switch. Okay so again she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise can you just rotate for them? So the butt kick exercise you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay 15 seconds left. Again keeping the arms nice and loose throughout all of these exercises we're also warming up the upper body even though what you see is the lower body working. Good five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles ready. Go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. 15 seconds. Good she's keeping her arms. Perfecticular with her shoulder. Good five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise you go through dynamic movements like this so make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. We've got the set, five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again on the second round you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. I'm going to keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch which is a quad stretch. You can go for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable if you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch. It's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds. Let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good. Actually, keep her knee. Okay, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. If you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good. So five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked and this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good. Two, one. Come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good. While she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching, you're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up but we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. But the other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. Bring it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract. The whole body, don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Okay, switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. But, and again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which, again, can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one, shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout. They're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And I'm just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back. And she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll, you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back. If it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. You're right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good. Good. 3, 2, 1. Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. 10 seconds left on this side. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. Shake it out. I'm back up. Okay, that's 10 more seconds left. Coming up we have the Iliosto-West stretch. She's going back down on the ground. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliosto-West stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Relax. Good. Just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliosto-West is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good. So she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay. Go ahead and get right back into it. Going to keep being the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So next Amber is going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this. Have done a stretch like this. Okay. She's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good. And she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even fill this in parts of your blue. Good. Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Just going to come back over. And then coming right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side. If you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip, if you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. Got 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So you can shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay. Three, two, one. Good and stuff. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. She's just going to sit up. She's going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Good. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's just going to shake it out for a second and bring it right back up. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling. The knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber is shaking now. She's breathing the leg right back across. Again, using that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch. You can also twist your body slightly. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow control jog. Hey, good. So Amber is just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. As you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going. We've doubled the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. So you're going to get in her stance. She's going to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight. Working that transverse plane emotion is great for the core. Every one of these exercise in this cardio workout really works the entire body. If you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school in your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two, and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, it's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up through your hamstring and really work the glutes. You got 10 more seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to tap the due defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many, so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good, three, two, and one. Good. Okay, so next step is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have to mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good, she's pushing all the way up. Good, she's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a killer cardio exercise. It's deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next step is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight, bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber is using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. It's got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next step, we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up. And a half way up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs. Your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control to complete this movement. So just engage the core. Get your core going. At this point of the workout, you're getting tired. You're sweating. You're breathing hard. Keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise of this round. It's a square hot. So Amber is going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time. You're going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements. Just bring in beautiful lines of definition to the legs. Amber and a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility. They're moving on the field and on the court. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. Get your energy back up, get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one, flow control jog. This is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid. If you're going to get out of this program, exactly what you put in. Just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, moving right into a high knee jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. There's about 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Great. So next we're moving right into punches, getting position. Ready? Go ahead. Good. Again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it at half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up, slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to. And begin. Go ahead again. You want to stay as low as possible with this slide. By this last round, what your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Going about 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. 10 seconds. Five seconds. Five, four. Three, two, one. Go shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. And again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time, like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really, if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet, really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Got to take a breather if you need it just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up. Like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing through these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Got to just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay, moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an abstrate, core straight intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition in. You'll bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Shake it out. Alright, moving right into half tough jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me. Like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything that's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise. Shake it out. Last exercise of this round. Square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity of speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on. You guys push through. Block it out in your mind. Keep going. Keep up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right. Guys, we are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get us started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at a count of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not play it that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Good about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds. Three, two, one. Good. Right away, we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds. She's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two, one, drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Two more. Good. Good. And drop. Last one. And drop. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. You went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine. But please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good. About 10 seconds left. Keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second countdown five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So this is like a normal jumping jack. Except amped up, right. So as you're coming up, you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so you need these amazingly. Again, get all the way out with your arms, all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys are split squat, except you're not coming down all the way. Again, it's a fast move. You want to get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise, you're not leaning forward. You want to stay totally upright and straight. Good halfway there. Again, make sure that you're staying straight. Keep the front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. All right, so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got her legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit. So you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going. Like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good. Stay light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving. Again, a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four, three, two, and one. All right, shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. Just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then you're moving right into a knee jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One, two, three, and four, one, two. Good. One, two, three, and four, one, two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want, you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going, keep pushing through. Good, five seconds. Two, and one. Good. Shake it out. Now, for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge, you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half-jacks. Okay, so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber, go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump, but she's going to be covering ground. She's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees, then jumping out, landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it, you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have, you can do three jumps. You can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds. Just depends on where you're working out today. Good. Five more seconds. Four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Speed skaters. Right. So Amber is going to go ahead. So another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. Great. So this is a great movement for the leg. This great movement for the glutes. Sure again, you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. About five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Next exercise. Jump rope. Have Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have it jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope, you can do this without one. Just use your own body weight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them. And then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. Ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great job. You guys, that's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again, keeping your energy up, you've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. Doing this program. Boasting solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we've got five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Great. Okay. Moving right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good, down. Good, down. Down. You got two more. And down. Last one, you guys keep going. Keep going. And down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up, we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember, you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jumping jack. Should those arms are coming out. This movement, even if it's bodyweight, still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So again, you're exploding out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. Your halfway there. You guys, I know that you're tired by this point in the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. About three seconds, three, two, and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. There we go. So again, you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really, this is a great exercise not just for the legs, but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements, but if you ask them to stand on one leg, they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds. Here we go. Four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. To the switch kick. I can't keep your legs nice and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms, the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jack feet on a four, two count. One, two, three, and four. And then two of the jack feet. One, two, three, and four. Jack feet again. If you're doing this at home and this movement is two advance for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. About halfway there, you guys keep pushing. You're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, good. Take a couple seconds, shake it out. Take a couple deep breaths of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. All right, let's get us started. Here we go. Good. Amherst got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again, dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again, land like an ninja. Don't. Land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. All right, moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. Go ahead and get behind here. All right, Amherst going to push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet, you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Job. Take five seconds, shake it out. All right, go ahead and get your jump rope. This is going to be our last exercise of this round. Good. And again, you best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again, you guys. This is the last exercise you really want to go 100%. Keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job, you guys. Get some water. Take a break. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. First exercise is sitting twist. Let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated. His feet are up. And he's just going to twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell that's completely fine for our first day, we're just going to straight up body weight. Good, about halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Right into a plank. Good. So if you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him cut up just to tack. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs to acceptable on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. Good. One. Okay. Right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up. And he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already at a flex position. His starting position is flexed. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into V-sit. So Michael's going to sit up. Modified V-sit is good at yep, and he's crossing over. Perfect. The three-quires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just five more seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to come all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And ten seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. Five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see that want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tries up in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of his knee. Really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down. You're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. He's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about 10 seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One. Let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. Oh, he's on it. His feet are up, coarse tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big, big, big, big, no, no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D-C-C-Bin-eraps. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing you cardio-vascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. Twenty seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. Ten seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into butt-up. Right into butt-up. V-sets. All right. So he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. They're deceivingly amazing too for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice, deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step-up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah. That's right. Every exercise we're doing, we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working core front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go to three, two, one time. Right into a cross crunch. He's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. He's really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One, let's move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Michael's going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground. And pushing right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. His hands are on the ground. He's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into the quadra-ped alternating. In a flip back over, he's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to stay in that flex position. And then switching right back over. We've worked the front of the body. Now we're working the back side of the body. Perfect. This is a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes. And one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. He's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment. We'll take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one right back over. Good. Last set. We are so close. Perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael isn't just swinging. He's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out, and he's stabilized before he's moving on to the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. I feel like it's okay. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio and Core Workout： Day 16 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [bUV39cihylc].txt ===

All right, let's get today started with your cardio workout. So today's workout, you're going to start with a dynamic warmup. You're going to then move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout, you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope, you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout, we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd's white. Ready to kill it. So remember, for today's workout and every workout in this trainer, you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay, so let's get started with a dynamic warmup. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. 30 now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You're really just trying to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard, but you definitely want to be an intensity, probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay, you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up, you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one, switch. Okay, so again, she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide, which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise, can you just rotate from them? So the butt kick exercise, you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay, 15 seconds left. Again, keeping the arms nice and loose. Throughout all of these exercises, we're also warming up the upper body, even though what you see is the lower body working. Good, five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles. Ready, go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. Good. 15 seconds. Good, she's keeping her arms perpendicular with her shoulder. Good, five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise, you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise, you go through dynamic movements like this. So make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. Yeah, we've got the set, five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice are really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you put on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. And keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. You can get yourself for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. So we're going to go right into the stretch one more time. So again, while you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing, I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Good five, four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout. And that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Good, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good, sure, keep your knee. Good, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good, so Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running. This is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one, come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good, again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. But we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Or arms are staying nice and loose. Five, four, three, two, one, good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity, which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough, okay, three, two, one, she's going to let this arm down. I'm bringing it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique, it can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm is back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll feel this in the tricep. A lot of you will also feel this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, you know, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Okay, right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Okay, go three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. Okay, 10 seconds left on this side. Good. Five, four, three, two, one, go. Shake it out. Come back up. Okay, that 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoe stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliostoe stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Okay, relax. Good. Just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoe as is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do it. The beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Okay, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she got to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing this stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back. So you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's gonna go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I think I keep in the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall. While she's doing this, she's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it. Make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next Amber is gonna move into the low back stretch. So she's just gonna lay on her back. And most of you have done this. Have done a stretch like this. Okay, she's just gonna bring one knee over her body. Good and she's gonna rotate. Good. So this stretch is gonna go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your blue. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna come back over. Then come right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner, help you stretch. That'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes you use your own body what you can't get quite far enough. Good, 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So now Amber is gonna switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. You can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna shake it out. And move right back across. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine. Everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay, three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber's gonna go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just gonna sit up. And just gonna cross one leg across the other. And she's gonna use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keep it this leg nice and straight. Good. Okay. Seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's gonna shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So just gonna shake that side out. She can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's gonna help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber's shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you was eating that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow controlled jog. Okay, good. So Amber's just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. So as you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going with double the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. She's going to get in her stance. She's just to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight, working that transverse plane emotion. It's great for the core. Every one of these exercise in this cardio workout really works the entire body if you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school and your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, what's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up to your hamstring and really work the legs. She got 10 more seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to have to do defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many, so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good. Three, two and one. Good. Okay, so next up is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have done mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good. She's pushing all the way up. Good. She's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a, this is a killer cardio exercise. This is deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next up is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight, bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber's using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. Good. Good. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next up we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up and a halfway up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs, your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control to complete this movement. So just engage the core, get your core going. At this point in the workout, you're getting tired, you're sweating, you're breathing hard, keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise at this round. It's a square hot. So Amber's going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time and then she's going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements just bring in beautiful lines of definition to the legs, Amber and a ton, a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility, they're moving on the field and on the court. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. So kicking off round two with a slow control jog, Amber's ready. Here we go. Again, controlling the core, controlling the movement. Sometimes these slower movements are even harder than the fast movements. You really want to try and master this exercise. Again, because it's an amazing exercise, not just for the legs, but also for your core. Good. 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, we're going to switch right into a honey jog. Amber's coming up with her knees coming up past her belly button. You should be doing the same thing at home. This is round two. So if you're tired, lock it out, keep going. You've totally got this. Yes, it's hard, but it's going to be completely worth it at the end of the workout. Good. So we got 10 seconds left. She's bringing her arms up. She's bringing her legs up. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up is punches, working the upper body. She's punching all the way out. If you're at home, yes, you're going to be a little bit tired by this point in time, but don't hold back on any of these exercises. Keep going. It's going to be worth it. So this is a great exercise. Working the shoulders, working the abs. Make sure you're keeping your core nice and tight. 15 seconds left. Keep the intensity up. Good. 10 seconds. 10 seconds. Keep punching out. Keep punching it out. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, good. Moving right into the slide jump shot. Amber's sliding. She's down. She's exploding up. Good. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure you're keeping your intensity up. You want to be at the same speed that Amber's at. Don't slow down. Keep going. Good. 15 seconds left. Good. 10 seconds left. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Good. Still exploding up. Your legs are going to be tired. That's okay. Just do your best. Good. Two. One. Good. Moving right into a bodyweight power squat. So Amber's making sure her feet are nice and wide. She's driving right up through the heel. A lot of times people at the gym I see them bring their knee out past their toe. That's terrible for your knees. It doesn't do your glutes any favor because you're putting all all of your weight right on that quad. Make sure you're staying back on that heel. Good. We've got eight seconds left. You guys. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up we have a defensive slide. There she goes. Good. So again, when you're doing these, try and stay as low as possible to the ground. I know at this point in time your body started to get tired. That's okay. Just get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can and stay as low as possible. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Now we're bringing it right back up to a vertical mountain climber. Good. We're reaching tall. The knees are coming up. Don't short cut this exercise at home. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Ten. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Give it your body a little bit of a break with the switch feet. Good. So again, keep those legs nice and straight. Keep working the arms. 15 seconds left. We're getting so close to the end of this round to keep pushing forward. Don't let your mind stop you from pushing yourself physically. You can control how hard you push. It's all right up here. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Just going to move right into half tough jumps next. Again, working the explosive movement. Good. Good. She's breathing. She's keeping her core tight. Good. As you're doing these at home, don't stop jumping. Make sure that you're jumping. Make sure that you're breathing. Make sure that you're keep going. You're so close to being done with this round. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right into your square hop. Your last exercise of this round. Keep the intensity up. Good. She's moving through this like a boss. Good. Again, switching every each time you complete the square. It's that change of movement. Sorry. The change in direction that makes this exercise very difficult. So make sure that you're doing that. Good. Just about eight seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. And one. End of that round. Tilt it. Get your energy back up. Get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one. Slow control jog. So this is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid just because you've already done two of these. They're going to get out of this program exactly what you put in. Just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Okay. Moving right into a honey jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. Good. 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Great. So next we're moving right into punches. Getting position. Ready? Go ahead. Good. So again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up. Slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to and begin. Good. Again, you want to stay as low as possible with this slide by the last round. What your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Ten seconds. Five seconds. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Go shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. Again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time. Like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet, really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Good. Take a breather if you need it. Just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing for these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay. Moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an abstract, core straight intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good shake it out. Right. Moving right into half tuck jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything. That's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise. Shake it out. Last exercise of this round. Square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity of speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on. You guys push through. Block it out of your mind. Keep going. So often people give up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right guys. We are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get a started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at account of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not play it that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Go to about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds three two one. Good. Right away we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds she's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two one drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Two more. Good and drop. Last one. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. We went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine but please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good about 10 seconds left keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second count down five, four, three, two and one. Okay moving on to the next exercise. This is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So this is like a normal jumping jack except amped up right. So as you're coming up you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so these amazingly again get all the way out with your arms all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs five, four, three, two and one. Great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys it's a split except you're not coming down all the way. Again it's a fast movement you want to get get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise you're not leaning forward. You want to stay totally up right in straight. Good halfway there. Again make sure that you're staying straight. Keep the front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good five, four, three, two and one. All right so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got her legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit so you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good. Stay light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving again a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four, three, two and one. All right shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. Just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then you're moving right into a feet jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One, two, three and four. One, two, good. One, two, three and four. One, two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going keep pushing through. Good five seconds. Two and one. Good. Shake it out. Now for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half jacks. Good. Okay so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump but she's going to be covering ground. She's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees then jumping out landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have you can do three jumps you can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds just depends on where you're working out today. Good five more seconds four three two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Speed skaters. All right so Amber is going to go ahead. So another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. All right so this is a great movement for the leg. It's great movement for the glutes. Make sure again you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about half way there. Good. About five seconds left five four three two and one. Okay. Next exercise jump rope. My Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have a jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope you can do this without one. Just use your own bodyweight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them. And then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. 10 seconds left five four three two and one. Great job you guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again keeping your energy up. You've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. You're doing this program. Boca seeing solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we got five seconds left four three two and one. Great. Okay. We'll be right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good down. Good down. Down. Good. You got two more. And down. Last one you guys keep going. Keep going. And down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jump in jack. Should those arms are coming out. This movement, even if it's body weight, still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. Good. So again you're floating out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. Your halfway there. You guys I know that you're tired by this point in the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. Got three seconds, three, two and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. There we go. So again you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really, this is a great exercise not just for the legs but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements but if you ask them to stand on one leg they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds. Here we go. Four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a switch kick. Again keep your legs next and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms, the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jackfeet on a four, two count. One, two, three and four and then two of the jackfeet. One, two, three and four. Jackfeet again if you're doing this at home and this movement is too advanced for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. Good. About halfway there you guys keep pushing. I know you're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two and one. Okay good. Take a couple seconds, shake it out. Take a couple deep rest of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. Alright let's get it started. Here we go. Good. Amber's got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again land like an ninja. Don't land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. Alright moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and get behind here. Alright Amber's going to push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can which will be with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Job. Take five seconds, shake it out. Alright go ahead and get your jump rope. This is going to be our last exercise of this round. Good and again. You best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again you guys this is the last exercise you really want to go 100% keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job you guys. Get some water. Take a break. Alright so we've three and four of this program. We're doing three rounds of this second circuit. Let's go ahead and get right into it with the lateral speed knees. Good. Again coming across on account of three, three, two, one and Amber's get transitioning out. Again don't drop that foot. Do not drop that inside foot. Bring those knees up as high as possible. Again guys this is your last round. This is where you just lay it all out on the line. Don't hold anything back. Good. About 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Good. Alright shake it out. Move it on to the next exercise, football up downs. Amber's going to go ahead and get her fast knees and drop. Good. Four, three, two, one, drop. Four, three, two, one, drop. Five, four, three, two, one, drop. We've got one more. Great job you guys. Make sure on those that you're really getting those feet going as fast as possible. Drop and get him back up as fast as possible. Alright moving on to the next exercise, feet jacks. Again get your arms. Your arms should be coming out wide like you're doing a lateral raise. Keep the intensity up. Again this is your last round. Keep the intensity up. You're so close to being done. Good. Coming up on 10 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Alright moving on to the next exercise, plyo jumping jacks. So again make sure this is explosive. As you need to take a lot, an extra second or two between jumps that's fine. Just make sure you're going at all out in 10 seconds. For each one of you that's going to be different, especially in the beginning weeks. As you move on to the later weeks, you should be getting better. Alright we've got 10 seconds left. Again if you can't do it at this pace that's okay, do it at your pace. Just make sure you're going 100%. Three, two and one. Good job you guys. Let's take it out. Alright beginning our next exercise, many split squats. I want to make sure that you're not bringing that knee out over your toe. Keep it in the knees nice and safe. Keep your core nice and tight. Good again this is a great exercise for balance. I've got about 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Keep going. Good we've got 10 seconds. That's I can speed up the pace a little but if you can, you can go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Shape it out moving on to our next exercise. Switz kick. Moving right into it. Again keep those legs nice and tight. This is a great exercise for the wards for the arms. This is called a switch kick because it's tough because it should happen really really fast. It's a switch should happen fast. About halfway there. Amherst killing it. But 10 seconds. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Time. Good. Take about five seconds shake out. Go ahead and move right into the next exercise. Running lunge and jack feet with a four, two count. Go. Good. Two, three, two, one and two. Good. Amherst got the pace down perfectly. This is the exact speed that you should be doing these. And even if you don't have space at home to move forward, use whatever space you have. The most important thing is you're giving 100% to each one of these exercises. Go to about five seconds. Five, four, three, two and one. Rest. All right. Moving into our next drill dynamic jumps. Amherst is going to get in position. By this time you're tired, guys. Stay in the zone. You're so close to being done. Here we go. Good. Landing softly keeping the core nice and tight. If you guys don't have space at home, it's okay. Just go forward one, turn around, go back the other direction one. Use whatever space you have available to you. So you're over halfway there. You're heading the game. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one time. Good. Shake out for a couple seconds. Good. Moving into our next exercise speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and show us how it's done. Good. Really jumping out to the side, bringing that leg behind. If you're not comfortable with this movement or your beginner, it's okay. Do it at a little bit slower. You don't have to jump out quite as far until you kind of get your balance. One of the keys to the exercise is staying low to the ground. You're better than that. It's more better than that. You wouldn't be on this page. You're on the clutch work. Come on. You guys are champions. Good. We've got three seconds left. Three, two and one time. Alright, moving on to our next exercise. Jump rope. Go ahead and grab the jump ropes. You guys. You're almost there. Use this exercise lay it all out there. If you've got anything left in the tank, now is the time to use it. Go as hard as you can. Amber's an excellent jump rope or so. We'll see what that looks like for her. Good. Again, if you don't have a jump rope, simulate it at home, just keep the intensity up. This is your last exercise you guys have made through the whole workout. Good. These last 10 seconds just push it. 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 time. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. For a exercise, the sitting twist. Let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated. His feet are up. And he's just going to twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell, that's completely fine for our first sit today. We're just going to use straight up body weight. Good. About halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, right into a plank. Good. So you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him come up just the tank. Good. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs susceptible on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. 2, 1. Okay. Right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up and he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already in a flex position. His starting position is flex. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into V-sit. So Michael is going to sit up. Modified V-sit. He's going to eat up and he's crossing over. Perfect. This requires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just 5 more seconds. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And 10 seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see they want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tricep in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of this. He's really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down. You're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. It's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about ten seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One. Let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. Oh, he's on it. He's feet are up, of course tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect plank position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big big no-no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Thanks. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D-C-C-Bin-Rabs. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing. You cardiovascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. Twenty seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. Ten seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into modified V-Sits. All right, so he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. There's deceivingly amazing two for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah, that's right. Every exercise we're doing we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working more front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go at three, two, one, time. Right into a cross crunch. It's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. Really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One, let's move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Michael's going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. His hands are on the ground. He's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into a quadruped alternating. Going to flip back over. He's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to to stay in that flex position and then switching right back over. We've worked the front of the body. Now we're working the backside of the body. Perfect. This is a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes. And one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. So he's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment. We'll take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one right back over. Good. Last set. We are so close. Perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael is just swinging he's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out and stabilized before he moved it to the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. I feel I can feel it. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio and Core Workout： Day 19 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [e9LD7HoJONg].txt ===

All right, let's get today started with your cardio workout. So today's workout, you're going to start with a dynamic warmup. You're going to then move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout, you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope, you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout, we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd's white. Ready to kill it. So remember, for today's workout and every workout in this trainer, you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay, so let's get started with a dynamic warmup. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. 30 now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You're really just trying to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard, but you definitely want to be an intensity, probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay, you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up, you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one, switch. Okay, so again, she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide, which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise, can you just rotate from them? So the butt kick exercise, you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay, 15 seconds left. Again, keeping the arms nice and loose. Throughout all of these exercises, we're also warming up the upper body, even though what you see is the lower body working. Good, five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles. Ready, go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. Good. 15 seconds. Good, she's keeping her arms perpendicular with her shoulder. Good, five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise, you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise, you go through dynamic movements like this. So make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. Yeah, we've got the set, five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice are really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you put on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. And keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. You can get yourself for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. So we're going to go right into the stretch one more time. So again, while you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing, I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Good five, four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout. And that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Good, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good, sure, keep your knee. Good, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good, so Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running. This is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one, come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good, again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. But we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Or arms are staying nice and loose. Five, four, three, two, one, good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity, which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough, okay, three, two, one, she's going to let this arm down. I'm bringing it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique, it can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm is back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll feel this in the tricep. A lot of you will also feel this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, you know, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Okay, right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Okay, go three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. Okay, 10 seconds left on this side. Good. Five, four, three, two, one, go. Shake it out. Come back up. Okay, that 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoe stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliostoe stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Okay, relax. Good. Just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoe as is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do it. The beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Okay, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she got to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing this stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back. So you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's gonna go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I think I keep in the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall. While she's doing this, she's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it. Make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next Amber is gonna move into the low back stretch. So she's just gonna lay on her back. And most of you have done this. Have done a stretch like this. Okay, she's just gonna bring one knee over her body. Good and she's gonna rotate. Good. So this stretch is gonna go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your blue. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna come back over. Then come right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner, help you stretch. That'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes you use your own body what you can't get quite far enough. Good, 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So now Amber is gonna switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. You can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna shake it out. And move right back across. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine. Everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay, three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber's gonna go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just gonna sit up. And just gonna cross one leg across the other. And she's gonna use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keep it this leg nice and straight. Good. Okay. Seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's gonna shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So just gonna shake that side out. She can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's gonna help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber's shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you was eating that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow controlled jog. Okay, good. So Amber's just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. So as you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going with double the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. She's going to get in her stance. She's just to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight, working that transverse plane emotion. It's great for the core. Every one of these exercise in this cardio workout really works the entire body if you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school and your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, what's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up to your hamstring and really work the legs. She got 10 more seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to have to do defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many, so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good. Three, two and one. Good. Okay, so next up is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have done mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good. She's pushing all the way up. Good. She's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a, this is a killer cardio exercise. This is deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next up is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight, bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber's using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. Good. Good. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next up we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up and a halfway up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs, your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control to complete this movement. So just engage the core, get your core going. At this point in the workout, you're getting tired, you're sweating, you're breathing hard, keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise at this round. It's a square hot. So Amber's going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time and then she's going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements just bring in beautiful lines of definition to the legs, Amber and a ton, a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility, they're moving on the field and on the court. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. So kicking off round two with a slow control jog, Amber's ready. Here we go. Again, controlling the core, controlling the movement. Sometimes these slower movements are even harder than the fast movements. You really want to try and master this exercise. Again, because it's an amazing exercise, not just for the legs, but also for your core. Good. 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, we're going to switch right into a honey jog. Amber's coming up with her knees coming up past her belly button. You should be doing the same thing at home. This is round two. So if you're tired, lock it out, keep going. You've totally got this. Yes, it's hard, but it's going to be completely worth it at the end of the workout. Good. So we got 10 seconds left. She's bringing her arms up. She's bringing her legs up. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up is punches, working the upper body. She's punching all the way out. If you're at home, yes, you're going to be a little bit tired by this point in time, but don't hold back on any of these exercises. Keep going. It's going to be worth it. So this is a great exercise. Working the shoulders, working the abs. Make sure you're keeping your core nice and tight. 15 seconds left. Keep the intensity up. Good. 10 seconds. 10 seconds. Keep punching out. Keep punching it out. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, good. Moving right into the slide jump shot. Amber's sliding. She's down. She's exploding up. Good. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure you're keeping your intensity up. You want to be at the same speed that Amber's at. Don't slow down. Keep going. Good. 15 seconds left. Good. 10 seconds left. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Good. Still exploding up. Your legs are going to be tired. That's okay. Just do your best. Good. Two. One. Good. Moving right into a bodyweight power squat. So Amber's making sure her feet are nice and wide. She's driving right up through the heel. A lot of times people at the gym I see them bring their knee out past their toe. That's terrible for your knees. It doesn't do your glutes any favor because you're putting all all of your weight right on that quad. Make sure you're staying back on that heel. Good. We've got eight seconds left. You guys. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up we have a defensive slide. There she goes. Good. So again, when you're doing these, try and stay as low as possible to the ground. I know at this point in time your body started to get tired. That's okay. Just get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can and stay as low as possible. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Now we're bringing it right back up to a vertical mountain climber. Good. We're reaching tall. The knees are coming up. Don't short cut this exercise at home. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Ten. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Give it your body a little bit of a break with the switch feet. Good. So again, keep those legs nice and straight. Keep working the arms. 15 seconds left. We're getting so close to the end of this round to keep pushing forward. Don't let your mind stop you from pushing yourself physically. You can control how hard you push. It's all right up here. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Just going to move right into half tough jumps next. Again, working the explosive movement. Good. Good. She's breathing. She's keeping her core tight. Good. As you're doing these at home, don't stop jumping. Make sure that you're jumping. Make sure that you're breathing. Make sure that you're keep going. You're so close to being done with this round. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right into your square hop. Your last exercise of this round. Keep the intensity up. Good. She's moving through this like a boss. Good. Again, switching every each time you complete the square. It's that change of movement. Sorry. The change in direction that makes this exercise very difficult. So make sure that you're doing that. Good. Just about eight seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. And one. End of that round. Tilt it. Get your energy back up. Get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one. Slow control jog. So this is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid just because you've already done two of these. They're going to get out of this program exactly what you put in. Just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Okay. Moving right into a honey jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. Good. 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Great. So next we're moving right into punches. Getting position. Ready? Go ahead. Good. So again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up. Slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to and begin. Good. Again, you want to stay as low as possible with this slide by the last round. What your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Ten seconds. Five seconds. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Go shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. Again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time. Like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet, really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Good. Take a breather if you need it. Just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing for these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay. Moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an abstract, core straight intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good shake it out. Right. Moving right into half tuck jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything. That's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise. Shake it out. Last exercise of this round. Square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity of speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on. You guys push through. Block it out of your mind. Keep going. So often people give up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right guys. We are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get a started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at account of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not play it that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Go to about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds three two one. Good. Right away we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds she's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two one drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Two more. Good and drop. Last one. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. We went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine but please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good about 10 seconds left keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second count down five, four, three, two and one. Okay moving on to the next exercise. This is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So this is like a normal jumping jack except amped up right. So as you're coming up you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so these amazingly again get all the way out with your arms all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs five, four, three, two and one. Great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys it's a split except you're not coming down all the way. Again it's a fast movement you want to get get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise you're not leaning forward. You want to stay totally up right in straight. Good halfway there. Again make sure that you're staying straight. Keep the front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good five, four, three, two and one. All right so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got her legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit so you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good. Stay light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving again a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four, three, two and one. All right shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. Just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then you're moving right into a feet jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One, two, three and four. One, two, good. One, two, three and four. One, two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going keep pushing through. Good five seconds. Two and one. Good. Shake it out. Now for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half jacks. Good. Okay so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump but she's going to be covering ground. She's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees then jumping out landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have you can do three jumps you can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds just depends on where you're working out today. Good five more seconds four three two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Speed skaters. All right so Amber is going to go ahead. So another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. All right so this is a great movement for the leg. It's great movement for the glutes. Make sure again you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about half way there. Good. About five seconds left five four three two and one. Okay. Next exercise jump rope. My Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have a jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope you can do this without one. Just use your own bodyweight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them. And then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. 10 seconds left five four three two and one. Great job you guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again keeping your energy up. You've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. You're doing this program. Boca seeing solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we got five seconds left four three two and one. Great. Okay. We'll be right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good down. Good down. Down. Good. You got two more. And down. Last one you guys keep going. Keep going. And down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jump in jack. Should those arms are coming out. This movement, even if it's body weight, still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. Good. So again you're floating out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. Your halfway there. You guys I know that you're tired by this point in the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. Got three seconds, three, two and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. There we go. So again you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really, this is a great exercise not just for the legs but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements but if you ask them to stand on one leg they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds. Here we go. Four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a switch kick. Again keep your legs next and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms, the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jackfeet on a four, two count. One, two, three and four and then two of the jackfeet. One, two, three and four. Jackfeet again if you're doing this at home and this movement is too advanced for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. Good. About halfway there you guys keep pushing. I know you're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two and one. Okay good. Take a couple seconds, shake it out. Take a couple deep rest of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. Alright let's get it started. Here we go. Good. Amber's got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again land like an ninja. Don't land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. Alright moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and get behind here. Alright Amber's going to push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can which will be with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Job. Take five seconds, shake it out. Alright go ahead and get your jump rope. This is going to be our last exercise of this round. Good and again. You best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again you guys this is the last exercise you really want to go 100% keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job you guys. Get some water. Take a break. Alright so we've three and four of this program. We're doing three rounds of this second circuit. Let's go ahead and get right into it with the lateral speed knees. Good. Again coming across on account of three, three, two, one and Amber's get transitioning out. Again don't drop that foot. Do not drop that inside foot. Bring those knees up as high as possible. Again guys this is your last round. This is where you just lay it all out on the line. Don't hold anything back. Good. About 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Good. Alright shake it out. Move it on to the next exercise, football up downs. Amber's going to go ahead and get her fast knees and drop. Good. Four, three, two, one, drop. Four, three, two, one, drop. Five, four, three, two, one, drop. We've got one more. Great job you guys. Make sure on those that you're really getting those feet going as fast as possible. Drop and get him back up as fast as possible. Alright moving on to the next exercise, feet jacks. Again get your arms. Your arms should be coming out wide like you're doing a lateral raise. Keep the intensity up. Again this is your last round. Keep the intensity up. You're so close to being done. Good. Coming up on 10 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Alright moving on to the next exercise, plyo jumping jacks. So again make sure this is explosive. As you need to take a lot, an extra second or two between jumps that's fine. Just make sure you're going at all out in 10 seconds. For each one of you that's going to be different, especially in the beginning weeks. As you move on to the later weeks, you should be getting better. Alright we've got 10 seconds left. Again if you can't do it at this pace that's okay, do it at your pace. Just make sure you're going 100%. Three, two and one. Good job you guys. Let's take it out. Alright beginning our next exercise, many split squats. I want to make sure that you're not bringing that knee out over your toe. Keep it in the knees nice and safe. Keep your core nice and tight. Good again this is a great exercise for balance. I've got about 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Keep going. Good we've got 10 seconds. That's I can speed up the pace a little but if you can, you can go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Shape it out moving on to our next exercise. Switz kick. Moving right into it. Again keep those legs nice and tight. This is a great exercise for the wards for the arms. This is called a switch kick because it's tough because it should happen really really fast. It's a switch should happen fast. About halfway there. Amherst killing it. But 10 seconds. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Time. Good. Take about five seconds shake out. Go ahead and move right into the next exercise. Running lunge and jack feet with a four, two count. Go. Good. Two, three, two, one and two. Good. Amherst got the pace down perfectly. This is the exact speed that you should be doing these. And even if you don't have space at home to move forward, use whatever space you have. The most important thing is you're giving 100% to each one of these exercises. Go to about five seconds. Five, four, three, two and one. Rest. All right. Moving into our next drill dynamic jumps. Amherst is going to get in position. By this time you're tired, guys. Stay in the zone. You're so close to being done. Here we go. Good. Landing softly keeping the core nice and tight. If you guys don't have space at home, it's okay. Just go forward one, turn around, go back the other direction one. Use whatever space you have available to you. So you're over halfway there. You're heading the game. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one time. Good. Shake out for a couple seconds. Good. Moving into our next exercise speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and show us how it's done. Good. Really jumping out to the side, bringing that leg behind. If you're not comfortable with this movement or your beginner, it's okay. Do it at a little bit slower. You don't have to jump out quite as far until you kind of get your balance. One of the keys to the exercise is staying low to the ground. You're better than that. It's more better than that. You wouldn't be on this page. You're on the clutch work. Come on. You guys are champions. Good. We've got three seconds left. Three, two and one time. Alright, moving on to our next exercise. Jump rope. Go ahead and grab the jump ropes. You guys. You're almost there. Use this exercise lay it all out there. If you've got anything left in the tank, now is the time to use it. Go as hard as you can. Amber's an excellent jump rope or so. We'll see what that looks like for her. Good. Again, if you don't have a jump rope, simulate it at home, just keep the intensity up. This is your last exercise you guys have made through the whole workout. Good. These last 10 seconds just push it. 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 time. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. For a exercise, the sitting twist. Let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated. His feet are up. And he's just going to twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell, that's completely fine for our first sit today. We're just going to use straight up body weight. Good. About halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, right into a plank. Good. So you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him come up just the tank. Good. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs susceptible on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. 2, 1. Okay. Right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up and he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already in a flex position. His starting position is flex. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into V-sit. So Michael is going to sit up. Modified V-sit. He's going to eat up and he's crossing over. Perfect. This requires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just 5 more seconds. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And 10 seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see they want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tricep in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of this. He's really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down. You're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. It's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about ten seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One. Let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. Oh, he's on it. He's feet are up, of course tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect plank position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big big no-no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Thanks. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D-C-C-Bin-Rabs. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing. You cardiovascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. Twenty seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. Ten seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into modified V-Sits. All right, so he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. There's deceivingly amazing two for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah, that's right. Every exercise we're doing we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working more front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go at three, two, one, time. Right into a cross crunch. It's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. Really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One, let's move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Michael's going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. His hands are on the ground. He's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into a quadruped alternating. Going to flip back over. He's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to to stay in that flex position and then switching right back over. We've worked the front of the body. Now we're working the backside of the body. Perfect. This is a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes. And one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. So he's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment. We'll take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one right back over. Good. Last set. We are so close. Perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael is just swinging he's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out and stabilized before he moved it to the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. I feel I can feel it. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio and Core Workout： Day 23 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [d_VX1gtm078].txt ===

All right, let's get today started with your cardio workout. So today's workout, you're going to start with a dynamic warmup. You're going to then move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout, you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope, you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout, we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd's white. Ready to kill it. So remember, for today's workout and every workout in this trainer, you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay, so let's get started with a dynamic warmup. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. 30 now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You're really just trying to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard, but you definitely want to be an intensity, probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay, you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up, you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one, switch. Okay, so again, she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide, which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise, can you just rotate from them? So the butt kick exercise, you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay, 15 seconds left. Again, keeping the arms nice and loose. Throughout all of these exercises, we're also warming up the upper body, even though what you see is the lower body working. Good, five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles. Ready, go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. Good. 15 seconds. Good, she's keeping her arms perpendicular with her shoulder. Good, five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise, you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise, you go through dynamic movements like this. So make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. Yeah, we've got the set, five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice are really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you put on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. And keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. You can get yourself for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. So we're going to go right into the stretch one more time. So again, while you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing, I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Good five, four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout. And that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Good, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good, sure, keep your knee. Good, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good, so Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running. This is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one, come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good, again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. But we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Or arms are staying nice and loose. Five, four, three, two, one, good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity, which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough, okay, three, two, one, she's going to let this arm down. I'm bringing it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique, it can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm is back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll feel this in the tricep. A lot of you will also feel this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, you know, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Okay, right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Okay, go three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. Okay, 10 seconds left on this side. Good. Five, four, three, two, one, go. Shake it out. Come back up. Okay, that 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoe stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliostoe stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Okay, relax. Good. Just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoe as is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do it. The beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Okay, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she got to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing this stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back. So you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's gonna go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I think I keep in the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall. While she's doing this, she's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it. Make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next Amber is gonna move into the low back stretch. So she's just gonna lay on her back. And most of you have done this. Have done a stretch like this. Okay, she's just gonna bring one knee over her body. Good and she's gonna rotate. Good. So this stretch is gonna go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your blue. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna come back over. Then come right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner, help you stretch. That'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes you use your own body what you can't get quite far enough. Good, 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So now Amber is gonna switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. You can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna shake it out. And move right back across. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine. Everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay, three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber's gonna go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just gonna sit up. And just gonna cross one leg across the other. And she's gonna use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keep it this leg nice and straight. Good. Okay. Seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's gonna shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So just gonna shake that side out. She can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's gonna help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber's shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you was eating that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow controlled jog. Okay, good. So Amber's just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. So as you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going with double the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. She's going to get in her stance. She's just to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight, working that transverse plane emotion. It's great for the core. Every one of these exercise in this cardio workout really works the entire body if you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school and your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, what's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up to your hamstring and really work the legs. She got 10 more seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to have to do defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many, so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good. Three, two and one. Good. Okay, so next up is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have done mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good. She's pushing all the way up. Good. She's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a, this is a killer cardio exercise. This is deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next up is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight, bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber's using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. Good. Good. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next up we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up and a halfway up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs, your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control to complete this movement. So just engage the core, get your core going. At this point in the workout, you're getting tired, you're sweating, you're breathing hard, keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise at this round. It's a square hot. So Amber's going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time and then she's going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements just bring in beautiful lines of definition to the legs, Amber and a ton, a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility, they're moving on the field and on the court. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. So kicking off round two with a slow control jog, Amber's ready. Here we go. Again, controlling the core, controlling the movement. Sometimes these slower movements are even harder than the fast movements. You really want to try and master this exercise. Again, because it's an amazing exercise, not just for the legs, but also for your core. Good. 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, we're going to switch right into a honey jog. Amber's coming up with her knees coming up past her belly button. You should be doing the same thing at home. This is round two. So if you're tired, lock it out, keep going. You've totally got this. Yes, it's hard, but it's going to be completely worth it at the end of the workout. Good. So we got 10 seconds left. She's bringing her arms up. She's bringing her legs up. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up is punches, working the upper body. She's punching all the way out. If you're at home, yes, you're going to be a little bit tired by this point in time, but don't hold back on any of these exercises. Keep going. It's going to be worth it. So this is a great exercise. Working the shoulders, working the abs. Make sure you're keeping your core nice and tight. 15 seconds left. Keep the intensity up. Good. 10 seconds. 10 seconds. Keep punching out. Keep punching it out. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, good. Moving right into the slide jump shot. Amber's sliding. She's down. She's exploding up. Good. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure you're keeping your intensity up. You want to be at the same speed that Amber's at. Don't slow down. Keep going. Good. 15 seconds left. Good. 10 seconds left. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Good. Still exploding up. Your legs are going to be tired. That's okay. Just do your best. Good. Two. One. Good. Moving right into a bodyweight power squat. So Amber's making sure her feet are nice and wide. She's driving right up through the heel. A lot of times people at the gym I see them bring their knee out past their toe. That's terrible for your knees. It doesn't do your glutes any favor because you're putting all all of your weight right on that quad. Make sure you're staying back on that heel. Good. We've got eight seconds left. You guys. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up we have a defensive slide. There she goes. Good. So again, when you're doing these, try and stay as low as possible to the ground. I know at this point in time your body started to get tired. That's okay. Just get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can and stay as low as possible. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Now we're bringing it right back up to a vertical mountain climber. Good. We're reaching tall. The knees are coming up. Don't short cut this exercise at home. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Ten. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Give it your body a little bit of a break with the switch feet. Good. So again, keep those legs nice and straight. Keep working the arms. 15 seconds left. We're getting so close to the end of this round to keep pushing forward. Don't let your mind stop you from pushing yourself physically. You can control how hard you push. It's all right up here. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Just going to move right into half tough jumps next. Again, working the explosive movement. Good. Good. She's breathing. She's keeping her core tight. Good. As you're doing these at home, don't stop jumping. Make sure that you're jumping. Make sure that you're breathing. Make sure that you're keep going. You're so close to being done with this round. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right into your square hop. Your last exercise of this round. Keep the intensity up. Good. She's moving through this like a boss. Good. Again, switching every each time you complete the square. It's that change of movement. Sorry. The change in direction that makes this exercise very difficult. So make sure that you're doing that. Good. Just about eight seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. And one. End of that round. Tilt it. Get your energy back up. Get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one. Slow control jog. So this is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid just because you've already done two of these. They're going to get out of this program exactly what you put in. Just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Okay. Moving right into a honey jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. Good. 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Great. So next we're moving right into punches. Getting position. Ready? Go ahead. Good. So again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up. Slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to and begin. Good. Again, you want to stay as low as possible with this slide by the last round. What your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Ten seconds. Five seconds. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Go shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. Again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time. Like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet, really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Good. Take a breather if you need it. Just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing for these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay. Moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an abstract, core straight intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good shake it out. Right. Moving right into half tuck jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything. That's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise. Shake it out. Last exercise of this round. Square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity of speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on. You guys push through. Block it out of your mind. Keep going. So often people give up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right guys. We are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get a started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at account of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not play it that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Go to about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds three two one. Good. Right away we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds she's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two one drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Two more. Good and drop. Last one. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. We went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine but please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good about 10 seconds left keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second count down five, four, three, two and one. Okay moving on to the next exercise. This is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So this is like a normal jumping jack except amped up right. So as you're coming up you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so these amazingly again get all the way out with your arms all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs five, four, three, two and one. Great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys it's a split except you're not coming down all the way. Again it's a fast movement you want to get get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise you're not leaning forward. You want to stay totally up right in straight. Good halfway there. Again make sure that you're staying straight. Keep the front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good five, four, three, two and one. All right so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got her legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit so you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good. Stay light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving again a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four, three, two and one. All right shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. Just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then you're moving right into a feet jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One, two, three and four. One, two, good. One, two, three and four. One, two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going keep pushing through. Good five seconds. Two and one. Good. Shake it out. Now for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half jacks. Good. Okay so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump but she's going to be covering ground. She's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees then jumping out landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have you can do three jumps you can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds just depends on where you're working out today. Good five more seconds four three two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Speed skaters. All right so Amber is going to go ahead. So another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. All right so this is a great movement for the leg. It's great movement for the glutes. Make sure again you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about half way there. Good. About five seconds left five four three two and one. Okay. Next exercise jump rope. My Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have a jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope you can do this without one. Just use your own bodyweight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them. And then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. 10 seconds left five four three two and one. Great job you guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again keeping your energy up. You've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. You're doing this program. Boca seeing solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we got five seconds left four three two and one. Great. Okay. We'll be right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good down. Good down. Down. Good. You got two more. And down. Last one you guys keep going. Keep going. And down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jump in jack. Should those arms are coming out. This movement, even if it's body weight, still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. Good. So again you're floating out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. Your halfway there. You guys I know that you're tired by this point in the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. Got three seconds, three, two and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. There we go. So again you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really, this is a great exercise not just for the legs but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements but if you ask them to stand on one leg they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds. Here we go. Four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a switch kick. Again keep your legs next and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms, the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jackfeet on a four, two count. One, two, three and four and then two of the jackfeet. One, two, three and four. Jackfeet again if you're doing this at home and this movement is too advanced for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. Good. About halfway there you guys keep pushing. I know you're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two and one. Okay good. Take a couple seconds, shake it out. Take a couple deep rest of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. Alright let's get it started. Here we go. Good. Amber's got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again land like an ninja. Don't land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. Alright moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and get behind here. Alright Amber's going to push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can which will be with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Job. Take five seconds, shake it out. Alright go ahead and get your jump rope. This is going to be our last exercise of this round. Good and again. You best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again you guys this is the last exercise you really want to go 100% keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job you guys. Get some water. Take a break. Alright so we've three and four of this program. We're doing three rounds of this second circuit. Let's go ahead and get right into it with the lateral speed knees. Good. Again coming across on account of three, three, two, one and Amber's get transitioning out. Again don't drop that foot. Do not drop that inside foot. Bring those knees up as high as possible. Again guys this is your last round. This is where you just lay it all out on the line. Don't hold anything back. Good. About 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Good. Alright shake it out. Move it on to the next exercise, football up downs. Amber's going to go ahead and get her fast knees and drop. Good. Four, three, two, one, drop. Four, three, two, one, drop. Five, four, three, two, one, drop. We've got one more. Great job you guys. Make sure on those that you're really getting those feet going as fast as possible. Drop and get him back up as fast as possible. Alright moving on to the next exercise, feet jacks. Again get your arms. Your arms should be coming out wide like you're doing a lateral raise. Keep the intensity up. Again this is your last round. Keep the intensity up. You're so close to being done. Good. Coming up on 10 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Alright moving on to the next exercise, plyo jumping jacks. So again make sure this is explosive. As you need to take a lot, an extra second or two between jumps that's fine. Just make sure you're going at all out in 10 seconds. For each one of you that's going to be different, especially in the beginning weeks. As you move on to the later weeks, you should be getting better. Alright we've got 10 seconds left. Again if you can't do it at this pace that's okay, do it at your pace. Just make sure you're going 100%. Three, two and one. Good job you guys. Let's take it out. Alright beginning our next exercise, many split squats. I want to make sure that you're not bringing that knee out over your toe. Keep it in the knees nice and safe. Keep your core nice and tight. Good again this is a great exercise for balance. I've got about 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Keep going. Good we've got 10 seconds. That's I can speed up the pace a little but if you can, you can go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Shape it out moving on to our next exercise. Switz kick. Moving right into it. Again keep those legs nice and tight. This is a great exercise for the wards for the arms. This is called a switch kick because it's tough because it should happen really really fast. It's a switch should happen fast. About halfway there. Amherst killing it. But 10 seconds. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Time. Good. Take about five seconds shake out. Go ahead and move right into the next exercise. Running lunge and jack feet with a four, two count. Go. Good. Two, three, two, one and two. Good. Amherst got the pace down perfectly. This is the exact speed that you should be doing these. And even if you don't have space at home to move forward, use whatever space you have. The most important thing is you're giving 100% to each one of these exercises. Go to about five seconds. Five, four, three, two and one. Rest. All right. Moving into our next drill dynamic jumps. Amherst is going to get in position. By this time you're tired, guys. Stay in the zone. You're so close to being done. Here we go. Good. Landing softly keeping the core nice and tight. If you guys don't have space at home, it's okay. Just go forward one, turn around, go back the other direction one. Use whatever space you have available to you. So you're over halfway there. You're heading the game. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one time. Good. Shake out for a couple seconds. Good. Moving into our next exercise speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and show us how it's done. Good. Really jumping out to the side, bringing that leg behind. If you're not comfortable with this movement or your beginner, it's okay. Do it at a little bit slower. You don't have to jump out quite as far until you kind of get your balance. One of the keys to the exercise is staying low to the ground. You're better than that. It's more better than that. You wouldn't be on this page. You're on the clutch work. Come on. You guys are champions. Good. We've got three seconds left. Three, two and one time. Alright, moving on to our next exercise. Jump rope. Go ahead and grab the jump ropes. You guys. You're almost there. Use this exercise lay it all out there. If you've got anything left in the tank, now is the time to use it. Go as hard as you can. Amber's an excellent jump rope or so. We'll see what that looks like for her. Good. Again, if you don't have a jump rope, simulate it at home, just keep the intensity up. This is your last exercise you guys have made through the whole workout. Good. These last 10 seconds just push it. 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 time. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. For a exercise, the sitting twist. Let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated. His feet are up. And he's just going to twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell, that's completely fine for our first sit today. We're just going to use straight up body weight. Good. About halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, right into a plank. Good. So you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him come up just the tank. Good. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs susceptible on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. 2, 1. Okay. Right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up and he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already in a flex position. His starting position is flex. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into V-sit. So Michael is going to sit up. Modified V-sit. He's going to eat up and he's crossing over. Perfect. This requires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just 5 more seconds. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And 10 seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see they want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tricep in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of this. He's really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down. You're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. It's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about ten seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One. Let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. Oh, he's on it. He's feet are up, of course tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect plank position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big big no-no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Thanks. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D-C-C-Bin-Rabs. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing. You cardiovascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. Twenty seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. Ten seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into modified V-Sits. All right, so he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. There's deceivingly amazing two for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah, that's right. Every exercise we're doing we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working more front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go at three, two, one, time. Right into a cross crunch. It's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. Really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One, let's move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Michael's going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. His hands are on the ground. He's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into a quadruped alternating. Going to flip back over. He's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to to stay in that flex position and then switching right back over. We've worked the front of the body. Now we're working the backside of the body. Perfect. This is a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes. And one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. So he's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment. We'll take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one right back over. Good. Last set. We are so close. Perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael is just swinging he's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out and stabilized before he moved it to the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. I feel I can feel it. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio and Core Workout： Day 26 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [LuQlWcb4vcc].txt ===

All right, let's get today started with your cardio workout. So today's workout, you're going to start with a dynamic warmup. You're going to then move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout, you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope, you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout, we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd's white. Ready to kill it. So remember, for today's workout and every workout in this trainer, you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay, so let's get started with a dynamic warmup. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. 30 now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You're really just trying to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard, but you definitely want to be an intensity, probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay, you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up, you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one, switch. Okay, so again, she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide, which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise, can you just rotate from them? So the butt kick exercise, you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay, 15 seconds left. Again, keeping the arms nice and loose. Throughout all of these exercises, we're also warming up the upper body, even though what you see is the lower body working. Good, five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles. Ready, go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. Good. 15 seconds. Good, she's keeping her arms perpendicular with her shoulder. Good, five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise, you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise, you go through dynamic movements like this. So make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. Yeah, we've got the set, five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching, you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice are really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch, you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you put on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again, on the second round, you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. And keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch, which is a quad stretch. You can get yourself for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable. If you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch, it's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. So we're going to go right into the stretch one more time. So again, while you're going through these stretch exercises, you really want to make sure that you're breathing, I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Good five, four, three, two, one. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout. And that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds, let it shake it out. Good, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good, sure, keep your knee. Good, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. You see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough. That's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good, so five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good, so Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running. This is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked in this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good, two, one, come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good, again, while she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching. You're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up. But we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Or arms are staying nice and loose. Five, four, three, two, one, good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity, which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. The other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough, okay, three, two, one, she's going to let this arm down. I'm bringing it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract the whole body. Don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. Good. And again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique, it can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which again can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one. Shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or at this at the beginning or the end of any workout, they're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And we're just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm is back and she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll feel this in the tricep. A lot of you will also feel this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, you know, because it attaches in the low back, if it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. Okay, right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Okay, go three, two, one, Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. Okay, 10 seconds left on this side. Good. Five, four, three, two, one, go. Shake it out. Come back up. Okay, that 10 more seconds left. Coming up, we have the Iliostoe stretch. She's going back down on the ground. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliostoe stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So you're leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Okay, relax. Good. Just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliostoe as is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do it. The beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Okay, so she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she got to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing this stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back. So you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's gonna go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay, go ahead and get right back into it. I think I keep in the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall. While she's doing this, she's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for it. Make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So next Amber is gonna move into the low back stretch. So she's just gonna lay on her back. And most of you have done this. Have done a stretch like this. Okay, she's just gonna bring one knee over her body. Good and she's gonna rotate. Good. So this stretch is gonna go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even feel this in parts of your blue. Good, 10 seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna come back over. Then come right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side if you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip. If you don't have obviously a partner, help you stretch. That'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes you use your own body what you can't get quite far enough. Good, 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. So now Amber is gonna switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. You can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. It's gonna shake it out. And move right back across. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed. Because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine. Everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay, three, two, one. Good and stop. So Amber's gonna go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. Just gonna sit up. And just gonna cross one leg across the other. And she's gonna use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keep it this leg nice and straight. Good. Okay. Seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's gonna shake it out for a second. Bring it right back up. Good. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. 10 seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So just gonna shake that side out. She can move onto the next side. So again, pulling the knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's gonna help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber's shaking now. She's bringing the leg right back across. Again, you was eating that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch, you can also twist your body slightly. So we've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow controlled jog. Okay, good. So Amber's just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. So as you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going with double the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. She's going to get in her stance. She's just to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight, working that transverse plane emotion. It's great for the core. Every one of these exercise in this cardio workout really works the entire body if you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school and your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, what's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up to your hamstring and really work the legs. She got 10 more seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to have to do defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many, so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good. Three, two and one. Good. Okay, so next up is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have done mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good. She's pushing all the way up. Good. She's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a, this is a killer cardio exercise. This is deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next up is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight, bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber's using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. Good. Good. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next up we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up and a halfway up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs, your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control to complete this movement. So just engage the core, get your core going. At this point in the workout, you're getting tired, you're sweating, you're breathing hard, keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise at this round. It's a square hot. So Amber's going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time and then she's going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements just bring in beautiful lines of definition to the legs, Amber and a ton, a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility, they're moving on the field and on the court. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. So kicking off round two with a slow control jog, Amber's ready. Here we go. Again, controlling the core, controlling the movement. Sometimes these slower movements are even harder than the fast movements. You really want to try and master this exercise. Again, because it's an amazing exercise, not just for the legs, but also for your core. Good. 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, we're going to switch right into a honey jog. Amber's coming up with her knees coming up past her belly button. You should be doing the same thing at home. This is round two. So if you're tired, lock it out, keep going. You've totally got this. Yes, it's hard, but it's going to be completely worth it at the end of the workout. Good. So we got 10 seconds left. She's bringing her arms up. She's bringing her legs up. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up is punches, working the upper body. She's punching all the way out. If you're at home, yes, you're going to be a little bit tired by this point in time, but don't hold back on any of these exercises. Keep going. It's going to be worth it. So this is a great exercise. Working the shoulders, working the abs. Make sure you're keeping your core nice and tight. 15 seconds left. Keep the intensity up. Good. 10 seconds. 10 seconds. Keep punching out. Keep punching it out. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, good. Moving right into the slide jump shot. Amber's sliding. She's down. She's exploding up. Good. Good. You're doing these at home. Make sure you're keeping your intensity up. You want to be at the same speed that Amber's at. Don't slow down. Keep going. Good. 15 seconds left. Good. 10 seconds left. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Good. Still exploding up. Your legs are going to be tired. That's okay. Just do your best. Good. Two. One. Good. Moving right into a bodyweight power squat. So Amber's making sure her feet are nice and wide. She's driving right up through the heel. A lot of times people at the gym I see them bring their knee out past their toe. That's terrible for your knees. It doesn't do your glutes any favor because you're putting all all of your weight right on that quad. Make sure you're staying back on that heel. Good. We've got eight seconds left. You guys. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up we have a defensive slide. There she goes. Good. So again, when you're doing these, try and stay as low as possible to the ground. I know at this point in time your body started to get tired. That's okay. Just get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can and stay as low as possible. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Now we're bringing it right back up to a vertical mountain climber. Good. We're reaching tall. The knees are coming up. Don't short cut this exercise at home. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Ten. Nine. Eight. Seven. Six. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Give it your body a little bit of a break with the switch feet. Good. So again, keep those legs nice and straight. Keep working the arms. 15 seconds left. We're getting so close to the end of this round to keep pushing forward. Don't let your mind stop you from pushing yourself physically. You can control how hard you push. It's all right up here. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Just going to move right into half tough jumps next. Again, working the explosive movement. Good. Good. She's breathing. She's keeping her core tight. Good. As you're doing these at home, don't stop jumping. Make sure that you're jumping. Make sure that you're breathing. Make sure that you're keep going. You're so close to being done with this round. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Good. Moving right into your square hop. Your last exercise of this round. Keep the intensity up. Good. She's moving through this like a boss. Good. Again, switching every each time you complete the square. It's that change of movement. Sorry. The change in direction that makes this exercise very difficult. So make sure that you're doing that. Good. Just about eight seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. And one. End of that round. Tilt it. Get your energy back up. Get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one. Slow control jog. So this is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid just because you've already done two of these. They're going to get out of this program exactly what you put in. Just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Okay. Moving right into a honey jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. Good. 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Great. So next we're moving right into punches. Getting position. Ready? Go ahead. Good. So again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Next up. Slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to and begin. Good. Again, you want to stay as low as possible with this slide by the last round. What your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Ten seconds. Five seconds. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Go shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. Again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time. Like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet, really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Good. Take a breather if you need it. Just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing for these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay. Moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an abstract, core straight intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good shake it out. Right. Moving right into half tuck jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything. That's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise. Shake it out. Last exercise of this round. Square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity of speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on. You guys push through. Block it out of your mind. Keep going. So often people give up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right guys. We are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get a started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at account of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not play it that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Go to about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds three two one. Good. Right away we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds she's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two one drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Two more. Good and drop. Last one. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. We went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine but please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good about 10 seconds left keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second count down five, four, three, two and one. Okay moving on to the next exercise. This is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So this is like a normal jumping jack except amped up right. So as you're coming up you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so these amazingly again get all the way out with your arms all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs five, four, three, two and one. Great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys it's a split except you're not coming down all the way. Again it's a fast movement you want to get get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise you're not leaning forward. You want to stay totally up right in straight. Good halfway there. Again make sure that you're staying straight. Keep the front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good five, four, three, two and one. All right so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got her legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit so you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good. Stay light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving again a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four, three, two and one. All right shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. Just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then you're moving right into a feet jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One, two, three and four. One, two, good. One, two, three and four. One, two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going keep pushing through. Good five seconds. Two and one. Good. Shake it out. Now for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half jacks. Good. Okay so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump but she's going to be covering ground. She's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees then jumping out landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have you can do three jumps you can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds just depends on where you're working out today. Good five more seconds four three two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Speed skaters. All right so Amber is going to go ahead. So another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. All right so this is a great movement for the leg. It's great movement for the glutes. Make sure again you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about half way there. Good. About five seconds left five four three two and one. Okay. Next exercise jump rope. My Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have a jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope you can do this without one. Just use your own bodyweight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them. And then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. 10 seconds left five four three two and one. Great job you guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again keeping your energy up. You've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. You're doing this program. Boca seeing solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we got five seconds left four three two and one. Great. Okay. We'll be right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good down. Good down. Down. Good. You got two more. And down. Last one you guys keep going. Keep going. And down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jump in jack. Should those arms are coming out. This movement, even if it's body weight, still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. Good. So again you're floating out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. Your halfway there. You guys I know that you're tired by this point in the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. Got three seconds, three, two and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. There we go. So again you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really, this is a great exercise not just for the legs but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements but if you ask them to stand on one leg they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds. Here we go. Four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a switch kick. Again keep your legs next and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms, the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jackfeet on a four, two count. One, two, three and four and then two of the jackfeet. One, two, three and four. Jackfeet again if you're doing this at home and this movement is too advanced for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. Good. About halfway there you guys keep pushing. I know you're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two and one. Okay good. Take a couple seconds, shake it out. Take a couple deep rest of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. Alright let's get it started. Here we go. Good. Amber's got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again land like an ninja. Don't land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. Alright moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and get behind here. Alright Amber's going to push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can which will be with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Job. Take five seconds, shake it out. Alright go ahead and get your jump rope. This is going to be our last exercise of this round. Good and again. You best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again you guys this is the last exercise you really want to go 100% keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job you guys. Get some water. Take a break. Alright so we've three and four of this program. We're doing three rounds of this second circuit. Let's go ahead and get right into it with the lateral speed knees. Good. Again coming across on account of three, three, two, one and Amber's get transitioning out. Again don't drop that foot. Do not drop that inside foot. Bring those knees up as high as possible. Again guys this is your last round. This is where you just lay it all out on the line. Don't hold anything back. Good. About 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Good. Alright shake it out. Move it on to the next exercise, football up downs. Amber's going to go ahead and get her fast knees and drop. Good. Four, three, two, one, drop. Four, three, two, one, drop. Five, four, three, two, one, drop. We've got one more. Great job you guys. Make sure on those that you're really getting those feet going as fast as possible. Drop and get him back up as fast as possible. Alright moving on to the next exercise, feet jacks. Again get your arms. Your arms should be coming out wide like you're doing a lateral raise. Keep the intensity up. Again this is your last round. Keep the intensity up. You're so close to being done. Good. Coming up on 10 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two and one. Alright moving on to the next exercise, plyo jumping jacks. So again make sure this is explosive. As you need to take a lot, an extra second or two between jumps that's fine. Just make sure you're going at all out in 10 seconds. For each one of you that's going to be different, especially in the beginning weeks. As you move on to the later weeks, you should be getting better. Alright we've got 10 seconds left. Again if you can't do it at this pace that's okay, do it at your pace. Just make sure you're going 100%. Three, two and one. Good job you guys. Let's take it out. Alright beginning our next exercise, many split squats. I want to make sure that you're not bringing that knee out over your toe. Keep it in the knees nice and safe. Keep your core nice and tight. Good again this is a great exercise for balance. I've got about 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Keep going. Good we've got 10 seconds. That's I can speed up the pace a little but if you can, you can go five, four, three, two and one. Good. Shape it out moving on to our next exercise. Switz kick. Moving right into it. Again keep those legs nice and tight. This is a great exercise for the wards for the arms. This is called a switch kick because it's tough because it should happen really really fast. It's a switch should happen fast. About halfway there. Amherst killing it. But 10 seconds. 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Time. Good. Take about five seconds shake out. Go ahead and move right into the next exercise. Running lunge and jack feet with a four, two count. Go. Good. Two, three, two, one and two. Good. Amherst got the pace down perfectly. This is the exact speed that you should be doing these. And even if you don't have space at home to move forward, use whatever space you have. The most important thing is you're giving 100% to each one of these exercises. Go to about five seconds. Five, four, three, two and one. Rest. All right. Moving into our next drill dynamic jumps. Amherst is going to get in position. By this time you're tired, guys. Stay in the zone. You're so close to being done. Here we go. Good. Landing softly keeping the core nice and tight. If you guys don't have space at home, it's okay. Just go forward one, turn around, go back the other direction one. Use whatever space you have available to you. So you're over halfway there. You're heading the game. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two and one time. Good. Shake out for a couple seconds. Good. Moving into our next exercise speed skaters. I'm going to go ahead and show us how it's done. Good. Really jumping out to the side, bringing that leg behind. If you're not comfortable with this movement or your beginner, it's okay. Do it at a little bit slower. You don't have to jump out quite as far until you kind of get your balance. One of the keys to the exercise is staying low to the ground. You're better than that. It's more better than that. You wouldn't be on this page. You're on the clutch work. Come on. You guys are champions. Good. We've got three seconds left. Three, two and one time. Alright, moving on to our next exercise. Jump rope. Go ahead and grab the jump ropes. You guys. You're almost there. Use this exercise lay it all out there. If you've got anything left in the tank, now is the time to use it. Go as hard as you can. Amber's an excellent jump rope or so. We'll see what that looks like for her. Good. Again, if you don't have a jump rope, simulate it at home, just keep the intensity up. This is your last exercise you guys have made through the whole workout. Good. These last 10 seconds just push it. 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1 time. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. For a exercise, the sitting twist. Let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated. His feet are up. And he's just going to twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell, that's completely fine for our first sit today. We're just going to use straight up body weight. Good. About halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1, right into a plank. Good. So you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him come up just the tank. Good. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs susceptible on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. 2, 1. Okay. Right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up and he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already in a flex position. His starting position is flex. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good. And 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into V-sit. So Michael is going to sit up. Modified V-sit. He's going to eat up and he's crossing over. Perfect. This requires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just 5 more seconds. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And 10 seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1 time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see they want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tricep in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of this. He's really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down. You're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. It's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about ten seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One. Let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. Oh, he's on it. He's feet are up, of course tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect plank position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big big no-no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Thanks. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D-C-C-Bin-Rabs. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing. You cardiovascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. Twenty seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. Ten seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into modified V-Sits. All right, so he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. There's deceivingly amazing two for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah, that's right. Every exercise we're doing we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working more front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go at three, two, one, time. Right into a cross crunch. It's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. Really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One, let's move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Michael's going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. His hands are on the ground. He's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into a quadruped alternating. Going to flip back over. He's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to to stay in that flex position and then switching right back over. We've worked the front of the body. Now we're working the backside of the body. Perfect. This is a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes. And one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. So he's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment. We'll take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one right back over. Good. Last set. We are so close. Perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael is just swinging he's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out and stabilized before he moved it to the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. I feel I can feel it. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Cardio and Core Workout： Day 9 ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [j01LrFCsuFo].txt ===

So today's workout you're going to start with a dynamic warm up. You're going to move into your stretching and then you're going to do two cardio circuits. So for today's workout you just need your own body weight, a stretch mat if you're working on a hard surface and a jump rope. If you don't have access to a jump rope you can just simulate the movement using your own body weight. So for today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete and fitness model superstar, Amber Elizabeth Dodd's white. Ready to kill it. So remember for today's workout and every workout in this trainer you can follow along in real time using your smartphone, tablet, computer or television. Okay so let's get started with the dynamic warm up. Each one of these exercises is going to be performed for 30 seconds. Your first exercise is jogging in place. Let's go. Starting now. So you really want to keep your shoulders loose. You're really just trying to get the body warm. You don't have to push it too hard but you definitely want to be an intensity of probably around a six or seven out of ten. Okay you have ten more seconds. Next exercise coming up you're going to go straight into your jumping jacks. Three, two, one switch. Okay so again she has a nice wide stance. She's not going 100% but she's still pushing it. The feeder coming out nice and wide which is warming up the legs. Five, four, three, two, one right into butt kicks. So with the butt kick exercise can you just rotate for them? So the butt kick exercise you're keeping your knee right underneath your hip and she's just coming right up and kicking her butt. This is going to warm up the hamstrings. Okay 15 seconds left. Again keeping the arms nice and loose throughout all of these exercises we're also warming up the upper body even though what you see is the lower body working. Good five seconds. So next up is a switch kick with arm circles ready. Go. So this is going to warm up the shoulders, the quads and the calves. 15 seconds. Good she's keeping her arms. Perfecticular with her shoulder. Good five, four, three, two, one right into high knees. So with this exercise you really want to make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up past your belly button. This is going to help warm up the hip flexors and the abs. It's really important that before you exercise you go through dynamic movements like this so make sure that all your joints are lubricated and your muscles are really ready to perform the workout ahead. We've got the set, five, four, three, two, one, stop. So that is the conclusion of the dynamic warm up. Let's go straight into our stretching. So we're going to start with the seated floor hamstring stretch. And again, each one of these is going to be performed for 30 seconds as well. Her legs are straight. If you can't get all the way out to your feet, it's okay. Just go as far as you can go comfortably and you can grab onto your calves. It is really important though that when you are stretching you take yourself slightly out of your comfort zone. I see people at the gym kind of half-assing stretching and you're doing nothing if you're doing that. The idea is to really warm the muscle up. Okay, so now she's going to come back and relax and give it about five seconds and she's going to go right back into the next stretch. Performing stretches twice is really an advantage to the body because on the next stretch you'll see that it's much easier. You can go much farther with the stretch than you could on the first one. So let's go ahead and go right back into it. And again on the second round you're going to be performing the stretch for 30 seconds as well. I'm going to keep your head down. So your head should be down. You should feel the stretch all the way through the back. Okay, moving on to the next stretch which is a quad stretch. You can go for this stretch. You want to make sure that your knee is going straight to the ground. Pull back to where you're comfortable if you have difficulty standing in place and doing this stretch. It's okay to use a wall or whatever is nearby to keep your balance. Four, three, two, one. You're going to go right into the stretch one more time. To get while you're going through these stretch exercises you really want to make sure that you're breathing. I like to tell people that it's really important to kind of get your mindset right for what's ahead. This is an opportunity to really focus on kind of what your goal is for the workout and what you're trying to get out of it. Okay, switch to the other leg. Sometimes when I'm at the gym I see people that while they're stretching, checking social media or posting or doing things like before they're getting ready to get into a workout and that's not what you should be doing when you're in the gym. You really need to kind of tune everything from the outside world out and focus solely on what you're there to do. This is really an opportunity to get your head in the game. So use that opportunity wisely. Okay, 30 seconds. Let it shake it out. Okay, so she's shaking it out and she's going to go right back up again. Good. Actually, keep her knee. Okay, so I'm really trying to get her knee to be parallel to this knee here because that's really what's going to drive the stretch. If you see people doing a quad stretch and they're really not pulling the leg back far enough, that's not going to do a whole lot for you. Good. So five, four, three, two, one. Okay, good. Next stretch is going to be the sumo squat. Let's get into it. Okay, good. So Amber is really putting placing all of the weight on her heels here. This is to really open up the hips, stretch out the groin. A people who do a lot of sitting at a computer or you do a lot of squatting or running this is an area that sometimes gets drastically overlooked and this can lead to a lot of issues with the low back. So this is a really, really great stretch to do not just before you're working out but throughout the day. Good. Two, one. Come back up, shake it out and she's going to go right back down for the next step. I feel good. Okay, good. While she's going through these exercises, she's breathing. Very important to breathe while you're stretching again. Sometimes I see people, they're holding their breath while they're stretching, you're not doing yourself any favor by doing that. You need to pump oxygen into the body. Okay, three, two, one, back up. Okay, next up, we have a dynamic chest stretch. So with this exercise, Amber is going to be going through a movement. Just warming the chest up. You don't want to be tearing through this exercise. You don't want to be like feverishly swinging your arms because again, we're just warming up but we don't want to tear anything. We don't want to injure anything. Her arms are staying nice and loose. Good. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So she's going to just kind of shake out and move on to the next set of this. So each one of these exercises is designed to basically get your body ready for the cardio workout that you're about to do. Again, it's so important to go through dynamic warmups and stretching before you go into something that's high intensity which all the clutch body shop workouts are. So this is a great way to get the body prepared. Three, two, one, good. Shoulder across the chest. So Amber is going to go ahead and lift up. She's applying pressure to the elbow with this hand and bringing the arm across the body. With this stretch, I'm really trying to get into the delt and the rear delt to stretch that out. But the other thing about this stretch that's important to note is if you feel a contraction or pain in your chest, that means that you really need to work on your chest flexibility. Sometimes when you bring the arm across the body, the chest has a tendency to contract. If you're not working on your flexibility in that area enough. Okay, three, two, one. She's going to let this arm down. Bring it across again. Good. So if you guys are doing this at home, again, make sure that you're breathing through the stretches, make sure that you're staying nice and loose. Don't contract. The whole body, don't hold your breath. So often I see people going through these stretch exercises at the gym and they're literally red in the face as they're stretching. That's not the point of this. The point is to start pumping oxygen into your body and to prepare for the workout ahead. Okay, switch. Good. Okay, so she's going to go ahead and start on the other side now. But, and again, stretching also a known to most people. It also can help promote fat loss in the body because what studies have shown is that stretching because it's a relaxation technique. It can help promote lowering of cortisol levels, which, again, can promote better muscle definition, fat loss. It's not just something that is designed to stretch muscles out. Okay, two, one, shake it out. Go ahead and bring it back across. I've seen that with people that spend at least a day stretching it a week or add this at the beginning or the end of any workout. They're going to see better results in their body just because of the fact that the cortisol is dropping and because you're lengthening the muscles out throughout the workout, you're going to get your, how you go better power output. You have more leverage to make the movements happen because you're basically taking a muscle from here instead of here and then contracting. Okay, go ahead and stop. Okay, let's move on. Next up is a tricep stretch. And I'm just going to go ahead and she's going to bring that elbow up her arm as back. And she's using this hand again to just press lightly on her elbow, bringing the arm down. So you'll, you'll fill this in the tricep. A lot of you will also fill this coming down through your lap, which is another area that gets kind of overlooked with stretching and it's very important to keep this area nice and lengthened out because the lap can actually, because it attaches in the low back. If it's not lengthened out, it can really pull on that low back, which you don't want. Good, relax. It's going to shake it out. You're right back up. Good. So for those of you who are doing this at home, this is a stretch that you really want to make sure that that elbow is against your ear. You don't want to have your elbow all the way out here trying to perform this stretch. It should be pressed right against your head and pulled down. Good. Good. 3, 2, 1. Amber's going to go ahead and switch to the other side. 10 seconds left on this side. Good. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Good. Shake it out. I'm back up. Okay, that's 10 more seconds left. Coming up we have the Iliosto-West stretch. She's going back down on the ground. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Okay, good. So Amber's going to get into the Iliosto-West stretch next. She's going to be on one knee and she's going to put her foot slightly past 90 degrees. She's going to flex her glutes and then she's going to sink into this stretch. Once you have your balance, you want to bring your arm up and over your body and then come back. So your leaning back. What this is going to do is it's going to help bring a great stretch into this area. Good. Relax. Good. Just going to shake it out. Go right back into it. The Iliosto-West is a hip flexor that runs right through the core of your body and it attaches in your low back. If it gets too tight, it can cause a lot of back problems, tightness and spasm. So it's a great stretch to do with the beginning and end of any workout. If you're ever at your desk at work and you're feeling like a lot of tightness in your low back, this is your stretch. Good. So she wants to make sure that she's staying back. Good. Three, two, one. Good. So she's going to switch to the other side. Now, if you find that you're doing the stretch and you're not feeling it right through this area, you really, let's get Amber into the position first. Put your hand up. Okay. So if you're in this position and you're not feeling this stretch through here, it's really important that you start leaning back. So I want Amber to bring her body back so you're leaning back and into the stretch. You'll also feel this through parts of your groin. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good and stop. And she's going to go through this one more time. Also, this is great for the quad as well. Okay. Go ahead and get right back into it. Going to keep being the upper body totally straight. She's staying very tall while she's doing this. She's not leaning forward. So if you need to use a mirror while doing this, if you have one available to you, this is a great exercise to use a mirror for to make sure your body is in this perfect position. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So next Amber is going to move into the low back stretch. So she's just going to lay on her back. And most of you have done this. Have done a stretch like this. Okay. She's just going to bring one knee over her body. Good. And she's going to rotate. Good. So this stretch is going to go right through the low back parts of the lat. And sometimes you'll even fill this in parts of your blue. Good. Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Just going to come back over. And then coming right back over. Good. And you can use this hand on this side. If you want to get a better stretch to really use to press against your hip, if you don't have obviously a partner helping you stretch, that'll just help accentuate the stretch even further. Because sometimes using your own body, what you can't get quite far enough. Got 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Okay. Good. So now Amber is going to switch to the other side. Again, bringing that knee down to the ground and keeping everything very relaxed through the leg. And you can use that hand to press your hip further towards the floor to really get deeper into the stretch. This arm should be totally relaxed. You'll also feel a slight chest stretch with this exercise, which is great. Good. So we've got six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. So you can shake it out and move right back across. Good. Sometimes when I see people do this stretch, I'll see this arm start to lift up off the ground. That's not what you want to do. You want to keep that arm nice and relaxed because again, through all these stretches, there's always secondary muscles that are also being stretched. So with this stretch, it's the chest, which is great, right? Because we use our chest a lot for push-ups for this routine, everything from that to overhead press. So it's very important that we keep that nice and stretched. Okay. Three, two, one. Good and stuff. So Amber's going to go ahead and move into a glute stretch next. She's just going to sit up. She's going to cross one leg across the other. And she's going to use this arm to pull her knee into her body. Keeping this leg nice and straight. Good. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two. Good. So she's just going to shake it out for a second and bring it right back up. So again, she's breathing. She's keeping her upper body nice and tall. She's not leaning into the stretch. Ten seconds left. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. She's going to shake that side out and she can move onto the next side. So again, pulling. The knee across. If you don't feel this stretch enough when you pull the knee across, try and twist your leg more this way. That's going to help really pull more glute into the stretch. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. It's great. So Amber is shaking now. She's breathing the leg right back across. Again, using that arm to bring the across and you can see she's just shifted her body weight. So now she's kind of opening up that again. That'll help really open up the low back as well. So you can stay in that original position or if you're trying to get more of a low back stretch. You can also twist your body slightly. We've got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. So now we're going to get right into the first circuit of the cardio workout stretching is over. Go ahead, you'll, if you're using a mat, just go ahead and get it out of the way and get ready for the first circuit. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Every single one of these exercises is going to be for 30 seconds. So let's go ahead and get started. Your first exercise is a slow control jog. Hey, good. So Amber is just balancing and switching from one foot to the other. She's bringing her knees up, working the abs, working the calves, working the upper body. Good. As you're doing this, you want to stay tall. You want to be engaging your abs. You want to be keeping your upper body nice and loose. Got five more seconds. Okay, great. So now we're going to move into a high knee jog. So the intensity is ramping up. Amber's got her knees going. We've doubled the speed. Good. Her arms are straight. Good. She's got 15 seconds left. As you're doing this, make sure you're breathing, bringing those knees all the way up. This is going to shred your abs out. It's really important. Don't let your knees drop below your belly button. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. She's got punches next. So you're going to get in her stance. She's going to work it back and forth, back and forth. Make sure you're punching all the way out. You're not short-cutting your punches. Good. She's also working her core while doing this exercise. You keep your core nice and tight. Working that transverse plane emotion is great for the core. Every one of these exercise in this cardio workout really works the entire body. If you make sure to contract properly. Okay, we've got three, two, one. She's going to go ahead and move into the next exercise. This is a slide jump shot. So she's literally just sliding across, shooting a basketball, sliding across, shooting a basketball. Good. So this is going to work. The quads, this is working her explosive movement. This is working the upper body. It brings you right back to the old school times. You're in junior high or high school in your old gym, which is great. I love doing cardio workouts that aren't just treadmill, stuff like that. Doing these sorts of movements are completely different. It takes your body completely out of its comfort zone. Two, and one. Okay, good. So now she's going to move into a power squat. So with this exercise, it's really important to do is to make sure you're not coming down past 90 degrees. You're keeping the majority of your weight in yet heel. That's going to go right up through your hamstring and really work the glutes. You got 10 more seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, perfect. So now we're going to move into a defensive slide. And we're just going to line up. Good. So good. This is just straight up back in the basketball days when you used to tap the due defensive drill after defensive drill. This is great for the legs. And it works laterally, right? So so many, so many equipment pieces at the gym only work front to back. But to get those beautiful lines of definition coming in, the lateral and medial parts of the leg. This is an amazing exercise for that. Good, three, two, and one. Good. Okay, so next step is a vertical mountain climber. So you guys have to mountain climbers, you know, where you're on your hands. This is working straight up and down. So I want those hands coming all the way up. Good, she's pushing all the way up. Good, she's bringing her knees all the way up just like she was in the high knees at the beginning of this day. So this is a killer cardio exercise. It's deceivingly hard, but don't shortcut it. Don't start bringing your arms down. Bring those knees all the way up. Three, two, one. Okay, good. So next step is switch feet. Just keeping your legs nice and straight, bringing them out. This really works the quads and the calves nicely. It's a great agility exercise as well for any of those athletes out there. Again, Amber is using her arms just like you would if you were running. Good. It's got five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. So next step, we're going to go into a half tuck jump. Go ahead. So again, your knees are just coming up. And a half way up to your waist. Again, this is going to work incredible exercise for your abs. Your legs, your calves, and burns a ton of fat. You need a lot of body control to complete this movement. So just engage the core. Get your core going. At this point of the workout, you're getting tired. You're sweating. You're breathing hard. Keep going. Five, four, three, two, one. Okay, great. So last exercise of this round. It's a square hot. So Amber is going to get in her square. Good. So she's going to go around the square one time. You're going to reverse the way that she's going around. Again, it's these lateral movements. Just bring in beautiful lines of definition to the legs. Amber and a ton, a ton of calories. Good. So also great for athletes who are looking to improve their conditioning, their agility. They're moving on the field and on the court. Good. Four, three, two, one. Great. Good job, guys. That's the end of circuit one. Now, when it comes to rest, I prefer that you try and make it as short as possible, but you can really take 15 seconds all the way up to a minute. Every single week, these rest periods should be getting shorter, but make sure that you're really pushing through the first circuit, pushing through the circuit and then taking the rest that you need so that you can ramp up for the next one. Please do not exceed over a minute and 15 seconds between each round. Get your energy back up, get your mind in the right place and let's begin. So starting off with exercise one, flow control jog. This is your last round of this circuit. Make sure you keep your intensity up. Don't have acid. If you're going to get out of this program, exactly what you put in. Just like anything else in life. Good. Coming up on five seconds left, five, four, three, two, one. Okay, moving right into a high knee jog. Good. So Amber is still bringing her knees up. She's keeping the her intensity high. She's keeping her speed just what it was at round one. There's about 15 seconds left. Keeping the arms going. Abs tight. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Great. So next we're moving right into punches, getting position. Ready? Go ahead. Good. Again, we're punching all the way out. The intensity is up. We're not pulling punches. We're not doing it at half speed. This is the last round of this circuit. We're going all out. Good. About 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. Course tight. Her feet are firm on the ground. 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Next up, slide jump shot. Go ahead and get position. Shake your legs out if you need to. And begin. Go ahead again. You want to stay as low as possible with this slide. By this last round, what your body's going to want to do is stand up and slide. Stay low. Stay low and explode. Low and explode. Going about 15 seconds left. You guys are halfway there. Good. 10 seconds. Five seconds. Five, four. Three, two, one. Go shake it out. Right into our power squat. So again, Amber's only coming down to 90 degrees. Exploding right back up, her weight is in her heels. You're doing these at home. Please make sure you do not come down from that 90 degree angle. It really puts a lot of pressure on the knees. Good. And again, squeezing your butt as you come up. I tell clients all the time, like you're picking up a piece of paper. That'll really, if you really think that thought it seems silly, but it will work. Three, two, one. Okay, moving on to the next exercise. Defensive slide. Amber, go ahead and get position. And begin. So again, the key to this exercise stay low and get out of these turns as quickly as possible. Good. Good. You guys are about halfway there. Keep the intensity up. Get in and out of these turns as quickly as you can. This floor today is a little bit slippery, but if you are on gym mat or you have carpet, really push yourself with this change of direction. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Vertical mountain climbers, Amber's going to get in position. Got to take a breather if you need it just a couple of seconds deep breath and move right into it. Good. Again, pushing those arms all the way up. Like you're punching up. You're punching your ceiling out. These are coming high. Good. Good. Amber, keep your feet up. You should be doing the same at all. Make sure you're pushing through these exercises. I know you're tired. Keep your intensity up. Got to just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Let's shake it out. Okay, moving right into switch feet. Keep your legs straight. The more straight you keep your legs, the more your quads are going to burn. Try as much as you can to just keep it totally straight. Don't have any bend in your knee. They get an abstrate, core straight intensity with the arms. Believe it or not, these types of workouts will bring definition in. You'll bring definition into your arms without ever even lifting away. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Shake it out. Alright, moving right into half tough jumps. There we go. Again, bringing the knees halfway up. Try and hit the ground as softly as possible. Sometimes when I'm at the gym, I see people doing plyometric movements and landing like this. I once had a coach say to me, I want you to land like you're trying to sneak up on me. Like an ninja. That's how you want to land when you're doing anything that's jumping. It's really going to help preserve the body from getting that high impact. Those high impact kind of aches and pains. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Great. Moving right into the next exercise. Shake it out. Last exercise of this round. Square hop. Give this all you have because right after this we're taking a break. Good. Look at that intensity of speed. Good. Great transition between movements. Good. We're halfway there. Just about 10 seconds left. Keep the energy up. Come on. You guys push through. Block it out in your mind. Keep going. Keep up right before the end. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good job guys. That's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. Have some water if you need it. All right. Guys, we are halfway done with this workout about to start circuit number two starting with a lateral speed knee. Amber is going to go ahead and get us started and go. So what you're doing on these is you're doing it at a count of three one two three pushing off that outside foot and coming right back. Do not play it that inside foot. She's keeping that inside foot up. That's because I really want the body to be stressed in and out of this lateral movement. If you drop your foot, it's not as difficult. Good about 10 seconds left. Again, keeping the core nice and tight. Five seconds. Three, two, one. Good. Right away, we're going to move into our football up downs starting with fast feet every five seconds. She's going to drop. But in drop. Good. Two, one, drop. Good. And drop. Good. And drop. Good. Two more. Good. Good. And drop. Last one. And drop. Good job. Good job at home. Moving right into our feet jacks. So this is like a half jumping jack. You're just bringing your arms out and your feet out. You went through a big compound movement to now a smaller movement to give your body adequate rest. If you need to take more rest between exercises to be able to go full speed that's fine. But please limit it to 10 seconds at the most. Good. About 10 seconds left. Keeping our arms coming out. Good. Trying to five second countdown five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Moving on to the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So this is like a normal jumping jack. Except amped up, right. So as you're coming up, you're just exploding off of the ground. Amber, so you need these amazingly. Again, get all the way out with your arms, all the way out with your feet. Good halfway there. Keep exploding up. Keep forcing those legs out. That's what's going to bring the definition into the legs. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great. Take a breather. We're going to move into many split squats next. So if these guys are split squat, except you're not coming down all the way. Again, it's a fast move. You want to get those legs switched out really quickly. Make sure with this exercise, you're not leaning forward. You want to stay totally upright and straight. Good halfway there. Again, make sure that you're staying straight. Keep the front foot. Keep all the weight on your heel. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. All right, so we're moving right into a switch kick. Amber's got her legs nice and straight. You guys already did this in the previous circuit. So you know what's up with this exercise. Keep your arms going. Like straight. Really keep the core tight. Good. Stay light on your feet. Good halfway there. Your arms moving. Again, a lot of these exercises will still bring definition into the arms without ever even lifting away. Four, three, two, and one. All right, shake it out. Moving on to our next exercise. Just going to be a running lunge with two feet jack. So what you're going to do is you're going to do four running lunges and then you're moving right into a knee jack. So Amber will go ahead and demo exactly how that needs to go. One, two, three, and four, one, two. Good. One, two, three, and four, one, two. You can do these. You can make it a stationary movement or if you want, you can also move forward. Good halfway there you guys. I know this exercise is challenging because it's a compound movement but keep going, keep pushing through. Good, five seconds. Two, and one. Good. Shake it out. Now, for those of you who feel this exercise is too hard for you because of the plyometric element of the lunge, you can also just do a regular lunge and then do two of the half-jacks. Okay, so now we're going to move into dynamic jumps. Amber, go ahead and get in position. So this is a jump, but she's going to be covering ground. She's going to be moving forward. So coming down to 90 degrees, then jumping out, landing softly and jumping right back out. Good. So once you get the hang of this and you get the balance portion of it, you can speed it up a little bit. There we go. Perfect. Depending on how much space you have, you can do three jumps. You can do two jumps. You can jump all the way across the gym for 30 seconds. Just depends on where you're working out today. Good. Five more seconds. Four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Speed skaters. Right. So Amber is going to go ahead. So another lateral movement. She's going to jump to the side and bring that other leg right behind her. Great. So this is a great movement for the leg. This great movement for the glutes. Sure again, you're keeping your core nice and tight. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. About five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Next exercise. Jump rope. Have Amber go ahead and get her jump rope. If you at home have it jump rope, downs your time to get it. If you don't have a jump rope, you can do this without one. Just use your own body weight and imagination. Get your arms going. Good. So for 30 seconds. If you mess up while you're jumping rope, don't worry about it. Start again. Start again. I see so many people when they're jumping rope. Biggest mistake they make is they get pissed off when the jump rope hits them. And then they spend 20 seconds kind of lamenting about it. Just keep going. It's not a big deal. Good. Ten seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Great job. You guys, that's the end of that round. Go ahead and take a break. 15 to 60 seconds. Get some water. Stretch out if you need to. All right. We're moving right into our lateral speed knee. Amber is in position. Let's go ahead and get started. Good. So again, keeping your energy up, you've already made it through one round. You're probably a little bit tired. Block it. Really, really focus on what your goal is. Doing this program. Boasting solely on your goal through something hard will really help carry you through. Don't think about the fact that you're out of breath. Just keep pushing. All right. So we've got five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Great. Okay. Moving right into our football up downs. Let's go ahead and get started. Good and down. Good, down. Good, down. Down. You got two more. And down. Last one, you guys keep going. Keep going. And down. Good. Take five seconds. Shake it out. Next up, we have feet jacks. We're ready to go. All right. Let's go ahead and get started. Remember, you want to bring your arms out along with your feet with these. It's like a half jumping jack. Should those arms are coming out. This movement, even if it's bodyweight, still works. Your shoulders brings great lines of definition in. Any sort of movement that works upper and lower body is going to burn a ton of calories. So make sure you're not shortcutting any portion of any of these exercises. Five, four, three, two, and one. Okay. Let's move right into the next exercise. Which is a plyo jumping jack. Good. So again, you're exploding out. Get your hands all the way up just like amber is. Make sure you're forcing your feet out. Your halfway there. You guys, I know that you're tired by this point in the workout. Find your motivation. Why are you doing this program? What made you start this? What made you watch the video on day one? It's really important to keep all of those things in mind. About three seconds, three, two, and one. Good. Moving right into the next exercise. Many split squats. There we go. So again, you're not coming all the way down to that 90 degrees. This is really, this is a great exercise not just for the legs, but also for balance. A lot of people at the gym. They do a lot of powerful movements, but if you ask them to stand on one leg, they can't. This is a great exercise for balance as well. Five more seconds. Here we go. Four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. To the switch kick. I can't keep your legs nice and straight. Get your arms going. The faster you move your arms, the faster your legs will go. Make sure you're bringing your arms all the way up. This will work the biceps. It will work the shoulders and it will work the chest. You bring the intensity into the exercise. Good. About eight seconds left. We go five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise. Running forward lunge and jack feet on a four, two count. One, two, three, and four. And then two of the jack feet. One, two, three, and four. Jack feet again. If you're doing this at home and this movement is two advance for you is okay. Do a walking lunge. About halfway there, you guys keep pushing. You're breathing hard. Ready and five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, good. Take a couple seconds, shake it out. Take a couple deep breaths of air and we'll move into our dynamic jumps. All right, let's get us started. Here we go. Good. Amherst got perfect form on these. Her butt is not dropping lower than 90 degrees. Again, dropping lower than 90 really makes you susceptible to knee injuries. She's exploding out. She's landing softly. Again, land like an ninja. Don't. Land like this. Good. Five seconds left. Four, three, two, and one. Great job. Let's rest. About five seconds. Walk it out. All right, moving on to our next exercise. Speed skaters. Go ahead and get behind here. All right, Amherst going to push off of that foot and bring the other leg behind. Good. Really, really push out the off those feet, you guys. You want to try and cover as much ground as you possibly can with each one of these reps. Good. About halfway there. Good. Coming up on five seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Job. Take five seconds, shake it out. All right, go ahead and get your jump rope. This is going to be our last exercise of this round. Good. And again, you best up with the jump rope. Just keep going. Don't think about it. Don't stop. Don't get frustrated. Just keep going. Again, you guys. This is the last exercise you really want to go 100%. Keep pushing. Let's go ahead and count it down. We've got nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Done. Good job, you guys. Get some water. Take a break. So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. First exercise is sitting twist. Let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated. His feet are up. And he's just going to twist. Now, if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell that's completely fine for our first day, we're just going to straight up body weight. Good, about halfway there. Keeping his core nice and tight. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Right into a plank. Good. So if you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him cut up just to tack. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs to acceptable on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's in the perfect plank position right now. Good. Good. One. Okay. Right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back. His feet are up. And he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Good. Right into heel touches. Yep. So right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already at a flex position. His starting position is flexed. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into V-sit. So Michael's going to sit up. Modified V-sit is good at yep, and he's crossing over. Perfect. The three-quires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good. And just five more seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good. Right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Trying to come all the way up to your heels. There we go. Again, he's not resting. His starting position. His there's already tension in his abs. Perfect. And ten seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. Five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. People I see that want to come out to hear to cheat the tension off of the tries up in the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch. And then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. Especially going plank right into this. It's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of his knee. Really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches. Is that on the way back down. You're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. He's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about 10 seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. That's the end around. One. Let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. Oh, he's on it. His feet are up, coarse tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. These 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big, big, big, big, no, no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. A three, two, one. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. Right into butt-ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this D-C-C-Bin-eraps. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing you cardio-vascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Moving right into heel touches. Twenty seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. Ten seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into butt-up. Right into butt-up. V-sets. All right. So he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you can put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. They're deceivingly amazing too for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice, deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step-up. So let's get into it. It's Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and they move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How you feeling? There we go. That's what it should be doing. There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah. That's right. Every exercise we're doing, we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working core front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go to three, two, one time. Right into a cross crunch. He's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. He's really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One lets move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Mine goes going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. And he's going to get himself into position. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into the quadripet alternating. And a flip back over. He's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to stay in that flex position. And then switching right back over. We've worked the front of the body. Now we're working the back side of the body. Perfect. This is a great exercise. Perfect. This is a great exercise. For stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes. And one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. He's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment. We'll take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one. Right back over. Good. Last set. We are so close. Perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael isn't just swinging. He's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out, and he's stabilized before he's moving onto the other side. Five, four, three, two and one time. I feel like I can feel the pain. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job, you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow. Thank you.

=== FILE: At Home Core Workout ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [dJlFmxiL11s].txt ===

So for the core workout, you have two different circuits that you're going to repeat twice. Each exercise is 20 seconds with as many reps as possible. First exercise is sitting twist so let's go ahead and get right into it. Michael's going to get seated, his feet are up, and he's just going to twist. Now if you want to do this exercise using a medicine ball or a dumbbell that's completely fine for our firm system today, we're just going to use straight up body weight. Good, about halfway there. Keeping this core nice and tight. Good, five, four, three, two, one, right into a plank. So you can see that he's got a nice straight line actually going to have him come up just to attack. Good. You really want to make sure that your hips are not dropping down. That was what really leads your low backs to septibol on this exercise. His elbows are right beneath his shoulder. He's the perfect plank position right now. Good, two, one. Okay, right into butt ups. So Michael is back on his back, his feet are up, and he's just going to touch up to my hand. Perfect. So his head is down. His hands are secured at his side. And again, you really just want to force your butt off the ground and come straight up in a line. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Good, right into heel touches. Yep, so right back down. And he's just alternating side to side. Again, he's already at a flex position. His starting position is flexed. So he's not resting at all. This is constant tension on the abs. And again, you guys, you want to try and get in as many reps as you can in these 20 seconds. Good, and five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Right into V-sit. So Michael's going to sit up. So if I'd be sitting, he's going to eat up and he's crossing over. Perfect. The three-quires leg strength, the dominal strength. Good. And he's keeping his core nice and tight as hands are secured at his sides. Good, and just five more seconds. Five, four, three, two, and one. Good, right into 100. So he's back down. And he's just tapping his hands right to his heels. Time. All the way up to your heels. There we go. And he's not resting. His starting position, his arm is already tension and his abs. Perfect. And 10 seconds left. He's feeling it. I can tell. Five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Right into plank step up. So he's going to flip right over. He's in the plank position. And he's right up on those hands. So again, he's bringing his hand right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. Don't cheat this. You see, they want to come out to hear, to cheat the tension off of the tricep and the shoulder. Don't do it that way. That's also going to take the tension off of your obliques. And that is not what we want. Good. And time. Right into our plank walkout. So Michael's just inching out, inch by inch, and then he's coming right back. Good. It's a small movement. Don't go out too far. That's going to make your backs susceptible. You're just inching out. This is a great exercise. So going plank right into this, it's extremely difficult. Good. And time. Right into a cross crunch. So he's back on his butt. Back in that starting position. Good. And he's coming straight up and touching the top of his knee really squeezing. That's the most important part when you are doing crunches is that on the way back down, you're not just relaxing. You really want to keep tension all the way through the movement. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into bicycle crunches. There we go. It's crossing it over, bringing the knees all the way in and out. Good. And about 10 seconds left. You should be breathing hard. Your abs should be burning. You should be pushing. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. One, let's get right into round two with seated twists. Perfect. He's on it. His feet are up, coarse tight. You guys should really be pushing through these. Getting as many reps in as possible. Let me be 20 seconds. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Right into our next exercise. Plank. All right. So Michael's back. Back around. His elbow is right underneath his shoulder. Perfect. He's at a perfect plank position. A lot of times I see people do this exercise. They've got their torso is kind of sinking down. That is a big, big, big, big, no, no. That leaves you very, very open to injury. You want to stay in a perfect line with your body. 3, 2, 1. Right into butt ups. Perfect. Let's go. Okay. So his head is nice and relaxed. And he's just launching those legs right off the ground. You're going to feel this DC beeping your abs. Again, you should be winded. I can hear that he's winded. You should be winded at home. This should be taxing you cardiovascularly. And five, four, three, two, and one. Time. Moving right into heel touches. 20 seconds. How many reps can you do? Every single round you should be pushing to get more reps in. Every week you should be improving. Good. 10 seconds left. Good. And five, four, three, two, and one time. Right into modified V-sets. All right. So he's back up. Here we go. Good. That's perfect. Killing it. You really want to keep your legs nice and straight. If you need more support, you could put your hands behind you while you do this exercise. Get him four, three, two, one. Good. Right into hundreds. Back down. Here we go. Good. These little crunches, these tiny movements. Really, really work the abs. They're deceivingly hard. There's deceivingly amazing too for getting results in your abs. They really create those nice, deep cuts that everybody wants. Good. Three, two, and one time. Plank step up. So let's get into it. So Michael's flipping back around. Nice transition there. Perfect. Good. Good. He's going to try and get 10 on this side and move right onto the other side. Perfect. Good. Just about five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right into a plank walkout. How are you feeling? He's perfect. There we go. That's what it should be doing. Do you? There's no mistake in where my core. Yeah, that's right. Every exercise we're doing, we're really firing every single muscle of the core. So often I see people working more front to back. We're working it from all angles today. Go to three, two, one, time. Right into a cross crunch. It's going to flip back around. Here we go. Again, everything is tight. He's not letting go when he's on his kind of downswing of this exercise. He's staying in a position where the abs are constantly engaged. Good. And seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one, time. Right into a bicycle. There we go. This is the type of pace that you guys want to try and be at. It's really, really pushing it. Perfect. Good. Perfect. Over halfway there. And five, four, three, two, one. Great. So that's the end of circuit. One, let's move right into circuit two with a shoulder bridge. Michael's going to get himself into position. Good. So he's got his feet planted firmly on the ground. And he's just lifting his hips off the ground, pushing his right through his heel. His head is firmly on the ground. His hands are on the ground. He's keeping the rest of his body nice and relaxed. Good. Four, three, two, one. Now we're going to move into the quadripet alternating. Going to flip back over. He's coming right out. Giving it a nice second or two to stay in that flex position and then switching right back over. We've worked the fun of the body. Now we're working the backside of the body. Perfect. It's a great exercise for stabilization. I use it with all my clients, especially with my athletes. And one good right back into our shoulder bridge. Perfect. So he's back down. Perfect. You really want to be squeezing and pushing your hips as high up to the sky as you possibly can. If you feel any tension in your low back, just move your feet towards your butt just slightly. Just that little adjustment. We'll take a lot of pressure off the low back. Squeeze it. Good. Two and one right back over. Good. Good. Last set. We are so close. Perfect. Twenty seconds. Again, notice Michael isn't just swinging. He's making sure that he's got his leg out, his arm out, and he's stabilized before he's moving on to the other side. Five, four, three, two, and one time. I feel like it's on the other side. Got the abs? Yeah. Great job, you guys. That's it for your core workout. I'll see you back here tomorrow.

=== FILE: At Home Training Program ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [h1QD9BDkhcc].txt ===

There are a lot of differences between the 24-7 fitness trainer and any other program that's ever been released on bodybuilding.com or really in the marketplace. This is for any person that wants to dramatically transform their body and be able to maintain or even improve upon the results that they're getting 365 days a year. We are making it so that you can choose whether you want to use this program to shred fat or build muscle. You're going to see results really, really fast. With clutch cut, people saw a loss in body fat and average of 10 to 15 pounds over three weeks. With this program, you can expect to see no same accelerated results, but we're giving you the tools you need to continue it on. So we're going to go ahead and get into the first circuit of this cardio workout. Your first exercise is a slow controlled job. So what is really exciting about the workout portion of this 24-7 fitness trainer is that it's completely different than anything that's ever been done on bodybuilding.com. All of the workouts are shot in real time. So that means whether you're at home in the gym, in your hotel room, you can follow along at home with me and the clutch body shop athletes that are doing the program. So you can watch these videos on your smartphone at the gym, on your TV, if you're at home, or on your tablet, if you're traveling, which makes it so easy for you to stay on track. Every workout is 30 to 45 minutes. So as our athletes are doing it, you're doing it as well. Moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. You go all out 10 seconds per exercise. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Go, we're going to get right into butt kicks. Every day you're going to be doing something different in regards to your workout. The idea is after the 28 days, you can take the workout program, the supplement plan, and the nutrition plan, and really use it to continue to progress through your workout. So for example, if somebody starts out day one and they can only do a push-up from their knees, that's fine because six weeks in, the hope would be that you would be doing a plyometric push-up. So one of the other great things about this program is that you need little or no equipment at all to complete these workouts, which makes it super, super easy. It's really a no-excuse approach to getting you results, getting you in and out of the gym, and making it something that you can maintain no matter where you are. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Time. Let's see, end of your strength. One workout, I'll see you back here tomorrow for your cardio workout. So one of the other things that I want to encourage you to do is to do a workout. The second thing that you do is as you're going through this program, make sure you post pictures, motivational tips, recipes using the hashtag ClutchLife so that you can find people who may be encountering the same kind of roadblocks or obstacles or lack of motivation, and we can help push each other through those times and provide you with additional tools. You really need to commit to the program as it's written, do everything as it's outlined because if you do that, you're going to have success for these 28 days and 365 thereafter. Make sure you're uploading those progress picks, motivational tools, and anything else ClutchLife related to your body space account. To the next thing you need to do before starting the ClutchLife 24-7 fitness trainer is you need to watch the supplement and the nutrition videos to make sure that you have everything that you need to start the program.

=== FILE: Athlete ｜ Bodybuilding.com Commercial [IeqALaE8QnI].txt ===

What does it mean to be fit? It's eating, bleeding, needing to do more. Knowing you earned it, knowing you changed. When you get there, everything fits. Bodybuilding.com 20 million customers can't be wrong. Get too tired with food,…! How are you off, sweetie? Me, myÍI, at the cracking room, I wanted to... have a taste for a salad, that doesn't take the Canada joke. So this particular thing is!

=== FILE: Athlete ｜ Bodybuilding.com Commercial [ucpy8rGkzxM].txt ===

What does it mean to be fit? Is it a number? A comment? A person? It's all of that, and more. Is the people who said you could never have that body? That girl, that dream. It's eating, bleeding, needing to do more. Knowing you earned it, knowing you changed. When you get there, everything fits. Bodybuilding.com 20 million customers can't be wrong.

=== FILE: Ava Cowan： Naturally Driven - Ava's Story - Bodybuilding.com [A3l3vxEnacQ].txt ===

So, hey, this was the second time I met her in person. The first time I met her was actually last year in the 2008 Olympia. And you can do the same thing with a roger's queen bag, you can pick about a separate bag of the bottom. And you'll really feel the difference. We had talked online a little bit. She said, actually, she had sent me a message on body's base saying that she watched the show and read my articles. And she really liked my approach. So, we were at the Olympia last year. My wife and I made a point that we wanted to go say hi. And so, thank you for being supportive. And, um, I met her and she was very nice. And we, we see the hit it off very well. And, I went to an excellent judge of character. And we walked away and she was like, well, I really liked her. So, I knew that she, you know, she was a, she was a good person. And, um, we talked a little bit. She seemed to like my approach. And I gave her business card. And she contacted me a couple weeks later. And, um, we started working together. She's an extremely hard worker. Very focused. All the attributes could, you know, you find somebody's a champion. Staying on a program and following something all the way through. That's gotten me somewhere. And that's what makes me feel good. I wanted it so bad. I wanted to do something like I wanted everyone's heavy no. And I wanted to say yes, I can't. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't do this. It matters. It matters that I show, and shape, it matters that I represent as far in nutrition to the best of my ability. Let's go. Huh. No. Oh. Yeah. This is what I want to do. In this case, I mean, Eva has the genetics and the work ethic to, I think to be in anyone regardless of what they're taking or what not. So, I mean, that's, again, I don't think that's going to be a factor on show day. I think it's all going to come down to, you know, her being at her best and, uh, presenting a package that the judges like. So, uh, again, you know, it's seven people's subjective opinion, and, uh, you can only do your best. And if you feel you're at your best, then everything else that happens is gravy. I'm originally born in Ridge, Crest, California, so I'm a California girl. You know, um, we're facing this way. We're moving around a lot. My mom worked for the US Army Corps Engineers. So, her job took us a bunch of places, so I was in Ridge Crest. I moved to Tennessee. I moved to Sacramento for 10 years. I was there from Sacramento. I made the big move at 19 years old to go down to LA because Sacramento wasn't big enough for me. And then, you know, I'm not going to be a star, obviously. But it became more than that. I moved down there in that work ethic that I put into my dieting and training is the same work ethic that I put into my acting. I mean, that is my passion, and it's actually it's my first love as acting. The hard part is that no matter how hard you study or how good you are, you're not guaranteed work. So, I would get third callbacks and third callbacks. And I got to know all the time. So, I just put, I hit the pause button and I said, what else can I do? What do I love? Like, what moves me? Yeah. I wouldn't deep inside, and I'm like, you know, what do I love? And I'm like, anything physical. So, I said, maybe I'll be a personal trainer. Well, I want to be the best. So, I found a place in the city of Tennessee. So, I found a place in Florida called the Fitness Institute. And I went there and it's very rigorous. It took 16 months. And basically, you know how to train when you leave there. So, I got a new, you know, least on life, a new education. And with that knowledge, I was like, I'm going to train myself. And I've always looked in the magazines. And I'd see Monica Brandt, I'd see all these stars. And I'm like, wow. And I'd like to do that. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't. That's not right. Like, I just didn't feel like I could do that. There was no part of me that had that self-believe. She has the option to add lib some things. I'm confident enough in her where she is with the training. She's advanced enough that she, she, she, she, she, she, she, She's not, she's not, she's not. She's not. She, she knows that there's something she wants to suffer. Something like that. If she wants to make a big changes, she knows me and ask me some questions. I'm not somebody who's, um, I'm pretty, um, flexible person and an aspect. I lived life just like everyone else who go to the mall and you get a slice of pizza. I mean, I just eat like that every day. I went to talk about, I went to the drive through this, um, I did a Denny sit three in the morning. I, that was my whole life. I didn't even want to the gym. I was that person that joined the gym that went two or three times a year. Just never showed up. I had the little key tack thing that I didn't go. Really, I just made a decision. Just like you do in life. I made a decision you're either in or you're out. And that in meant educating myself. The turning point for me was after I got the job. The turning point for me was after I got my education because it gave me the confidence because previous to that, let's just say that I lived a very unhealthy lifestyle. You know, now that she's back in the NPC, um, I don't see any reason why she can't go, you know, just, this, this guy's a little bit for her. I wasn't the person I am. So it, it takes that, you know, I had to develop my physique, I had to develop my work at the, all the pieces to the puzzle, so that when we come together, we're now full and complete. It's just, that was the turning point for me. I'm like, what am I going to do? And I just dove into that with that kind of passion like that. That is an actress. So I took all that energy and I'm like, I'm going to be the best in fitness. I can be. I'm going to learn the best. I'm going to be the best trainer. I'm going to get straight. Because if you want something bad enough, that's what you do.

=== FILE: B-Elite Fuel Healthy Meals - Bodybuilding.com [5YMmopFebc8].txt ===

You're no sheep. You don't die it. Follow Fats. Watch Infomercials. You push. Build. Repair. Improve. Viewer. Viewer. Viewer. Viewer. Viewer. You're a rocket chef. In athlete, the elite. You run in the best. You've protein for growth. Cars for performance. Healthy fats for optimal function. You are elite. This is your fuel. Introducing the next evolution of bodybuilding.com. Be elite fuel. Precision fitness nutrition. Find out more at bodybuilding.com slash fuel.

=== FILE: BSN Transformation Winners Announced! - Bodybuilding.com [e5jo9vDOIdE].txt ===

Hey everyone, I'm Scott Herman, Team BSN athlete, and I'm here to congratulate both Joshua and Elizabeth for winning the BSN eLeap Physique Transformation Challenge on BodyGilling.com. Now don't worry guys, all that hard work has definitely paid off because the two of you will be spending seven days in the Montagobay Standards Resort in Jamaica. You guys have both won a year supply of BSN supplements and also the chance to be a spokesman or a peer-to-national advertisement for BSN. We're all super proud of you guys. We hope you have fun on your trip and just do me one favor and bring back some of that sun because it's five degrees outside here in the Hampshire. So once again, congratulations guys, have fun on your trip and we'll see you soon.

=== FILE: BSN's MMA 101 with Forrest Griffin - Episode 1 - Bodybuilding.com [0e-v6Qt3sTw].txt ===

B.S.N. Finish first. Today on MMA 101. One of the aspects of the fight game that I've really embraced is the mental aspect. So I'm just going to try and touch them. Just land little shots and just just find them and just stuff. He's going to hit me and I'm going to miss them. Yeah, of course I'm going to be a dressing. You know, it's got to be some intelligent aggression aggression with the plan. One of the aspects of the fight game that I've really embraced is the mental aspect. And I talk a lot about it in my book. It's one of the things that I kind of fascinates me and it's just an interesting way to push yourself and to find out how you respond under pressure, like what you're really made of. That's kind of how I perceive it anyway. And you know, a big part of the mental aspect of the game is confidence. Now I know I'm not the best fighter in the world and I don't know how hard my opponent's trainer, you know, I don't worry about him. He's not a part of my equation. The two things I need to know are that I've done everything possible to get myself ready for this fight. I've made the right choice that I've done all the work. You know, and the other thing is that I won't quit on myself if I will not get in there. I won't freeze up. I won't quit. You know, the first thing is is right in line with the second. The first thing hitting all your workouts, you know, guys say I gave 110%. I looked it up. My last fight, I gave 84%. You know, I just kept a log of the workout time and ten were doing what I actually did. And, you know, that's actually pretty good. 85% is not horrible if you're, you know, it's a mountain A. So next time we're trying to get an A, get 90%. But, you know, let's be realistic. Set this beautiful trainer routine that you're going to go follow and see what happens. You know, and that way you kind of learn to get better each fighter, each time you have, you know, any big performance thing that is going to generate this anxiety. And as far as knowing that you're not going to quit on yourself, you know, you do that when you do your conditioning. At the end of the day, you're already tired. You run on the treadmill. You want you to get on there, you tell yourself, I'm going to do this. You're accountable to yourself or, you know, a lot of times I'll work with the trainer. And it's just about not stopping. But it's just about finishing the workout. You know, obviously I think he's maybe the best fighter, the top, the top, and the world. MMA 101 is brought to you by Cynthia Six, the official protein beverage of the UFC. Any funny stories you might be able to share with us to give people a little sneak preview of what they might see in the morning. Um, you know, I don't know. I would just say, you know, pick the book up, read the jacket of it. If you like the jacket, take fat and leave the rest of the book in your store. Or I would say, go to the store, read the book, but don't buy it. Because I've to use the little I do. Of course, one of the biggest matches of your careers coming up against Anderson Silva. First off, what are your thoughts on Anderson? And what do you feel like your advantages are going into this match? You know, obviously I think he's maybe the best fighter, pound for pound in the world. Um, you know, my biggest challenge with him is just the fact that he's a southball in his quickness. You know, you see a lot of guys get frustrated because he hits you and then they can't get him back so they try to commit more and try to, you know, they're really trying to hit him and they're loading up and just making them so slower. So I'm just trying to touch him, just land little shots and just find him and just he's going to hit me and I'm going to miss him. It's not going to get flustered. Just keep calm and keep that sort of, you know, nice even mentality. He's always relaxed. So I have to do relaxed as well. I can't get all emotional and go after him because he feeds off that very well. You know, guys always say, I want to fight the best. I want to fight the best. I've never said that. I want to fight, you know, semi capable people. That's what I want to fight. I want to fight like people that are really on the last limb. Fight me, got like, Anderson Silver, gives you, you know, gives you an opportunity to really test yourself. Just as a person, as a man, as anything, you know. And it's like, you know, kind of deal with this, kind of deal with the pressure. You know, I was just watching his tapes and I thought to myself, man, he's making really good guys just looking back. It was forcing the ability. Orce is a great fighter and I don't, I'm not really focused on these just the damages that I can put on what I'm really going to be focused on, what you strong at. Force gets a very effective kick. Now, I'm going to go in there and train really hard to do everything I can to defend the kicks. Yeah, of course, I'm going to be a grester, you know. It's got to be some intelligent aggression, aggression with the plan. Everybody should lose a fight. You know, Anderson Silver is the best fighter in the world. And if I beat him, he'll still be the best fighter in the world. But he should be polite and lose a fight like the rest of it. Next week on MMA 101. Conditioning is the one thing that really, you can always work it, you can always work it by yourself. You can always be in a little better shape. You can always be in a little better shape.

=== FILE: Back & Biceps With Sonya Vecchiarelli - Bodybuilding.com [mNQmewJP6pU].txt ===

Hi, I'm Sonia Bechorelli, I have BB bikini pro model and personal trainer. I have been personal training for six years and I treat anybody from the stay at home mom to the fitness competitor. We're here at the gym and we're ready to do back and bicep. We're going to be doing super sets and the super sets are going from one exercise to the other with no rest. I like super sets because it can smell heart rate up, it burns more calories, especially with the skinmy season coming. I really want to get those calories burned and the last time on the treadmill the better. We want to do three sets of 10 to 12 reps with one minute rest between each super set. The first super set will be doing lot pull downs with the seated incline bicep curl. Now we're done with the lap pull down, we'll head straight over to incline bicep incline curl. I will be doing the bicep incline curl. You'll see that I'm doing a little bit different on the way up, I'm having my palm facing up and on the way down, I have my palm facing in. I do this speaker that works both the bicep heads, so a little bit harder for me and there's a full extension which makes it harder for me to work my biceps. We're on to our second super set, seated cable row, super set with the cable bicep curl. Our last super set is the reverse script barbell row with alternating dumbbell camera barbell. There we have it a complete back and bicep workout. It is really important to train every muscle group at least once a week. I recommend that you throw this back and bicep workout in every other week. A little spicy and creative every day never hurts. And if you have any questions you can visit my body space and for more content like this, visit bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Back Anatomy & Training Program ｜ Built By Science [VHWgPPDENMo].txt ===

You are not to me is a blueprint. You are an architect beneath your skin like the bland for your fastest, strong, and the most powerful self. If you can learn the structure of your skeleton, you make up of your muscle and the mechanics of movement, you can create your best possible body. I'm Mike Robertson. This is built by science. When you first go in the gym, it's not uncommon to hit the big showy muscles on the front. You've got your pecks, you've got your arms, you've got your abs. When you really start to break your body down, you've got two big halves, you've got your lower half and your legs, and you've got the upper half. But if you want to take it a step further, you've got a front half, and you've got a back half. And everybody that's serious about their physique knows that building a big, wide, and thick back is going to distinguish them from other competitors, as well as themselves. So if you're serious about back, that's what we're going to talk about here today. We're going to break this down into four different sections. First, we're going to cover the muscular anatomy, and all those individual muscles that comprise your back. Second, we're going to talk about the skeletal anatomy, the bones and the joints that are involved in creating these movements. Third, we're going to talk about the actual motions that all of those individual muscles create, and last but not least, we're going to show you some key exercises to make sure you're getting the most out of your back training. There's no better way to understand the anatomy of a back than to look at a great physique. So today, we've got IFBB physique pro CracaPerson to show us what a great back looks like, and how to get the most out of your back training. Let's go ahead and dig into the anatomy of your back. The first muscle, one of the first muscles that most people think of when they think about back training, are the lads. Then I'm going to have CracaPerson spin around here. As you can imagine, it runs from the front side of your humorous or your upper arm bone, comes down, attaches to your scapula, it attaches to your lower thoracic spine, or kind of that mid back area, and it even comes down and attaches to this big piece of connective tissue called your thoracolum bar fashion. So as you can imagine, your lads are critically important if you're wanting to build width, side to side through your lads. So that's the first muscle that we're going to talk about. Second, we're going to talk about the trapezius. Most people think of the trapezius and they think of the upper trapezius, you know, the muscles that you get when you shrug. But there's actually three distinct subsections of your trapezius. You've got your upper traps that run from your skull and your cervical spinder your neck, and they come down and attach to your clavocose. Second, you have what's called your middle trapezius, and these run from about T1 or T4, so that upper middle back area come across and attach directly to his scapula. Last but not least, you have what's called your lower trapezius fibers. So this runs from your lower middle back or that lower thoracic spine comes up and they also attach to your scapula. Last but not least, you have your rhomblins. And while most people think of the trapezius because they're superficial or they're on the outside of the body, the rhomblins are a deep muscle and they lie underneath your trapezius. They kind of run it an angle here from your thoracic spine down to your scapula. You're going to see it a lot when you row or do any kind of horizontal pulling type movement. So with your rhomblins, even though they're not superficial, like the trapezius, you're still going to want to put a lot of emphasis on them because they're critical for front to back thickness. Now, keep in mind, we're talking a lot about the upper back muscles here. We know there's tons of muscles in the back. We've already broken up a lot of the lower back muscles in the core trainer. So if you haven't viewed that and you want to learn how to target this area more, make sure to review that video as well. Now that we've covered the muscular anatomy of the back, let's look at the unique bones and joints involved in creating these movements. What I'm going to have Craig do here is give you a profile view. And one of the most important joints in your body when we're talking about back training is your thoracic spine or your upper back. Now you have 12 unique bones here, but you can imagine they run from the base of your neck to about your lower back. So these are really important. I want to make sure when you're doing a horizontal row, like a dumbbell row or a cable row, that you set this nice and stable, because this is what you're going to create your motion off of. It's not so much the upper back that's moving, but you're scapula or your shoulder blade. This is where the motion starts. So if you're going to imagine a little triangular bone here, your scapula sets the stage for your glinochumeral joint or your shoulder. So what's really important to note is these two joints work together to create motion. You're doing a row. You set out, you're pulling back, you can see Craig is using his scapula to squeeze back and he's using his upper arm as well. So they work in tangent to create this movement. Same thing, if he goes overhead, he's using not only his shoulder joint, but his scapula to squeeze down and really target the lats in the lower traps. So as you guys can imagine, if you want to get the most out of the gym, it's not these broken up herky jerky movements. It's tying all these unique components together to build a really solid upper back. Up to this point, we've covered the muscles of your back, and we've also covered the unique bones and joints. Now let's talk about the actual motions that your back muscles create. When we're talking about your lats, there's two primary movements that your lats create. First is called internal rotation. So if you imagine that your attachment point is on your front of your humerus, it actually internally rotates or turns your upper arm bone inwards. A lot of people aren't familiar with that and that's okay. What most people are familiar with is shoulder extension. So if Craig goes profile here and he reaches his arm up overhead, we're kind of going into shoulder flexion or reaching up, and then coming down from this position as you would in a lap pull down, a chin up, a pull up. That's going to create shoulder extension. So your lats are there to build thickness side to side through your back. So we got your lats. Now let's talk about the actual muscles on the back side of your upper body. So when you talk about your trapezius, remember we've got this kite here, right? Most people are familiar with your upper traps, and just like Craig's doing here, they're really important if you want to build that top upper trap portion of the traps. Second, you've got the middle trapezius and the rhomboids. So if you recall, they kind of go from the mid back and they attach to your scapula. So they create what's called scapula retraction, or simply pulling your shoulder blades back together. Last but not least, you've got your lower traps, and if you recall, they kind of run at this angle right here. They're important for creating what's called scapula depression, or kind of sliding your scapula down on your rib cage. So two more things I want you guys to understand are what's called upward and downward rotation of your scapula, or your shoulder blade. Now it's a really fancy term, but all it means is, can you get your arm up overhead safely and effectively? So as Craig reaches up, three muscles are working synergistically to create what's called upward rotation of his scapula. His upper traps, his lower traps, and his serratus. So again, it's kind of a geeky term, but it's there to help you guys understand. If you want to get overhead safely and effectively, you need these three muscle groups to be working synergistically to create that movement. Second, when you come back down, you also create what's called downward rotation of your scapula. And here you're using your rhomboids, and unless we haven't talked too much about up to this point, but it's called your levator scapula. And these two muscles work together to downwardly rotate the scapula. Last but not least, if you're like most people when you start it off in the gym, you've probably spent a ton of time developing the front. Developing the back is not only a great way to build your physique, but it's going to keep your shoulders healthy for years to come. So make sure you're spending just as much time developing the muscles of your back as you are the front, and you're going to be safer in lifting heavier weights for an extended period of time. Up to this point, we've covered the muscles of your back. The bones and joints involved in training your back, and the movements that your muscles create. Now let's put it all together and show you guys some unique exercises that you're going to use in the gym to get the most out of your back training. Now what's really important here is we've tried to give you guys a different selection of exercises so you can see how your body works in different planes of motion. We're going to start off with a chin. So Craig's going to grab the bar, and in this case, you can see he's really going to target the lats. Most people understand that this is predominantly a lat exercise. So he's going to get a little stretch in the bottom so we can really lengthen these guys out. And then at the top, he's going to make sure he finishes, and if possible, he's going to try and touches chest to the bar. So it's not just lats, but it's lower traps as well. He's getting scapular depression. Good body, go ahead and do one more. So you guys get a really good feel. It's not just stretching the lats, but at the top, you're getting the lats, but also the scapula coming down depressing using those lower traps. So there's a lot more to it than you would probably think, but this is how you're going to get maximum muscle growth. Now that we've shown you guys a vertical pulling exercise, I want to show you guys a horizontal pulling exercise. In this case, a dumbbell row. This is going to be fantastic for developing your rhomboids and your middle trapezius fibers. And it's also going to help you build symmetry or balance side to side between arms. So what I'm going to have Craig do here is just spin around. He's going to set up, in this case, with a staggered stance, you can go staggered parallel, whatever you're comfortable with. He's going to set his upper back. And once he's set, he's really not going to move too much through his upper back. He's going to grab the dumbbell. And then from this position, get a nice stretch, not only through the shoulder blade, but through the lat. And then he's going to initiate pulling through the elbow, squeeze the shoulder blade back, finish hold, and then repeat. What's really important here, make sure you're finishing with your shoulder blade. Two often people end up thinking that more motion is good motion, and they can do a lot of damage to the front of their shoulder. So think about leading with the elbow, finishing with the shoulder blade, and getting a nice squeeze at the top. Our third exercise is a dumbbell pullover. Not only is this a fantastic exercise for isolating and developing the lats, but if you do it the way I'm going to coach Craig, you're going to also get some anterior core stability and strength, as well as improving your shoulder mobility. Because a lot of people struggle getting overhead safely and effectively. So what I'm going to have Craig do here, go ahead, he's already got the dumbbell lined up. He's going to go ahead and lay on his back. And then from this position, what I cue my clients to do is to exhale hard, right? So big breath in, exhale hard, you can see his rib cage come down, he's going to hold this ab contraction, and as he goes overhead, he's going to work hard to maintain this. When he holds this position, he's going to get a really nice stretch on his lats. He's going to make sure he's a developing through a full range of motion. One of the big issues if somebody starts to arch their back really hard, their lats are never getting that stretch. So you're not going to get the same kind of growth. So he's going to go ahead and pull it back over. Awesome, good, one more. Exhale hard, and it's tight, good, hold that, hold that, and then get that nice stretch on the side. Perfect, and come back up. The final exercise we're going to show you guys here today is called a face pull. That's kind of a hybrid movement. It's not really a vertical pull, it's not really a horizontal pull, but that's nice because it gets us out of those standard planes of motion and just breaks up the training a little bit. So what I'm going to have Craig do here, he's going to go ahead and spin around, he's going to grab the rope handles, and it's really important. You want to do this with your thumbs up. You got a very small space here for your rotator cuff to breathe, and if your hands are facing down, that just kind of chokes out your rotator cuff. So you want to make sure you give it space. So if your thumbs are up, you got your shoulders in a really good position and it's really shoulder friendly option. So from this position, he's going to set his upper back, he's going to lead with his elbows, and think about squeezing those shoulder blades together. See a nice squeeze, finishing with the elbows approximately in line with the body, and then go ahead and go again. So you can see nice stretch through the mid back, and then leading with the elbows squeezing the shoulder blades back. So it's not a traditional move, or maybe one you're familiar with, but this is a fantastic option for building the upper and the mid back. After watching this video, you should have a Ph.D. and muscle building. So I hope you guys are going to take this stuff that we've learned in the video and apply it to your training in the gym. With that being said, if I can take one thing, or have you take one thing away from this video, it's that the back works as a seamless integrated unit. You got to have a nice stable thoracic spine, and then when you put your scapula, when you put your shoulder joint, when you create all that movement in one seamless fluid motion, that's when you're going to get the most out of your back train. When muscular anatomy bind mechanics, the skeletal system, muscle function, and the best exercises to build lean mass bath. Mass, Mass. No, it's power. Know yourself to give yourself. Build yourself with the best. Mind, muscle, masterpiece.

=== FILE: Barbell Bench Press Medium Grip - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [RsobeWfbBcY].txt ===

Lye with your back on a flat bench. Using a medium width grip, lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms nearly locked. This will be your starting position. Now from the starting position, breathe in and begin coming down slowly until the bar nearly touches your middle chest. After a breath pause, push the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out. Focus on pushing the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position at the top of the motion. Hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. You should be in full control of the barbell at all times. Once the desired number of repetitions have been completed, return the bar to the rack.

=== FILE: Barbell Curl - Biceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [dDI8ClxRS04].txt ===

Stand up straight, holding a barbell with a shoulder width grip. The palms of your hand should be facing forward and your elbow should be close to your torso. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and curl the barbell upward by contracting your biceps. Keep your upper arms stationary while raising the barbell until it reaches shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a moment, then inhale and slowly lower the bar back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Barbell Deadlift - Leg & Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [G13343CGcPs].txt ===

Start by standing in front of a loaded barbell. What keeping your back is straight as possible, bend your knees, then bend forward and grasp the bar about shoulder width apart. This will be your starting position. Now while holding the bar, start the lift by pushing with your legs and simultaneously raise your torso to the up-right position as you breathe out. In the up-right position, stick your chest out and contract your back by bringing your shoulder blades back. Then slowly return to the starting position by bending your knees and simultaneously leaning the torso forward at the waist. Keep the back straight and breathe in as you execute this portion of the movement. When the weights on the bar touch the floor, you are back to the starting position and ready to perform another repetition. As this is a very technique driven exercise, you want to practice perfect form before attempting heavier weights. If you have back issues, substitute a rowing motion in place of this exercise.

=== FILE: Barbell Deadlift - Leg & Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [a5zhnubunoE].txt ===

Start by standing in front of a loaded barbell. While holding the barbell is straight as possible, bend your knees as you sit back with your hips. Grass the bar using a medium overhand grip. This will be your starting position. Now begin the lift by pushing with your heels as you extend your hips and knees as you breathe out. As you approach the standing position, pull your shoulder blades together and drive your hips through the bar. Then slowly return to the starting position by bending your knees and hips and leaning forward at the waist. Keep your back straight and breathe in as you execute this portion of the movement. When the weights on the bar touch the floor, you are back in the starting position and ready to perform another repetition.

=== FILE: Barbell Hip Thrust - Legs ⧸ Glutes Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [Fk1OfkMmVt4].txt ===

Begin seated on the ground with a bench directly behind you. Have a loaded barbell over your legs. Using a fat bar or having a pad on the bar can greatly reduce the discomfort caused by this exercise. Roll the bar so that it is directly above your hips and lean back against the bench so that your shoulder blades are near the top of it. Begin the movement by driving through with your feet extending your hips vertically through the bar. The weight should be supported by your shoulder blades in your feet.

=== FILE: Barbell Incline Bench - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [8YgkJN0gmNM].txt ===

Lye back on an inclined bench. Grasp the bar with a medium width grip. Lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms locked. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar until it nearly touches your upper chest. Hold for a brief pause then exhale and press the bar back to the starting position by contracting your chest muscles. Ideally it should take twice as long to lower the weight than to raise it.

=== FILE: Barbell Rear Delt Row - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [XagV4XfG9fo].txt ===

Stand up straight while holding a barbell with a wide overhand grip. Bend your knees slightly and bend over as you keep a natural arch in your back. Let your arms hang in front of you as you hold the bar. Once your torso is parallel to the floor, flare your elbows out and away from your body. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your upper arms perpendicular to your torso, exhale and pull the bar up towards your upper chest while squeezing your rear delts. Focus on using your rear delts when performing the exercise. Finally inhale and slowly return back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Barbell Shoulder Press - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [lPFwcHl0a2c].txt ===

Sit on a bench with a barbell position to interact that is set to a height almost above your head. Grab the barbell wider than shoulder width and with the palms of your hands facing forward. Unwrapped the bar and hold it above your head by extending your arms. Maintain an upright posture. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar to shoulder height. Then exhale and press the bar back up to the starting position.

=== FILE: Barbell Shrug - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [9xGqgGFAtiM].txt ===

Stand up straight with your feet at shoulder width. Hold the barbell in front of you using an overhand grip. Your hands should be a little wider than shoulder width apart. This will be your starting position. Now, exhale and raise your shoulders up as far as possible. Hold the top contracted position for a brief pause. Then inhale and slowly return to the starting position. Your arms should remain straight at all times.

=== FILE: Barbell Side Bend - Core ⧸ Abs - Bodybuilding.com [9_kAFDM6l6o].txt ===

Stand up straight while holding a barbell on the back of your shoulders. Your feet should be shoulder width apart. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your back straight and head up, inhale and bend at the waist to the right as far as possible. The rest of your body should remain stationary. Return to the starting position, then bend to the left and hold for a moment before again returning to the starting position.

=== FILE: Becoming Bodybuilding.com ｜ Founder's Story with Ryan DeLuca [cg7vsuUXf5c].txt ===

One thing I was always proud of is that I really focused on making sure that we had people that were fully in love with our mission. That we're bought in because they believed in it. They knew how important it was. It's not about just the job, it's about how we're going to accomplish this mission together. The word bodybuilding, right? That's our name, right? That's who we are, it's our DNA. A lot of people look at the word bodybuilding and think, oh, that's just those guys that are on stage, oil themselves up, wearing a bikini, beer, you say, no, which we love that, right? That's awesome. But a lot of people that's not what their goal was. But the interesting thing is that everybody wants to build their body. My name is Ryan Deluca, I am the founder and the original CEO for the first 17 years of bodybuilding. The first thing I think about is the teenage me and how badly I really wanted to get in shape. How bad I wanted to gain muscle. And I looking up to the pro bodybuilders, you know, and the people in my gym that I was too nervous to talk to, trying to buy the products, you know, trying to learn about these products and I go into the mall, you know, and figuring it out. So those are the days of being a skinny teenager, the typical insecurities and wanting change. That's really what started all of bodybuilding. So around 1995, that's when I started here about the internet, right? It was cyber space, you know, the information super highway, it was like this crazy new thing. Super high tech, right? People didn't really understand it. But I got really in love with the idea, like I started to study just much like good and just learn more and more about this new technology. That's when I said, hey, maybe there's something I could do here to actually create a business. And that's when creating came up. Creating up first was just like brand new product this around like 1996 super expensive. You can get it at the mall for like $100 right before a month supply. So I was like, couldn't afford it, right? And I said, well, what if I could buy the product at wholesale and sell it to people online? And so I created a small little website called wholesale-creating.com. But just use as many of the different marketing techniques and e-commerce techniques that have been learning over those last like years. So in order to create a little website. Only way I could accept orders was my checker money, order by mail, right? There was no credit card, there's no PayPal back then, right? So I would always check my mailbox and there'd be nothing in there for the first month. So I almost gave up on the idea. But then one day I went to a vacation for about a week, came back and said, I'll go check the PO box at the post office and see if there's any mail. And there's actually one piece of mail. And it said, there's so much mail for you. It's in a bag in the bag. My first office was just at my house. And so we didn't have a big office building. We didn't have any team. It was just really like friends and family coming over to help out. And we'd be in the garage, shipping the orders at all. Like putting labels on the product, you know, putting in the boxes, packaging, and it's my current taking to the post office. And just working from home, which is kind of interesting because on the original websites, we had my home address. So every once in a while, somebody would kind of come over or think, is this the place in trying to buy something? So with creating sales going pretty well, it made me realize we could do something bigger. And that's when I saw that the name body owner com was owned by somebody, but they weren't using it. So I contacted him and said, hey, you have this name. We'd like to use it and create a website out of it. But at first, they said, no, we're going to use it. So kind of give up on the idea. But then a year later, they still weren't using it. And so I emailed him again and they said, all right, fine, how much? And so we kind of went back and forth. And eventually, they wrote back and said, OK, fine. We'll sell it to you for $20,000. And once I got that email back, they was like, I always said, but I ran around like I was called down on the prices right. Just like running around the whole house, just so excited. My dog's barking because I had this dream of what this website could be. So much more than just a single product creating it or just selling products in general. It could be so much more right from the beginning. It could be content, community. It could be all sorts of different products, you know, ship super fast and at the right price. It basically was everything that I wanted as that skinny teen. This was going to be the dream. Right. Like this is the the website, the company and the team that was going to be able to really help people reach their goals and really make a difference for the entire industry. When we built a body on our com website, we're so excited. Right. Like, here we go. We're going to launch this new thing. And of course, the entrepreneurial dreams are like, you press launch and hundreds of orders a first day. You know, which didn't happen. What we really did is grew slowly, but steadily. Every single day we would hit a new record, right? Almost every single day when those early years, where there was like, we got eight orders. You know, and now we got 20 orders. And then we got 30 orders and then you know, I had to hire more of my family than I ran out of family. So I had hired my friends. You know, and we all, we eventually got a warehouse, like a little warehouse over in Garden City, where we could actually fill the orders. But it was just that slow and steady growth over years, building up one customer at a time, earning their trust, having them tell their friends, and then come back to us month to month. Right from the beginning, I realized that not all sub-mits are the same. There's some that are actually effective. Companies out there that really cared about results, that gave you the right ingredients, and they gave you a great price, and they made sure of those correctly. And as a consumer, it's almost impossible to know the difference. In fact, sometimes the products that have the flashy as marketing, they spend the most right. They look the most legit, are the most likely to not be effective. So right from the beginning, I realized like how important it was to understand the difference between what works and what doesn't. If people get results, they're going to come back. And with supplements, it's interesting because they all are products that you're going to use, and you're going to need more up. So we don't care about getting one set, right? If we sell you one ball of creating, you never come back again. That's not very valuable to us. As a company, we want to sell you the next bottle, the next bottle, the next bottle, for years. Once people find something they can trust, and that they believe in, and that they know is real, that's when they tell their friends. The biggest thing about growth over time, especially state of growth like that is you can become an expert at a, you have an $10 million business, right? Run rate. But then that doesn't work when you're 20 million. And most tastes because of the number of people you need on your team, the way you communicate, leadership, right? It's really easy when you're in the garage, right? You're just all right here, and everybody understands what we're doing. Then eventually you've got a little bit bigger team, and you've got to communicate, you've got to leave different ways, and it's got to be different systems. And then eventually you get to a point where you don't know everybody that works at the company. And you want to make sure that every single person understands why we're here, what our mission is, how we're supposed to do things. The most important thing to me when it came to hiring new people for our team was that they actually cared about what we were doing. If they cared about fitness and nutrition, if they understood how important it was, not just for how you look, but for your entire life. If they were really there for our customer. A lot of our competitors just didn't get it, right? They would just focus on selling the products, just focus on making as much money as they could in the short term. But they did not understand the real business opportunity was actually helping people to see results. It's a very emotional decision to change. And when that emotional decision is made and they go on the internet and they do a search and they find content in order to go about something that they want, right? They find a program. We need to give them something that's going to work. And you see that before and after a picture come through, just an email coming through it, right? And you realize how much better their life is. That was really what the motivation came from. And it was always an emotional discussion too. It was rarely just like, I lost this percent by the fact that I came as much muscle like in Benz's much, right? They would include the hat, right? But it would always be my life hasn't proved. And we had thousands of thousands of people sending in transformations like that, right? And not always where they dramatic, like put them on TV type of ones, right? But you can really see that they made a really big difference in the way they look and where they feel. And what was so fun is that we would then say, now we want you to be the star, right? You did it. You were inspired by people on bio.com. You got yourself into the community and they helped you. Now let's get your story. And then sharing that with our team was huge motivation. And some of the best people that made some amazing transformations, we would actually fly them to Boise to be at some of our corporate events. Because every time we had a big meeting with the whole company, it was always customer focused. It was always, here's why. What you're doing is not only making a difference, but it's saving lives. And I know that there's millions of people you're helping, but I'm so happy to be here. It's an example of someone whose life you gave back. And humans have so much potential and so much limitless top stability and mine were all gone. But you gave it back to me. And now I feel like my future can hold anything. And you hear this person grow up on stage and tell you about what you did to actually help change my life. That's motivation that you can't buy. You know, over years we started to get a lot more competition. You know, there's way more websites, more content out there, people sound products, of course. What really differentiated us was because of the trust that we built the community and because of how much content that we created, we were by far the most visited. We had the largest audience for people that are interested in fitness in the world. In fact, at one point it was the most visited fitness website in the world of any website. If any type of fitness, not just like body built in type of fitness of yoga, you know, of anything, by far the most visited fitness site in the entire world, any English speaking country. And that brings a lot of power with it. There are millions of people that love by mine.com. And they grew up on bodywork. And it was a part of the early internet. It was a major cultural force, not just in fitness industry, but overall. And there's no doubt my mind that bottom in our calm is going to last because it has, in its DNA, the authenticity that the fitness industry still needs. If there's anything I'm frustrated about these days, we spend more money on health and fitness products and wearables and streaming services and we ever have before as a society and we're more out of safety than we've ever been before. Bottomline.com is your trusted partner. That's your work-up partner. That's your therapist in a lot of ways. Bottomline.com can be there for you to help you to reach those goals, help you to change your life, become your best self. There's almost no better way to improve your life than you can fit. It's the number one way to improve your entire life. There's almost nothing else you can do that will make your entire life better than going from not feeling your best to being fit, healthy, energetic, confident. Building your body, building your mind, that really builds your life and that's what we do for our customers at bottom in the car.

=== FILE: Becoming OldSuperman [aBcsjgktEzU].txt ===

Hi, this is Ed Cook, old Superman on Body Space, where everyone calls me Pops. I'm here with Bodybuilding.com doing an interview today on How You Can Transform Your Life. At age 48, I changed my life. Since I was about 37 years old, I began to gain weight, started to give up on myself, physically, and ended up eating a lot and gaining a lot of weight. Just life becomes too overwhelming, and you feel that you don't have enough time. Finally, though, after a quick trip and visit to the doctor, he can give me some news that if I continue on that course that I'd have some severe medical problems. If you don't do something quick, you're heading for a heart attack in an early death. I walked out of that doctor's office that very day, and as I walked out that door, I knew it. I knew at that moment my life would change it would never be the same. Ever, I made a change in my life. I got back to the gym. I weighed about 243 pounds. I dropped 52 pounds in seven months. I just trained like hell. Just trained. I went on a low carb diet. A couple of the muscle heads came up to me and said, hey, you should consider competing in the masters. I compete in bodybuilding. I thought, well, I don't really want to do that. I got curious on the internet. I started looking at some of the over 50 competitors and thought to myself, I could probably do this. I was thrilled. I got on stage. I was hooked. My passion has been bodybuilding. I love the sport. I love what it's done for me. I've been encouraged more people to get involved. Bodybuilding is all great. I love it. I'm competitive. It's been a source of motivation to continue to train. But what's been the most important thing is that the changes made in myself. I tried to think, what was it that why I was able to do it this time? Because it's a statistical fact that 97% of all people fail in their diet fitness goals within the first year. It's a terrible, terrible average. I've been doing this now actually. Now, eight years. What I realized is that even though I had let my physical body go, I had worked on some very, very tough issues. That were bothering me in my life. So if you're looking to transform your body and to lose weight, become fit, more healthy, you need to look and find out what your goals are, what motivates you. If you have no goals, you're not going to accomplish anything. The reason people fail in their diet and fitness goals is because of an interstregal. They see this ugly and they think if I could just get that 40 year old guys, if I could just get those abs, I had in college and the young girls. If I could just get no size 6 genes, when I was in a senior in high school, I'd be happy. That'll all make me happy. Well, it's no different than the guy who says, if I go down and find me by that Porsche, I'll be happy. But six months later, it's just basic transportation. It's not that big of a deal. It's like a lot of material things. And that's what this body is, it is material. But it's connected to this wonderful spirit inside. If the spirit is sick and unhappy and healthy, there's no way the outer self can mend itself, heal itself and become whole. You have to have something in mind that you know you can do. What are your goals? Where do you want to be? You want to do it. Set those down, put those in writing. Get your life in order. Find a slot that works. Doesn't interfere with family or work. I can guarantee you if there need to fix this. And men this. And then this will really fall into place. It's been an honor to be one of the top inspirational members of Bodybuilding.com. How it all started was five years ago. I actually got on bodybuilding.com to buy a pair of posi trunks. And while I was there, I saw a banner that says apply for over 40 bodybuilder of the week. Give $50 gift certificate. And I was motivated right there. So I filled it out. I got over bodybuilder, you know, I won it. And they said, but you need to fill out a body space. I didn't quite know that was, but eventually I figured that out. And came a body space member. And of course, people started hitting me up his friends. And then the whole body space saying, kind of took a life of its own. I get messages. Lots of them. And there are two types of messages I get that are really. Really keep me going. And incredibly gratifying. One is from our military. I'm not, excuse me. One is from our military. They're out there. They're overseas. They're lonely. And I always take a time to always answer them personally. And help them out. And do whatever I can. I get on the forums and encourage people when I see a soldier who looks like you could use some encouragement. I'll tell the former members, stop by, say hi. And just give them a little encouragement. There are thousands of miles away from home. They have family and loved ones and children. And they don't get to be with them. The second one, and I've gotten many of these. And this is where it's very humbling. Is when someone contacts me and says, you've changed my life. Today I was going to give up. And I ran it to your body space. And now I'm motivated to continue. I had a man message me here about six months ago. He private messaging me desperate to lose weight. Needed help. And he said, you referred me to your blogs. And you answered some of my questions. And I'm here to report back to you. It's been one year. And that one year I've lost a hundred pounds. I've landed the job of a lifetime. And I'm marrying the woman of my dreams in six months. All at the age of 40. And I was going to give up. Every time I got discouraged, I would go to your body space. And it would keep me going. And I just want to thank you for that. This body is great. And the fame is fun. And it's good to be. If they have people patch on the back and tell you how great you are. But really what it's all about is giving back to others. That's what life is really about anyway. It's doing those little things to help your neighbor, to help their lives improve and be happy. I want to thank Bodybuilding.com for inviting me here today. I had a great time. Also, stop buying Simeon Body Space for more content. Just check out Bodybuilding.com. For more content, just check out Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Becoming The Beast ｜ Nick Scott Fitness 360 [QOYvtCTMXMQ].txt ===

My name is Nick Scott. I'm part of Team Bodybuilder.com. I'm an IFBB pro wheelchair bodybuilder as well as a professional wheelchair ballroom dancer. I'm a professional speaker and I'm the CEO and president wheelchair bodybuilder. Basically, I'm a global promoter of the sport of wheelchair bodybuilder. Back in August of 1998, I was 16 at the time. I was going to football practice and my left-front tire blew out. It rolled my vehicle five and a half times. It broke my back and damaged my spine at T1211. And the doctor's diagnosed me as a paraplegic and he told me I would never walk again that my football days were over. And I was devastated and from there I got severely depressed and my weight went up to 300 pounds and I basically wished that the accident would have took my life. Because just like when the doctor said it would be physically impossible and it's about success is not about a destination. Success is a journey. And it's about going the distance because it took me over six and a half years of falling in little sensation that I walked across my college graduation to get my diploma. So eventually when I got to the weight room, I realized, you know, I couldn't do squats, power cleans, deadlifts, but the one thing I could be and do was bench press and be strong. And I stuck with what I could do and just really focused on the mindset like a sniper. Totally focused when I could. And then eventually things led from that to being, you know, being a two-time world pilot from champion. I never compete against other people wheelchairs and my career was 39 first place, two seconds and one third. What I do is I basically go around and promote not just wheelchair bodybuilding and not just wheelchair ballroom dancing, but to show others that they can pretty much do anything. And if they set to do something they can achieve it. But, you know, between the guest pose and all over the country and even around the world, as well as the ballroom dancing, you know, it's like I constantly make appearances as well as my speaking to get out there to tell my story to inspire, to motivate, to impact lives. And I really truly love what I do and it doesn't matter if I work, you know, seven days a week. I do what I do to get the job done. And that's what I do. I keep motivated because it goes back to, I don't do this for myself. I don't look at bodybuilding as my job. It's more like a hobby thing that I take it, I'm obsessed about it because I do want to get the wheelchair division on the Olympia stage and I want to lead the sport by example. You know, all the guys and everything look at me as inspiration or the guidance. And I want to lead and show them that anything's possible and having pro shows and stuff like that and give them hope and it gives them something to strive for. That's what motivates me to be able to inspire others to be the best that they can be. Yeah, in the beginning when I just started out training after my accent, I had a chest brace on and I was very limited to just transfer to benches because I didn't have a lot of mobility. I mean, there's a lot of things I realized I couldn't do because that was my mindset at the time. And then I started with the bench press and from that, it build my confidence and not I really wanted more. So instead of thinking, I couldn't do this or couldn't do that, I opened my head a bigger mindset and more open mindset about things and instead of thinking, I couldn't do it. I just sort of think how could I do this or how can I make adjustments to make it work for me. You know, maybe there was an a spotter. So I did a lot of my training in the and the Smith machine, just as well as the Incline, instead of having to transfer to the Incline bench, I just adjusted the bench and the Smith machine to raise it up. You know, it's little things like that as well as curls. I didn't have to be in an Incline bench to do, you know, dumbbell curls. I could just simply lean back and I could be in the same, the movement. So I really started to think outside the box that it's really about the angles of the body and the movement. It really just understanding how to actually do those movements in a different mindset. And that's really what I gave me. You know, understanding of how I actually needed to just my training. Typically, I train about five to six days a week. It's normally about six days. And like in the beginning of the week, I train the bigger muscle groups and then I do the smaller muscle groups. And I'll break it down for you. So on Monday, I do back and then on Tuesday, I'll do chest. Then normally Wednesday, I'll do some quad because I got quad movement and then abs. That way, it gives my upper body resting period. And on Thursday, I work my shoulders and traps on Friday. I'll do arms, biceps, triceps as well as forms. And then on Saturday, I'll either take off or on Sunday. I'll train. It's either oral train. It just really depends on how I feel. But then I'll train my hamstrings and my inner and outer thighs. They're both weak. So it's more like a rehab to me as well as do abs again. So I had abs twice. Yeah, my workouts are body-bills specific. And even Arnold and his book, you know, read a lot of material and I said it over the years. And even if you fall like Jay Colour, Ronnier, he or those guys, they all do the same thing. And I basically just fall those and I just mimic the guys that are successful and it works. And it's just basically I train the bigger muscle groups more. So take like back. I hit about 16 working sets. Chess between 14 to 16 shoulders between 12 to 14 traps about 4 to 5 sets. Triceps normally between 9 to 12, biceps 9 to 12 and you know, the quads about 16. And it's really I am between 8 to 10 reps. Sometimes 12 on certain exercise, I go by fill. And I'm really in the mindset, I just, I love the left heavy because I got the powerlifting background. I don't change it my program that often. It's basically the same thing but I do change up some of the exercises. You know, and if you look at like Ronnier, Jay, they all do like bench press or some of the same movements like squat. So it's really not about muscle confusion. Everybody stepped on this muscle confusion. But take a bench presser for example, you know, in order to bench press a thousand pounds, they keep doing the same exercise in the same movement because they want to strengthen that movement. And no bench press or wherever skip. A bench press workout, that's just how it is. So I believe in strengthening the strong movements and adjusting the small movements like the last two or three exercises. With cardio in the beginning, I used to just push myself and wheelchair. As then I sort of like, I hate to do a mat, but I still do it to this day. So then I sit behind a recumbent bike and I would pedo with my hands and I monitor my heart rate to make sure I don't go over what I need it to do. But then I try to do swimming and some people like that, but I absolutely hate it. And then it's like really figuring out what works for me, but eventually I got to the point where I can use the recumbent bike with my feet and then my feet fall off the pedals. So then I took it where I took Velcro strap and strap my feet and that gave me problems. And I actually lined before, lined the entire foot of my my shoe with Velcro and on the pedals, lined that with the opposite Velcro and stick them on there. That worked for a while, but then that's going to be coming to pain because it's, you know, trying to place it, whereas sometimes I'd even, I bolt my shoes into the pedals, but then, you know, trying to put my shoes on, that was a pain. So it's a really trying to figure out what worked for me. Basically my diet consists of six meals, about five meals and also one supplement protein. And basically I'll eat about six ounces of some sort of protein and as well as anywhere between five to six ounces of carbohydrates. So I'll break it down and see like the breakfast, so I like six ounces of lean steak, two whole eggs, and I have a couple of oatmeal because of oatmeal and yams and certain type of potatoes is more of like a low glycemic carbohydrates, slow digesting. But then like, milk too, I'll have six ounces of chicken with one cup of rice with one cup of broccoli. And then milk three, it'll be like a lean, like a higher 90% lean beef, as well as a six ounce potato. For meal four, I have six ounces of chicken with five ounces of yams. And for meal five, I'll have eight egg whites with a fourth cup of almonds with one cup of broccoli. Now for the last meal, which is actually like meal after my workout, which is my protein shake, I take two scoops of protein powder as well as like a carb powder after my workout. So that'd be like my six meals. Yeah, it's like for the most part, I do eat lean, but when I have a cheat meal, I hear about these clean cheat metal, I don't do that. If I'm gonna have a cheat man, I'm gonna have a cheat man, but I don't do it all the time, but I like I'll be strict for like three four months, and I'll just have like a really bad like cheat metal like one to two, and then I'll stop. It goes back to why you're doing it for the first place, to actually have a purpose to have a reason, why you do what you do. If you actually have that, you won't have the urge to cheat on your meal. I am protein philosophy, supplementation is everything, because it actually aids the muscle, and the muscle tissue is still quicker, and that's actually the whole reason why you do the ruff recovery process, and that's what X to make some muscle bigger and stronger faster. In order to be the best, you get to take a wide range to enhance the body. Protein powder, take a slow digestion, protein powder like a case in, I'll take a multi-vitamin, I'll take a pre-workout, a CLA, BCA, glutamine, creteen, and basically like a ZMA for like sleeping, and then take a wide variety of supplements. For beginner, what I recommend, I would recommend a protein powder, a multi-vitamin, and some sort of pre-workout. So that way you have more intense workout, that way you feel better, better about yourself, and you're motivated, and a little tip about taking a multi-vitamin, you always want to take it with food, because it absorbs more fish and inner system than just taking it by itself. Basically for those who are afraid of taking supplements or actually trying it, you get to actually realize what an axe it does and actually educate yourself. I would not get the type of results if I did all my training without, because I know in an educated and I got multiple certifications, and I know that supplementation is a critical part in the muscle development. All right, that's it for about me, as well as my training nutrition and supplementation. For more information, you guys got questions for me, contact me on body space, the beast, WCBB, but it's been not common as committed to changing lives. For more articles, videos or content, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Becoming a Professional Strongman & Drilling Discipline ｜ Ep. 22 ｜ Craig Bongelli ｜ Bodybuilding.com [cVU4nTIyN_I].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Daniel Bits and welcome back to the BB Compaqcast. Today I'm joined by Craig Bongelli. Craig's journey in the world of strength and conditioning is as intense as it is inspiring. From his early days in boxing to becoming a professional strongman under the mentorship of legends like Louis Simmons, and Bill Kazmire. Craig's path has been anything but ordinary. After a dramatic strongman career marked by a viral accident and remarkable recoveries, Craig shifted his focus to coaching where he guided world champions and everyday heroes alike. Today he's author three books centered around body transformation and body recomposition. Most recently he returned from a stint at Westside Barbell diving into their latest training methodologies, which will be featured in an upcoming series here at bodybuilding.com. Join us as we talk through his insights and stories from a lifetime of pushing physical and mental boundaries. Craig, welcome to the BB Compaqcast excited to have you here in New York City. Thank you very much. I am very excited to be here today. We are ripping some Westside Barbell gear today, compliments of Craig bringing them in from Ohio today so appreciate the swag always. Always take some new gymties. My pleasure. I don't think there's better tea here. It's for the gym or for podcast. I love it. We're going to do a little bit later, but it does pay homage to a new series that we are debuting here this fall at bodybuilding.com with Craig as the star talent in that series. Again, we'll dive into that later in this episode, but so excited to have you Craig. Let's dive in. So topic number one today, everybody is, you know, no surprise building Craig. We always like to hear a little bit of context behind the journey of where our guests come from. So tell us about the journey that led you here, Craig, your time as an athlete, coach, and now really a mentor setting the tone for current and future athletes. So my athletic pursuits always centered around combat sports, growing up. I remember being six years old and watching Rocky and my grandfather held pillows on his hand and when he hit them and like slipped out of the way. And so I went into different martial arts ended up boxing in my early teen years. Mostly because I was poor and the police had a sponsored boxing club in my city and if you couldn't afford to pay your dues, they'd still let you boxed like cool. So I did that until I was 17 and at 17 years old, a high school history teacher invited me to a highland games event and he can't do it near the city where I grew up. They have one of the biggest highland games events in the world and they brought in Scotland's strongest man as they was Jamie Bar. And he was six foot two covered in tattoos, 270 pounds and Scotland's strongest man. He made the top ten of the world's strongest man one year and I met him and I was six one six two 150 pounds and I felt like I had been struck by lightning. Like I'd never seen a man before like this, this is a man. So the next day I called my boxing coach, quit boxing and it was it was lifting weights and eating from there. Tell us about getting into lifting for the first time and eating. I'd still funny to hear everybody's origin stories. I feel what, probably what little we knew when we first started out on those journeys when it came to nutrition and really splits and whatnot but tell us a little bit of how you started. So the couple things I did at that highland games event. There was a man named David Webster who was knighted for his work in strength sports history. So the on-classic this year had a strong net event honoring him, called the Webster stones and he gave me a little bit of advice which I kept. I asked Jamie Barers many questions and he would tolerate in a couple minutes I had with him and then I came home and there were three things I went through. I went through animal pack. Used to have these training routines on their website. I got a copy of Arnold's and Cyclopity of Bodybuilding of course because I don't think anyone's ever started Bodybuilding without it and I went to Bodybuilding.com which like hand on the Bible. I went to Bodybuilding.com website and just started reading. I read the forums, I read the articles and I was like cool. I have to eat a lot. I probably have to train every muscle group twice a week because some of the animal packs said that some of the people I'm bodybuilding. Now, I'm said that and Arnold said that so I just started training as aggressively as possible as often as possible and eating, eating until it hurt. I ended up gaining I doubled my body weight in the first five years. I was lifting. I went from 150 pounds to 300 pounds which was an exhaustive experience. But those are the three places I started looking for information. This was not a promotional plug everybody. This is in fact real life. Jan, I didn't even know that was going to come up. But that was one of the first places I went. Yeah. Tell us, I mean, what were you trying to accomplish in those first five years? Was it more so just about getting as big and strong as you could to eventually compete? Did you have your eyes set on a competition? What were you really working towards? You're just kind of going in and just being obsessed with the process. I wanted to be a professional strongman. It was like cool. That's what he is. He's one of the best strongmen in the world. Scotland's strongest man. World's strongest man competitor. Professional strongmen. I'm going to get big, super strong. I'm going to compete as a pro strongman and I'm going to get a bunch of tattoos. That was the game plan. So what happens when we get to that point where you say, okay, I'm ready to compete. What was your first competition? How did you do in your first competition? Bring us through that experience. That's so bad. That's so bad. That's terrible. I was training. It was hard to find back that like strongman's not a big sport now. But back then it was a really tiny sport. So I found a guy in Toronto, Canada who coached people for strongmen and drove down a couple of times to try to learn a little bit and then found a training group of people who were much much stronger than me near where I lived. And they were all competing in a contest. No, like you could do it. My cool. I could do it. Couldn't do it. Bob, I zeroed like at least half the events. It was probably a show that would have been halfway between complete beginner and close to training professional. It probably would have been the middle ground between those. And it, my confidence was slightly too high. So I was furious with myself. Like cool. I'm going to go train twice as hard. Quickly humbled. Immediately. And I didn't have a big ego before. No, you could do this contest. I'm like cool. I'm kind of... You had the hype squad. I get it. I get it. What would you say going into that first competition? I mean, where were you not prepared? You're probably going to say in every asset knowing you Craig. But you know, what kind of, what were the main takeaways from that first competition that you then applied directly into your training, you know, in the days and weeks that followed? So the the biggest takeaway. Because you're right. I walked away being like everything about this sucks. I suck. Like everything has to get better. The biggest takeaway I took was I don't have access to strongman implements. I don't have a set of outlustones. I don't have a log. I don't have a yoke. I don't have any of these things that I'm competing with. So I have to get even stronger on the things that will hopefully carry over to them because I'm not going to finesse the technique. I have no idea what I'm doing with the technique. Like I get the idea. But I haven't practiced it. So I have to get significantly stronger on the things that are close so that the technical aspects don't hinder me as much. How did you kind of unblock that for lack of a better term? Did you go and find Atlas stones or were you kind of just mimicking things in the gym? Was it a mix of both? What did you had to do at Dr. training? So I tried to I tried to get my hands on as much equipment as possible and some things were easier than others. A farmer's walk handle. You get a tube that you can slide weights on and grab. Not so bad. Getting a log can be tricky. Atlas stones. Tricky. Nothing was convenient to store. I ended up putting two in the garden at the at the girlfriend I had at the time at her parents house. I'm like these will look nice and I can on the week if I can like drag them out and use them. But even the first professional contest I've were competed in. One of the guys who I competed against had come third at the world strongest man so it was no joke in terms of the contest. We had an 880 pound yoke which is essentially a bar that you pick up on your back and try to walk with and it was 880 pounds and I'd never touched one before. Like I I almost finished the full like 100 foot course but I probably had to put it down 14 times because I'd stagger and stumble. I'd never I'd never done it. So I tempted to get my hands on as much equipment and I was only moderately successful. Craig walk us from then to now tell us some of the numbers that you've put up in some of these events tell us from your greatest feats and competitions and strongman specifically. I'm just going to show us the journey from then to now. So best lifts in contest at the Arnold Classic amateur strongman I would have done a 1200 pound yoke or an 1150 pound yoke a 315 2 inch thick bar clean and press for reps and I think I got 4.5 710 or 750 pound deadlift are probably my big ones. In training I had a 370 thick bar clean and press and a 420 outlist on which we're probably my my favorite moments. It's always funny I feel like so many athletes myself included we can put up some of our PR moments in the privacy of our own corners and there's something about being in front of whether it call it stage anxiety or whatever the case may be but I just feel like when you're in the comfort of your own gym and the comfort of your own training corners with your own people there's something uniquely different about performing there than you know out on a competition stage. Agreed in some of the hard part with that especially in something like strongman when I hit the 370 axle I was training for the Arnold Classic where they only had a 315 for reps so my best strength was like I have to just rep out on this or in some like in training you can hit just atlist on today but in a contest you're going to do five other events first and then you're going to do them and it's not quite a smooth after that. Yeah Craig so how long do you compete in strongman specifically? How long did I compete or how long is the contest? Yeah I mean what would you what would you deem your strongman you know career as was it a decade is it more than a decade is it still going today or still trying to put up some numbers today when it comes to strongman specifically? I'll still do the lifts from time to time which hurts me because when they were happening I was like I suck this is the world record and this is what I hit today and I look back on them like oh I was actually really strong like that's I should have enjoyed that more and now I do them and I'm weaker than I was when I was 320 pounds so it lasted about six years maybe slightly longer and coming to the end of my strongman career I was 320 pounds which isn't enormous it's not Brian Shaw big but it was pretty big on my frame I was hitting some really good numbers and I was talking to some of the top guys and I was like hey like what what am I missing to go to the next level like what do you think I need to do and the kinds of things that were put in front of me were things I wasn't willing to risk and at the same time I was balancing the gym my own and the type of clientele I was beginning to coach very high level athletes deciding okay like what basket am I putting my eggs at and it turned out to be coaching yeah that's a great transition you know where did coaching come into play was it shortly after you started your strongman career was it at that tail end tell us about how coaching came to fruition for yourself so this is going to be the wrong answer no wrong answers here just wait I got into coaching strictly for the money I was probably 18 years old I've been reading compulsively to try to help me learn what I need to do to achieve my goals and I was working I was laboring it like a construction site I was laboring in a single yard I was bouncing at night and I was in a local gym and I'm resting between sets and I'm listening to a coach at that gym explain lateral raises to someone and it is the dumbest explanation I'd ever heard and I'm listening to this I'm looking around and then I'm starting to listen to the other trainers I'm like they charge 60 $60 an hour for this I'm like I'm getting in fights for 850 an hour I'm like what am I doing and I had no idea trainers didn't get the whole 60 I was like cool I should do this like forget forget fights forget labor I'll come do this I'll hang it with the gym all day well train people there's no way I'm going to be bad at these idiots they've already hired like this is what I should do I love that no I love I love an honest answer we love an honest here answer here at BB com but how did that evolve Craig obviously it became so much more to you over the last couple of decades so how did that evolve over time what started as you know what let's call it a side hustle right and really became into your full-time career here I think there is something magical about transforming your body I think I think transforming your body is the most visceral unavoidable evidence that you have the power to transform your own life and when I started realizing that myself it was mostly watching clients like whoa Sally lost 50 pounds and now she's having a better time with her husband it feels like a better mom and it's getting promoted at work or whatever but that's not to downplay the results but the example is whatever but seeing seeing that come out of people wasn't credible to me I get I I loved it like I I love seeing what it brought out of them to to realize they had power over themselves that they didn't appreciate previously do you have a favorite client testimonial to the state that sticks out my favorite client ever was a retired optometrist named Trudy he worked as an optometrist until she retired but I trained her the whole time and Trudy at 67 years old hit 17 full body weight pull ups and I used to use that I still use it to shame everyone I'd be working with a world champion in boxing MMA and they do like 12 be like that was pretty good I'm like yeah it's not bad like really 60% of what this 67 year old woman could do but I called Trudy last night like we're still still close she's an amazing woman but my favorite client and I've used her as ammo to beat other clients with since shout out the Trudy sounds like we need her have around the show Greg you've lived so many lives between the strong man career while be at short and no less impressive you got into coaching and you've made that and your career today you've written books which I want to get to as well but along the way I feel like so many stops right along the journey you are part of the military you ran a marathon you had a near fatal accident right there are all these touch points that really started to build you know just the sheer amount of grit that you display today so kind of and I guess walk us chronologically right where did strong man come into play in military and coaching etc and then I really want to get into present day today and impact you're making on the community for sure so chronologically boxing is the teenager meets all the strongest man strong man becomes it until my mid 20s when I quit strong man for decided to quit strong man I was I was pretty depressed I hated the gym despite the fact that that was my job and I didn't have a lot of direction that was my identity what I what I built my days around and I couldn't handle lifting weights for nothing it's like cool on losing weight purposefully but I'm not training for this anymore the same way so what I'm going to come in here and do 95% of what I could do last week today and then 90% the next week and then 85 80 75 go on and on like this sucks like I need to find something else hard to do and I don't know why running became the idea that I thought was going to be a good idea but it became it and I'm like I'm going to figure out like if I can run and at first I could not run like yeah good not run take a strong man and put him on the pavement I mean yeah bad time and that was like cool like I wonder I wonder what can happen with this and I started somebody shown me like a jockel willing podcast that I'm seeing like David Gogh and stuff and I this this seems hard core I like hard core so ended up running a marathon and I wish I could've heard this to Fahrenheit but Celsius I ran the full marathon around minus seven degrees Celsius so below freezing where was this in Canada? casual yeah but I that was the the next challenge and after the marathon I was almost a hundred pounds lighter than at my peak weight as a strong man and I was like okay so what am I going to do now? what was your peak weight? three low three 20s. yeah so you're back around 220 now. yeah like skinny I look I don't look at it 220 at all that was not a good body weight for me but good for running and after doing the running or while doing it it was influenced for sure by the David Gogh and jockel willing like who raw navy seal stuff and I was like man I think I'm disciplined like my my self image is built around like I'm disciplined and I started looking at my life I was like am I disciplined? like no one tells me what to do like I choose all the things I try hard at so am I disciplined or am I just picking things that I like? like what? this is a problem like how do I find out? like what's the most like what's the most tangibly disciplined thing that my personal choice is don't play into? like I should try the military so it's like cool that's what I'm gonna do so I signed up as a reservist in Canada so I can keep my gym operational all that kind of stuff and went into that for a couple years tell us about that experience my David Gogh and dreams didn't come true it was not as hard as I wanted it to be and that could be my own fault I'm reading all this like going to Buds as a navy seal like who raw stuff and then I'm showing up to this unit in Canada and they're like like we're gonna play road hockey a bit we'll clean some guns and then we'll order pizza so that was I was disheartened and I met some amazing people in the military and there are some really hard core dudes I was not surrounded by a ton of them in that particular unit and I'm glad I did it because I would have wondered about it for a long time but it was not the beat down I was looking for so how long did this last just over two years and what happens after the military? after the military that's a good question after the military I had a little bit of a fire back in getting stronger again and being more muscular in part because I didn't really love being 220 I like being really fit I like being able to do pull ups and all that kind of stuff but I wasn't pumped walking around no offense anyone who feels like this looking like a regular dude and I don't look very big on camera I feel like I look like I'm five nine and like a buck feel you feel real fixed and post yeah that's sort of large things but I didn't really love it and I started getting back to lifting and liked it again which was really cool. Do you think that could be accredited just to I mean really a mental break from it all? Do you think you kind of I mean you threw yourself into one of the most taxing endurance events in the planet which is a marathon I think we can only go higher to get to that ultra and then the hundred mile races right but still from never running and going from strongman and then completely changing the demands of your system to become a long distance runner right I mean do you think your your psyche which is burnt to a crisp at that point and you just needed a break away from the gym to fall in love with it again? I would assume because it's it I built my whole life around the gym like it's been so transformative for me literally and metaphorically that I I do think that break was likely what I needed because I I was fairly depressed killing that part of myself when I decided I was done competing. All right so that helped you reignite that flame a bit you said you and you casually threw in the fact that you were open in a gym when in the story of Craig did this take place. So I was working at a big box gym in my city and well from I think I started when it was 18 years old I think I started when I was 18 years old and I think at 21 I took my first trip to West Side Barbel and when I got back what I got back it made it very hard to tolerate what that big box gym was like and that's through no fault of the people who ran it they were operating it to make money and I had this taste of something of it so different so it's talking to a couple of clients that mine at the time it was like I'm gonna I'm gonna quit I'm gonna do like private security stuff and I'm just gonna live weight on my own I got to want to work like this and they were like well what if somebody backed you a little bit to open a gym so we opened a gym altogether at the partnership broke up after a year and I was like this is it like I'm gonna do this so I opened another gym that I named after my dog Lily it was called Lil's Gym and I had that for a war just over a decade sold it just after COVID when you opened that what I mean what was your goal you know what kind of environment were you looking to create for the community that would eventually be your members I would have told you at the time I wanted something hardcore I ironically hardcore included 67 year old trudies so not hardcore in the direct vision people have a west side for example but I wanted a place that was about that was about the goal not just about the business because those things are different like if there was a member at the gym who came in and were like hey man I got fired I need to cancel my membership for a bit like cool don't worry about it like it didn't it didn't matter to me like it didn't help me pay my bills but it mattered more to me that people were there who wanted to be there who wanted to get better who wanted other people to get better there's a there's an aspect of that environment that's very addictive it's very addictive once you've had a taste of being around people who are all pushing forward to to feel anything else or be in any other kind of environment that's what I wanted I think a lot of I want to say a lot of people who open gyms but just maybe a people who maybe missed the point of the gym environment it is about the community anybody can put up four walls throw some racks throw a couple of treadmills in there and blast the music and call it a gym but to build the community is a uniquely different aspiration or goal and a much more difficult achievement to to come about then just putting up a gym to say you put up a gym agreed and I think community is it's so cliche now but it's really powerful it's really powerful if you get all the old expression arising tied raises all boats if you can find yourself in that environment you you will you will do things you couldn't have done otherwise it's like the idea of synergy like that the the sum is greater than the individual values of all the parts that that is a community yeah absolutely um Craig you've mentioned must I barbell a couple of times in the last couple minutes what is west side barbell west side barbell west side barbell is the Mount Olympus of strengthening it was the gym in Ohio opened by Louis Simmons and it for decades was the most infamous strongest powerlifting gym on the planet it it was a beacon in the world of strengthening it was synonymous with hardcore break that open a little bit more for us why I mean really why did what attracted people to west side barbell what was it about walking through the doors and still exist today which again we'll get into that makes it in the powerhouse of lifting that it is so there's a variety of pieces to go into that one with Louis Louis Louis was special he was a genius in terms of strength and conditioning and sports science he was also an absolute maniac people used to hone in the mad monk of powerlifting so he was brilliant but intensely driven to achieve on his own as well and he started essentially cultivating a community of people who wanted the same things they wanted to push the envelope as hard as it could be pushed or as far as it could be pushed and as you bring in as you get those people together when new people come there's an immediate filtering process like the people who aren't that hardcore leave the people who are that hardcore stay and they add to it and it gets more and more intense and it starts to grow and then as Louis was writing articles or producing VHS tapes when those were thing and then DVDs he was sharing this methodology and showing these incredible results people like well how how the hell did you get this guy to go from here to here how did you make this happen and then you could go to Columbus if he invited you and you could find out and some people stay like something it was a magnet for for the extremists in the world of results so it was a very inclusive environment did you have to be invited with members only was it welcome to the public how how is that operate historically it was members only you had to be invited by Louis I remember my first day getting there the tradition was that you'd meet for breakfast at Bob Evans which is a chain in Ohio I don't know if they have it here and then you'd go to the gym and as I was walking up to the gym doors the first day there's this big green cardboard song cardboard paper crystal board something thick paper that's green tape to the front door it was basically like if you haven't been invited by Louis F off like here's another gym down the street here's their phone number do not come in this door I was like oh that's intense but it was it it was an experience how did you first get introduced to them so I was deadlifting I was doing a mid-shin rack poll so a slightly raised deadlift with somewhere in the mid-600s and I felt a pop in my lower back right around my right SI joint it felt like warm liquid was leaking into my body I still don't know what that was but it was an alarming experience and I was immediately messed up so I didn't mean I didn't even take my weights off the bar like it took me 20 minutes to get out of the gym went home laying down didn't move for three days like I'd crawl to pee like pull myself was this during your strong hand training yeah before I was a professional got it and I'm like wow this is the problem like this is this is not good so I'm laying there and I'm googling back pain from deadlifts deadlift injuries on and on on seeking help from Dr. Google oh yeah like and for once Google wasn't like cancer because that's everything else you Google anything you can this didn't say cancer there was no like you've got SI joint cancer which is good and I came across one of the books that we wrote called the Westside Book of Methods and it's essentially a layout of here's what the Westside Methodology is which is called the conjugate that's the style of training here's where it came from here's how we implemented here's why we implemented and as I'm reading through it he's like if you train in the typical linear fashion which is how most people most people train where you do like I'm focused on building muscle then getting stronger then getting leaner then getting faster whatever like these are all the things that will happen and over time you're going to have injuries that pop up like XYZ me me I'm laying here reading this that's me so at the end of the book he has a few books that he referenced multiple times so I found those and I read both of those the two main ones that he talked about and to me there seemed to be a discrepancy in terms of how he took some of the information versus how he implemented it at Westside we're in the Westside Method and in the back of the books they used to print the Jim phone number who might cool I'm going to call it so I called it and I left a message I'm like hey my name's Craig blah blah blah this is like I've got questions for Louis about his book and I think two days later I got to call from Louis Simmons so I pick up my flip phone six one four area code I think that's a hot could this be Westside like it opening like this is Louis Simmons I'm looking for Craig this is Louis Simmons he's like yeah you're Louis Simmons it's like yes stupid are you Craig like what is that what kind of idiot did I just call and so he's like you know what's your question and I stopped repeating his name I'm like well I was reading your book and then I read this book in this book and and I start trying to ask my question he's like way away you read my book like yeah he's like and then you read these like yeah he's like why like because you reference you reference you said to yeah like blah blah like it's back and I do this wrong I thought this was this made sense to me he's like you read both of those I'm like yeah it's like how so I give my age like what do you weigh what do you squat what do you balance what do you deadlift what do you training for and I tell them all that he's like you should come to the gym like okay it's like when can you be here and it was probably June or July I'm like a late August he's like perfect call me when you know the day click I'm like what am I going to do so I got invited to West I'm like this is and you're up in Canada at this time yeah yeah just just south of Toronto West of Toronto whatever near Toronto and and I'm still poor like I do not have enough money to pay for my gas to go to West Side and stay there for a week but I'm like I just told to my com and this is I don't know this is like a mythological figure coming down like zoo subhears and he's like hey so Greek mythology is real I want you to be my pal meet me at Nautilimpus in August you're like how do I get to Greece because it would have been just it's difficult for me so I went to a bookstore and I looked at every muscle magazine they had flipped them open went to the back found the editors contacted info wrote it down went home and I'm like something all in email like hey my name's Craig Bongelli I'm an amazing writer which was a lie I'd never written anything like I'm a great writer I'm going to West Side I'd love to write you an article all you have to do is send me $500 in advance and muscle mag rope back they were like cool what's any 500 bucks I'm going to West Side so I call them back I'm like I'll be there I can be there anytime pick the day you gave me a date I met him at Bob Evans and then went to train Craig this is before a chat GPT's you're how do you get the article in how that go so the editor emailed me 48 hours before it was due he's like hey you know you still have 48 hours I just wanted to check in see what's going I'd completely forgot I made the steal what was your assignment he gave me leeway to write whatever I wanted so I decided the 10 things I learned at West Side and I made every point a quote from Louie and then I explained it but yeah he sent me that email like oh my god I got to write a magazine article like what am I doing so I just wrote it out sent to him and he actually offered me a spot writing whenever I wanted after that but I didn't have anything else to say I'm like this was that said this is I'm a one hit wonder yeah that was it like this is what I have taking the cash and I'm going to Ohio that's an incredible story Craig so I mean what comes next what's side obviously you build this incredible relationship with Louie and the community there and how does that kind of manifested self over the years to come once you land in there as a as a young kid so there were two really important relationships there for me one obviously was Louie who essentially gave me a I would call it a freak past to come back whenever I wanted he was like anytime you want to come come anytime you have questions call like whoa like Louie sent me a gift package when I opened my first year like it was and not long after that he sent me a personal referral I printed it out put it my safe and I didn't tell anyone about it for six years that was just it was so special to me I felt like I couldn't share it and the other relationship I made there was Tom Barry who's now the CEO of Westside he has he was just making his first trip there from Ireland to mentor under Louie for a couple weeks and we met we met on our first visits each and Tom now is a very good friend and he wouldn't use the word air he never uses the word air about Westside he would consider himself the guardian perhaps or the caretaker of the legacy but he now runs Westside that's a fair title for Tom so you go on this journey that we spoke about and the beginning of the episode right you go through strongman and you run a marathon you join the military you open a gem you do all these things what led you back and we're gonna get into a bit of a tease for what we have upcoming here as a docu series on bodybuilding.com what prompted you to come back to Westside Barbell so I've always stayed in touch with Louie and with Tom Louie actually referred the first high level athlete to me that I ever worked with who ended up kind of starting the cascade after I did well with him of other high level athletes but going back to Westside Westside since Louie's passing which is a little over two years ago has had a dramatic shift in what they focus on they were all powerlifting when Louie was there and NFL teams would comment fighters would comment Olympians would come but powerlifting was the focus and essentially the decree was that when Louie passes so does powerlifting the gem has to completely transition into more performance-based goals and knowing that I've always looked for some way that I could pay back a little bit of the death that I owe to Westside and that's an impossible death for me to pay if I spent every day for the rest of my life trying to figure out how to do it I wouldn't make I wouldn't make half of it it's it's an enormous death that I owe to Louie and to Westside but when I heard about what they were what they were doing now and and the process one I was curious about it I'm like okay so how do you take this this incredible training methodology and directed at these goals instead and too I had the idea of like somebody should be a test subject for this like you guys because that's what Bill Westside Louie would bring people in they'd get these crazy results and he'd write an article for powerlifting USA or later for the Westside Barbell blog be like this is what we did this is what happened boom boom boom boom boom I was like you guys should do that you just need somebody who's willing to give up say a month of their life and come stay in Ohio and do everything and when Tom and I were talking about he was like well who who who does that I do it and that was it so I got I got to see what they're doing now we got to document how all of that worked and hopefully in trying to share some of the information and the legacy of Westside I can relieve a tiny bit of the death that I owe them by sharing them with with you with a broader audience with bodybuilding.com okay look at this amazing thing that's out there here's what we did here's how it works here's who they are correct thanks so much for giving us the contextual history of Westside Barbell your experience with them really you're upbringing with them I think is a appropriate way to put it right and we're so excited to debut this docu series coming out this fall on bodybuilding.com I want to transition into the final topic for today Craig which is really it's a two-part or it's overcoming injuries and it's demanding discipline so there's no question that you yourself use discipline and it's taking quite a bit of it to overcome injury and really achieve everything that you've achieved athletically um of everything we just touched on early in the episode do you feel that there's one modality or experience that stood out the most in terms of instilling discipline and the mindset that you possess today that could be an injury that can be a training regimen what do you think really kind of sticks out the most in your mind can I can I cheat that question and give you one answer for each sure okay so injury we'll start with overcoming injuries so I was in an extremely infamous strongman accident when I passed out with an outlist oh now oddly enough I take a lot of pride in that accident and I will explain why because that's a weird thing to take pride in two two and a half months before that I was opening my very first gym and I was taking out what I thought was a plexiglass window it turned out to be a real glass window and a very sharp breakable one at that so I put my hands through it and what do people say now trigger warning trigger warning for the audience this will be slightly grotesque I put my hands through it I pulled them back and I could see my radius in my right arm and I got an arterial spray in the face so I was bleeding a lot I was alone doing the renovations so I'm staggering around thinking like my plant at first was I'm going to text my girlfriend at the time be like don't come to the gym because there's blood in glass everywhere and I'm going to drive myself to the hospital and after I passed out the first time I was like oh new plan I'm going to call an ambulance so it took me a little while to find my cell phone dial my hands are shaking I was big like had really cubby hands and I'm trying to dial on like a little blackberry so I'm like 911 Q 911 911 2 passive wake up I'm I'm I'm gonna die like I was convinced my life was ending and I didn't have the cliche white lights and you know sounds of harps and replay of my life I like woke up on the floor in a puddle of blood and it was like I'm in a die and I'm not I have not accomplished a single meaningful thing in my life I haven't done anything worthwhile I haven't attained any of my potential I'm gonna die in this half finished warehouse that's supposed to be a gym and a puddle of my own blood all alone like I my life has been pathetic turns out didn't die which is super that allows the story to continue so about three months later there was a professional level strongman contest in my city where I just opened a gym like I have to be there like I have to and so it was that contest where I passed out with the Atlas Stone so I hadn't trained an Atlas Stone at all how much time had gone by about three months so my initial worry was the car deadlift at the last meeting I had with the doctor where they were like looking at my hand and talking about the nerve damage and whatever I'm like so how strong is the artery now he's like what do you mean I'm like like if I picked up a car what he's like what kind of like I don't understand what you're asking like literally if I picked up a car do you think that would be fine he's like I have no idea I'm like okay what if it's not fine he's like well the artery could tear in your hand or in your arm and then you'll just fill up with blood you'll kind of be bleeding to death but you'll have a bunch of tissue damage so trigger warning number two I went to that contest with a knife in my gear bag and I told the girl I was saying I'm like listen if this starts to rip in my arm starts filling up with blood I'm just gonna open up the scar where it is like and you're gonna call an ambulance so that didn't happen which is great I crushed the car deadlift I fill up the video I hit the first rep and I just start laughing and I think it's out of relief but I'm howling with laughing standing there holding the car and the judge is yelling me he's like get like you've got a time limit I'm like right right right so the last event we get the out of stones I'm on the last stone you have to do five stones of ascending weight I'm on the 360 pound stone I'm leaning back I'm like it into away from the platform and I know that I'm out of position like my hearing started to go my peripheral vision's coming in and the last thing I think is I will die before I put this down I will die before I put this down slightly more of a prediction than I thought pass out stone lands on me I wake up and the first question I asked the ref who's the first person I can see is that I hit it he's like no what was my time for four because that's how you get scored and strong man if you don't do the mall and then I started complaining my feet were going numb and they thought I had I'd injured my spine but it was really just that my knees sleeves were pretty tight ambulance comes takes me to the hospital it turned out pretty good I ended it making it to the after party that night and tied for third in the contest even with that so in terms of overcoming injury which is a very long preamble to get to that answer I think there's a couple things one is understanding they're going to happen two is if you can put yourself in a position hopefully not too similar to mine but put yourself in a position where the injury happened despite all efforts for it not to like I it's not like I well I hadn't really trained for that contest that might be a bad example but I wasn't being stupid I was being stubborn but not stupid I got injured pushing my limits as far as I could push them in a competitive environment if you get injured because you're not willing to do a warm up or because you're not willing to work up and wait properly or because you can't be bothered to fix your squat form you got injured being stupid and you kind of deserve it but if you get injured doing the best you can pushing your limits you can take pride in the fact that you pushed your limits and most people will never do that most people will never try to push the limits in anything and you can have pride in that and you should learn from it in the future the other injuries I've had that were less less related to a grotesque accident I've always learned from it improved from and they they will happen when you're pushing your limits that's just part of it so I don't know if there's a great lesson in there but that's how I've I've dealt with it and the other thing is nobody really cares and the people who do care don't matter so I've talked to some of the the top strength athletes on the planet we're like I can't believe you push it that hard like obviously it didn't work but it's amazing you pushed it that hard the only people that have ever mocked what have happened what what had happened to me were dewebs on the internet with no profile picture no real name no anything I get so you start to learn the thing we're afraid of is how people are going to look at us or what they're going to say or they're going to make fun it's only going to be dewebs to make fun of you it's only going to be those people who talk on the internet those are the only people who leave comments on this video about the fact that I have a list I guess it's always it's always the same and that's just part of it like recognizing the people who respect you want are never going to shame you for pushing your limits it'll be the people who's who's lives you would never want they will have something to say thanks for taking us on that journey and being vulnerable about those experiences is quite the the couple of smaller stories within that answer any regrettable choices during those or how are you feeling about those you know those choices looking back today good I feel good about them I wish certain things might have gone differently but they helped reinforce or pull out pieces of me that I don't know if I would have otherwise like the first time you find out you're getting made fun of on the comedy network like on cable and millions of people are watching I get if you can come through on the other side of that like oh it really doesn't matter that much what people think or what people say like I decide who's opinions I care about so it's given me a lot that way no regrets I regret the glass I probably should have checked that better that the biggest PSA of this section is checked the glass yeah whatever as soon as body building a calm builds the next site like construction calm I want to be the spokesperson for like construction safety gear like if there's somebody who sells construction safety gear I'm responsible like call me Craig one final tip to leave us with here today somebody's looking to gain a higher level of discipline that they don't have today what is your advice for those individuals? My number one piece of advice for for developing discipline is to be honest to be honest more than anything else with yourself people are constantly we talk about building discipline but we very rarely look at all of the ways that we erode discipline and I think that's a much more substantial problem instead of figuring out like how do we how do we reach a higher peak of that I think we need to raise the floor that we're standing on and people can do that by not giving up their power you say hey I'm going to go to the gym tonight after work and you don't do it don't give yourself some nonsense excuse that you deep down know as a nonsense excuse hey I don't feel like it I'm going to stay fat for today I'll see you tomorrow if you are trying to get bigger and you know you're supposed to eat your next meal at APM you're like you get to APM you're not hungry you can either make some dorky excuse that the deeper part of you knows isn't true or you be like you know what I don't care and say that like say it to yourself I don't care enough to eat this meal I obviously don't want to be big that bad and if that if that feels true then at least on it so that you know that when you make a decision in the future you'll actually follow through with it because I think discipline is so tightly related to the relationship we have with ourselves and especially when it comes to fitness although it comes to a it appears in life in every other area I think we are constantly constantly lying to ourselves and we know it's a lie so it erodes our sense of discipline erodes our personal power it erodes our relationship with ourselves just tell yourself the truth and if you don't like the truth then do something different if you are that same really fat person who comes home you're like am I going to have this chicken breast in broccoli or am I going to have an ice cream cake and you start choosing the ice cream cake then you should be willing to admit to yourself that ice cream cake is better than the result you thought you wanted you can say you don't want you say you don't want it right now you can say anything you want just don't lie the more you can be honest with yourself the more easily you'll access all of the discipline that you already have like it's it's not something that most people need to go find if they just stop compressing it or eroding it they'd have more than enough to accomplish the things that they wanted and that's an ugly uncomfortable experience at first but that aspect of of using fitness and body transformation as a vehicle to develop that and practice that we'll roll into everything else you do into every relationship you have into your relationship with yourself and to every skill you want into your job into anything you can think of it'll empower all of it and it also will do the opposite if you continue to erode it what's next for you Craig what's going on in the gym out of the what's coming up next for you in the gym is just continuing to find different different challenges the the upcoming series on bodybuilding.com documenting what I just came out of it westside was honestly probably the most extreme month of training I've had in my life and and I think the results will speak for themselves when people get to see those but it's continuing to find challenges like that I'm I'm interested in finding out what my potential is I'm interested in finding that intellectually I'm interested in finding that professionally I'm interested in finding that my relationship um and I'm interested in finding it in the gym so it's continuing to look for things that feel like whoa that's an enormous that'd be a crazy gold as a way I can do that when I find those you know cool let's see how close to what I could get I always find the best in me approaching things that way. And Craig you've authored three books at this point tell us about those three books do you have plans for more but let's start out with with those three and what they're about. So the first book was called How to Bang and it was about developing explosive punching power for fighters um the next two books I don't remember the order that they happened in but both of them were about body transformations and I typically took things I took the program I was using with fighters at the time and wrote it into a book I took different protocols I was using personally and with clients to transform my bodies and put those into a book and I did that so people don't have to pay some kind of extraordinary amount of money to work with me um every couple years I look back and like the oldest book starts to look terrible and the second oldest looks okay and the newest one looks pretty good and then I learn more and experience more and do more if I could if I could give some some blunt advice that is a terrible business decision for me it would be to all of the listeners probably don't buy any of those I can unless you're just curious there's gonna be so much better information you get looking at what Westside is putting out on their blog the documentary series that we're about to release in terms of the training I'm doing and all of the the massive amounts of content that bodybuilding dot com is putting out today in real time like here is the best thing we found so far everything is meant to advance where the thing you're doing today should make the thing you did a year ago or two years ago look kind of bad and the things that you're doing five years ago you should feel kind of dumb the things that are coming out now the things we're sharing I guess that in the documentary the articles that you find on bodybuilding dot com the new programs that come out I think we need a sub series here called the truth with Craig Von Jellie I don't know and maybe we'll concept that at the end of this episode but Craig thank you so much for stopping by today it was so wonderful to have you in the studio and we're we're just so excited to be coming out with this docu series here and gosh next month at this point so thanks for thanks for stopping by thanks for joining today and we're really excited to see that series come out thank you very much I genuinely want to take take a second thank you for this to thank bodybuilding dot com for sharing or for being about to share this adventure with west side because it west side transformed my life personally and professionally and you guys wanted to share that with all of your viewers and all of your fans and all of the people who come to you for information means something to me personally I personally grateful for it I also love to thank airwave the mouthpieces and carnivore supplements and MHP who back the project and to be honest all of the sponsors bodybuilding dot com airwave carnivore MHP all of you guys came on board to just an idea to just an idea of hey like I'd like to do this for west side would you like to share would you like to be a part of it would you like to participate and all of the companies and group stages listed are ones that I rely on have used continue to use regardless of whether or not we have a public affiliation and that's the port for an a project like this and a dynasty like west side means a lot to me personally thanks Craig and final note here let the users know how they can fall along on your journey so obviously you can go to the bodybuilding dot com youtube channel and subscribe to that if you haven't because that would be it would be insane to get to this point in the episode and not go do that like that's the immediate next step other than that obviously the bodybuilding dot com socials my personal social social my personal social is the conjugate cowboy so you can find me there as well but we are we're going to make sure this isn't this isn't easy to miss amazing thanks Craig I appreciate you stopping by and we hope to see you real soon absolutely my pleasure thank you thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding dot com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: Behind The Back Wrist Curl - Forearm Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [sVLVLcsfWSo].txt ===

Stand straight while holding the barbell behind your back at arms length using a shoulder width palms up grip. While exhaling slowly lift the barbell by curling your wrist in a semi-circular motion toward the ceiling, hold a contraction for a second and lower the barbell back down to the starting position. Stand straight while holding the barbell by curling your wrist in a semi-circular motion.

=== FILE: Ben Affleck's Nutrition Plan for ＂The Town＂ by Rehan Jalali - Bodybuilding.com [Q79djTDwP2E].txt ===

Hi, I'm Sports Nutritionist Ray Hans and Lali. Not been in LA for about 11 years. I've had the opportunity to work with some of the coolest people in the world and have actually been fortunate enough to create a business out of my hobby. I've also authored a few books, the Six Pack Died Plan, and the Sports Supplement Biers Guide. I'm here at the world's famous GoalsGim venits with bodybuilding.com. And I'm going to talk to you about one of my favorite clients of all time, Ben Asleck, who got in the best shape of his life for his new movie called The Town, which you guys have to see. I'm putting this whole time in my rib. I'm thinking about a vegan gene. I'll see you again. I've got the goal for the movie was to help him be lean and muscular. I really have that commanding presence on screen. And as we know, about 75% of his really died in some of the patients, so eating is really, really important. Now for those goals, the idea was to follow my book, The Six Pack Died Plan, and give them about six to seven small meals a day. We focus on high quality protein, like lean, sore-loin steak, chicken breast, egg whites with a couple of yolk stone in, turkey breast, as well as wild salmon. For carbohydrates, we focused on brown rice, sweet potatoes, white potatoes, red potatoes, whole wheat pasta, and vegetables like broccoli and cauliflower. And then for essential fats, we focused in on flaxseed oil, almond butter, almonds, unsalted natural peanut butter, and things of that nature. We follow the ratio of about 45% carbohydrates, about 35% protein, and about 20% essential fats. Because fats are really important in building lean muscle mass, but we still wanted to keep them lean, so we had to get that lean protein and all the nutrient dense foods. Now I really believe in customization, so we have to look at where he was at when he started. Now where he was at last year, or you know, where he was at two years ago, so we didn't assess him and then we went from there and we developed the plan. We worked around 12 to 14 calories per pound of body weight for him to gain that lean muscle. And when I tell you that he's disciplined and he's strict with the plan, he's strict with anybody ever seen. I mean, the guy has a zero tolerance policy. He will not falter on the diet, and the guy's an amazing person to work with, and really, again, the discipline shows when he's on screen, and you see those rippling abs. You know he follows the diet plan. Well, bad is a year-round guy. He's one of those guys that's not going to just come in for six weeks. Get big and then you know, go eat pizza and ice cream forever. He's not that guy. He's a guy that's year-round. He's committed to his fitness. He's cycle on and off his diet, as well as his supplements. And he really does it as a lifestyle. And every diet comes up a plan. I come up with it. It's actually customized to the person. So it all depends on what he's getting ready for. If it's in a war show, it might be a little bit different because he might have to be leaner in the face. If it's a movie where he has to get buff at the town, if the program might be a little bit different, the basic principle to play. I mean, we do small meals frequently, lots of water. Training is continuous. The cardio might change sometimes. It might be more or less. But generally, we stay pretty consistent and just dial it in for certain events, or certain movies, dieting and some mutations can certainly become a chore. And contrary to what my mama told me chores don't get done. So you know what, we don't want to make it a chore. What we trying to do in my profession is really make it interesting. Making unique, we cycle a lot of the diets, we cycle the supplements. You've got to also remember your body loves homeostasis. And your body loves to be neutral. So we have a shock of body, we have a shake of the system. And the way you do that, I do that for all my clients, is by mixing meals, mixing different foods, varying the supplements. And also your body gets used to things very quickly. So you've got to take these off, you've got to add things in, and be very creative. What it comes to my good friend Jack O'Walk, a VPX sports. The guy is a mad scientist. I'm kind of a mad scientist, so two mad scientists get along really well. We have long discussions about chemicals. We've known each other for maybe eight or nine years now, and we met in the industry through a mutual friend. VPX supplements really helped support me and my programs, and what was cool about this town movie was that VPX products are actually in the movie. So that's a nice fun for Jack and nice fun for VPX sports, and it really worked out well for everybody. With regards to what to say away from in protein bars, protein shakes, I try to avoid a lot of chemical based products, things like high-fructose corn syrup, trans fats, hydrolyzed collagen or gelatin, those are some of the low-quality items that try to avoid. We want to go with whole food type bars, and nutrient dense type bars that give high quality protein and mixture of proteins that give you the best results when it comes to lean muscle and losing fat. Well, as I always say, if you fail to plan, you plan to fail. You've got to plan, you've got to have food with you at all times. I always recommend people to carry snacks with them, protein bars, ready to drink protein shakes, a handful of unsalted almonds, snacks like this because if you're hungry, you're going to pull over and eat something bad probably. But if you have something available that's healthy, you can eat that and subside that hunger and keep going strong on the program. So it's all about keeping food with you. Preparation is a key to success, so I make sure all my clients are very well prepared. As Ben was, this movie. Hi, I'm Ray Hangellali, and you guys have to check out Ben Affleck's new movie, The Town. It's going to be one of the best films of the year, so check it out. And if you want all your fitness tips, you've got to go to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ben Affleck's Training  For ＂The Town＂ by Rehan Jalali - Bodybuilding.com [Tu1O2c1kRaQ].txt ===

Hi, I'm Sports Nutritionist Ray Hanselali and I've been in LA for about 11 years. I've had the opportunity to work with some of the coolest people in the world and I've actually been fortunate enough to create a business out of my hobby. I've also authored a few books, the Six Pack Died Plan and the Sports Submit Buyers Guide. I'm here at the world famous goalsgimvenus with bodybuilding.com and I'm going to talk to you about one of my favorite crimes of all time Ben Affleck who got in the best shape of his life for his new movie called The Town, which you guys have to see. I'm putting this whole time in the vibraphy. I'm thinking about taking a change. I'll see you again. Now Ben trained like an animal for this movie. I mean he was super hardcore. He trained with Walter Norton in Boston because the movie was filmed in Boston. The philosophy followed was intensity built in density and man was the intense. We're going to show you some of those great exercises to get and look that way. The one was weighted pull-ups for his back, dumbbell bench press for that chest and also supinated curls for the bicep, walking lunges for the legs, and also hanging leg raises. Which really brought out that Six Pack or eight pack, I guess, like Ben likes to say. The first exercise is weighted pull-ups. This great exercise for your back, give you that V-taper, and give you that commanding look on screen as it did for Ben. The first thing we're going to do is we're going to have you grab the bar shoulder with the part and he's going to hang down and then we're going to put the weight behind him on in his legs right through the legs and we're going to leg it hang there and then he's going to come up really forcefully and go down slow. Really using that back muscle and not using the bicep as much and really concentrating on the last Ben just a little secret to know he actually was using 90 pound dumbbells on this. Can you believe it? 90 pound dumbbells doing pull-ups. Now one of the foundation exercises that Ben used with wall trick training for the movie was dumbbell fence presses. They used different angles, in-kind, lower, decline and dumbbells are great because they help you really target the chest muscles. They can help you go lower than a barbell and you're not locked in the fixed position as you are with a bar so you can kind of mobilize and move around if you have some shoulder problems. This exercise can really be beneficial. In fact, if you even have a rotator of injury, most people can't do the regular barbell bench, but this exercise can really help overcompensate for that and really allow you to work the chest muscles properly using these dumbbells. So Albert is going to show us how to do it. Really you want to get a full stretch in the way down. You want to keep your elbows back and make it if you put your elbows forward, you're going to start working triceps and you really want to focus on chest muscles. You want to go down slow and then explode up and Ben actually got up to the 125 pound dumbbells if you can believe it or not. Really want to contract the chest muscles at the top. You never want to think your chest end because Albert is going to be your shoulders. You want to keep your chest up like Albert's doing here all the way down and all the way up. Great exercise for chest. Now it's time for the gun show. Get your tickets right now. The way to build guns and the way Ben built his guns to the moving was doing supernated curls. He was so hard-court and so adamant about training for this film that he would at you run the rack. In other words, he would start with a heavier dumbbell and it would work his way down. I thought he had completely muscle failure which is really cool and that's the way really to build lean muscle tissue. So we're going to demonstrate some of those supernated curls turn. So he's going down like a hammer and then he's going to come up and then curl the top and really get that peak right here. So he's going to go down, it's going to work the forearms, it's going to work the break down list and really really get those guns to stick out. So he's going to do a couple more. As him go straight down with the hammer, curl up, keep back straight. Exactly right. Now we can't forget about it a lower body. We do not want to look like a light bulb. No way. So the best way to work the legs and the way Ben did it was walking lunges. This exercise hits the quad, the hamstrings, the glutes and it's a really good way to tighten your legs overall. Getting back straight. Stop by there. See, his keeping his knees over his toe almost to the ground and then he's keeping his back straight. His chest up and really pushing up with his heels to hit the glutes and the quads. And this is a great exercise for overall body development actually because working lower body can release certain hormones that can help you build more muscle. So my man Albert's going to demonstrate some good form on hegging leg raises. Form is really important. I just exercise what you're going to do is you're going to hang on the bar straight on and you're going to lift your legs up and point your toes this way. It's really important. You're going to go almost all the way down but not all the way and you're going to come up as high as possible right there. And we're going to go as fast as possible on the way up, down slow and up fast and then down slow and really feel it and almost bring your body forward when you do it because that really tightens the abs and really hits the lower part of the abdominal muscles. And you may need somebody to hold the back in the beginning to get used to the form but once you get used to it oh boy man you will be tight and that's what we want. We want six pack. We'll do a couple more here Albert and one more great job. All right man good job. There you have it ladies and gentlemen. The top five exercises that Ben used with Walter Jordan and Boston and preparation for the movie that town. You guys have to watch it. It's going to be one of the best films of the year. And remember intensity bills and density Ben trained like an animal in a train hard court. He did not miss days. He was consistent. So you got to do the same thing. You got to train as hard as possible. You got to go to muscle failure and really get the intensity up and for more information on workouts and a lot of other things you can go to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ben Booker - Training Saved My Life - Bodybuilding.com [nlg-W9VFWVA].txt ===

I'm a pilot. I'm a pilot. I'm a pilot. I'm a pilot. My name is Ben Bocker and I'm an adult. My name is Ben Bocker. My name is Ben Bocker. I'm a 2010 body space folks model winner. I'm a pilot with your suitable company Spokes Model. I'm a fitness Rx cover model. I'm a man magazine cover model and I've been featured in Iron Man Magazine, I'm a reps magazine, I work out in national publications everywhere. I'm a husband and father of three. I am also recovering alcoholic. I'm here today to talk to you about my second chance at life. I'm a fitness player, a major role, and essentially saving my life. It's a very personal story. I feel it's important to share that story in hopes that it could inspire help somebody else. We're going to rewind clearbacks when I was 13 years old. Running around with a kind of rough crowd. There was a friend that had an older brother that was able to get out of alcohol. It was kind of a big deal. It was the cool thing to do. To just hang it out with buddies, I just went along with it. Back then, and even since then, I was never comfortable in my own skin. I found alcohol to be giving that false sense of worth, kind of made me feel on top of the world. Emotionally and physically, I didn't grow through those years. People look at me and think I woke up with this physique. For me to be sitting there and telling you the story, I think it's important for you to know that I didn't wake up. I didn't just wake up and get this physique. I had a wreck when I was 17 years old. I broke my back. I was in bed rest for two months. I was 135 pounds when I got out of bed rest. I had to relearn how to walk. That was actually my wreck was doing my drinking. I got to do you. You know, some may think that, you know, you've gotten a wreck. You broke your back. Why don't you quit drinking? My head, my alcoholic mind, said, hey, that curve in the road should not have been there. I was looking at the radio whenever it happened. You know, you kind of suppressed your memories. I could have nothing happened and moved on with it today. That's see, they got planted. It was the first time I thought, you know what? If I'm not to get a hold on this thing, or else it's going to control me. And, essentially, from that point on, I began a process of trying to control my drinking and it won't have control on me. The day that I identified that was in 2005, September 2005, I had a daughter who was four months old. My wife said, hey, I'm not happy with this life that we're leading. Deep down, I knew this time was coming. I said, I have to quit drinking. That day was the beginning of my second chance. That day, when I've always said, I had to quit drinking, that was attorney point in my life. I identified my problem and my journey began to be essentially began at that point. In 2009, January 2009, I made a commitment. I said, you know what? I'm going to give this fitness thing a chance. I've been on and off looking out and I'm going to go full throttle with my training. Part of this was my buddy Jeremy. He tells me, he says he's starting to deal with his brain of supplements. I'll try him. Okay. So I start taking these supplements and I start seeing great results. I know I deal with essentially supplementation. I thought at this point I took protein powder. I got the gym and says, hey, you can get that by about a pound for 20 bucks. That's about as a game of food, which I thought was a good deal. In May of 2009, I bought my first round of supplements for inviting.com, found body space. I saw a community of people. I thought this is great. This is just meant for me. I signed up. I began sharing my story. I had to overcome some personal fears to start posting some pictures. You know, it's a little scary for me. So I started posting pictures of my chin down and my abs. Yeah, no one knows it's me. Some people find out in my community that don't know it's me. I start getting some good feedback. I get some by saying, hey, you know, I inquire about becoming a fitness model from a guy named John Ron, I tights the phone on body space. He says, look man, you could be in a magazine tomorrow. I was like, wow, that's pretty heavy, you know. So then he says, hey, there's this competition on this website, bodybuilding.com. The 2010 by Spakes Body Space Spokes Model Competition. He says, yeah, you ought to enter it. I enter this competition the first month and make top five out of how many. I was ecstatic and making top five first month. So I had another two months away that pulled five more out of each month and then I get a phone call from Bible.com. They say, hey, you've made top five. The official top five, we're going to fly it out to Los Angeles to the LA FedEx boat and you're an act of compete. I thought you would do have to be kidding me. This is my first competition. I just found body space. I just entered and boom, there I was. I'd never been in a tanning bed. I'd never knew how to do anything. I kind of called, like, so, you know, how do you prepare for this kind of stuff? They gave me tips. I searched on Bible.com, you know, how to get competition ready. And so I began tanning and I got sprays hand and it was a whole new experience. They fly me out to Los Angeles and I think I was a least experienced there. And we compete on stage. It was an unbelievable experience. I felt I felt great. I was just happy to be top five. Next thing you know, Jamie Eason is hand in me. The first place trophy. I just won the 2010 by space. But it's me competition. Wow. You know, what? What an honor and boom. Everything explodes. So here I am. I get thrown off stage, backstage interviews, left right. And all this gets kind of hit me fast. Like, holy cow. You, you just won. And then I take a step back and say, how did this happen? Essentially, a plied and a suitable supplements. I thought, you know what? It's part of my story. So I get on the website, I find the number. And I dial it. And I call, I say, hey, I don't have one to talk to. But I'm been booked here. I just won this 2010 by space. Folks model competition. And I just wanted to thank you guys because I've been using your supplements for a year. And I truly believe in the products. They said, hold on just a minute. I'm going to give you a done oral number. He's the president of the plied and a suit of course. So I'm in my office one day. And I get a phone call. We get an awful lot of calls for sponsorship solicitations. And so I kind of rolled my eyes and picked up the promise. I'm sure, you know, I'll take the call. And of course Ben was on the phone. And so he starts to tell me a story. And I could tell almost instantly that this was not the typical, you know, hey, I work out. Can I get free stuff? From call that we get so often. As he's talking, I'm like hang on a second. And so I put him on speaker phone. I call a couple of the people into my office and like, yeah, listen to this guy. Like Ben, Ben, start over again. So he has to start the story over again. And everybody was just kind of looking at each other. Where their jaw is open. And we just knew it was, it was a perfect fist. We came up with an arrangement. And he became the official applied neutral suit of course, spokesman. It was hard at first to share my story. But once I started sharing my story, people started looking for me for inspiration. That fueled my fire. So I started to hit it even harder. And I built a career now, essentially, that it is unbelievable. That has been, you know, bigger than my wildest dreams. I've had it come a long way to be able to tell this. But I think it's so important. It's so important to tell your story. I've been able to tell you that. I've been able to tell you that. I've been able to tell you that. I've been able to tell you that. It's so important to tell your story. No matter what it is, no matter how little you think it is, there might be someone out there that needs to hear it. And that's why I'm here today. I'm here to try to tell you a story. My story is your story and some way. If you have any questions, I try to get to everybody who requires, because essentially, without people helping me, I wouldn't be where I am at today. So go to book a brother on body space and personal message me. I'll get back to it. For more information, more motivation, more inspiration. Sign up today on body space. I'm bodybuilding.com. Let's start making a difference today.

=== FILE: Bench Press - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [Qjxrp9Hwv_Q].txt ===

Lye with your back on a flat bench. Using a medium width grip, lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms nearly locked. This will be your starting position. Now from the starting position, breathe in and begin coming down slowly until the bar nearly touches your middle chest. After a breathe pause, push the bar back to the starting position as you breathe out. Focus on pushing the bar using your chest muscles. Lock your arms and squeeze your chest in the contracted position at the top of the motion. Hold for a second and then start coming down slowly again. You should be in full control of the barbell at all times. Once the desired number of repetitions have been completed, return the bar to the rack.

=== FILE: Bent Arm Dumbbell Pullover - Chest ⧸ Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [4B-BrBH17uM].txt ===

Place a dumbbell standing on in on a flat bench. Lie perpendicular on a bench with only your shoulders lying on the surface. Your hips should be below the bench with your legs bent and your feet firmly on the floor. Your head will be off the bench as well. Grasp the dumbbell with both hands and hold it straight over your chest with a bend in your arms. Both palms should be pressed against the underside of the dumbbell. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your arms in the bent position inhale and lower the weight slowly in an arc behind your head, continue lowering the weight until you feel a stretch on your chest. Then exhale and raise the dumbbell back to the starting position through the same arc you used to lower the weight.

=== FILE: Bent Over Barbell Row - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [-xlBxIMqh3A].txt ===

Start by gripping a barbell with the palms of your hands facing down. Bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward. While keeping your back straight bend at the waist until it's almost parallel to the floor, keep your head up as well. The barbell should hang directly in front of you as your arms will be hanging perpendicular to the floor and your torso. This is your starting position. Now while keeping your torso stationary breathe out and lift the barbell toward you, keep your elbows close to your body and only use your forearms to hold the weight. At the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a brief pause. Bend in tail and slowly lower the barbell back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Bent Over Barbell Row - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [9Xf3DqxxTBA].txt ===

Start by gripping a barbell with the palms of your hands facing down. Bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward. While keeping your back straight, bend at the waist until it's almost parallel to the floor. Keep your head up as well. The barbell should hang directly in front of you as your arms will be hanging perpendicular to the floor and your torso. This is your starting position. Now while keeping your torso stationary breathe out and lift the barbell toward you, keep your elbows close to your body and only use your forearms to hold the weight. At the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a brief pause. Bend in tail and slowly lower the barbell back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Bent Over Two Arm Long Bar Row - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [e8YF8Z_N0-4].txt ===

Add weight to one end of an Olympic barbell. Make sure that you place the other end of the barbell in the corner of the wall or under a heavy object on the ground so the barbell cannot slide backwards. Then forward into your torso is as close to parallel with the floor as possible and keep your knees slightly bent. Then grab the bar with both hands just behind the plates on the weighted side. This will be your starting position. Now pull the bar straight up by bending your elbows. Exhale and continue pulling the plates up until they nearly touch your lower chest. Be sure to squeeze your back muscles as you lift the weight up and hold at the top contracted position for a brief moment. Focus on only moving your arms and not swinging your torso during the lift. Then slowly lower the bar back to the starting position. You should feel a good stretch on your lats. Be sure to not let the weights touch the floor. Be sure to not let the weights touch the floor.

=== FILE: Bent Over Two Dumbbell Row - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [--gDUDFKx6Q].txt ===

Start with a dumbbell in each hand. Bend your knees slightly and bring your torso forward. Keeping your back straight bend it the waist until your torso is almost parallel to the floor. Try to keep your head up as well. The weight should hang directly in front of you as your arms will be perpendicular to your torso in the floor. This is your starting position. Now a keeping the torso stationary lift the dumbbells to your side as you breathe out. Bring your elbows close to your body and use the forearm only for holding the weight. At the top contracted position, squeeze the back muscles and hold for a brief pause. Now slowly lower the weight back down to the starting position in hailing as you do. This is a very technique oriented exercise and you want to make sure you practice perfect form before attempting to use heavier weights. If you have back issues, you may also consider doing low pulley rows instead.

=== FILE: Bikini Shoulder Workout ｜ Amanda Latona [8RfaxqVNchI].txt ===

We're back. You asked for it. You want it? You need it. You got it. Bodybuilding.com. Here we are on the Mandela Tona. I'm an IFBD bikini pro. A Weed or Athlete. A Team BSN athlete. And a muscle input in his heart and flex magazine cover model. If you haven't seen my Income Miss Glute video, be sure to check it out. There's a link below. Today, I'm going to bring you a fabulous training video on my second favorite body part of training which is shoulders. I'm a big believer in rounding out the shoulders to be that nice, balanced physique. So if you're ready to go for an awesome workout that's a lot of fun, let's go to the gym. Okay, here we are. We're about to start the shoulder workout now. One thing that I always say is they need first. Now, I always warm up especially especially on shoulders because shoulder injuries, knee injuries as it's like really common injuries and thank God I've never heard my shoulder. How do you do that? I've got to warm up. I'm not a big rotator cuff person so what I do is just take really light weights, five pounds, light second fine. And I just go through the exercise that I'm going to do. They kind of just warm up the muscle instead of like a warm upset. So just some of the things I do is like a shoulder press because I always like to start with a compile movement and kind of gets all of the muscles in the shoulder warm up. I also just go right into some light lateral raises. Nothing really like straight in your way and it's just kind of like loose. And then I kind of do like a single light front raise. It's kind of not even doing a warm upset. It's basically just going through to get my muscles loose. So if you ever just see me with gym doing shoulders, it's kind of like this. Just to make sure I think it's that I don't hurt my shoulders because you don't want to shoulder injury. Keeps down for a while. Kind of make the other body part hard to do. So this is my warm up. All right, so for this exercise we are going to do four sets. That's what I do. And my rep range is going to be anywhere between 10 reps and 18 reps. The reason for that is you know, I'm a big believer in always doing something different. Keep your body guessing. If my reps are 10, then my weight is going to be heavier. If my reps are 18, my weight is going to be a little lighter. The main thing is though I'm going to failure on every set. All right. This is just want to keep a controlled movement. I don't want to stop too far at the bottom. I like to keep constant tension on muscle. Like I said, the main thing here is going to failure. If you feel like you can do more, increase your weight. All right. So that's the first set. I'm going to actually increase the weight for my next set. And right now I'm going to talk about my favorite thing in the gym. One of them. There it is. Bam. It's the stopwatch. Yes, I'm that girl. I turn my reps. And I keep my rest between 30 seconds and a minute. If I'm going to have a faster pace workout, 30 seconds. If I'm going heavier and I need a little more time to recover, I'll take the food 45 seconds to a minute. So if you're a young, start it out and we're going to lose to my next set. I'm completely crazy by the way. All right. We're moving on to our next exercise. This is the lateral front race combo. The reason why this is a lateral front race combo is we're going to be doing the one at a time. So I'm going to do a lateral race and I'm going to go right into a front race. That's one rep. And right here we go. One. That's one rep. Two. Two. Three. Three. What I like the best about this, I'll don't be concerned about throwing the heavy weight up there. I'm rocking out the 7.5 baby and more important to me is keeping that constant tension on the muscle. Now I can take this up, bring it down, stop, turn it, and bring it to the front. What that's going to do is going to take the tension off the muscle. I like to make a little more challenging. Even if I take my weight down and show everyone, hey, I'm not afraid of using the 7.5 guys. Can I sing? A mom and a rack, track, baby, apples, bomb, a sway. Alright, we're here with our next exercise. This is one of the sizes I incorporate in every workout for my shoulders. And it is the upright row. This time I'm going to be doing the down-no version, dumbbell upright row. You can also do this with barbells. You can also do this on the Smith machine for a little bit of extra support. I personally like dumbbells. I like incorporating the stabilizer muscles. Let's check up the doomsday. Get it. It's 30. Oh, it's good. It's good. Oh, this is heavy. Always to fail your guys. You gotta be working in tents. You gotta tear that muscle. Alright, let's take it up. Oh, it's so good. Oh, it's so good. Oh, it's so good. Oh, it's up, friends. We're back at another exercise for the shoulders. And this is awesome. I'll tell you why. Because this is a traditional, hand restraints shoulder press. The reason why this is so cool is because we're going to do this in a very unconventional way. And that's why I like it. Because I don't see anyone else doing this. Always think outside the box. You gotta keep it guess and folks. And that's how we're going to do it here. We're going to do it instead of facing the other way, which is a traditional way to do this shoulder press. We're going to reverse it. We're going to face this way and we're going to hit one arm at a time. So I'm going to do four sets here. Keep in it. It's 21. 15 reps. Because like I said, this is a press. So it is a compound movement. Keeping it a little bit heavier. Finish all the reps on that arm. I'm going to switch over to this arm. I'm going to get all my reps in here. Once I'm done with that, I'll do the super set. Turn around and do the exercise. And the traditional press. And finish out my 12th of 15 reps there. But. Alright, we're back here with our last and final exercise in the fabulous shoulder workout. And that is the super set of reverse tech tech with bent over rear raises. People focus on front raises, they focus on lateral raises. But because the rear del, or behind us, we don't necessarily pull out a focus on it. However, it's so important to shoulders because it helps me that nice round appearance. And it's going to cap out your del. Now, I like to do four sets. But I'm also going to keep because it is a smaller muscle group between 12 reps and 15 even up to 18 reps. I'm going to start on the reverse pectech. I'm going to do all my reps here. I'm going to switch over and super set with a bent over rear raise. Now, when you do your super set, don't focus or don't be so necessarily concerned if you're not getting your 12th or 15 18 reps. This is a way to not only get to muscle failure on your first exercise, but it's to push past failure with your super set. And it's just getting as many reps as you can. If you get five, that's okay. If you get 10, that's okay. If you get 12, that's awesome. All right. When you start off here, you want to just to see where you push your arms straight out, your basically in a nice, even plain. You also want to keep your shoulders down. A lot of times, see people lifting it up. We're doing one of these. Keep your traps out of it. So keep your shoulders down. We're going to press it out. Keep the movement nice, to control. Sometimes what I do is get a good squeeze back there. Squeeze your shoulder blades together. Don't hit the bottom here. Don't let the tension come off your muscle. Just keep it straight out. Finish your reps here. And we have flip over. Like to do is come on forward. Press it right up. It's my workout. So they have it. That's my shoulder workout. And I hope you loved watching it as much as I know you're going to love doing it. Be sure to incorporate this workout once a week into your routine. Just like every other body part. And when you get adapted to the exercises, reverse the order. Keep the body guessing by switching up your orders, switching up your reps, starting with your lateral raises to create exhaust for your compound exercises. And remember, always check back to bodybuilding.com for more. I'm in the Lieutenant-Con 10. Print up this workout, take it with you to the gym and get through a baby. We're back. Now we're not. Miller time, my friend.

=== FILE: Bill Phillips & Ryan DeLuca： Titans Of Transformation - Bodybuilding.com [5S9gTyqzbVU].txt ===

Everyone knows they need to work out. Everyone knows they need to eat right. Why don't they do it? People will not take action unless they believe they can land safely on the other side. We have this big opportunity and I believe we can do it by changing lives and become the best tool for fitness success that's ever been created. In 1996, a former champion bodybuilder named Bill Phillips changed the way people dreamed about what was possible for their bodies. He and his supplement company, experimental and applied sciences or EAS, created a one of a kind competition that challenged regular people around the world to change their bodies and their lives like never before. The resulting book, Body For Life, became the top-selling fitness title of all time. One young entrepreneur impressed by Philips' work was Ryan Deluca, founder and CEO of Bodybuilding.com. It grew from an online storefront into a community where successful transformations happened and were on display every day. In 2013, Philips and Deluca met for the first time at Bodybuilding.com's home office in Boise, Idaho to discuss the ongoing challenge of transforming the world. What I got into writing, bodybuilding was subculture. It was very esoteric. The inner circle knew what was going on and then all the other people that wanted to look like Arnold or get an athlete's build had to guess. My passion was making that esoteric knowledge, esoteric and taking it out of the circles and making it available to other people. The breakthrough for me was when I was writing a Muslim magazine and writing booklets and writing a really writing as if your market is the big bodybuilders, the guys that are competing. I went to a bodybuilding contest. The guys and girls watching the show. With the get-on stage or not. They want to do that. I started turning around and I started talking to their hand. I think that's exactly how we looked at it. Especially with our name, Bodybuilding.com. We got beginning of us about bodybuilding and competition. We started to talk to our users and we realized that they didn't want to compete. They didn't really want to become a professional bodybuilder. But they wanted to learn and they wanted to transform. Transformation says it. It's not just transforming how you look. It's how you live and how you feel. I'll be happier with myself and more confident. And then that confidence and energy then continues on another part of your life. Whether it's contributing to your church or at work or with your family. Just the idea that there's this better life and this better way to live. And it, a before and after really just shows it visually. Part of what made Body for Life so successful was its focus on real before and after pictures. Anyone could have six pack abs and action figure biceps, Phillips was saying. They just needed to be willing to transform the way they lived. Hundreds of thousands did. After parting ways with EAS, Phillips quickly became America's transformation specialist. Staging annual competitions, writing multiple best-selling books and leading transformation camps in his home state of Colorado. You can do it through desperation or sometimes inspiration. But I think desperation gives a lot of people started. And inspiration gives a lot of people through. I think we need more inspiration. You know, I think people need to be more inspired. And they need to have something that's more accessible. What inspires me and impresses me about Bodybuilding.com, It follows that same type of vision that I was so excited about in the 90s. And that is educate, inspire. Give people programs, not just products. I just read a stat the other day and I just said 400,000 people in the US this year will die from complications related to obesity. And that is preventable. And so what we want to do is to help keep people motivated. You know, using the community, using the tracking tools, using the personalization and content. And if we can do that, help them get the results, help them stay off the couch. I think and continue what you created. I would be very proud of that. The I grew up in Golden Call, Rotto, a little town where nobody cared about money. It was just like you had enough of what you needed. And you just didn't measure success that way or fulfill what that way. But by necessity, I started writing and started informing people, sharing what I knew and people started buying my research and publications. I think in business you got to be passionate about something. And to be resilient because you're going to have fail a lot in business. And you have to be resilient. You have to be passionate about it. And money won't get you there. Right. So I agree. I just think if I was selling a product or creating something I didn't care about. Those days where you're in the deepest, darkest trenches of being an entrepreneur, it'd be so easy to give up. And it'd be so easy to be like, man, forget this. I'm going to go get just a regular drop where because I cared so much about it, I wanted to keep trying. And I wanted to keep going during those tough times. The biggest piece for advice that I always give to people because a lot of people ask me, like, you know, I want to start my own business, like to do something similar, is to do something that you're passionate about. Where a lot of people they say, I want to make money, so I'm going to start a business. And I believe that if you start a business to make money, you want. If you start a business to create something that has valued other people, and that they'll appreciate and that's something different than what other people I've done before. Magicly the money kind of starts coming on the side. Yeah, I don't think I've talked to anybody who sees it as similar as I do. As I do, is that you got to have a good reason. And I say the better your reasons, the better your results. So you must have had a great reason for getting this going, because you've got a great result since for sure. In the 1990s web marketer and amateur body builder Ryan Deluca, about the domain wholesalecreatene.com to sell a new supplement made popular by Phillips company, EAS. After a month of no orders Deluca's site exploded, he filled hundreds of orders a week from his garage. By 1998, Deluca began to think bigger. He purchased the domain bodybuilding.com for $20,000 in 1998 and launched it on April 13th, 1999. From the start, it was more than a store. It claimed to be the largest and most complete bodybuilding site online and included articles, forums, and profiles of amateur body builders. Our first product was creating. That's around the time of the internet, started taking off. And so I kind of, the business model that really started was based on creating the product that you helped bring the market. It was like, hey, so you can buy it really expensively at a health food store. Maybe I can sell it directly online, cut up the middleman in this way and sell cheaper. And so that really was to start with based on, I guess, competing with you. Sorry, right? But then of course, you guys became our biggest vendor. Yeah, yeah, so it's just so big. It took over the market and that's all our customers wanted with the EAS products. And we would run out of the products all the time because we couldn't keep it in stock. And so we basically, we would have all these back orders and we just put a little pile. And as soon as the huge semi would come back with all the EAS products, we would just leave them on the pallet and just put them into orders. And we still didn't have enough. So we'd be out of EAS products again. And we would call up customers and say, hey, okay, we're out of this product. We apologize. Do you want to switch it to something similar or continue to wait and they always wanted to wait. Everyone knows they need to work out. Everyone knows they need to eat right. Why don't they do it? And it's because they can't keep motivated long term. They will take that leap unless they believe they can land safely on the other side. We have to keep doing this. We have to keep people moving and exercising. But you have to move people to get them to move. And it's firing stories. You can't have enough inspiration in this business. It's like I put in my documentary way back. Showed people that it was real and that it was attainable. And then I think you kind of feel that evolutionary impulse to grow and to reach higher and to change. And then like you said, making it accessible, which you're doing with your technology, and then making it easy to understand. You could solve a lot of problems for a lot of people by continuing that path. And you're already doing it. We just have a great team that gets it. Obviously we believe in everybody here following the lifestyle and understanding our customers and what they go through. So every January we do our employee transformation challenge. And so we do big prizes for everybody. And so you can see a lot of the before and after. The biggest thing is once they go through it, as you know, you understand a lot more about why the things they're doing are so important. So that's the thing too is that when you have the experience, you can transmit it. If you're just studying the knowledge, you can only. You know, you can re-educate someone but you can't transmit the message. And I feel like if anything, it's not as much just me coming up with ideas. A lot of times people do things just the CEO sitting in his office thinking of all these genius ideas of what to do. But to me, I feel like what I do is really listen, listen to our customers, you know, research what people need, as well as listen to our team members. And so I take all that out and I almost more feel like an editor, more I feel like I take all these things and say, okay, let's now keep it focused on this one area. And I mean, that's the greatest thing about it. The team now is what comes up with everything. As bodybuilding.com flourished, Deluca and a small group of employees rapidly expanded the site. It became an online community for people around the world to share what worked, what didn't, and how they planned to achieve their fitness goals. Now 15 years old, bodybuilding.com is the most traffic fitness and health website in the world. Millions of visitors each day read expert content and share their goals and transformations on the world's largest fitness social network and forum. The store created to sell creatine now sells thousands of products, including supplements, work out equipment, clothing, and food. With over 700 employees in Boise and at distribution centers worldwide, bodybuilding.com continues to expand its site and mobile platforms. Users have more ways than ever to achieve their transformation and to tell the world their story. So you can see some of the charts up on the walls over there and on those screens, where they're monitoring the sites and there's so many different parts of the site now. So 100,000 visitors a day? It's like 1.2 million, I think it's a lot of stuff to do right now. No, it's exciting to see and that's why I was eager to get to know it and come out because it's just awesome. It's just inspiring to see a lot of people succeed. I'm impressed by the energy of your team and how they relate to the vision. And you don't only see that in a company where there's a vision that permeates the soul of every person that's working there. And then we have our vision statement right here, front and center. But it's we are your personal trainer, your nutritionist, your self med expert, your lifting partner, your support group. We provide everything you need to burn fat, build muscle and become your best self. We change lives. And so what they go is everybody walks in, they see this as they're coming in, they see the commitment while they sign. And it starts like they often the right way. I want to look back and I think what I do something differently, of course there's little things you wish you could go back and redo. But it's really like that was the lesson I had to learn at that time and it's helped me to become who I am today. And so what I feel like is using a lot of principles you help to promote, you know, and a lot of the things in theories that you brought out there with nutrition and exercise and of course, supplementation. If we can build that message and bring that message to more people. What we're doing is like I always irritated like why aren't we doing this next thing, you know. But so to me the things that I would change about body and body and the common are the things that we're working on. You know, I want to make it more personal. I want to be able to create more social accountability. Better trackers, I want to be with you everywhere you go through your moment of advice. And then really just taking all of this data and using it to give you one-on-one personalized recommendations. Because not everybody can have built-ups with their personal coach, you know. So if they could then have their coach basically through data of what our communities do and what really works and get great recommendations wherever they're at. And then I think that could be a big guy for the world. We have this big opportunity and I believe we can do it by changing lives and helping people transform and become the best tool for fitness success that's ever been created. And so it's almost a positive pressure and so it's until we've got to that point. I don't know if I'll ever feel like we've actually made it.

=== FILE: Bill Phillips BACK TO FIT 12-Week Trainer： 30 Second Promo - Bodybuilding.com [wrhOkbQe2nw].txt ===

As we get older, we tend to be less or less active. You just don't have that much excitement about going to a workout. I've been around transmission so much and for so many years, a lot of it comes down to just one basic fundamental how badly do you want it. I know from first-hand experience, you're willing to do the same work that you did before. You're going to be successful.

=== FILE: Bill Phillips BACK TO FIT 12-Week Trainer： Back To Bill History Promo - Bodybuilding.com [R9G0zdsWjKI].txt ===

The first celebrity I worked with was Sylvester Stallone. He was getting ready for a movie back in the early 90s, because I had a reputation in the movie industry for helping Stallone get ready for Cliff Hanger. Anytime a star had to get muscular for a movie, I was getting a phone call. Now, doing more from the movie, G.I.J. had to get really strong. And she didn't want to use any stunt doubles and any of the scenes where she's doing pull ups and one arm pushups, she was determined to build that strength for the movie fight club. Edward Norton had to go from Scoronny to Brani in order to play that role. And it was a real man's movie. Jerry Sylvester, one of the guys that had been working with him for over a decade. Now, 20 years later, I'm still working with people from sports and from entertainment and celebrities. It's not just getting in shape for the movie role. It's getting in shape learning how to eat, learning how to exercise, learning how to make a part of your life. Let me know with the story for anyone who says they are so far out of shape it would take a lifetime to look good again. Imagine that a new body, would you believe that? I would guess I read this book. So you can spend less time exercising and still lose weight. We have got a guess at a program for you. It might actually be able to change your life. He's the best-selling author of Body For Life. Bill Phillips is here. Hi there. Hello. Hello. This is one of yours. It's been on the New York Times best-sellers list for 75 weeks. That's pretty amazing. I'm amazed by it. That was his book actually about. It's about your life. It's about you. The way you look is a representation of you. And that's what the book is about. About getting mental strength, healthy thoughts, and a healthy thought. Once you have the facts about fitness, you've got to put them into action. And I see so many people who aren't and it really bothers me because I know that they could look better, they could feel better, and they could live longer. And I know that they can do it. And I feel a sense of responsibility to help them put it into action. That goes all the way back to whatever was inside of me. When I was nine years old, teaching little football players how to exercise, as soon as I've got something down, I want to teach others. I learned how to ski, I was teaching everybody to ski. I learned how to lift weights, I was teaching everybody to lift weights. And when I learned how to cross that abyss between knowing and doing, I wanted to share that. I'm put that out there. This is important because this is probably where it all started. I signed up for Little League Football when I was eight or nine years old. And I was probably the only kid on this team that liked the exercise, better than the football games. I like doing the pushups and the sit ups and the wind sprints. My coach right there, he put me in charge of leading the calistetics and the exercises. So that right there was my first transformation camp. I was teaching Little League football players how to build their muscles and get strong. I don't know if I really knew that it would be the thing I wanted to do for the rest of my life until I take my last breath. I grew up in a small town in Colorado outside of Denver. And that many people had much money. You didn't really notice it. And the first time I ever really noticed, we didn't have much money is when I went to apply for university. And I think, and why I got to do something to pay the bills, I wanted to become a doctor. And I knew that I was good at teaching people exercise. I really enjoyed it. I charge people back in those days, 12 dollars an hour to be a personal trainer. And I was selling my programs on Xerox copies at various gym counters. When I was running an EAS company, I had right muscle media magazine. The reason I was so excited about the supplements and the workouts and the challenges is because that's how I lived. You know, I would only teach people what I was excited about learning myself. I would describe my education as ongoing. And the initial testing ground for everything that I learned was just my own body. So every new workout that I would teach is something that worked for me. Every new idea was supplements and nutrition was something that worked for me. All right, this photo makes me smile even today because this was right after the Denver Broncos won their first Super Bowl. And I had spent most of that year working with the top players on the team and developing their supplement nutrition programs. The Broncos were one of the first teams to actually have a supplement consultant and expert there for the guys that wanted to lose weight, get stronger and keep their energy up during the season. Now, every team has gotten a supplement expert. I worked with Carl Malone from the Utah Jazz. Roy Jones Jr. used to come out to our EAS gym. The Trail Davis was one of the Broncos that I worked with during the Super Bowl years. Getting his nutrition and so my program down so that he got better results from his workouts. And Shannon Sharp and John L.A. were also on the program. All of these people love weightlifting. They're over 40 and it's a part of their lifestyle. In our 20s, we often have a lot of confidence and a lot of drive and even a competitive nature all wrapped into our fitness and bodybuilding. Kind of for better or worse, we simmered down a little and we find other ways to direct that competitiveness and that drive, maybe towards a career or family in your 30s. In a 40s, you just don't have that much excitement about going to work out. And it's because people don't look for the real reasons. Throughout the 90s, we were teaching people how to get in shape. I had books and magazines and videos that would really inspire people or direct people to show them how to work out and eat right. Some of these people made it to a medical change. And that's all good. It improves their heart health. It gives them more confidence and sometimes their whole life gets better for the time that they're doing it. But with a transformation, you see something different happening. You see the person change from the inside out, not just the body change. Now, that became very interesting to me. Is it what happens when a person makes a real transformation, a real change of heart and that the change comes from inside and it shows up on the outside in the newer, better body? One of the things you can see here is that everybody that goes through our program does the before pictures and is working towards that after picture. And that's a real privilege to get to see so many people making such a powerful change. But that's what it's all about. It's getting from where you are to where you want to be. And don't ever underestimate the power of a before photo to motivate you and take a good on this look at it and say, is this how I want to stay or do I want to change? And every one of these people decided to change. For those people, the comfort year is in the comfort zone. It is over and finally they realize that it's starting to hurt to be out of shape. They don't feel comfortable. They really have to stop the denial and really look in the mirror and say, is this how I want to live my life? And I think out of desperation, many people will say, enough is enough. And they'll look for a way to make a change. And very many of those people come back to fitness. And that's where I really like to jump in and help them. I mean, a lot of guys that were into bodybuilding when they were young like I was. And they might have a picture like this of themselves. When they're in top condition and they go back and then feel young and strong. But unfortunately, they look at a mirror and you don't see that anymore. You see somebody who's gained weight, who's let their body go. And who just doesn't have that strong feeling anymore. What I would say to them is that if you've done it before, you can do it again. So we're the hardest things that I ever went through. I happened to a couple of years ago. I was at my house in California and I have my workout room on the fourth floor. And I thought, well, I want my workout room right next to my bedroom. So I'm going to walk through the gym to get to the kitchen. You know, set yourself up for success. So I did my workout. And I was just excited to get downstairs on that first step. I came down with about half my foot on the stair. And my leg was so exhausted from working out that it just buckled. I was falling forward, knees first. All I can remember is it sounded like six dry branches breaking. Pop, pop, pop. And then I grabbed this, the rail to try to stand up. My legs were like paralyzed. I couldn't move my legs. And I figured, how am I going to get off these stairs? So I pull myself up this stairs like this. Lean to get up against my bed. And I was curious as to what happened. I still in shock. And I figured out pretty quickly it was a quarter, a seven or seven and a half. So the ambulance showed up at the house. And the guys come upstairs and they put you down on one of those planks. I was riding in the back of the ambulance and I was pretty scared. I was pretty scared. The EMT that was with me in the back there, they were more concerned about my neck than my knees. I knew that my neck was okay, but they approaches from a great caution. So he was more looking at my neck stable because on a fall like this, you could have broke your neck. You get to the hospital. One of the surgeons comes down. He goes, what the hell did you do? And I said, well, in a way, I had a lucky fall. And he goes, what? And I said, well, I said, my neck and my back are fine. And my legs are strong as part of my body. And they took all the damage. So he goes, well, I guess you are lucky. So up I went. I went to the surgery floor. And this is all happening very fast. They wanted to get to the surgery right away. This is a picture of my legs before surgery. This was one of the things that just began to really affect me and got very upsetting. Because I spent years and years, decades, building my calf muscles and building my quadriceps muscles. And to look down and see what they'd become in just a matter of hours. It was getting hard to get my mind around it. When I had the accident and when I was going to the hospital, I didn't really recall feeling much pain. But when I came out of surgery, it was like burning knives, just stuck in my legs. And it just absolutely shocked the heck out of me. Yeah, I screamed and then literally cried because it was so painful. And Dr. Cayman said it went good. I went well. He said it took five hours to reattach the muscles. The drilled holes in the patella and they bring the muscles down. They put 500 stitches in on each leg. And he said, he said, building goes, everything's gone. Okay, so far. But he says, one thing for you, he says, if you bend those legs in the next 40 days, he says you're right back here for surgery. These leg braces were put on right after surgery and they lock your legs out. Your legs constantly are sweating. Everything becomes uncomfortable. It was released from the hospital a couple weeks later. So then I am laying in my hospital bed at home, can't exercise. Can't even get up and take a shower and eating for comfort. Fast forward four months. And you see my before-follow. This is me after five or six months. And I was able to stand up and go to my own bedroom. And I looked in the mirror for the first time. And I was like, holy crap. Inactivity is devastating to the body. All the years have worked and out. All the years have known what to do and doing what you know. It didn't mean a thing. And you get a message real quick. You are just like everybody else. Imagine being in bill fill-ups. I'm in a body for life, success manual out there. Millions of people doing your program. And you look at a mirror and this is what you see. I had finally reached the point that I got pissed off. And I looked at a mirror. I took my hand like this, not a meter fist. I said, hell with this. I'm not doing this anymore. I made the decision right and then in there that I was going to have to do the same thing everybody else does. The same work, the same plan. I immediately started to take some kind of action. I went down to the kitchen and I went through the cameras. All the junk food, all the comfort food. Man, I got out of trash can and I started throwing that stuff away. And already I felt better. Two weeks later, I was able to get my walker into the gym. And I laid down and did some Frankenstein curls. The legs got to be completely straight. I would just kind of see in what I could do. I wasn't really starting a program yet. But I was excited that I was getting close. Getting these dumbbells back in my hand was like pain medicine. And an antidepressant at the same time. I loved lifting weights. I had to plan every meal. I had to plan every workout. And I had to go through and give myself credit for accomplishing something that day. They got me closer to my goals. If I waited until I got to where I wanted to be before I started feeling good and give myself credit for doing something, I wouldn't have made it through. I had to learn that each day I went to the sports center, each day that I ate healthy. Whole day was a win. It's always humbling to look at this photo. I really makes me realize that my body is just like everybody else. I can get out of shape the same way other people do. And the good news is that I discovered is even in my late 40s I was able to get back on track. And what's most important of all is that the way I'm living now allows me to help other people from a completely different perspective. So it made me a better teacher. It made me a healthier person. I have a completely different life. And I'm back to doing what I love to do. And I realized that, you know what? None of that would have been possible if I didn't fall down the stairs. When I look back here, I see myself 32 years ago. I'm reminded that bodybuilding has been something that I've had a passion for that I've really loved the whole time. Throughout my life, it's been the one thing that's been consistent. And when I'm on track with my workouts and my eating, I have better discipline, I'm more effective. I'm always doing something that is exciting to me. And I turned it into not just something that made me feel good. But I turned this passion for bodybuilding a way that I could make a difference in the lives of others. If I look back and I think this kid right here, if he would have known, that he was going to write a book that was going to fire up a million people and get them started in fitness and bodybuilding, he wouldn't have believed it. I'll tell you that much. Yeah, if I could go back and tell that guy, one thing, I would say I was pretty proud of that young guy because I chose that path early in my life to develop discipline and strength. And to put my heart into soul into something that I was really fired up about. And I would just say, I would say to this guy, learn to enjoy the adversity as much as your success because you're going to learn something important from each. And I don't think you know that as a kid. I had to start over from scratch in my late 40s to rebuild my fitness. And I know from firsthand experience that if you want it, and you make the decision to make that change, and you're willing to do the same work that you did before, you're going to be successful. And you're going to find that part of yourself that you really like, and that you really are proud of.

=== FILE: Blast Your Back And Biceps! James Grage & Whitney Reid Video Workout - Bodybuilding.com [nSBezjmYvd8].txt ===

When I've been talking about, we're always talking about different gyms we used to train at that small hardcore vibe, which most those don't even exist anymore. You know, a gym that was really a bodybuilding gym that wasn't a health club. I thought at this gym this is about 20 minutes outside of Miami. It's called Pseesquirrel Gym. Now it's a little dungeon of a gym but it's infamous. If you're looking to train for a bodybuilding show, this is a place you come to. We're going to be hitting some back and biceps today. This is a big back, big bicep day, triple B. Alright. Start off with some pull-ups here and then we're going to go jump over and do some lap pull-downs. Now I'm excited to get this started. Let's start it up. Okay. Let's do it. So we'll start off with two sets of pull-ups here. Pretty much this. Take a failure warm-up. You know, the thing I like about pull-ups, guys is that it's nice to warm up without overdoing it. You can't load it. Load it up too heavy on pull-ups, it's just your body weight. So a good way to pre-exhaust the lap. Pretty really getting to work. There we go. We talked about three sets of three sets of left pull-downs and then on the last set, the last set we're going to do those partials, partials. Yep. Halfway back up, back down and full. Really focus on the lap. Sit 12. Pretty cool angle in the floor, right? Yeah, it allows you to really pull the nice and low. That's something different. Now remember on, last you see a lot of people cheating this by really swinging backwards. Now you just use a momentum. You want to try to stay nice and upright. Keep your elbows back and pull them as low as you can. There you go. I like that a nice little squeeze at the bottom too, that little squeeze really makes all the difference in the world. It's all about that quality contraction, each rep. Absolutely. It's a big one. It's a big one. It's a big one. That's a big one. That's a big one. That's a big one. So now we had jump down, drop the weight down. This one's all about really controlling the weight. So you can bring it all the way down. Get a good squeeze, halfway back up, squeeze it back down and then all the way back up. So you literally have to use your muscles and the eccentric phase to act like a break and stop it. That right there puts a lot of stress on the muscle and then to pull it back down. There's no cheating on this one. I don't know you felt that one. Alright, so now it's super set. Some heavy dumbbell rows, then over dumbbell rows with some low cable rows. Same line. Absolutely. Great stretch on those. Man, these old stacks are just twice as heavy as new ones. It's a guessing game dude. You never know what's going to be. They'll look at you heavier, but you know. Dude, they feel it. Oh yeah, that feels pretty good. So pre-exhaust on the cable roll, cable roll, cable roll, cable row, they will do dumbbell row. Yep, so I'm going to do these maybe a little bit lighter and a few more reps. Just really, really feel it. I'm going to tension on your back so it's great to use this for pre-exhaust motion. Getting a great stretch there too. See how that dumbbell's coming forward. Almost in front of his face. I'm pulling it like he said, right into the pocket there. Nice pull. That's one of your back pocket. Same thing over there. You use less of your biceps, there's more lats. If I grab the same and pull straight up, like I see most of them will do like this, that's half of my bicep. Look at this, it's like it's rear delt when he does that too. It's just a head of rear delt. That's a heavy bicep rear delt, I exercise. Your biceps are a small and muscle. They're going to fatigue faster. Your biceps are going to burn out before your lats do. Remember, we're hitting biceps today too, so you don't want to destroy your monodum belt row that's meant for your lats. You know, it's like keep a pretty loose grip. I find one I hit. Grip that too hard. Then I start wanting to use my arms, my biceps. I like to pretend that for my elbow to my hands, and it's just a hook. And I'm pulling from my elbow, now my hand. If you focus on your hand, you're going to pull from your hand. Focus on your elbow. If you're going to pull your elbow back, focus more on the lats. That's like my little mental trick. So the reason for the creaks, I should say, cables, like when you said, you can focus more. Better quality squeeze. Really pre-fatee those lats. I'll tell you jump over here. Your lats are already burning. Like I said before, they're stronger muscle and your biceps. So that's where your lats are already. Party worn out. And that way, your biceps don't give up before your back does. Oh, man. Salt through that one. That was on the 15, 20 minutes. That was 15. That was brutal right there. Oh, we got nice. The same thing, arch on the mat. That back. Hold the way back. See, that's getting a great stretch. Squeeze it in the back. Great stretch on the lats here. You know, similar to doing like a dumbbell pull over. But I think you get a better range of motion with this. Or a plus with a pull over. You end up hitting a lot of chest. Yeah. This is all that here. Which is why you don't want archer back. When you do that, you start pressing with your chest. You try to try to get involved in that motion when you've been over. Good. I'm going to put it in there. Wasn't feeling it at 12 yet. There you go. Now the pull, series pulling it down to his hip. Kind of like a similar to a lat pull down. But you can just pull down a little bit further. I know that sounds like a dumb explanation, but that's what it is. Come on. Stretch. You know, the problem I think most guys have with building a big back. Really, it's too cold. One heel required. I don't realize how much work it really requires. You got to really get a lot of different exercises. A lot of volume, you got to lift heavy weight. It's a big muscle. I'm going to do a good back workout. It's exhausting. So if you're not walking out of the gym, just completely fatigued, ready to fall over on a back day. But you're not doing it hard enough. So I think a lot of it just comes down to effort. And too, a lot of it's bad technique. It's really hit your lat. Got to use good form. You know, keeping those elbows tight, not using your bicep. Keeping that arch in your back. There's a lot of subtle nuances that you got to do to really feel those laps in tracks. I had that problem for a long time. For me to get my back to grow, it's really tough. It's just because I was sling them a lot of weight. Heavy, heavy pull downs and heavy rows. But I was used to every assistor muscle that I could to get the rap. There's more about getting the rap than it was about the quality of the rap. You know, you got to focus more on the contraction than about how much weight you're pulling. That was back. That's a nice tip. Right? You? I'm ready to go home right now. Hi, I'm out. Let's crush these butt. That was good. All right. So don't let back. Let's start off with biceps with some curls here. Yep. Let's do 21s. 7 full. 7 at the top. 7 at the bottom. 7 parts. Yep. Let's do it. Go that. That's it. You know, best advice for getting norms to grow. Same exactive, I say. Just gave on back. It's all about the quality of the contraction. Come on, wit. It's not a good idea. It's not about sling in the weight. And just getting the reps. It's about really getting that muscle to contract. So those little things like the pause. That's going to do it on those second set of 7s. Coming down, getting that eccentric. Having to control the weight. And then actually stop it. Has stretching those muscle fibers. It's tearing them apart. That's what's going to really break down the muscle. That's crazy. And then in turn, that's what's going to make me grow. I haven't filmed my best to predict once. Good, we're just getting started. You know, winning. I've kicked our ass here with a back and back. It's got work out. We're almost done. We're still only maybe 40 minutes into this thing. So come on, do it. Come on, let's go. So spend an hour and a half to ours in the gym. To be such as overtrends, a waste of time. As far as overtrending, you know, to come in and really do it over the top workout. As long as you're not trying to lift too heavy, which we haven't lifted heavy. Oh, this is a lot of technique to really make the muscles burn. Not just sling and heavy weight. As good as always, you get the recovery. That's when people run into an issue of overtrends, when they train hard all the time. They're trying to train seven days a week and never give their body a rest. You know, just bust and rest all the time. Your muscles grow in the recovery phase. Yep, not here in the gym. That's really. You got to come in here. You break the muscle down. But then you got to go home and you got to recover. That's from sleep. That's nutrition, nutrition, your supplementation. Yeah, you know, get your branch, chain amino acids. That's what I'll do first thing after we leave here. You know, I'll get my BCA's. I'm doing my Wachy. Yep, protein. I'll get my carbs. So that's, you know, it's in the recovery process that you grow. You know, give yourself that recovery process. Then eventually you get into a breaking down muscle. So you want to hit just three sets of reverse curls right here. Right there. All right. All right. You're up. Let's do it. All right. I'm going to finish this workout strong here. All right. So one thing. Some over the top of the bar. You can't go heavy on these. You're not going to have the same strength you do as a regular bicep curl. And there's no need to. Like I said earlier, we've done so many rows in different, different pulls for back. Your, your forearms are going to be pretty exhausted. You're going to feel it. You're going to get a pump immediately. So you don't need a lot of weight here. Come on, squeeze. There you go. Well, man. The forearms getting a little sloppy. Get a little tired. I know. I'm starting to start really down here. Really should drop the weight down. Oh. Come on, wait. Here you go. Yep, I'm feeling that. That's three, right? Yeah, that's three. That's me. Good. All right, so last, uh, let's say we're going to. Let's say run the rack, but I don't know how to kind of jump around the rack here. We have to just turn the run the rack means, you know, jumping from high, down low. So you start with a heavier rep, do as many as you can, drop it. It's basically just a drop set, but you're doing a couple drops. Here, dumbbells are spread out. So this is, uh, more like hop in the rack. Yeah, we're going to have to actually know what we're doing. We should just pull out some of the dumbbells and just set them. So we're not going to be a lot easier. All right, we're on a start with. I'd like to start with like a heavy weight to start with, but use correct form. So whatever you feel, you can get like, you know, four solid reps with per arm. Five pounds. That's the betel I have left. I have five. Oh, let's see. We got 45, 35, 25. So basically, just going to take it to failure each one. And that's it. That'll be it for both. That's it. I'm spent now. I'm just going to be interested in seeing what I can get out of this. But, uh, you've got to squeeze here. Give it to get. There you go. Pull it. There you go. That's the perfect ridiculous. Pull. Pull. That's all you. That's all you're good, Jappy. Hell yeah, you are done. You're done. All right, my turn. My turn. Yeah, that's how I first found this place. Was getting ready for a competition. Oh. Uh, it was actually the last time I ever competed. I was coming down here and I was training with the owner. And I, it was really just to take my training up another level. Just another notch. Just pick up that intensity and come down here. Come on, wit. And training with other guys. They were competing in the same show. You, you, you feed off that. You feed off that competition. Yeah. You see guys. Like I said, they were in the same competition. And you could kind of see where they were at. So that's it. That's, uh, I'm spit dude. Yeah, we hammered through pull ups. And to lap pull downs partial lap pull downs as well with the partial. We, we supersetted our low cable rose with the dumbbell heavy row. We did supersetted our rope push downs with the low pulls jumped into biceps with our 21s. We did our spider curls. We did a reverse curls. And then we did our dumbbell drops it. That's it. That was a kick ass workout. I love it. Awesome. I do. I do.

=== FILE: Body Fat Measurements ｜ Ultimate 30-Day Beginners Guide To Fitness ｜ Day 1 [-nTyzXtlhuk].txt ===

Welcome to the ultimate 30-day beginner's guide to fitness. Today, you begin 30 challenges and 30 days to fully understand the world of fitness, training, nutrition, and more. But is your first step on this journey, establishing a starting point? It might seem obvious, but a few months down the road, you'll want to know exactly what you look like and felt like when you began. As you learn to change your body, the daily difference will be subtle. Having worked hundreds of people over the years, there is one thing I consistently hear from clients as they make changes to their physique. I wish I'd taken before pictures. While numbers are important, it's the body we see in the mirror that matters the most. It's the way our clothes fit, the way others perceive us, or the way we feel about ourselves as we look at our reflection. In the beginning, you might not like how you look. That may be why you're here. You want to improve your body. As you get better, stronger, leaner, and carry more muscle, they'll make you appreciate your starting point even more. Progress pictures show you and everyone else just how far you've come, and you can become a living demonstration to others that's such remarkable changes possible. And I'll begin right here on day one with your first picture. Follow the guide on the page below to upload your first ever progress picture to your body space and mark your path. Before you start seeing drastic visual changes, there will be differences you can measure. In addition to taking a picture, we also want you to record your weight, circumference, and your body fat measurements. You may not know exactly what to do with this information just yet, but that time is coming. Use the guides on your body space profile to learn how to take these measurements accurately. Why are these numbers important? Because they add up a great number of small and seemingly insignificant changes stacked on top of each other make a huge difference. Frequent measurements give you hard numbers on which you can evaluate your progress and results. There will be inches, pounds, or percentage points. Numbers give you information you need to bridge the gap from your before photo to your after photo. Follow the guides on the page to update your body space account with these measurements and watch as your changes are charted for you. There's a lot more you can do with your body space account, so feel free to look around. If you aren't sure what to do yet, don't worry. We'll be walking you through all of it, step by step over the next 30 days. Stay one, and our journey has just begun. Today is a day of preparation, so make sure you're ready for tomorrow. Because on day two, we begin our training.

=== FILE: Body by Design Book Trailer - 2 min. version - Bodybuilding.com [IaM_yXZLOb8].txt ===

My name is Chris Gethren and I'm here to help you achieve the body of your dreams. No matter your goal or age, no matter if you've tried and failed before, with body by design you can transform your physique for the better. Your journey will begin from the thoughts in your head through the muscles of your body and the food on your plate. You see I know what it's like to be trapped inside an unhealthy body. When I was a teenager, I fell in love with motorcross, cross-country motorcycle racing. I was eating greasy breakfast and my meals often consisted of processed food, candy, and a lot of alcohol. Before I knew it, my social network had shaped me into a different person with different priorities from the ones I'd always had. I was depressed, my back and asthma got worse and I sunk to a personal low. It was this low point was my transformation trigger. The catalyst I needed to change my habits for good. In this book I've collected the most effective exercises, the best eating practices and the latest science on peak performance and motivation and I'll share them with you. But even the best diet and exercise program will last for long without one key factor, real and lasting motivation. Body by design will set you up for lifelong success beginning with the four pillars of motivation. I've seen the most amazing things happen when people get the tools they finally need to achieve their goals. The Body by design program isn't a workout or a diet. It's a movement of like-minded people who want to look and feel their best beginning with today. Now it's time for you to join the transformation nation and create your own story that will inspire others. Get started today with Body by Design.

=== FILE: Body by Design Book Trailer - 30 sec. version - Bodybuilding.com [kaWHmno03ZM].txt ===

My name is Chris Gethinn and I'm here to help you achieve the body of your dreams. No matter your goal or age, no matter if you've tried and failed before. With body-by-design, you can transform your physique for the better. The body-by-design program isn't a workout or a diet. It's a movement of like-minded people who want to look and feel their best. By following the body-by-design program and tapping into the communities of body-spaced and body-building.com, you'll have an incredible support system ready to help you succeed. Get started today with Body-by-design.

=== FILE: Body by Design Book Trailer - Full Version - Bodybuilding.com [5DTcP1BbnIU].txt ===

My name is Chris Gethren and I'm here to help you achieve the body of your dreams. No matter your goal or age, no matter if you've tried and failed before, with body by design you can transform your physique for the better. Your journey will begin from the thoughts in your head through the muscles of your body and the food on your plate. If you're ready to get started, I'll be right there with you. You see, I know what it's like to be trapped inside an unhealthy body. When I was a teenager, I fell in love with motorcross, cross country motorcycle racing. And my love for extreme sports led me to a group of extreme athletes who like me, enjoyed pushing the limits on a race course as well as the bars on the party circuit. I suffered from severe asthma and I had to do a lot of cardiovascular exercise just so I could finish a race. I was eating greasy breakfast and my meals often consisted of processed food, candy, and a lot of alcohol. One day racing I severely injured my back and the worse I felt, the more I hung around with other people who share the same bad habits. Before I knew it, my social network had shaped me into a different person with different priorities from the ones I'd always had. I was depressed, my back and asthma got worse and I sunk to a personal low. And this low point was my transformation trigger, the catalyst I needed to change my habits for good. Today, on the editor and chief of BodyBillin.com, the world's largest online fitness community with over 2 million members. On our social fitness network, body space, over 600,000 members log on, share their progress, offer tips and give encouragement to each other. Every day I help people transform their lives in a tame, peak level of health, where they want to build muscle, lose fat or just make healthier choices every day. But I didn't do it overnight and I didn't do it alone and you don't have to either. By following the BodyBillin Design Program and tapping into the communities of BodySpace and BodyBillin.com, you'll have an incredible support system ready to help you succeed. The BodyBillin Design Program isn't about the latest guru who's found a quick and trendy way to get fit. Nor is it a program where you're going to be subtracting from your life, cutting calories, eating a single type of food for a month. What I'm talking about is a 12 week fitness program that's designed to create a dramatic transformation from within the body based on my 11 years experience, training men and women, young and old. Think of the BodyBillin Design Program as a crowd-sourced fitness plan that's evolved organically from thousands of body space members and my own clients. Every by-design harnesses the wisdom of the crowd and pioneers a new way forward for people to build better bodies. By aggregating the knowledge of the body space many, we're able to help one, you. In this book of collected the most effective exercises, the best eating practices and the latest science on peak performance and motivation and I'll share them with you. But even the best diet and exercise program won't last for long without one key factor, real and lasting motivation. BodyBill Design will set you up for lifelong success beginning with a four pillars of motivation. First I'll help you identify the negative influences in your life and replace them with positive encouragement. I'll help you find your own transformation trigger so you can feel your own program. Next you'll set attainable measurable goals. Not all goals are created equal. I'll teach you how to set a goal to provide you the best chance of success. Good, you'll discover how to create radical accountability to tap into your friends, loved ones and a body space community that you need for the support to keep with the program. Lastly, you'll bring it all home into the real world. And to make your resolution stick, you need to anticipate future obstacles and learn how to control factors outside of your new motivational system of support. Once you understand the science of real lasting motivation, you'll be ready to begin the BodyBill Design 12-week plan. First I'll teach you why strength training is an essential part of any program where you want to lose weight or gain muscle. This simple effective program is clear enough for a beginner to follow but challenging enough that if you are experienced in lifting weights, you'll see dramatic results. Then I'll teach you how to exercise for optimum results in a minimal amount of time, introducing new routines so your body never platters and you don't get bored. The BodyBill Design program features three phases of ever-increasing challenge so you're always trying something new and your body doesn't become complacent in its exercise routine. It's clean to get lean with simple, inexpensive and healthy recipes to fuel your body to ultimate health. Let me make one thing clear. The BodyBill Design Utrition program is not a diet where you eat less to weigh less. Instead, you'll learn how to pump up your metabolism by eating more the right foods and eating more frequently to keep your hunger pains under control and to keep cravings at bay. Plus you'll hear amazing stories from people like you who've experienced dramatic, life-changing results. People like Monica Greggson, who's so worn out from the stress of a job that she gave up caring for her own health. Despite an initial setback from an on-the-job injury, Monica learned to incorporate the exercise into a busy lifestyle, she reached all of the goals and lost 55 pounds in a process. Or Ricky Howe, who felt like his life was formed apart, his marriage of 11 years had just ended in divorce and he was struggling financially. But when he was awarded custody of his two children, he knew he had to turn his life around. By using the principles of the BodyBill Design program, he was able to achieve a stronger healthier body and a new sense of confidence. I've seen the most amazing things happen when people get the tools they finally need to achieve their goals. The BodyBill Design program isn't a workout or a diet, it's a movement of like-minded people who want to look and feel their best beginning with today. Now it's time for you to join the transformation nation and create your own story that will inspire others. Get started today with BodyBill Design.

=== FILE: BodySpace Demo Part 1： Activate Your Account [ZAarbi9hFjs].txt ===

Today I'm going to show you how to use the world's largest social fitness network body space. Body space is powered by the world trusted bodybuilding.com. First off, we'll go a step number one. Choose your goal. This is where we're going to start everything off. What is your main goal? Now, this is going to be different for everyone and there's a ton of different goals out their own body space. Because that with the one thing that everyone has in common is that they all have a goal-doer towards. I'm going to go for an overall living healthier. Next, you're going to want to create your bodybuilding.com account. Come up with a username. Come up with something that's specific to you that's easy to remember. With this case, I'm going to use body space demo. Password, whatever you please. Name it address. Make sure you put an occurenant email address. A lot of people get worried that they're going to get junk mail and whatnot by submitting an email address. We do not give out our emails to any outside parties. We also contact our body space members. Lots of times if we find them to be exceptionally inspirational if we're doing a modeling competition if we want to feature them on a rotator or in our banners. There's a lot of opportunities out there. So if you don't give us an email address where we can find you, we won't be finding you. Next, pick your birthday. This is great for children and parents. If you're helping your child or your teenager set up an account, they want to start tracking their fitness goals. It's easy for you to get any updates or emails that would be going out to them. Customize your account. This is optional. I'm going to put that in a female. I'm going to leave my messenger handles blank. Time zone. We are in the mountain time at bodybuilding.com. And then here you go on your email preferences. Here's where you can pick what is sent to you. I do like getting discounts. So I'm going to go ahead and leave that one checked. And then I also like reminders on how to stay on top of my goals and new fitness tips and techniques. So I'm going to say yes to the monthly newsletter. And then I'm going to go ahead and said that I want to receive email from form administrators. And I'll go ahead and say other form members because sometimes I'm on their chatting. Make sure to read the full terms of use policy before you go ahead and click OK to make sure that you know exactly what you're sending on to. It's pretty typical, but it's always good to read those things. Next to verification. And click I agree. Next you're going to go ahead and get a page that will come up and let you know that they have received a registration. So it's also pretty tip going setting for an account. Just to ensure that this is actually you, they're going to go ahead and send emails that email address so you need to go in there and retrieve it to move on to the following step. Once you get into your inbox, you're going to go ahead and go email. So that tells you thank you for registering for bodybuilding.com. And that before we can activate your account, one last step must be taken. So make sure to follow this story. You actually don't have an account unless you do it. So go ahead and click on the URL. And now your account has been activated.

=== FILE: BodySpace Demo Part 2： Dashboard Introduction and Setup [XyIYDT98Wmc].txt ===

So now we can go back to body space and then actually finish putting together our count. So here is your body space dashboard. Now your dashboard is going to have everything you need all in one place. This is where you're going to go to see what your friends are up to, to see who's put up their latest progress, picks, to put up your own pictures, to track your measurements, your goals, your progress, everything. So this is going to be a page you can become very familiar with. Now to start off with, we have a set of goal. We set one to begin with, but our overall goal is, but we need to put together a short term one. So I'm going to go ahead and follow directions and put one in. So I said my main goal is to live healthier. Now to explain that a little bit further, I'm going to say that I hope to stop. Go going on my diet and hit the gym regularly. And you can go ahead and put a deeper description down here if you want. This is up to you. All these things are optional that you fill out. So I'm going to go ahead and put a little bit longer description on that and I will say that no carbs after 6 p.m. And cardio and weights. Five times a week. Enter your overall weight gain or lost goal. This depends like I said some people are on here to lose weight. Some people are on here to gain weight. I'm going to go ahead and say lose. And I'll say about five pounds. Enter my overall body fat percentage. Now I don't know this off the top of my mind right now. This is going to be something that you probably want to find with your trainer or if you have your own pair of fat calipers, we sell those on bodybuilding.com. You can put this in here. Now body fat percentage is so much more important to use for tracking than your actual weight is because as we all know, muscle weighs more than fat. So lots of times the scale will say you're gaining when your pants are saying you're losing. So I'm just going to go ahead for the purpose of this demonstration and put what it was last time. 13%. And there's a contest that you're getting ready for a bikini contest, a bodybuilding contest, whatever it may be. This is the space that you fill that in and the contest date. This is great too because it holds you accountable and other people's check in to make sure that you're progressing the weight you should be. So now our goals have been updated. So next we're going to want to go up here to progress goals and measurements. This is where you fill everything out. There's also your profile, which is your main profile. Stats. It's going to have your name. It's going to have your main overall goal. Your latest pick. It's just kind of like a main profile to come in if somebody just wants the general overview of what's going on. You can have your personal info. You can have your photos and videos, competition history, answers to questions, etc. Um, well I already saw the progress goals and measurements. We'll go through that one more time. This is going to be where you show your progress picks. So your perform afters that you track on a regular basis. Your body stats, which will be like your weight, your body fat percentage, your measurements of your muscles, etc. Your goals, your goal tracking, and then also your text goals. The next subgroup is going to be workouts. It's going to be programs that you're on, lifting stats, how heavy you lift a last time move to the gym, how heavy you'd like to be lifting in your goals and then the tracking of those over time. Then there's your supplements. Now, this is where I can show a history of the supplements you'd like. The ones that you haven't like, the ones that you've used. We want honest opinions on here. This isn't somewhere where we're just trying to sell supplements. We want to know what really worked for you. And if you have any tips on how other people can use them to make a work better. The next part is the social group. This is going to be where you can see your friends. That you have invited. You can be of part of a group. We have body groups where people of like-minded goals get together and they decide on when overall goal they want to achieve and share each other on. There's different networks out there. There's your body blog which is like an open blog and open diary. You can upload photos. You can write it at will to different things that you want to share with others. These are really fun to read. It's kind of a gives you a bit more about a personality of someone and what they're going through and reaching their goals. Inspiration. These are people that you have flagged as inspirational to you. Then Facebook, which is a way that you can actually share all of your updates to all of your Facebook friends. It's great too because the more people that hold you accountable for what you're trying to achieve, the better off you are on getting it. Next is the shopping button. This is going to give you order status from what you ordered. Order history, what you've ordered in the past and store your settings. This is awesome if you are a bad at remembering the flavor that you liked, the brand that you went for with over 12,000 products. There's a lot to remember. Next time you go to set your order. This is a great place to go back to and check. You can remember what you got and what you liked and what you didn't like as much. Count management is the last option. This is where you can go in. You can set your password. You can set your email, your contact preferences, all of the minor kind of technical details on things.

=== FILE: BodySpace Demo Part 3： Progress Pics and Personal Info [xLQieuTtshA].txt ===

Now the one thing I'm seeing, glaringly missing right now, is a picture. Everybody wants to know who you are. Nobody's going to pass judgment or anything else. So feel comfortable posting your pictures. Everybody's really positive and really motivating. So I'm going to go back to profile. And I'm going to go to photos and videos. Actually, let's go to personal info first. So people have a basis of who we are. So your real name, please use your real name. There's no reason to not unless you are running from somebody or hiding from the law besides that, there's no reason not to. If somebody's in the age of 18, you don't feel comfortable sharing that. Of course, that's completely there. But once again, it's about being honest with yourself and honest with what you want to achieve and signing your name to something, hold you so much more stronger to that than if you don't sign your early. Already has my birthday on here. And country zip code. This will not be displayed, but this is really great for if we're trying to locate people in a certain area that we'd like to help work out at a booth or an event. We will pull your zip codes. Display stay or country. Same thing occupation. We'll say PR and social media manager personal website. This is a great place to put your own personal website. If you have a gym, if you are a personal trainer, if you run anything like that and you just want to share it, this is a great place to do it. A little bit more about you how you got started working out into body building. Why you love body building working out and how you stay motivated. Now, all these things are going to show in your main profile page when people log in. So feel free to really get to the heart of the banner and spend some time on this and let people know more about you and kind of let the know your accomplishments things that you've done. Basically, this is where you tell your story. So I'll just say update and then I'm going to go ahead and go to photos and videos. Down here, we can upload a progress picture. We can enter our weight. We can put some new body stats on there. There's a few different options that you can do. But let's go ahead and upload a progress picture. And this should be a current photo of you. Where you are now. So you have something to judge off of for where you want to go. They understand that it has to be a picture of you. Continue to upload. And you might want to go ahead and check out the body space photo guidelines. If you're curious of what is allowed, we do want to be able to see your figure. But there's some areas of your figure that nobody wants to see. So go ahead and browse for a file. And I think it's helpful to do a picture of the front and a picture of the back. So you can kind of judge from both sides. And then I'm going to hit browse again because I want the other one and the back. And it is too big. So it has to be enter 3.5. So let's go ahead and start with this one. So title, 2010. Let's change that to 9. Then I'm going to say safe picture. So that's going to go ahead and go up in your progress photos. Continue to upload. We'll do one more. Now this one's a little bit more tame than the last one. But you can still see the arm development. So this would be a great one to kind of track my tries up development. Because that's been something I've been working on. They take in. And I'm going to say try steps. It's not a true tries that pose. But I'm going to track mine. And they click save pictures. And the way this is going to show is it before and after. So it's always going to be in sequence. So since this was the earliest one taken and it's going to go by date. This is going to be my before and then this is going to be my after. Now obviously this isn't a really good demonstration before and after, or visually. But it gives you the general idea of how when you upload your photos, how they're going to go in sequence. You can always edit it later. Edit the picture if you want to change it out. If you just like you hate that picture, you don't want to have any more. Edit the info. Delete. Remove is your after picture. If you don't want to be your after picture, you want something else on there. And then you can always go back and upload more progress pics.

=== FILE: BodySpace Demo Part 4： BodyStats, General Photo Upload, and Final Overview [pyYhc6ehjR8].txt ===

So let's go through just the rest of these real quick. Body stats. So this is a great little calendar that kind of lets you know it's going on for the idea for the month. So you can go ahead down here and into your body stats. So 5 feet. 6 inches. Say 125. Body fat 13%. I don't have any of these measurements currently. A lot of people don't. We've actually incorporated really helpful videos to show you how to measure these properly. Everybody always tries to measure things that you either look smaller or bigger than they should. So, if you're not sure, you know how to record these in. I'm going to go ahead and leave these blank for now. Do you have lifting stats? Here's basic lifts that you will be doing or you can be doing. These are pretty standard. So here we're going to say how much you lifted, how many times you lifted it. And you're one rep max. And then here is going to be a video to watch if you're not sure how to do these exercises the correct way. Once again, please make sure you're using correct form when you do these things because you're only cheating yourself if you don't do it right. Save stats. Now when you're profiling, you'll notice that we hear. There's fun little questions that we did our personal info photos and videos. We can actually upload photos and videos of ourselves. There's gallery picks. There's profile picks and there's videos. Now you may be asking why the heck do we have more areas for pictures when I just did progress photos? Well, those are for your progress photos. Those are for ones that you're going to track your different changes over time. Gallery picks could be something of you would a fun fitness event and a running event. Something where you're working out, you're just doing something that's just more of an everyday lifestyle. Not really a comparison photo. And then your profile picks are going to be the ones that will actually be displayed over here in your right-hand column once you upload it. This is going to be the profile picture that everybody finds as default when they go to your page. So it's going to be the first picture they see to identify you. So we can either go to profile picks here or profile picks here here. So pick out a picture for this page. Also you can see under here these little steps that are tabbing up friends. These are the fan clubs, the friends that want to be your friend. That you have an added or accepted yet. Mutual will be the ones when you've accepted them and stalking are the ones that for some reason you don't want to accept. And they really want to be your friend. Private messages people can send you an email through here and these will be showing through here. You will also get a notice in your actually email account you're registered with somebody sent you a private message. Profile comments if somebody leaves you comment on your page. You'll see those here. Group invites. Like I said we have body groups. So people may see your profile and see you'd be perfect to join their group and help everybody in there. And those will be shown here if you have those invites. But we're going to go ahead and focus right now on the profile picture. I'm going to go ahead and click on here. And then we're going to want to go to edit profile photo. So we can put one in there. Go to upload a profile picture. See the gift you're saying and needs to be a photo of you. Now you need to pick up photo. It's best to pick one that's of just you. So people can look at it and they know who you are when they come onto your site. Then hit save. And this will be the photo that is displayed in my control panel. On the sidebar always when I log in until I change it again. And it will be the same one that is displayed to anybody that's going to look at my profile. You can also do videos. Lots of times people have fun workout videos that they want to upload. If you want to do that, go to your video section. Follow the directions there. For gallery picks, it's the same thing as doing a profile picture and the same thing as doing a progress picture. So for the difference in those is in your gallery settings, people can actually make ratings and comments on your pictures. I'm going to go ahead and allow that people right how good of a picture is or how well you're doing on your progress. We're seeing email notification on all comments. I'm going to leave that as a yes because I want to know when somebody says something. And then you can go ahead and it says to upload one now. And remember these are going to be like a photo album. So now that we have all these different photos uploaded, and we actually have some staffs and stuff on our page. Like I said, there's so much more you can add into here. So feel free to go through here and really take your time, do it and get some pieces, do it all once it's up to you. But let's go ahead and look at our profile. So go ahead and click on your profile over here and I will show you. Right to your profile page. So this is what anybody's going to see when they go onto your page. A pair you have your profile picture. And then over here you have your body space name. You will also notice that your body space name is easy to put right into the URL. It's after body space dot body building dot com slash your name. So it's always in there. It also makes it really great and searchable as somebody's looking for you on the network. So here you have your overall goal, my little fit status, my motivation level. You have your name, your gender, your age, where you live, what your occupation is, personal website. That would be go there, your primary gym. College high school filled those in, they'd go there when you started, how I started, why 11 people. Well, literally put all out here. This is where you share your story. So take your time on these questions when you answer them. This will show what I'm up to. This is what I've been doing. I uploaded a new photo gallery picture. I uploaded a new profile picture. I changed my body fat. With the many ones to come to your page and see what you've been up to and what your activity has been. It will be in here. Here I have my progress pictures. Like I said, I apologize for not having better ones. You have done here. Your body stats, your height, your weight, your body fat. So where your lifting stats will go. So this is where your goals will show. And then dead here, if your body answers, these are fun ones. These are great things that are what's your favorite workout in the gym. What's the biggest no-no that somebody can do when you're working out. It's set or less. There's fun ones. There's helpful ones in here. So make sure to go through here and do your answers if you haven't done them. It's really easy. You can go to your dashboard page or you can just go right here to edit. If you're contest history videos of body space, favor body building, fitness videos. These are ones that are going to be of other people that I just like to watch. And then your body blog is where you can go to actually write notes and use it as a diary. Current supplements. This is where your supplements will be listed that you use. Here's your supplement reviews. Work out program. You'll put it in here. Favorites. And then this is where your friends will go. Down here, we already have a visitor comment. These are where you see all your comments from what people leave for you. So in an at shell, this is how it is. This is what it looks like. There's so much more you can build out from here. So many things that you can do. Go ahead and leave you with this.

=== FILE: BodySpace Guide - Bodybuilding.com [W9l6MnGSpcM].txt ===

Bodybuilding.com changes lives. We are your free personal trainer, nutritionist, supplement expert, lifting partner and support group. Body space, our free online fitness community, is your space. It's a place for you to share your struggles, showcase your success, upload photos, make friends, stay accountable, support others, and join a network of people becoming their best selves. Body space is your one-stop social transformation station, complete with tools designed to help you achieve your health and fitness goals. When you sign up for a free body space account, we guide you through the transformation process. We help you, select your main goal, choose your goal physique based on what you want to look like. Offer an accurate timeline to help you hit that goal and set you up with friends, tools and tips for fitness success. Once you've signed up, you can set a body banner, take progress pictures, start a body log, and track your fitness journey. Make, follow, and help your friends succeed. Tell the community which members inspire you and become an inspiration. Select a custom workout, name your plan, write a quick description, select your main goal, start adding exercises, designate sets, reps and rest periods, then choose the difficulty level. Save your workout as a template, then track the workout when you're ready to hit the gym. Track when you worked out, how you felt, and how much you lifted to ensure you continually progress toward your goal. With our programs feature, you can now find a bodybuilding.com designed fitness program, or another body space members program, and track the entire program from your body calendar. Once you set a program, start date, you can sync the calendar with your phone, and track it directly from the palm of your hand. Of course, this is just the beginning. Like you, body space is always transforming, it's always getting better. We're improving navigation, usability, design, comments, profile features, and more. Also, check out Fitboard where you can post, share, and showcase your favorite photos and content. Body space is your space. We're dedicated to making it better. Join the community, help us change lives.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding Delts & Triceps Workout ｜ Dorian Yates' Blood & Guts [VIHsjpP_ApQ].txt ===

So we're doing a cool stretch like this, you know, locking out of the top. When your shoulders go up and in like that, that way you're not doing that last third of the movement, which is mainly try steps. So you're going up, boom, like that, boom, all right, perfect, two, three, four, hey, two more, nine, ten perfect. When you do this, you normally go down a panel or just below, you're going to get a bit of stretch. Where it felt comfortable, man, don't overstretch, you know. Usually just bring down touch the delts and you go back up again. I don't normally go in, I normally go straight up, yeah, I'm sorry. If you're not there, you're kind of taking attention off the ladder and that bit's try steps to the top. You know, it's all just keeping on the delts, I don't need to lock out of the top. All right, big Chris, come on, you know, I need to spot something this one, man. Okay, oh good, two, strong man, three, four, all right, six, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Okay, good, drop them down, man. All right, this is the one, man, ah, get them up, boom, those are one. Okay, line them up, man. First one, first one. Okay, let's go now. Two, three, four, all yours. All yours, come on, up, up, three, two, three, two, three, go, now, good, six, man. Good, good, six, strong man. But there's nothing wrong with pre-existing on shoulders. Do that course first, do your presser second. You don't always have to stick to exactly the same script. You know, I know it's a train thing too much because I like to keep a track on the Power Rangers and exercises. If you're going up in your workout weights then you're doing something right, you know. Stand down, up to parallel, keep your palms down. Good. Two, three, stop the swinging, the body still. Four, eight, two more, up, nine, and again, up. Okay, your body movement down a little bit, you got a little bit of a bad habit of doing this. It's a lot less than I normally do. I'm ready for that. All right, come on, man. I'll rock and roll them in. Trying a little bit in front of you. All right, let's go. Yeah. Good, one, two, three, four, it's good, come on. Five, it's good. Six, nice, come on. Seven, give me tight, eight, two more, keep tight. One, and again, up, and halfway, now, halfway, up, come on. And again, one more, up, good. Good, just another way, we're going to be on failure. Half reps, three, quarter reps, just to take a bit on failure. I'll give you a little tip on the last couple, but it's hard to spot the on that. Yeah, everything you've got, yeah, everything. Up and squeeze, nice. Roll the negative, good. A body still, man. Oh, let's better. Five, good, come on. Squeeze, six, and again, up, squeeze, seven, one more, up, all the way up, all the way up. Okay, slow it down, now, slow it down. I'm taking it to the top, up, slow. Last one, everything, try to stop it, try to stop it. All right, maybe not. What's that form, yeah? Good. Two, strong one. Three, nice. Come on, come on, come on. All right, that's yours, in again. Squeeze, one more, everything, everything, squeeze it up, squeeze it up, slow it down. I'm going to take you up, hold it there. One more, hold it up. That's it, nothing left. Once I've done a couple of four, stretch, and it's got no positive strength left. Then I'm lifting it to the top, and it's just trying to control it on the way down. Once you're kind of control it, then it's finished, game over. Let's go. Fremming it up goes forward a little bit. That's good. Six, four, seven, and again, pull, eight, two more, pull, nine, again, half reps, go, one more, go, good. It's so much harder when I fold my elbows forward. Yeah, because if you come back, you're using your legs. It's just, it's just, it's just a small muscle, man. You know, so if you come and straight out, you work in more real delts, you don't need to use as much weight. It's already done in the lats. You know, there's no point duplicating what the world is done. Yeah. So try and isolate it on this one. You don't need it, it's on a way. As soon as I said that, and you started pulling that to the side, you can see your red arch. Really? I like it. I feel like it back to 20 pounds heavier as hell. Real delts, come on, think about it. Good. Good. Perfect, round three. Four, keep that form. Five, up. Six, good. Seven, and again, all the way up. Eight, halfway. And one more, squeeze. Great. Top done, man. Top done. Squeeze. Squeeze. I see his other. Thank you, man. So we're going to come from here, yeah. Albo's stuck by your sides. From here, lower chest. A lot of people do this. Push out like that. One is to keep it, Albo's both sides. Come out here. Down and in there. Get a much better contraction at the bottom. Bring it in, cheer legs here. Wow, it's a huge and triceps. I'm keeping this locked in. Letting the weight come out to there. Down and in. Much better contraction at the bottom. Right in, the bottom of the squeeze. Good. Three, four, five, six, seven. And try that negative a little bit more, yeah. Good. I find it easier to balance if we've got one leg forward and one leg back. Instead of like staying like this in your waltz and about. You don't want to start leaning in and letting your elbows come out because then it becomes a pressing movement. OK. I'll feel it to bring it right in there and squeeze it out a bit. Two, three, four, five is good. Six, keep it tight now. Come on, keep it perfect. Seven. Look at this. Eight, keep tight. Nine and again. Push. And two more. Drive it down. Drive it down. Drive it down. One more. Keep tight. Come on, push. Horse, all the way. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. Good. OK. Good set. From here, help. From that position, I want you to angle back here. So from there. We're going back to there. Yeah. Let the weight go behind your head. Bring it back up, but don't bring it over. Just keep it on. That way is more on the triceps. Let's train on the tendons. Yeah. Yeah. Sting arms out. Go. I'll go it from there. No, don't pull it over. I'll pull it over just to extend it. Go down. Up. There. That's it. OK. Now you've got it. Two. Three. Oh. Screw it, man. Come on. Eight. Two more like that. Keep the force. Nine. One more. Squeeze. Got you. Well, now, try to put all the stress on the triceps without overloading your tendons. You know, a lot of people get tendons and I just go into heavy on this one. Come on. This is the one that counts with Chris. Come on. The grip. Can the angle? Everything's tight. Yep. Squeeze. Good. Two. Three. Four. Five. Come on. Six. Good. Seven. Come on. I'm watching you. Tied. Eight. These are the ones. One more. Squeeze it up. Squeeze it up. Squeeze it up. All the way. Lock it out. Try to say. You're going to do something directly overhead now because to really activate the long head, which is the biggest head of the triceps, you've got to kind of get a stretch on and get overhead. Got it. I should try then. All the way down. All the way up. Good. One. Two. Three. Four. Eight. Two more. Big squeeze. Nine. And again. These are stuff. I got it. Yep. Good. Go back. Drain. Chim below. One. Two. Three. Four is good. Come on. Five. Squeeze. Six. That's work now. Last exercise. Never. One more. Come on. Push. Push. Good. Good. Good. Good. If you want to try it, say. Look at that. I don't worry about the burn. I can do J. and Fonda classes. You want to get a burn. As long as the muscles go into failure, it doesn't know how much is on the bar. The weights are tall man, the weight is a tall, just to put stress on the muscle. You don't have to take a lot of time between sets in order to stay at the same weight as if I was doing 100 pounds. That's called pacing yourself. That's exactly what I want. It's a big mistake. You don't have to face yourself. Man, just go to failure and get the job done. Get out of the six sets and three of those are warm ups. Three work in sets. You're dry sets.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com $100,000 Transformation Challenge - Burn Fat, Build Muscle, Transform Your Life [9FcxcHRLLHg].txt ===

In 2007, right after Thanksgiving, I woke up the next day, lifting the mirror and I was completely disgusted with the way I looked. I had ballooned up to 315 pounds. I was basically called fat. I was called unattractive and I told myself, now I ain't going out like that. This is how you change your life. You set a goal, pick a plan, track your progress, and get motivated. When you hit your goal, you began again. Go, plan, track, and motivate. You gotta look at the small things. You know, look at those small accomplishments. You went into the gym. You had a good workout. You feel great. Do it again in next day. Do it again in next day. Do it again in next week. The next year, you can definitely change your life. How am I a prime example of that? Body space is a revolutionary, social fitness platform. They'll find a simple, four-step process. Go, plan, track, and motivate. This is how you change your life.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com 2023： Year In Review [D-WlosWGHzw].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners? You have to look at what testosterone is really good at and that's building really muscle. Standing that women are different and their training is going to be different.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com B-Elite Apparel [7h6mxW6USxg].txt ===

yellow

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com CEO Takes The ALS Ice Bucket Challenge - Bodybuilding.com [Bz8VrpKlLZI].txt ===

Hi, I'm Ryan Delucas, CEO of Bodybuilding.com. I've been nominated by many people to do the Ice Bucket Challenge, so thank you for that. ALS is a condition that affects the family members of many of our team members here at Bodybuilding.com. So I'm proud today to participate in Ice Bucket Challenge. I'll donate $100 mark-company in our team members for every bucket that's poured on me. I'd also like to nominate Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jake Keller, the Bodybuilder, and author Bill Phillips. So I guess here we go, $100. I'm not quite ready. OK. Oh, that was horrible. All right. Oh, no. I like to do it now. I'm not sure if you're saying everybody's fired. And that's a hundred buckets, so we're donating $10,000 to ALS. Yeah. Great job Evan. Horrible. vegant. Now, let's see what you've got to say about it. You really are one part. I got to go to horrors. sorry about that, Ryan.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Content Highlight Reel 2010 [IjejPOax-uU].txt ===

I'm John Chamberg, a strength coach to athletes and fighters around the world, and to check out George St. Pierre and what makes him the best, check out his new movie, The Striking Truth, brought you by www.bodybuilding.com. Great site. Hey guys, Hot Fits, Go! One more, Go! Good, good job. My name is Amanda Latzona, I am the 2009 Blacks The Keenan Model Search Championships winner. I am here today going to show you a pro bikini glute training workout so you too can have sculpted bikini glute like a pro. I've been training since I'm like 15 years old, so almost like 20 years thing to do it, you know. Every pro athletes they train every day, like look at them, football players, they run every day, they lift weights every day and they're still writing and good size, you know. So I don't believe much in the opposite training, maybe for volleyballing, but if you don't want to direct speed and more functional, I think you can train your whole body every day. My name is Chris Gethin and I'm here to help you achieve the body of your dreams. What I'm talking about is a 12 week fitness program that's designed to create a dramatic transformation from within the body based on my 11 years experience training men and women, young and old. This program is not going to be easy. If it was easy, then everybody would be walking around with a physique that they desired, but if I can do it, you can do it. So what's unique about this program? I'll be doing it right alongside with you. If you want it bad enough, then follow me. Hey everybody, I'm Ashley Conreds, Liberty Fitness Trainer and owner of Clutch Body Shop Los Angeles. Today I'm going to be taking you through a abroutine that I used to get by the Cooper and Shake for 18, probably most nice, eight pack abs. We're going to be using Mr. Brandon Poe as our principal expert taking you through the routine. Begin. 1 2 3 1 2 3 2 3 2 3 3 2, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! What? Hey everybody, it's Terry Cruz from the new movie. This best action movie of the summer, the expendable. I'm gonna never give it. I'm gonna always stay in shape. And forever, if you see me, I'll be the best looking 90 year old guy you've ever seen. That's my plan. Let me tell you, for more content like this, you gotta go to bodybuilding.com. It's the place to be baby. Expendables August 13. BAM! BAM!

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Core Values [FtdJm4db9JU].txt ===

So the core values of the company came from really looking at the team we have here. When we started, we created a team of great people that really had a passion for fitness and a passion for helping people reach their goals and doing it on the internet. So when we came a few years later and said, what really makes this company special? We realized that it was the people here. The culture we created around the customer and around the mission that we have. And so we didn't just come out to say, what are some good core values that we would like to have? What would we like our company to be about? We said, what is it really about? And we went through a big exercise to say, how could we define our culture? And we really defined it with these values? Always be truthful and honest. And every aspect of business. We have to always be aware of and maintain a reputation for honesty and fair dealing in business. It is very easy to lose that reputation and it takes a long time and it's a lot harder to get it back once it's lost. My name's Bill Carter, I'm a general counsel for BodyBilling.com and I started with the company in Lake July 2011. Our website and as a company we're interested in giving the full picture. Not just here, here's a product and take it and follow the instructions on the back of the bottle. But we're wanting to bring articles and forums and workout trackers, things of that nature so that people have that holistic experience and get the information they need in order to have a better life. I'm Tara Shavevon, I'm a product owner of trackers and I have worked at BodyBilling.com for the format. Well I think it's important for our customers to feel like we're kind of an anchor to think come to an interest. I think you got there's a lot of information, especially in the health and fitness industry. And I think for us to be successful if they know they can trust us and come to our website. Now they're going to get good information about stuff they're putting in their body or work us that they're doing the changes their body. I think it's without that if our reputation is marvell in that regard then I think we're fit that skills. My name is Ryan Vestell, I am the controller and the finance department of bodybilling.com and I have been here about three and a half years. In order for customers to keep coming back and looking at bodybilling.com as a place to go is to continue to gain their trust and to be honest with them and the good and the bad. Give back to the people you owe your success to. There's more to the world than just what you produce. It's about learning how to be together as a community and learning that we all work together towards a common goal. We have a common passion which in this company it's about transforming. I'm Stacey McCulloch and the Human Resource Director for bodybuilding.com and I have been with the company for four years. There's so many meetings that I've been involved with which is kind of crazy that the CEO of the company is like, nope we're going to make that free because it's the right thing to do or you know our award-winning customer service that anybody that's ever interacted with them is blown away and saying, what how how do these people actually care about us? My name is Jared Smith. I've been with bodybuilding.com for about a year and a half and I'm currently a senior product designer. There are a lot of companies out there that put products out there in selling. Particularly in the supplement industry. They put maybe a little bit of education and some promotion of working around it. For our success, particularly because we've grown so much in a short period of time, it's been because of what we do with the customers. It's because of that core value that we give back. People trust us because of that. My name is Lance Henning. I've been working for bodybuilding.com for about a year and a half just moving to a new position over marketing. I'll be working on this business development side for the military and the gym and actually. The other day I received an email from someone who was just kind of unleashing his passion for the company and how he has felt even though I think he lives in Texas or something. He feels like bodybuilding is his family. And so I think that you can't say that about target or random companies. And the fact that we like exude that, the people feel such a close tie to our company is pretty amazing. My name is Ifadabukandy. I am a product designer and I've been working with bodybuilding.com for a year and a half. The other side is giving back to our employees that we have because they work in tandem. Our our users and our employees work together. So we have to make sure and take care of our employees who do such an incredible job of keeping this company up. To employees it's it's unlike anything I've ever seen. My gym is paid for if I go 10 times in that. You know I get to do these races that I probably would do otherwise with or free. We've got the gang from bodybuilding.com. This is the number one fundraising group and alongside his team. How much money did you guys raise team? We raised number eight best guys. You know there's so many things that we get rewarded for that are just encouraging positive way of living. A lot of people are like me. They like to be a part of something bigger than themselves that are actually making a difference. That's doing a positive thing. It's not just for the dollar, not for the greed. Setting goals creates a road map. It's a positive gains. We have a culture of achievement and a culture of entrepreneurial spirit and one of the things we do really well is we set the goals and we blow them out of the water. Time and time again. And we don't just hit the goal or get close to the goal. We take the goal and we annihilate it and crush it and we build a new goal. That's three times cooler, better, bigger, whatever. I'm Andrew Beck. I've been with bodybuilding.com for about two and a half years. I'm the International Business Development Manager. Everybody gets their work done. Plus the work of two to five other people. It's just crazy. Really pushes people to do a good job when they're comfortable to be here and they want to be here. I'm Leslie Shin and I'm the supervisor of Business Analytics team in the Customer Contact Center and I've been here a total of four years. You could ask anybody in the warehouse what our daily goals are, what our quarterly goals are, and what our yearly goals are and they would be able to recite them to you. I'm Jim. I've been with bodybuilding.com about five and a half years and I manage the Idaho Distribution Center. We're here to help people change their lives and give them the tools and motivation to do so. That is our goal. So whether you look in IT, software development, you look in marketing, you look in HR, you look in accounting, everybody, even if they're not directly touching the customer, their process in their mindset is always about how can we, with what we do, how can we make it better for these customers and reaching their goals. My name is Mike Spalding. I'm a senior recruiter and I've been here for four years now. I think back at sort of the velocity of the International Growth and we're seeing growth that would just knock your socks off, 70% growth. We've had, we have countries where our three or growth is 3,000%. The fun and scary thing has been, we've seen so much growth in the four years that I've been here that I don't even feel we've even hit our potential yet, even hit the cusp of our potential. Even though we demand excellence and we demand that we meet our goals, we also spend a lot of time celebrating meeting those goals in being successful. You're given the opportunity to create a goal based on what you think is possible, what you want to be possible and what you want to achieve and from there you're given the resources, you're given the tools you need to get there. If those don't exist, the cool thing about Bible that comes is we build those tools. We need to create some kind of interface that gets a customer in this experience. Well that doesn't exist and that will go build it. We do it every day. So it's exciting about the company. Great things will happen with the passion for competition. We're always looking to raise the bar, I think not only in our personal lives, but also in terms of you know, every aspect of the company which is information motivation supplementation. We want to provide better cutting edge, you know, substantiate its science back information. We want to provide supplements at the fastest possible pace and the cheapest possible price for people who want them and we want to motivate people to be as best as they possibly can, the best version of themselves and that is reflected I think with most employees and also with the employer, be become pushes us to be the best possible versions. My name's Chris Ellary. I'm the senior editor here at bodybuilding.com. I've worked here for roughly four years. Give her take. It's not checking the boxes, it's not coming in and filling a role. You come in and you have to contribute. You're expected to contribute. You have to you know have a passion to strive forward and to be innovative and if you're not you quickly will be left behind. My name is Brandon Poe. I'm the executive producer for the bodybuilding.com video production team and I've worked here for over three years. It isn't just selling supplements but it's providing information, motivation, supplementation and I think it shows with all the information that we have available and everything that we do for the customer that we we are very passionate. We're competitive because we want to be the best for the customer. My name is Macayle Duncan. I'm the training and employee development manager in customer service and I've been here for four and a half years. I think it encompasses everything about what we stand for. We inspire. We motivate our visitors, our customers to compete against themselves, compete in bodybuilding competitions, fitness competitions. So I think we really we practice what we preach. I'm Booker Neighbors senior manager within the contact center and I've been working for bodybuilding.com for almost four years. I come to work every day knowing that I'm going to I'll do myself or I'm going to try and out do what I did the day before or at least and if I don't at least I try it and I put in the effort. Bebecom as an employer is dedicated to hiring some awesome passionate creative driven employees and especially in the content department because it really does require a certain amount of fire, not only for the content itself so for fitness related material but also for presentation and creativity. I mean there are a million other places out there now that are trying to copy about it building.com or do what we do and so if we lay back and we become complacent with ourselves and he's success that we've achieved so far. It's only a matter of time before somebody underneath us, you know with that with that competitive fire over passes us. I love coming to work and seeing the people that I get to work with because they inspire me to do a better job. They inspire me take risks. I think that's a huge part of it. I think our company is great at sponsoring risk taking and so many companies are afraid of taking risks that they never really get a chance to break out of the box and we destroyed the box a long time ago. We set the box on fire and we kicked it off a cliff and now we get to take risks and innovate and I love being able to do that. It's our goal to make the big idea bigger. I really like the idea of a company always looking at the things they're doing and saying how could we do it better. So never be unhappy, never getting complacent and I think that is the same thing in body-milling of fitness. To really be great reaching your fitness goals and to continue to improve. It's all about here's where I am now. Not just looking at your competition and other people but looking at yourself and saying these are the good things, let's try to make it better and always shooting for something a little bit bigger. And so for us moving forward that's part of just who we are that's in our DNA. We wouldn't be happy just keeping things the same as they've always been or just being just as good as some of our competition in certain things. We really say what have we done, what do we think is great and now let's take it to the next level. My name is Ryan Deluca. I'm the CEO and founder of BodyVille.com. I've been here for approximately since the beginning. You know there's always a, but what if we could do this and then what if we could even go one step farther and add on this piece and then this piece. You know we're always building five years out down the line and dreaming about what we could build and then figuring out how we can go back to it. So it's much less about the tactics involved but really the big idea first and then we'll map out in time line how to get there. My name is John Hardesty. I'm the vice president of Digital Publishing at BodyVille.com. I've been here for two years now. When you come up with ideas, you figure out the ways it's not only execute it but execute it better than anyone else. Being able to help our customers truly achieve their goals from fitness perspective when it's getting in shape, staying in shape. It's not just talking, it's we're actually making the investment to put those ideas to work which again are going to enable us to not only differentiate but better people's lives and you know the end result is they're not going to need or want to go anywhere else. That's that's a pretty powerful value statement. My results, Dr. Strategic Partnerships, they hear at BodyVille.com. I've been a BodyVille.com for about 20 months. We provide the mobile, we provide the engine, workout tools. If we provide across the board every solution they need, how can we not cover everything, how can we not make that big ideas because it can be? My name is Darren Hogue. I have been with BodyVille.com for four years now and I am our office administrator. We're the largest online supplement store. We have the largest online fitness community which are all big ideas by themselves but the cool thing is getting all the teams and BodyVille.com together and really making all those big ideas when cohesive big ideas. I'm Preston Lewis. I'm the marketing creative director and I've worked it bodybuilding.com for a year and a half. I think since the beginning we've constantly been evolving our website and if you look at the site from over the years it's constantly been changing and we're never happy with it. There's no other company in the area or in our industry that works on projects at this scale. I feel like every single day there's an opportunity to be even just a little bit innovative. We're always thinking about hey is it possible that we could do x, y, y and offer it for free? There's not a lot of companies that can say that and actually build that into their business model and then also be growing by 35% at the same time. We are always focused on innovating. How can we take the idea that we had last year and make it better? We've constantly upgraded the video quality. I don't know how community-it-you know what people now want more profiling and want tracking capabilities. We want to have social counterbibs. We add in new features like bodies. We continue to add more things to our 24-7 customers. We have really fast service to our customers when it comes to how can we make it fast? So we put in a new contract with UPS. Your package is going to take long in the three days to get delivered. We are going to upgrade it at no extra charge to two-day air. We need to be doing everything for the customer and if this is something that'll help us to help the customers, we'll do it. Kind of think about it like going up the next level with stairs but it's really not just stairs when you're moving up. It's an escalator that's going down because you're constantly having to go faster just to keep up with where you were yesterday. And so really pushing on continue to innovate, making things bigger, and really staying. How can we do this better for the customer? Is a secret to our long-term success? Our mission is not complete until the customer says, well. Every day we get emails from customers saying thank you bodybuilding.com. You've transformed my life. From a dad who's lost 130 pounds, it comes swing as a son around the room to a mom who's decided that depression is not going to take over her life. I think that it's our customers that wow us more than we could ever wow them. Jen Heatherington, director of marketing. I've been with bodybuilding.com for about a year and a half. We make videos spot lighting some of our customers that have made huge transformations in their lives and I think that really makes them feel special and valued and when they get emails from our customer service director after orders asking them how they are, I think that really makes them feel valued and coming back. My name's Jillian Fimer and the digital publishing coordinator and I've been with the company for over two years. I think it's a crisis people. I think people aren't used to kind of customer service anymore. We get emails all the time. We're like, you know, you help me right away. I'm not used to that. You guys called me back. Did this for this for my order? You reshipped it right away. I didn't have any hassle. It surprises people and they're just like, you know, I'll come back just for that reason. Melissa Keith, billing in fraud specialists, nitric there since in Blast May so that a year and a half. We really try and keep the customer in mind every step of the way, whether it's what the website looks like when they're clicking through body space to their experience when opening the box. We want to put ourselves in their shoes and make sure that we would be just as excited as they are. My name is Kelly Ryder. I'm the customer advocate and I've been with bodybuilding.com for three and a half years. It's valuable for the customer. To have these wow experiences to feel appreciated and to feel supported. And one way that we can do that is by recognizing our customers. Without that, then why would they keep coming back? My name is Derek Faylor and the retention marketing manager here at Bodybuilding.com and I've been here for seven months. You have the executives, the leads of this company sitting down and saying, how can we put the customer first, what can we do that's going to wow them, whether it's their shopping experience at the store, or some new amazing content or trainers that we can push out to them to help them reach their goals. We all do a really excellent job of knowing that we're here for the customer and not the other way around. We are here for a bigger purpose than just to create your older value or just to get a paycheck. We come to work every day changing people's lives around the world. We're helping people change their lives. That's pretty fulfilling and it's really kind of an incredible thing to be a part of. We get to change people's lives every day. It's amazing. I mean, I really, I've never worked for a company that's so passionate for other people. I love what Bodybuilding not comes about and I love to be a part of it. You're going to immediately change lives for me. It just is a fit. It truly is, after all these years, a place where I feel like I'm at home. We're all here to change the world every day and we do and we all know it and we all love it. That's what drives us and that's what drives me. Almost every day people come up to me and say, man, did you ever think the company would get this big and you've been so successful and what you're secret and immediately you have to say that the secret has been the people we have here. And it's really been the team. I get a lot of credits simply being the CEO and the founder of the company, but the credit really goes to the hardworking passionate people we have here that every day can admit their talent and their creativity to this goal of ours of helping people reach their fitness goals. Oh, Ryan is like my idol. Like I don't even know where to begin with that guy. I want to be him someday. I don't know why you love or keep bodybuilding. Wow, I'm just time to be have. I love working on Bodybuilding a lot of calm, just mainly for the people in the environment that works here. Bodybuilding.com is probably one of the most fun companies I have ever worked for. It's the energy that the employees at this company have. You just can't match it anywhere else. You're not be passionate about something that you've done and actually works for you and, you know, I mean, look at me. I look really good. Once you walk in the doors, you just see to catch it from other folks. I mean, just the enthusiasm that I see. Oh, there's a lot of reasons why I love it here. Do you want me to start off alphabetically? I don't think that I'll ever find another place to work. That will make me as happy as this place does. You not only, you know, promote a healthy lifestyle, but you end up living it because of the people that you're surrounded by. I love coming to work every day. I love working at Bodybuilding.com because of the people. We really do have the Kremlin sort of rest here at Bodybuilding.com. It's provided an outlook for being the best employee I can be. Like constant encouragement of being a better person. We are Boyce Young professionals. Next generation's best place to work in Idaho. There's no better place to work. Like a party every day. No, it's awesome. It's fun. It's very energetic. It's positive. It will change everything about your life. It'll make you passionate. It'll make you happy. It'll make you healthy and you'll be super excited every single day you come to work. I get a dairy-y to work here and be happy anywhere else. Like it's just not going to happen. We have like three hours to do this. We need three hours to this question. But it's starting over. My name is Martin Rosals. Kingpimp at Bodybuilding.com. These are my f***. It's a bad under on a blanket. I love working out Bodybuilding.com because John Hardesties here. It's your goal to make the big idea. Bigger. I can't remember what my title is. Okay, we do that one. We're all um. Oh god, what a choice. Hmm. Alright. My name's Bodybuilding.com. I've worked with the company for four and a half years. Give back to the people you've always said. Seriously, I can't do with you in here. Ron makes me nervous. Big is little. Bigger is better. I love working at Bodybuilding.com. Little bit of a f***. Sorry. I looked away. Can we start a new f***ing step? One of my favorite core values is... What is f***ing gosh. Sorry. My mouth is shaking. It's our goal to make the big idea. Bigger. That there gains. That there goal setting. Oh my gosh, we're saying it. My hands. Rest in peace. Oh my gosh. Yeah, I'm so happy. Okay. That's not quite the way I want to say it. I'm like over the camera. It sounds redundant. Do I speak from a position or from the group? And I can create 24-7 on BodySpace whenever I feel like it. That's one of my favorite things to do on my class time activities. Oh, Jaggers is a little bit of a... Insovigatrasha, Bigger the MXU! And I think that as I'm talking, because I'm good at talking, I completely forgot what the question was. And I'm just not rambling. So there's a rumor that it started as companies meet Britney Spears. And I'm not going to say it's not true. Do I speak in terms of the CEO or do I speak in terms of Ryan D'Luca? Let me do it again. You're a f***ing little idea here. What we do is we take it. We put it on a platter. We put the Demic Blossomari. We put some pepper, some salt, we make it the bigger. And of course we make it the best there. Because we have fresh. I feel really good about it. I like I've maxed. I'm done. So we're going to cut here. Yes. We're not done yet. Oh, damn. If Britney's out there, come here. Yeah.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Fantasy Stack Challenge - Bodybuilding.com [4yT_tqi-EeU].txt ===

Well, howdy, Barbell Brothers and Lifter Sisters. My name is Beef Gunsington Jr. but you can call me Beef. I'm what's for dinner. Hmm. There are three things I love in life. Supplements, Barbells and football. Football. There used to be a man in here. Until beef got a hole of him. Beef. Ah! Yes, sir. I am the ultimate fitness fantasy football fan. Try saying that five times fast, you ham-pisted meat monkeys. Now, whether you love fantasy football, think it's a fancy name for Quidditch or even a game where Gandalf the Grey Shouts, you shall die! To an offensive line full of orcs, you can partake in the bodybuilding.com fantasy stack for cash. Head line up of superstar supplements for your pigskin kick and combo for a chance to win money. A year supply of your selected subs, bragging rights, and a workout with me. Beef at the Gunsington Garage. Yay! Let me walk you through a sample stack to show you how it's done. Now, I call this the madest that it's stack, because it lays the foundation for veins and gains. Okay, I started with the fish oil. I am the multi-voderman, added a pre-workout, and BCW's for before and after training. And of course, my most valuable player, Protein, total cost $100, you can even buy it on the site right now, smells like victory. Seams pretty simple, but so did that drunken draft party last month. Anywho, here's your game plan for supplement stacks of success. You're not all big dollar ballers, so make sure your stacks are affordable. Submit up to three stacks to up your odds. All the subs we sell are fair game. Just choose brands, products, and sizes using the fancy widget below. What the hell is a widget? Set a goal when you build your stack, massive muscle builder, fat fighting tire torture, big on a budget designed for newbies or anything else your mad mind can conjure. Give your stacks a name that will get fans on their feet. Send us your fantasy stacks before the clock runs out on our total 12th 1159 pmst mountain standard time. For bodybuildin.com, this is beef gunsington. Stay beefy. Beef. Where's the weather? Come on, bomb.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Amino Acids [OHYzZxKcys8].txt ===

We need to ask the company to primary sources. One will be to take an intact protein like way or beef collagen or gelatin and digesting that completely acid or enzymes are both and that gives up the individual amino acids to make up the whole protein or from individual bacterial fermentation reactions where bacteria make a certain amino acid in large amounts and then that's purified, dried, and then can by other amino acids in ratios at the manufacturer choose to blend together. Free amino acids actually, some people take them because they believe that they get a faster amount of absorption from the amino acids or they are concerned about protein sources more intact that can cause allergic reactions or food intolerances. The free amino acids provide a way of ingesting a completely digested protein in the individual components. What you could expect from that would be a perhaps an easier to tolerate source of protein in the individual component parts. In fact, free amino acids are often used for people that have severe food allergies and it removes the downside of having a food allergy by getting it in its individual component parts. When you look at a free amino acid product, you want to look for if it's derived from a protein source, it would say for example, from hydrolyzed collagen, which is the same as gelatin, often from pig or cow hides or hooves. The other source bacterial fermentation typically is the pure source because of the high degree of purity of each amino acid and you can dial in exactly what the ratios are in terms of what you're looking for. In terms of the dosages for free amino acids, you can treat them pretty much the same as protein. However, if there are crystalline bacterial fermentation source, the typically go on the much more expensive, so that could be a limit in terms of how much you would take. But again, you want to be shooting for about 20 to 25 grams of total protein and amino acids source each time that you consume protein, including after resistance training. In terms of what you could stack it with, treated again like any protein source so you could combine it with proteins. If you wanted to, you could do half and half. You could combine it with a fast adjusting fast absorbing carb. You could combine it with branch chain amino acids. You could combine it with treats and amount of hydrate. Combine it with anything that you want to.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Arginine [zXS5B_-WI2A].txt ===

Arginine is an amino acid that can be converted into or are incorporated into proteins, and sometimes it's called a conditionally essential amino acid. It's actually made via bacterial fermentation and then purified and you'll find it as L-Arginine Hydrochloride, sometime Arginine base, which means nothing else has attached to it, or Arginine attached to other organic acids like Arginine Alfakita Glurane. Arginine actually is used as a direct precursor by the body, especially blood vessels, to make nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is a little gas-like molecule, or a gaseous molecule that opens up blood vessels. That can increase muscle blood flow that can be experienced before during training, and if you want to try it after. Arginine has been shown in several studies to actually increase blood flow and may in certain circumstances that in some studies improve performance. It also can raise insulin if you take large amounts of it, which itself can improve nitric oxide and increase blood flow just through the insulin release from high dose of arginine. Duster for Arginine can be up to 6 grams and some studies have taken up even to higher dosages, but with respect to supporting nitric oxide synthesis, perhaps 1.5 grams, 1 to 2 times per day, and divided doses, or even single doses would be adequate to raise blood arginine. Because Arginine is extensively metabolized or broken down by the intestines in the liver, you don't raise blood arginine as high, so you could stack or combine it with citrine, which gets into the blood and raise blood arginine much higher on most twice as high and Arginine itself. And then you can even go once further and add in glutamine, which actually can be used to convert into citrine, and you get a 3-pronged approach to raising blood arginine through arginine, citrine as a precursor to arginine, and glutamine as a precursor to citrine.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Caffeine [lorG05owNso].txt ===

Caffeine comes from two primary sources. One would be chemical synthesis, which is a majority of caffeine. The other would be from the decaffeination process of coffee. What is left over on the side is caffeine. Caffeine actually was one of the unique sports nutrition ingredients that's also available as an other kind of drug in the FDA drug monograph. For that use, it's been used for a long time and improved to enhance alertness to improve cognitive functional mental function and improve endurance. So if you think about that, it could be a perfect pre-workout ingredient or supplement. You can take before training to increase your state of alertness, to increase perhaps your motivation, and also to reduce your feelings of being fatigued before you start training and while you're training. And it has been shown to actually improve strength performance, but the best research is that improving endurance performance at intense endurance activities. When you're looking for a caffeine containing sports performance supplement, make sure that it indicates exactly how much caffeine from all different sources is found in each towel that a capsule or if it's in a drink or a shot. Because it does seem that it can have a significant impact upon you feeling it or not or improving performance and also the downside of caffeine, and that would be the adverse reactions of caffeine, jitters, irritability, over stimulation, which can actually reduce your workout performance. Caffeine has a pretty wide dosage range, but it's important to stay in that sweet spot. And that's three to six milligrams per kilogram of bond weight or 1.4 to about 2.7 milligrams per pound of body weight. If you go below that, it likely won't work if you go above that or even in the higher range, some people may get overstimulated and that can lead to reduced workout performance and a tough and high-resleep or no sleep that night. What it's often combined or stacked with is a wide variety of ingredients that are sometimes an often unknown interactions. So caffeine itself is a stimulant and when you combine with other ingredients that can have a stimulant effect, you can get some side effects. It's important to start solely or with lower dosage and workout. What's cool about caffeine from pure source compared to caffeine when you take it in from coffee or tea is that even though your body absorbs the same amount, the policy of the caffeine from pure source is higher or greater compared to that coming from coffee or tea.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Casein Protein [61wk2Qa9cIs].txt ===

Music Cases won the two abundant proteins found in milk and that milk could be coming from cows or from goats. It's known as a slow digestion protein and it may be better at reducing total or whole body muster protein breakdown having a better anti-cata ballic effect. Cases to a person who wants to increase their protein intake and wants to have it with a slower digestion protein and maybe wanting to reduce total or whole body protein breakdown. You can use it after training as part of your post training meal or shake. If you want to use a case in before training because it's slower digestion, you want to use about an hour and a half to allow it to digest and be absorbed. You can use it right after and combine it with carbs if you want to or any other carbohydrate rich meal. It does to be between 20-25 grams per serving.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Creatine Monohydrate [GrnABXhE2D8].txt ===

Creaton, the actress absorbed and taken it by muscle, is converted to something called Creaton phosphate inside of muscle, or also knows phosphocreatin. That's involved in energy metabolism to support intense muscular contractions, like resistives types of training, and also can increase muscle fiber size. Creatins for people who are trying to increase their speed, their power or the strength are wanted to increase muscle fiber size and total body mass and muscle mass. Creatins you could use it in what's called the loading dose, which would be 5 grams, 4 times a day. I'd really want to take out with protein and carburetch meals or supplements. You can divide that up by about 4 to 6 hours each time, and you can continue that amount for weeks after that if you want to, or go down to 5 grams one time per day. I deal with a protein and carburetch meal.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Fish Oil [9_JqRiEzOKI].txt ===

This shows are very popular right now, getting a lot of research and media attention. Infitions are taken from the body or the liver of fish that live in cold waters, like haring, been hidden, cod, or even tuna. And they are a source of what are called long chain omega-free fatty acids, which are very difficult to get in the conventional diet where it's based on land, animals, for fatty acids, like beef, or pork or chicken. And so these long chain fatty acids are abundant in fish and even in the liver, which also contains vitamins A and D naturally occurring. Fish oils are actually used in have significant benefits to support cardiovascular health, blood flow, and joint health. And also to create a and support healthy information response, for example, in the context of intense training, which cause the soreness caused by intense training, which happens hours and days after you stop training, is an inflammatory response, which is self-limiting or see up in training for a few days, it goes away. Infitions actually support a quick recovery in terms of modifying that information response to intensive training, which is a delayed onset, muscle soreness. Also, fish oils can support brain function by their incorporations to the brain and being an essential component in brains and brain metabolism. When you're looking to buy a fish oil, you have to focus on two key ingredients. It's not official, but after you're actually after the two key long chain omega-free fatty acids called EPA and DHA. Those are the two key omega-free that are found in fish. In the pinnipon, what you're seeking, you may want to aim for a dose of 1.5 to 3 grams of those fatty acids per day. Now, depending upon the capsule, it can provide 60 to 70 percent omega-free EPA-DHA per capsule. So, look at that closely. The other thing to be very important to be mindful of when buying fish oil are the impurities, because fish are swimming in the open environment. Their bodies can collect lots of different pollutants and heavy metals from eating fish, smaller and coming up the food chain. And so ideal you'll be looking for a fish oil that has each batch certified by an independent laboratory for undetectable or very low amounts of impurities, which would assure you that you won't be burping up something that tastes fishy and foul or rancid. And you'll be reducing any exposure of your body to undesirable pollutants like heavy metals or persistent organic pollutants or pesticides. Fish oil, because it has very polyunsaturated fats, is more likely to go rancid. So anything you can do to slow down that process is important. And one important measure to take is to keep your fish oil or if you have a condive oil product, which often is an ellipid form, not in the capsule form, keep that refrigerator and make sure that you seal the cap tightly after you take it out your dose, have capsules or pour it out your dose of liquid. Now I'll preserve it and keep it fresher for a long and pure time and I'll reduce the chance with producing a rancid taste or burping up a rancid taste if you take it in a capsule form.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Flax Seed Oil [D0njLPIGz5I].txt ===

Black Seed oil is derived from the seeds of flats which is growing in large amounts in Canada. And the Black Seed oil is one of the richest sources of a certain type of omega-free fatty that is called alpha-linolenic acid or ALA. And all flats that all comes from flats as part of a milling and pressing and then extraction process to leave you with concentrated oil. Black Seed oil is for the person who wants to increase their omega-free fatty acid intake. And because of the omega-free fatty acids in flats, it actually can be used to support cardiovascular health. The inflammation response to intense training which is self-limiting in short term. So after you finish intense training that soreness that falls hours today's after you're actually in an inflammation response. In flats with all foods omega-free fatty acid can help reduce the inflammation response from excise and improve recovery. Black Seed oil also through its omega-free fatty acid can support cardiovascular health and also cognitive function. With respect to the actual use with flats with all unlike fish oil you can actually bake with it. You can pour it over salads, you can pour it over rice, you can pour it into a smoothie, and use it as part of your foods. When you're looking at a flat-side oil product they come in two different forms. We'll be in a capsule form which actually protects it from oxidation or from the air or in a liquid form. And depending upon your use if you're going to be actually adding it to foods or to smooth these you may want to use an oil. If you're using as a supplement you may want to use the capsules because the capsule will keep it fresher for a long period of time. You also want to look for how it's processed and ideally it fits analyzed on each batch for the presence of impurities or pesticides or solvents because sometimes the process of making flat cereal can be using a chemical solvent. Most come as done do that these days. In terms of what you want to take in it could be between two to three tablespoons a day or the crumod of around 1.5 grams of aLA up to three grams of aLA that's the omega-free fatty acid found in flat cereal. They'll be described in the supplement or nutrition facts panel of the product that you're looking

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Glucosamine [r4LMGQOjCTE].txt ===

The question is derived from two major sources. One would be in shellfish. The other would be from fermenting glucose derived from corn. Glucosamine actually is part of the fluids and cushion that surrounds joints. So, supplementation has been suggested to improve the actual joint cushioning and the integrity of the joints. So, during intensive periods of training, or sometimes you experience, soreness in the joints relates to the exercise. The numbers that is suggested that recusmen supplementation can improve the actual health of the joint. If you're doing intensive training and feeling the soreness in your joints, in relation to the exercise, chronic use for multiple weeks of supplementation with glucose. Because may indeed improve your joint strength and enhance your recovery with respect to that time of training. Bear in mind that it does take several weeks for up to eight weeks of time with supplementation to notice a difference with the glucose mean. When you're looking at a glucose mean product, look for two different things. If you're having shellfish sensitivity or allergy, look for one that is not derived from shellfish or that states shellfish free. That form is actually made from glucose derived from corn. The other thing to look for is if you're a sodium sensitive or watching your sodium intake, oftentimes the glucose mean sulfate form is complex with sodium. And so, if you look for that, you won't be ingesting additional amounts of sodium. This means studies suggest that the optimal dosing per day is around 1500 milligrams. Now what you can do is you can actually take that at one dose or you can divide it up. Either way, it appears to work. Now what you can combine or stack the customer with, and either the sulfate or hydrochlorid form would be something called conundrate and sulfate, or something called MSM or methyl, sulfonel methane. Those have been shown in combination or by themselves to perhaps work actively to support joint health in addition to that from glucose mean.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Glutamine [4ODToEk2CYQ].txt ===

Glutamine is an L amino acid or like it says L, good mean and it's involved in various aspects of metabolism and it comes from bacterial fermentation and glutamine is unique and that is one of the very few amino acids that has a slightly sweet taste so it's very easy to mix into water and it has a pleasant sweet, naturally sweet but no sugar taste. Glutamine is used as a fuel in large amounts by the intestinal cells and by the immune cells and so actually you can support immune health and intestinal health. A number of studies is shown that intensively training competition can actually be partially or favorably responded to with good-been supplementation to help accelerate the immune recovery after intensive exhaustive training and that will be a very nice way of supporting immune health. When you're looking by a gluten supplement, almost all gluming products are in a powder form sometimes in capsules and they're usually by themselves and if always the L gluming form there is no desire the undesirable than have the D-glutamine so you'll always see the L but the dose here perhaps is the most important thing to look at. So depending upon what you're trying to achieve, a dose could be up to 10-15 or 30 grams per day, especially if you're trying to support intensive training or you may be over training to support immune health and immune recovery. Glutamine because it's used in large amounts by the intestines and covered into the citronine you can combine it with citronic cells or stack it with it and also combine your stack it with argining. Therefore you'll get a three-pronged approach to driving nitric oxide synthesis in the body through different pathways. That also could perhaps improve the bios response to an argining dose because you're not giving it too much argining one time you're approaching with argining through citronine and for glutamine. The other thing you can do is combine glutamine with virtually any other product that you want because they're don't appear to be anything that it would interact with, they would reduce its absorption or its utilization by the body.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Green Tea [0UXzmvhxFds].txt ===

Green tea extract actually is an aim implies this derived from green tea leaves that are grown in different parts of the world, typically in Asia or in India, in the leaves are then dried and an extract is performed on the leaf to enrich the amount of ingredients called catechants. The most important thing to look at is the percent of EGCG, which is the primary catechine found in green tea. You may find as description of total catechines as a percent, but the most important marker for green tea would be the amount of EGCG either milligrams or percent. Also, you may want to look for the amount of caffeine as a percent or the number milligrams of caffeine found in a green tea extract and you can find green tea extract in a liquid form, capsule, tablet, sometimes even in soft gels. Green tea extract can be used as a way of increasing your calorie burning rate or your metabolism. Green tea also has been shown to improve actual antioxidant function of body. You can use green tea as an agent to help in your calorie burning, combining with your exercise. You can also use it as an antioxidant for periods of intense resistance training or in fear increasing your training volume or intensity. And some very few studies have suggested that green tea can improve immune support. So during intense training, that can stress the immune system. That may be a nice adjunct or a combination to combine with intensive training. If you're taking green tea extract to support and metabolism and increase calorie burning, you want to combine it with another caffeine source, which could be from pure caffeine or from other botanical sources like latte or agrana or colonette. And that will...

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to HMB [yv8PD66uht0].txt ===

H&B actually is a metabolite of the branch-tainomy-wasted loosing, and it's produced in human metabolism in our bodies, but as a dietary supplement, it's actually chemically synthesized and hooked up to calcium to make a calcium H&B combination. H&B would be for the person who's starting training for the first time or after a layoff, or if you're in a crazy intensity and or volume of your training, which could be an additional stimulus, and it will help reduce the most-putting breakdown and improve the adaptation of training. H&B should be used in one gram dose three times a day, for the person who actually is just beginning training or increasing their training intensity, and you may want to try it just before work out if you have them in training for a long time work here, just starting training. That makes improve your response that one training session and reduce soreness.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Guide to Leucine [zFfwfcEl7tg].txt ===

L.L.C. is an essential amino acid in his also known as a branch-chain amino acid. It's producing human metabolism. It's also found the diet and way of protein is one of the richest sources of branch chains in lucine. Lucine is typically found in dietary supplements being made through bacterial fermentation. Lucine has a potent impact upon protein synthesis muscle. And, normal studies suggest that it can trigger or activate muscle protein synthesis even after intensive training. It's important to note though that if you take lucine alone or just with branch chains, Iceilucine and valine the other two branch-chain amino acids, you won't be able to support total protein synthesis because you need all of the other amino acids in adequate amounts to support protein synthesis. What you can use it for also is to while you're engaging in endurance training, perhaps to improve performance during exercise. And there are a number of points out there that offer a range of lucine but ujits around 1-3rd by 8. In terms of dosing, the number status of lucine ranges between three or four grams all the way up to 15 grams. So perhaps a 7-fold point five-gram dose per day of lucine with other branch chains in addition may be a good target dose but that also is a significant amount of amino acids taken in terms of cost. You can also combine lucine with a protein source such as wave protein, isolate or concentrate, hydrolyzed or intact, which already has a high amount of branch chains. You can buy it with carbs or any other type of supplement before during the after workout.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Intro [j4E_YeaveIk].txt ===

Let bodybuilding.com help you reach your fitness goals. Get proper supplementation with the bodybuilding.com store. Check out the super site for thousands of up to date articles and videos with the information on all the latest training techniques and nutrition advice. And get involved with the bodybuilding.com community with over half a million body space members helped to keep each other motivated to stay on track. That's bodybuilding.com where the information, motivation and supplementation you need to succeed are all in one place.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Military Appreciation Award [LqzrIz2_k4k].txt ===

Be good! One, two, three! Well, for him, he's a great deal for me. What the US military means to me and what you guys represent, is a true sacrifice. He's give up so much to go over there and protect the rest of us. And there are a lot of acts of valor that go unseen. It's a man and women at the sighting. It made a caution to have reached him with their life on a line for our rights in Alfredo. I've been lucky enough to have been asked twice now to go over to Iraq and just from USO tours and you know, get over there and mix it up with you guys and have some fun playing some games, gladiator games. And besides having fun and everything, I saw so much. I'm truly impressed. I do you guys have the true gladiators just keep doing your thing. So I don't love me and I'll just hear what you want to say. Thanks, guys. If I said it a million times and wouldn't be enough to say, thank you so much for all that you guys do. We love you. We thank you. We have so much respect for you for the red white and blue that you believe, for the service that you provide for our country. And from the bottom of my heart, I want to say thank you so much. God bless you. My cousin, Dustin Booker, he's an assistant, he's an assistant, corporate of the US Marine Corps. He's to be away from any member of your family for that period of time to be a huge sacrifice on both parts. So to all of you, military families out there just don't believe that the amount of sacrifice. Thank you to all of the US military for your service. I hope and wish that all of you get on safe. My husband is in the United States Navy, and he is currently deployed overseas. Because you're out there and because you're being no leader, it helps me to sleep safe at night knowing that you are defending my freedom. I truly miss you and I love you and come home soon. I have an older brother Keith who is really veteran and he served here in Afghanistan. And my little sister is currently stationed over in Italy with her husband, who is also a military. It is kind of scary because you never know what they're going to get deployed together or it's not right and we're not there to be close to them and tell about. Thank you so much for everything you've for us, the military. He goes our freedom in our ability to do what we do even they. Thank you so much. I have many friends that are currently enlisted in the armed forces, and most of them who joined because of their incidents that happened in 9-11. So I'd like to say thank you to all the veterans and all the people that are currently enlisted in the armed forces. Because while we're here lifting life, you're out there sharing outrides and all freedom to live it. So thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com Spokesmodel Search 2016, presented by Train Magazine [gh6xXq3u9lA].txt ===

[♪ music playing around the audience

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com XDB Shoot - OhNoes [VaY6HllXWEI].txt ===



=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com- 5 Tips to Make Cardio More Fun! [Ucbfl72U-pQ].txt ===

Hey gang Nicole Costa here, professional fitness and bikini model and spoke model for in my opinion the best nutrition company on the planet on next nutrition. And today what we're going to do is talk to you about my five top tips of making cardio fun. Okay so right now I am actually in training for miss speaking in university in June and part of my workout regimen definitely includes cardio. I do cardio every morning, five days a week for 60 minutes and for me I definitely have to keep it interesting in think of ways to make it fun. We all know it can be very boring and monotonous. Okay so my first tip is for me personally I have to do 60 minutes so what I like to do is break up the routine into 20 minutes three different exercises. So usually what I do is 20 minutes on the treadmill where I like to kind of do some interval training running for a minute then walking for a minute kind of keep your heart rate going up and down which definitely helps burn more calories and then the second machine I usually do is the elliptical for 20 minutes and then the third one I usually do is the step mill kind of get a good leg workout in. So definitely keeps it interesting and makes the time go by much faster. Okay so my second tip for making cardio fun is definitely bring that iPod. What I like to do is sort of give my iPod variation where I have you know rock and roll high intense music where I'm doing some you know intense cardio. And then I have my slow songs where I'm kind of winding down and cooling off. So definitely bring that iPod because it will make the time go by much faster. Okay so my third tip for making cardio fun is it's always fun to do cardio with a partner but you just have to really make sure that you don't go so deep into conversation that you was focused on your intensity because our ultimate goal we know when we do cardio it needs to be intense you need to sweat and burn those calories. So tip number four for making cardio fun is to include some interval training in your cardio regimen. For instance if you're on the treadmill you could run for a minute and then walk for a minute or two and your heart rate's going up and down so you're burning more calories and the time definitely goes by quicker. Okay so my fifth and final tip for making cardio fun is to switch it up completely get away from the machines and try a high intensity dance class one of my favorites is Zumba and if you haven't tried it I really urge you to do it you literally leave drenched and you burn tons of calories and it's definitely a great way to switch it up and keep it in your eyes. Okay so thanks for watching my five top tips on making cardio fun. I'm Nicole Costa and for more content like this please visit Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Bodybuilding.com： Train Like the Striking Truth Star Georges St Pierre [iCHOQGUra38].txt ===

I'm an Ames John Schemberg, I'm a Minister of Strength Coach for over 12 years now. Here in Montreal, I train athletes and fighters such as George St. Pierre, Rashad Evans, was O'Shane Carwin, Hain Markwark, among others, and today we're going to let you inside and see some of the training techniques that make George the best pound for pound fighter in the world and some of the secrets we use and the training techniques here at adrenaline performance center. That's it, you're in a hole! I train all athletes, but I was involved in high caliber wrestling in my career, so I start off a national-level wrestler and some concussions and in my career there, so the transition to training fighters was one that I embraced and I really enjoyed. I'll use a bunch of training principles techniques here, never trying to stay stagnant, trying to stop with cutting edge, so a lot of plyometrics, especially for George, plyometrics, power, so Olympic lifting, heavy complexes from strength power. So she and Ups can medicine ball slams, bench press to pile push ups, walking line just to jump squats, you know a lot of explosive things for his body type, a lot of sled pushing for power and conditioning, just trying to stay cutting edge in a head of a game. Typical training rate for George is crazy because he's such a hard worker and he likes to train so hard that for him he'll like training seven days a week. He's only really training in the gym with weight training and Olympic lifting and plow is probably two three days max with one track day involved in there for conditioning, but I mean he trains every day, so he wrestles twice three times a week, does jujitsu, boxes, he's nonstop, always, always working. For his days off he doesn't really take that many days off, but he's very, very good with regeneration, so George has a great misuse, he has a guy that does a RT on him, he's at the spa where he's doing contrast therapy, he phone rolls, he's well ahead of the game, he eats right now and he takes the right supplements, so George is really cutting edge when it comes to regeneration. We use a lot of various exercises because his body calls for it, he's very exposed to athlete, but at the same time we do a lot of pre-hab to keep his body healthy, so he doesn't break down, a lot of core work, everything's important and the best program is like my mentor, my boy would say the program you're not on, so we always want to keep his body guessing and shock into progression. Luckily we move George away from doing any kind of circuit work that we do with the other athletes, you know, I treat every athlete as an individual, so they all have different programs, everybody's different, you know, some of them do circuits, some of them do a lot of power, a lot of strength, there is a rep scheme that we keep and a percentage scheme we keep, but it changes basically with the phases of the workout program, so from phase to phase, if it's a power phase, strength phase or just when the fights close, so the closer the fight we stay with more high intensity lower duration, so lower volume and we can sort of play around with stuff to the further the fight is away. Within the main being such a contact sport, a lot of contact, very physical, to keep someone healthy, you really got to stay ahead of the game with your regeneration, you know ice bath, contrast therapy, taking your right supplements, your fish oils, national anti-inflammatories, you know, it's very important to have a good diet, foam roll, get massage, do a lot of pre-hab work in your training to keep your healthy, you know, it's a fine line between being injured and being a well champion, so it's very important to work on staying healthy with regeneration and a lot of the cutting edge techniques. Just staying on top is what keeps the motivated, I think, you know, a fear of failure, just wanting to perform, being the best of this craft, and what keeps the motivated, I think, he just keeps like being he enjoys the constant learning of the sport, makes martial arts, that it's always evolving, and he likes to stay ahead of the game. I do think he's the best pound for pound fighter in the world, he's definitely very good at every aspect of makes martial arts. We doesn't specialize in anything, but he's great in all things, he's a great wrestler, very high-leveled jiu-jitsu, great striker, always comes into the fight, great shape, and very powerful, so I think that's what separates him, and he puts it all together, but in anybody else. Stuffed a bounce, everything, you know, sometimes, you know, what they say about too many chefs, that it can, you can ruin a recipe, but you know, he's done a good job so far, and it's tough when you're on top, and you're the most sought after athlete in the sport, that everybody wants to get their hands on you, and have a have the big impact, but he's done a great job, and of staying on top, and really being the best fighter in the world. I'm John Chamberg, a strength coach to athletes and fighters around the world, to learn more about my training styles and training programs, visit my website www.adrenalineperformancecenter.com, and to check out George St. here, and what makes him the best, check out his new movie, the striking truth, brought you by www.bodybuilding.com, great site.

=== FILE: Boás Oliveira Fitness 360, Brazilian Brawn! - Bodybuilding.com [pyfuMtauFaE].txt ===

Hello guys, my name is Boaz, I'm team bodybuilding.com athlete from Brazil. The free time is in my lawyer and the guitar player. I'm also an IFBB man's physique competitor. When I was younger, I always liked playing sports. When I was a skinny guy, I waited like 100 in tiny pounds. Really wanted to get bigger. What drives me everyday is the desire to be my best self. Since I entered Bodybuilding.com, I always liked to get a stage because there are a lot of guys that do this thing and have a lot of cool, nice. But I wasn't a meal of law school, so I didn't have that time to focus on the prep. Once I finished it, I said, if I don't do it now, I will never do it. Then I started preping for my first show in the same year. The office isn't usually to wait lifting four times a week. Worked today, take on the off, worked today, take the weekend off. Then when it starts getting close, it starts to rip right. I go up to five days and when it's rip mode, six to seven days a week. I do one body part per week. When I'm in office, I usually do tri-seps with chest and biceps with shoulders or back. And legs, I do it on the one side. I feel like I can push it more. I go for like one hour and a half. If I have to do card, you're of course going to be longer, but my training doesn't go longer than on our. You're a protein shakes today. It helps you a lot if you're like a busy guy, you don't have time to eat. You have the mirror placement, the protein shakes. We can easily have any time. I really want to improve my shoulders size because of F really. My arms are big and when I get on stage, they over size my shoulders. I really look at to Chris Gettin to a week program. I saw all the videos and of course, by the space, I have to be a lot and a super side. If they are, they are the cause of dieting and training. Yeah, you really need to organize yourself. I mean prep your food before I always wake up earlier, prep all my food. I get in my six pack, six meals, get it with me through the day. It makes it easier to eat where I need that. I don't have time to drink some shakes. Leave the healthy left side. Don't make the looks most important. Your health is the most important for sure. You need to love what you're doing. If you don't like it, you're not going to succeed. So that's the way you're going to find your balance. You can find me at Instagram. It's at bo and riqueh and also facebook. It's facebook.com. There's a bo and riqueh and by the space also, I was updating it. It's bo and riqueh the same. I'll set your body with you.com, spot your models for your video. On bo and riqueh.com, we'll see you in the next videos. I'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Branch Warren Shoulder Workout ｜ 2012 Road To The Arnold [dhPAzOVmL1M].txt ===

I'm gonna be joking with big weights. You're gonna be little, little weights. On basis this one of days, it's a couple of days. You're just mad, you're doing more and more. My gels are still burning right now. It's like they're on fire. I'm gonna face the big day. Now we do some rotator-coffected sizes. I think that's one of the main reasons I've never suffered a rotator-coff injury. I always dream much before I even work out. If I'm doing any upper body workout, I do rotator-coff, I don't know. I've never done any other workout. I've never done any other workout. I've never done any other workout. I've never done any other workout. I've never done any other workout. I've never done any other workout. I do rotator-coff, I've never done any other workout. I do some light stretching. I do a good, warm-up. You know, days like the day I have three layers of clothes on. You know, so you make sure you get some heat. Get some blood and muscle before you start. Don't heavy. Today, we want to pre-quick sometimes. Even the time we get to presses, we're not warmed up. So we do two or three more light sets before we start. We're going up and weight. You need a Johnny, both like doing workouts first like that. So when we start doing our heavy presses, you know, you already warmed up. Got some blood and muscle and it's a lot easier. We did a workouts first. We did a workouts first. We did a warm-up good and then we can do our heavy presses. I think I did any one part of the belt, but you know you can focus on it, you know, you know having a fully developed belt. You don't want to look good just from the front, but you only get from the front to side in the rear. You know, and so you were dealt also a play of parking when you hit your back of a bus, so your last bridge. Front side deals are probably the most important part of your belt, not the rear belt, aren't, but your front delts from your stand to the front. You know, you're doing all your front shots, even your side shots, man. You know, you want that good cap, you know, off-work your belts. Your front delts is, right, the strongest part of your delts, that's what you use primarily using it when you're doing presses, front raises, you know, even when you're doing chest. Use a lot of front delts. And I'll do a lot of work for the front delts, and you'll totally fatigue it. So we start off with the front delts and trash it out. Come on! I usually lead the workout, so I just go and find and get enough out of it and do another one. Sometimes we come back in them. We would do drops at some military, sometimes work up there heavy weight, then we might do a two or three sets with the heavy weight. You know, last week I think in the journey we worked up to 365 and did a drop set on the second set. So you just need to, we still go back real. Some days is this one of days, it's a f***ing day. You're just mad and you do more and more. Nothing is set and stoned. You know what I'm saying? I get through and I need to do more and do more. You know, I usually have a, I damn my mind what I'm going to shoot for. You know, sometimes you get it. You go back and you say I need to do more. You know, I just don't feel like I had enough, so we're coming back to a drop set. What we did today is very typical. We changed some of the exercises up a little bit, but I don't change up that much. There are certain exercises we pretty much do every week. You know, my back workout, workout, chest workout, so kind of been the same for years. You're never going to have to change up the reps a little bit or, you know, order, but you're kind of keeping the same. Last week it was just me and Johnny on a belt. You know, Matt wasn't here. He's out of town, so he made a comment man. He said, we're getting a lot more rest this week. You know, because that another person here is so, no, it doesn't matter if it's one person. Two people, you know, we never have more than three people. I just see one person goes and I just go and say, you just keep your sense of you. You know, you know, you know, you're like that, you know, you don't, you don't work around, you say, focus. And the person front of you gets finished, you're strapped up and ready to go. Always like to do my heavy stuff. You begin to work out, you know, usually, there's some exceptions. I don't do full-fossic trips. I don't know how many things anymore. Just because, you know, the matter way to have to move to go to failure at that is just not worth it at this point. You know, the risk I waited for. No one else younger. I would do super heavy weight, you know, I can do full-fob on presses, but, you know, I'm just sitting up for it. It's just point, you know, doing that as a little bit extra weight doesn't outweigh the risk of doing it, you know, so don't want to eat more injuries, so I don't want to look the right away. There's a good day, I'm pretty weeks out, and then my strength was a whole lot pretty good still. You know, I'm back off the last week, but I'll be in a different place to be big. So, you want to be big, you want to be big weights. You want to be little, little weights. People think that a body builds all about being in here is a gym. It really, truly, about 25% of being a bodybuilder is here in the gym. You know, he's been to most of the couple hours a day in here, so the other 22 hours of the day you're not in here. And so, the most important part in the biggest part of being a bodybuilder is nutrition. Nutrition includes supplementation, vitamins, minerals, proteins, because if you don't have the proper nutrients in your body, you're not going to grow. It doesn't matter how hard you train in here, you're never going to realize the results and get the results you wanted. If you don't supplement a meat properly, if you're looking to be a competitive bodybuilder in the gym, it's essential. One of the best things about muscle tech is, you know, they're on the cutting edge of a product development. They're always coming out with new products. They have a research and development team that they always come out with some of the new listen. The best products that I keep is on the cutting edge of the supplement industry. Being a member of the muscle tech in the top half weeks, we get to try the products before the general public dose. So, when the devil gives us an edge, you know, a fantastic preparation. So, very cool. My drugs system. It's a great pre-workout supplement. I'll take it before my workouts. It has an incredible thermogenic effects. You know, which helps you burn body fat. So, it's something I definitely started using for a compete. And that great results was the first competition I'd used before. And I'm the best condition on my life at three weeks out. So, it's been a definitely a great training for my preparation for the FIMA title of the 2004 viral. Also, during the workouts, you know, the health, so you say focus on this. You know, through something's brutally workout, so we do. You kind of do intensity and how hard we train. You know, so you totally defeated when you get through this. Natural tech around for the workout, that's something I've done. It's sinker-leaf, you know, years because you definitely need protein. There's a period of time after you workout through your body's very receptive to protein. So, always, it's been a half a year. And then, it's some of the great products and muscle tech that's come out of place. And the past decade, like now, I'll build up something that helps ease up your recovery process. I've definitely noticed a big difference in my recovery after the workout. It's something I've been incorporated using this year for my preparation for the 2004 viral classic with the central. And the downset, don't do that from this in the opportunity and the window to get some good growth. We did some raises after I think front belts. Then, you know, we did a drop set on that. Then we came back and get a rep set. After that, we finished up with a penny presses, overhead presses with the upright rows. Sometimes we do this product every other week. We finish up like that because the stack is real heavy. We go to failure on that. Then you super set it with the upright rows. You just totally blows them out. My delts are still burning right now. That's why I keep shifting positions because it's like going far. And it just gets so much blood in there that this is a good way to finish the workout. I'm Branch 1. I have to be pro bodybuilder and team muscle tech athlete. Training to defend my 2012 Arnold classic title. I'll see if you Arnold. If you're more content like this, check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Breaking Down the Results of Four Weeks Training at Westside Barbell ｜ The Westside Method EP 4 [dhhg-4wy4V4].txt ===

Here we go. Last year's workout, trying to hit that 3,000 pounds per minute. Let's see what happens. The world I mean can't drip, can't source like me. Rip and lid up on the magic key. I am the one that the two of the three get on my level if you want to be. Better than ever I got what I need. Push in the limit that's how it's gonna be. I promise I won't take it easy. So many break things that come with that greasy. So many break things that I give in my pressure. Just like that. Just like that. Just like that. Call hints so many break things that come with that greasy. So make that give them that pressure. Just like that. Since when you don't have to believe me. I'm gonna do my thing. Was me, do my thing. I'm gonna do my thing. I did not come to play. I ain't come to limit get a strike. Okay, some just saw the workout and obviously I lived through it so that's a huge win compared to week number one but as soon as I finished that winter time I'm like okay what was my time? What were my numbers? Did I make it? Did I make it? Last chance to hit the 3000 pounds per minute did I pull it off. So as soon as I finished the workout I go see Tom and he gives me all the stats so we got 63 minutes of total work that's how long the workout took me in terms of total amount of work or the volume over the entire workout. It was just over 243,000 pounds of work and then the number that matters most my volume per minute came in at 3,899 pounds per minute as my average for the workout. So met the 3000 pounds per minute goal and clearly exceeded it. That put me in third place with all the athletes pouring in here training. So by far by far my best performance and a phenomenal result. So I want to talk to you about how I got that result within the gym what I think the contributing factors were. I'll give you the other results I hit and then I'll talk to you about the two main questions that I came here to answer. So in terms of getting this result obviously I was fully dedicated. I live here. I've been living at the gym to give this everything that I possibly have and that obviously contributes. I've been incredibly consistent with my diet. I've been incredibly consistent with my recovery. I've been incredibly consistent taking all of the supplements that I have here to help me improve my recovery to perform my best. I haven't missed at all. Now outside of that the community in here, the professional athletes, some of the best in the world who do this day in and day out. I live like I live the month they've lived for years. They are completely dedicated. They are in here every week giving everything they have being around this community being in that environment. It's not only contagious but it's powerful and that has motivated me. It's inspired me. It's pushed me forward. There's times it pulled me along but it's gotten me through. Now it's pulled the best out of me especially the idea that they're living like this. They're doing these workouts up for a week or two weeks or a month. They're doing these weekend and week out for years and that's what's making them. We're allowing them to be some of the best athletes on the planet. And then finally I would argue this system itself. The conjugate system I think I told you this week number one. I believe it's the most advanced powerful strike leadership system on the planet. And the modifications that Tom has made for it in terms of directing it at these athletic goals in the way it's put into practice here. I don't believe there's a better system in the world. And those three things are an amazing system, a ton of personal discipline and then a community of killers who are giving their abs to the best. That is a recipe for success and that's the recipe that I follow here for this month at West Side. In terms of the rest of my results when we first talked, we did body comp. We did my performance in the workout so though in the first week that was obviously. I didn't have a tangible number for that because I bombed and didn't finish the workout. But that was one of our metrics and then we had my VO2 max. So body comp, body comp, what pretty good? I lost 4.8 pounds of body fat this month while building just over a pound and a half of lean body tissue on top of that one thing that I thought was super cool. I gained 0.2 pounds of bone and my assumption is the incredible amount of ball you'd be amount of total work and how heavy and hard some of the work is like the isometrics contributed to that. I obviously can't tell you exactly how that happened but I thought that number was pretty cool. So body comp went perfect especially because my focus was performance. I wasn't dialing in my diet like a bodybuilder trying to get ready for a contest and lose body fat. I was looking for performance. Next, obviously the 3,000 pound per minute target, nailed checkmark on that one with an exclamation mark behind it ended up just over 3800 pounds of volume per minute in this last workout like we talked about phenomenal VO2 max. Little bit of a trickier one to report. I was convinced this entire project that I was getting better and I talked to Tom about it. I can't guarantee you would increase your VO2 max and measure will increase in VO2 max before we should not very likely. And I stubbornly like plated my flag in that VO2 max is going to be my thing. I went back to retest it. I ran almost a full stage longer in the VO2 test than I did previously. At a lower heart rate in each stage, then my previous performance, however at the end we discovered there been a malfunction with the equipment itself so I don't have a firm number. But I ran 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 2. Taking that as a win even though I can't give you an exact number but I told you in the beginning. Good bad ugly. My goal is to be completely transparent with you so I could lie and give you a number. But that wouldn't be the true story. How to problem with the equipment? I can't tell you what the number is but I could tell you I performed better. And that's a pretty shocking thing to be able to share. Looking at the idea that I did almost no typical cardio. And I did I think 2 or 3 days, right? It's an interval on the airdine bike. Obviously I'm working really hard in the workouts. But I didn't go for a run or do anything like that once over this month and still saw an improvement in my VO2 Mac in 4 weeks which it's pretty insane. So looking at all of those performance body composition, VO2 Mac cardio bass to the help all of that. The two questions I told you I was here to answer. Number 1 what could happen if I fully dedicated myself over 4 weeks? And I'd say the answer to that is a lot can happen. Almost 5 pounds of body fat over a pound of lean tissue gained bone. My performance in the workouts in the combo DE day, worth a little bit did not finish to 3800 pounds of work per minute for 63 minutes. My VO2 Mac is improved. All of these things are pretty dramatic results, especially when you look at them at 4 weeks. That's just 4 weeks. Like I talked about before, the professional athletes over here are living this week in week out for years. Which is why it's in the best of the world. But even for week the changes were pretty dramatic. Now the second question I said I was coming in here to answer. Is is West Side still West Side? Obviously the power lifting isn't still here obviously Louis isn't still here. But it's a spear here. If this version of West Side still true to the West Side that that I came to visit it changed the trajectory and direction of my life and my career. And I'm almost more excited to give you this answer that I am the results I just shared because the answer is absolutely the culture, the intensity, the interactions between the athletes in here pushing themselves and pushing each other to be the absolute best they can be. It is still, it still has the heart that West Side had in its previous incarnation. The athletes look different. They focus on different sports. The conjugate method has been manipulated and reshaped slightly towards these goals. But the intangibles that made West Side great are exactly what continue to make it great today. And I can honestly say I don't think Louis could have picked a better person to hand this off to then Tom and the results and the community and the athletes. All of that punctuate that reality. And I'm saying that to you as the only person I love today who came here to train as a strong man, as a power lifter, back in in the early 2000s with Louis, when Louis was here in 2011 with my first trip and then coming back now and doing this and the only person who experienced both and its net. It's a risky position because I didn't want to be disappointed and I'm very, very glad to say that I'm not. And with that in mind, I think the only other things I can say are number one, I'd like to thank everybody who won't make this possible. I'd like to thank you for watching it. I'd like to thank bodybuilding.com, being like absolutely, let's show people what this is and to give me the freedom in showing them, be like whatever happens happens. We're not going to make anything up. We're not going to script it. We're not going to set it up. It's going to be what it is. And then companies like muscle meds, MHP and airway who believe in this project are not to go, hey, we have no idea what can happen but we know you use our stuff already. We know you believe in it and we'd like to support you in any way we can. MHP and carnival victims where I have the best possible supplements and everything I need to maximize my results here, airway. Ensuring that I can maximize my engine performance and believing in bringing this project to you which was incredibly exciting. Obviously, West Side, if you've heard anything about West Side, seeing the stuff out there, heard the lore. West Side's a pretty secretive private place or has a reputation of being that and opening the doors to show you everything we're doing is a huge thing which brings me to my final point. If a lot of what I'm telling you in terms of what I experience, what happened, what my results were. If I was you it would sound a little unbelievable to me. 3800 pounds per minute for 63 minutes, 243,000 pounds of work over a workout after four weeks ago, not being able to get through a way, it sounds it sounds hard to believe. But for anyone who's curious if you're even a tiny bit inspired, you want to try this for yourself. You can book a visit to come see the gym, you can come to West Side and see what this place is. See what I'm talking about. You can come here and feel the energy that I've been trying to describe to you over the last four episodes. And it's completely free. West Side welcomes visitors who want to come and see what this place truly is. And if you're a competitive athlete, if you're a high level athlete or a professional athlete and you want to know what this really is, you can get in touch with the gym, as a professional athlete you can come here, you can try one of these workouts, you can see what I'm talking about. You can feel what I'm describing, because no matter how eloquently I tell it to you, this is something you truly have to experience to understand and I learned that first hand not only diet doing it the first time, but even today finishing and feeling the sense of accomplishment with what happened here. Most of all though, I'd like to leave you with the thought that you can do crazy things like this. And if you were to truly dedicate yourself a hundred percent four weeks from now, you can be looking at a very different situation and a very different version of you and whatever your goals are, I truly hope you mimic that and give it a shot. But thank you for watching. Thank you for everyone that was involved. Thank you, West Side. Thank you, bodybuilding.com. I hope you take this and whether you mimic it exactly or decide to take four weeks and change something and leave me in some of the you. I hope you give it a go and I'd love to see what happens. Good luck. Thank you again.

=== FILE: Breaking Down the Westside Method ｜ The Westside Method EP 3 [9OctFzSfvDo].txt ===

Welcome back to the west side, measured today. I want to break down the third week for you. But first, here's where we've been so far. Week one, I came in, I got my testing done, I established my baseline, but to the gym, I started to get into a routine. And then in the last video, I broke down my training and showed you what happened on the first combo dynamic effort day. If you missed the episode, you should watch it. But I can summarise it that a single word. Dead, I got destroyed in that workout. I didn't finish, I didn't make it to the end. We came in with a whole little testing to see where I was at and comparison to the gold standard at west side, which is 3,000 pounds of total work per minute over the entire workout. I didn't end up with a number because I didn't finish the workout. And it was all rough. Today, since that, I had my other main workouts of the week, which are my heavy upper body day, and my heavy lower body day. Both of which are fairly quick pace, although easier for me to handle than the total body dynamic day, which is an extra extreme pace. Now that being said, the third week that I've just completed before sitting down to talk with you, things are going better. I'm feeling better by part of your feeling better. My strength is starting to climb. I'm noticing a lot of improvements, and I credit a lot of those to the work that's happening so far. But there are few main things that I feel are contributing to that, most drastic. Number one, when I came to west side originally, it won't eat 11, and what I was competing is a professional strongman. Even my training on my own. I tried pretty heavy, and I trained a lot of different movements. But the movements in the rotation here now are even more unique. For example, one of the movements that is bit destroying it is the isometric solo dent. So to do this, you would set up the pins and a power rack at about mid-shin. But instead putting the bar on top of the pins, you put it underneath. And for the rest, you would pull up into the pins so you're pulling as hard as you can, when we're doing five sets of five reps, where you fold that maximum pressure for five seconds. And it is obscimally difficult. And that's just one example of a main movement in the workouts, but it has been absolutely cooking me. The other two big backers that I feel are so responsible for feeling more fit, for feeling stronger, for performing better. This is the pace and the density of the workouts. So pace generally refers to how much rest you're taking between exercises or between sets of exercises. And the less resting take, the faster your pace and the workout is. Now density is similar to pace, but it's the amount of total work you're doing in a certain amount of time. So with the idea of 3,000 pounds per minute of work, that would be significantly more dead as in terms of the workload than 2,000 pounds per minute. And 4,000 pounds per minute, which some of the top athletes here are hitting in their toughest workouts is unbelievable amounts of density. But those things together are why I feel that I'm starting to see these results and I'm starting to see his, that all of this program and all of this effort combined with everything I'm doing in the gym, not only my combination dynamic every day, but my two other main workouts with the heavy lower body and the heavy upper body. And essentially those follow the standard west side system. You have a main movement that you hammer as hard and as heavy as possible. And then you go into a series of accessory movements where you target your weakest legs. So for example, saying I'm doing a sumo-debt, or even a nice symmetric sumo-debt as my main movement. I then move into the type of exercise of a target my biggest weakness for me personally. That's often lower back. So I might be doing a good morning. That I'll move into the rest of my posterior chain and lower body with things like inverse curls with different types of hamstring exercises, with different things for my glutes and that abs and then off into the condition. Upper body workouts follow the same focus. Say I'm doing incline bench breasts as my heaviest movement. And then my main weakness on upper body is often my triceps. So I might be doing some type of close grip pressing, pressing against bass as my first accessory movement. Then moving through, hitting my tire upper body over that workout. To build muscle, to build endurance, to build strength, to build power. All of those things within each day. The rest of my routine is rounded out with the posture, and plyometric workouts that I'm doing as well as some mild conditioning in the gym, as well as at cassette, sled pulley. Now on top of that, I'm continuing to take all of my supplements, religious, and I'm noticing a better fit to my recovery because of it. I'm continuing to follow my diet. I'm continuing to go to the armory and get body work. I'm continuing to use the sauna and the cold plentiful. I'm continuing to do everything within my power to recover as intensely as possible. Because the more intense the training is, the more intense the recovery has to be to match. Now, if I'm being honest, there's only one area where I'm really falling down. And for me right now, that's sleep. And I'd argue with for two reasons. One, if you remember, I had literally moved into the gym. I am sleeping in the school room, and I am here, 1-E-4-7, a 100% dedicated and focused on this, like a fighter or a bike camp getting ready for a big match. The other reason I think my seat is suffering, it's a bigger one. And that's it. I miss my fam being away from my wife, being away from my daughters, is really eating the up. So even when I have the opportunity to sleep, I'm laying there, I'm tossing, I'm turning. And I recognize the value of sleep for recovery. And if I could not my fingers and make it better, I would. But genuinely, that's my struggle. Now, the thing that's pulling me through all of this, number one, I came here to see what West Side was today, it was still West Side. And to do that, I have to give my best that. But the other aspect is the culture and the team that are here. When, what you know, there's a hean coming in, and they're going to be training beside you giving their absolute all. You can't let them down by missing a workout, by showing up and giving a half effort, by cutting corners. You're going to be more serious to push yourself beside them pushing as hard as they can. And vice versa, you've owe it to that. You owe it to the gym, your training part, your tea. It's one of the most powerful aspects that anyone can take advantage of when it comes to getting better results, the culture you're a part of, and the team you're around. There's going to be days you pull them forward, there's going to be days they pull you forward, and there's going to be days you're both on fire for all on fire and you're moving forward together. And one of the unique elements of the West Side System, because it's built on percentages, you can trade with anyone and all be working equally as hard. I can train with one of the top rapplers on the planet. I can train with a pro MMA fight. I can train with lacrosse players. I can train with a firefight. I was working out this week with a professional B-mail volleyball player, and both of us side-by-side are getting absolutely wrecked the exact same. As we're giving 100% effort on the exact same percentages of what were capable of, and doing a sexually relative to ourselves the same amount of work. So knowing that I'm working just as hard as the person that's to be, that their working just as hard as me, that everyone in here is giving their all to the exact same level of difficulty. I can't let myself down, I can't let this place down, and I can't let the team down. But, over the next week, where we both find out, if that was enough, if I lived up to the work, and if the work worked, I'll be getting all of my post-sesting dumbbells we could have to be preparing to the metrics we had in week one, and most importantly, I'll be trying to get redemption on the whole body dynamic day where I failed. I'll see you next week, we'll find out together if I make it through, but I appreciate you watching, and I hope I've got some good results for it.

=== FILE: Brendy Scheerer's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [DT-vxHNGpp0].txt ===

I'm Brenda Shere. I'm a National bikini competitor. The franchise relations for BPI and I'm also a BPI team athlete. Well, I definitely grew up in a very interesting family, a health and fitness. It's not high on our list of priorities. However, it wasn't athlete, so I was always active and, you know, into sports and to stuff like that. But I never actually understood the part about diet, nutrition. I grabbed a kick-out bar out of the pantry, hop on my car and head off to school. And I thought that was a healthy breakfast. It's definitely come a long way since then. When I first kind of realized things, our little bit different is when I stop playing sports and all of a sudden, you know, your body changes a little bit as you're starting older and putting on a few extra pounds and that kick-out bar, turned into five pounds here and the Reese's, five pounds there and eventually I just realized, you know, something something had to change in my lifestyle was not what I wanted it to be at all. After I finished high school, I went to college and stopped playing sports, put on a few pounds and my life wasn't going the way I wanted. I had some personal family issues. My family was actually pretty concerned about my health at that point. I was doing a lot of things. It wasn't the best for my body. A lot of girls go through it, a lot of self-image problems, but it came to the point where my sister who suddenly passed away unexpectedly, she was always kind of my inspiration and after I lost her, it was kind of awake up call. What are you doing to yourself? You need to get healthy. My sister believed in me when I did it. When she was no longer there, it was kind of like, I wanted her there and experience. That was kind of my first intuition. I needed to do something and I got a trainer and I got someone to help me with nutrition and that's kind of where it started and it kind of became an addiction almost. I was going to the gym and doing cardio and eating stuff that made me feel good. I really know anything about sports nutrition, but I saw them in the magazines. I saw pictures of these beautiful girls and they kind of became my idols. I wanted to look like them and I remember taking this magazine to my trainer and saying, hey, I want to do the fitness competition and he kind of looked at me and goes, you know, maybe next year or maybe next year and I was like, no, it's in 30 days. I want to do it. I can do it. Let me try and he's like, you know what? We'll do what you can. So I worked my bad off. I entered this competition and did up taking third and fourth. It was one of the best feelings ever because I never ever thought I would be in that position. It kind of started this whole inspiration as something that I could look forward to in a goal and a competition and I'm always looking for a new challenge for sure. For me training, I really like a variation in it. I compared to most girls I actually really like to train heavy. To me it's kind of a challenge and I tend to be on the leaner side sometimes so I really have to work to build that muscle. So I definitely prefer the heavy lifting the maxing out, but I also get bored easily. So I'll do the I'll be the girl doing the random cardio ballet or like rock and ploddies or you know, I just I just really like to mix it up, but definitely heavy lifting is probably my first choice. But then kind of doing fun things on my days off is but we kind of what keeps me new motivating keeps me going. There used to be a point where I could definitely squat over 300 pounds. For me considering my body weight, I'm almost doubling it which actually I'm over double. To me I think it's a pretty big deal for a girl. Now some of the women bodybuilders could probably shut me down, but it's definitely to me. I just I really want to build that max build that. Even if it's only two and a half extra pounds to me and like yes, I can do it. I can do it and it's definitely it's challenge and it's fun. Cardio I'm definitely five days a week if I could do it seven I surely would lifting. I try to be in the gym at least four to five days. Usually I'll try you know Mondays I'll do maybe back and buy steps. Two days I'll do legs but maybe more quad focused. Wednesdays is definitely my cardio day. Thursdays I'll do shoulders and tries and then Friday my favorite day definitely is my birthday. I'll spend a whole day working on my butt for sure and then Saturday is usually where I throw in something a little unique. Plotty's ballet kickboxing a circuit training class and then Sunday is definitely my rest day. I love her occasionally you might see me doing a little cardio just for fun. I definitely used to drive cardio but then I kind of realized it's a moment in time where there's nothing else you can really do. So it kind of clears your head kind of makes you feel good and I used to kind of turn that negative into a positive. I never went jokes around especially the office because we're fortunate to have a very large nice gym. I'll be out there doing cardio twice a day. I never owned kind of jokes around. Oh she's doing cardio again. Oh she's doing it again. But it's time where I can get away from everyone in the office and kind of clear my head and at the same time you know burn a few extra calories from the skittles I probably have five minutes go. I try to mix it up usually. I'll do slow burn a couple days a week but I definitely like you know I'll do three minutes kind of take it easy and then one minute I'll go you know absolutely crazy kind of very it as it goes but ideally I'm always always finding me on the the Stat Mill or the stair master anything that involves working your butt you'll find me on that machine. Honestly, I don't work out. I don't quite feel like myself because it always gets my endorphins going. It always makes me feel good and it just kind of gives me that positive energy for the day and when I don't I just feel like something's a little off. Granted if I've worked my butt off all week and it's my rest day. I'll surely enjoy it. But if it's one of those things where I'm just like oh I didn't get a chance or I wasn't didn't get my full effort to work out that day then I truthfully feel like I'm missing a little part of me. Time is always a battle when it comes to a crazy schedule but for me I am very strategic when it comes to making the best use of my time. I will return emails and do conference calls while I'm on the treadmill or I'll be the random girl in the hotel at 11 o'clock in night doing whatever cardio machine they can be neatly have. Definitely make time for it because if active the matter is it's it's a choice and it's easy to get off-track when you decide oh I don't really need to do it today. I'll do it tomorrow and it kind of starts out snowball effect and I'd rather do this snowball effect of where I have to do cardio every day versus putting it aside. Nutrition is the top one because I do have such a crazy schedule in a perfect world. I try to eat five to six times a day. I'm definitely big on lean protein and veggies. I love vegetables. I try to keep my carbs and morning and lunch time but if I'm not doing a higher carb protein I'm just going to up my fats for sure. I'm a big fan of avocado guacamole. My easiest meal that I found is the best as far as you can eat it cold or hot. Turkey and zucchini is kind of my go-to meal that you always find me eating. I'm a huge brown rice fan. I try to stick with the rice when I'm packing. I tend to eat a few protein bars here and there. Unfortunately with the crazy schedule you can't always have the food available for you. So I'll do the best I can whether it's a protein shake whether it's a protein bar. It just kind of varies. I try my best to keep a clean diet but it's really tough. It's really tough on my schedule. My go-to spices, black pepper, cayenne. Those are what I put on every vegetable fish chicken steak. You name it. That's kind of my staple items. Now my kind of like for oatmeal a lot of people put cinnamon but I actually get the pumpkin pie spice. It doesn't have any sodium in it. So it kind of changes it up a little bit. Those are kind of my hidden spices I guess you could say. Since I am on the go all the time I do tend to eat out and the easiest way for me. It's kind of my tip is I always anything at order. I always order dry. I ask for no salt and no oil and I always ask for sauce on the side. It's the easiest way to kind of avoid those extra calories that you may not necessarily eat. If you're at home cooking at yourself anytime my order chicken or something on a salad I just ask them to make the chicken fresh. I don't mind waiting but usually the chicken has been pre-made a lot of times I'm sitting there and a lot of salt and preservatives. So I just try to avoid that as much as possible. I'm the type that usually I have skittles or starburst or something kind of hidden in my office or my bag. But now I know with moderation you'll see me eating at candy but you also see me as the first person on the treadmill in the morning. So it's kind of where I found that balance but I'm not willing to give it up. Diving definitely doesn't happen all year long with me. It's just impossible because I have such a crazy work schedule and I like to have fun and I like to have a life. So for me of course when I'm training first show or an event or something you know where I have to look a certain way I will definitely kind of put aside my candy addiction at least wait till after the event. I have what I call my desserts egg whites. It's kind of my hidden little trick at nighttime a lot of times we have kind of those sugar cravings or those late night hunger cravings so I'll do some egg whites. I'll put a little Stevie on cinnamon in there and scramble them up and I kind of call it my dessert for the evening and I kind of killed that craving and I'm able to go to bed with you know pure protein in me at the same time with no extra sugars or especially when I'm avoiding my candy. But that's close but not quite so that's kind of my little secret that I tell people. I will never say to take supplements over real food any day. For me it's really important to get in you know get in your multi vitamins get in your CLAs get in your aminos along with real food. Of course you know being traveling on the time it's tough to always get the real food in but by all means that's the number one thing when it comes. It's actually health and fitness in my opinion is real food versus the supplements that may be available. You can never kind of trade that off. Ideally you want to use it and make it work together. Protein is huge. Usually I do way protein for me that seems to work the best every everyone is different but that's what I prefer. Of course they take a multi vitamin and then definitely I'm big on pre workout. I usually need something that kind of help give me that little energy that extra boost to get through my workout. Definitely the focus is huge. I'm really big on that and then of course my silken menos that I add to gelo. So I do it's kind of a block sugar free gelo which I make is my post workout treat. So I get my aminos and kind of get that sugar fix in there and kind of dessert all in one. Everybody's different. That's why there are so many companies out there. There are so many product lines. You have to find what works for you. It's one of those things where it doesn't matter what one person says it may not react the same for the other so I can do a say what works for me. The difference that I see when I do take the supplements. I don't think there's anything you could compare it to. I don't think I'd be where I am. I'm a matter of fact I know I wouldn't be where I am without the supplements without the fat rotters. Especially with a crazy schedule. It's really tough to be able to do it without the supplements that are out there. That's it for me. That's a little bit about my lifestyle, my training, nutrition, supplementation. If you have any questions about anything I talked about today, please feel free to contact me on twitter on my website for nayshare.com. Of course you can find me at bpiSports.net. For more videos and content like this please check out bodybuilding.com. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Brooke Erickson's Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [1OJoJbKRnxg].txt ===

My name is Brooke Erickson. About two years ago, I decided that I wanted to start training and knew I needed to make a change and my trainer encouraged me to sign up for a figure show. And so I did one in April of 2010 and by July of 2011, I won my IFPD program. We're going to start basically 10 years ago. So that means I was about two years out from having my first daughter. And I suffered from an eating disorder in Rxia. By the time that I got pregnant with Sierra, I knew that I needed to try to overcome that in order for her to be healthy. And I ended up just going completely overboard and gained 85 pounds of my pregnancy. After I had her, I was completely lost on how to lose weight. Because when you have an eating disorder such as an Rxia, you pretty much don't eat. You just starve yourself. And so you don't really need to exercise. I bought an exercise video. Put my daughter in the swing and every night for an hour and a half. I worked out and basically lost the weight within about a year and a half. And then I got pregnant again. And unfortunately we had a stillborn. And I think that that sent me kind of into a little bit of a depression. And I went back to my old way. I got really small again. And then I got pregnant with my second daughter. Again, very fearful of gaining weight, gained 18 pounds. But she was incredibly healthy. And then kind of went back into my old way again after I had her a loss of weight within a week. Then I got pregnant with my third child. And after she was born I only gained probably 19 pounds of her. And after she was born, that's when the economy changed and everything had. And husband was struggling and we had to sell her home and do a lot of things just to survive basically. And again that was my way of dealing with problems. I just didn't eat. And I got down to about 89 pounds. I think that was my last weight. And then my husband comes home and he brought this magazine home. And it actually had a figure competitor at the time on the cover. And he suggested that I try to maybe do something like that. Like, hear my energy into something that is positive. Kind of had an aw hump moment when I was in the living room, rocking my very colloquy baby. And my two daughters were sitting on the couch. And they were watching me and I just started crying. And I knew I needed to make a change. And I'm sorry. Anyway, so I hired my trainer in December of 2009. And asked him to help me get to that point in my life where I could look in the mirror and be happy with who I am. I went met with a trainer. I took the magazine, the exact magazine name. And I asked him, I said, can you help me get through this? Can you help me look like this? And he said the only way I can help you is if you trust me. And I said, okay. And it was actually December of 27th or December 28th. And he made it very clear he didn't want to start until June 1st. And the reason why he did that is he said, I want you to go home. I want you to think about this because if you're going to make this commitment to be a healthier person, I want you to fully make this commitment. Then I get home and I tell my husband that I pay for a trainer and he said, okay, you know, he wanted me to be healthy. That's all he wanted. So he didn't care at that point that we didn't really have a whole lot of money. It meant everything to him. And so January 1st, him and I both went to my first appointment. And we got our training program, my routine freaked out at first when I saw, you know, the amount of food that I was supposed to be eating. And my goal initially was just to gain five pounds. Just to get on the scale and have it say 105. And I did it. And I got 205 pounds and I did my first show. And I will never forget how nervous I was. But I will never forget walking off stage and feeling like I had found myself. The biggest thing for me is to never feel like I'm stuck in a rut. To never do something so much that it's no longer fun. Training, going to the gym, it shouldn't be something that you dread, it should be something that you enjoy. I do everything in phases, I strengthen, I have a particular phase which is the growth phase. And then typically followed with like a power phase and then a d-load for two weeks which is where you just kind of let your body relax. So rep range is based on what I'm trying to go for. So if I'm trying, if I'm starting like a new 12 week program, where I know, okay, I need my legs to grow or I need my shoulders to grow. I will do four weeks of a strength phase where my rep range is four to six reps. Then I will transition into the hypertrophy phase which is four weeks and my rep range is eight to twelve. And then there's the power phase which is more just, you know, you just do things for power. I call it the having fun stage where I'm not really as concerned about the reps. I'm just having, you know, just going all out. Then when I do my d-load, everything is the 12 to 20 range, light weight. I'm just letting my body kind of take a relaxing break for two weeks. I train six days a week, two hours a day. And that's strictly just because I'm getting ready for competition. My splits are always lower, upper, lower, upper. And I always work two muscle groups that I feel like need the most focus twice a week. I work my shoulders three times a week. And then the added cardio on top of that, I don't do steady cardio. I do hit. I run as hard as I can for 30 seconds to a minute. Whatever I feel like my body can handle and I walk. I run and I walk and it makes cardio go live so fast. I always take Sundays off. And even though I'm there six days a week, Wednesday is always day for me that it's usually abs and biceps and cardio. It's something fairly light. It's still giving me time to recover. So in my off season, which usually lasts for about three or four months, I will train five days a week. I'll take Wednesday and Sundays off. I do cardio twice a week, freely. I want to enjoy it. On Sundays, I do nothing. The only thing I do is play with my kids. I devote that to family. That's family time. That's my time. To do basically whatever I want. I try to stay active, but it's really important to allow your body to rest. Well, a plateau to me just means your body's adapted. A lot of people see it as a complete obstacle. And really, it's not. It's usually very simple to overcome a plateau. It just takes adjusting something, whether it be your calories or your body's. Or your intensity on the treadmill or your intensity in the gym. Your body typically adapts to training, typically adapts to the amount of calories you're eating. So if you're patient, and you adjust something, typically within two weeks, you'll see a difference. Well, I personally believe that nutrition is at least 70 to 80 percent of your results. But I think educating yourself, not only about food, what's in the food, is important. I think it's important for you to listen to your body and determine what works for you. I think that what's really important with nutrition is people understanding the macro nutrients in it, understanding what one gram of protein, how many calories is that yield. I am extremely educated on what is in food, like how many grams of carbs equals this. And I know at the end of the day, I know what I mean. A lot of people are terrified of carbohydrates. A lot of people don't understand that we actually need carbohydrates. That's our energy source. It's the first thing our body will burn. If we don't have carbohydrates, our body is not going to fuel itself. I log everything. I know how many grams of carbs I've had. I know how many grams of protein I've had, and I know exactly how many grams of fat I've had. I like to take the amount of calories that I have for the day. So let's say I'm an 1,800 calorie diet. And I divide that up by 7, sometimes 8. I think nutrient timing is extremely important. I think it's one of the most overlooked things in health and fitness is nutrient timing. I can't stress out enough. And I eat frequently every 2 hours. And I think that my body is trained that way. So when 2 hours rolls around, I know it's time to eat. My body knows it's time to eat. In the morning, I think that's one of the most important meals a day. I think that's when you should probably get at least 30% of your carbohydrates. Your body is ready, even fasting for 8 hours. And I think that it jumps out your day. It jumps out your metabolism. It fuels you. I try. I'm not perfect, but I do try. To time all of my carbs. My nutrient timing around my workout. So I try to have at least 30 grams of a complex carbohydrate about an hour before my workout. And then I try to have at least 40 grams right after my workout. Your body produces your growth hormone for muscle at night and fat helps that. So typically I have more fat at night and in the morning. Because of the intensity of my training, my diet, my calories are a lot higher than maybe even someone that's just on a normal diet. But I do adjust them. I typically adjust 100 to 150 calories every three to four weeks based on how much I need to lose. Here's the thing about two years. I understand the concept that people want to have ice cream. And I don't believe in completely depriving yourself. So do I think you should do a cheap meal every week? No. But do I think you should allow yourself to have something every once in a while if your body wants it? Absolutely. I mean, obviously everything in moderation. Because you don't want to race everything you just work so hard for. Supplements are not a one size fits all. Not everything works for everybody. For me, I'm very basic. I do branch chain and new acids. I write after my workout. I do a multi-vile and then sometimes I take a fat burner when I'm trying to ease a little bit of fat and maybe something in my head. But I do introduce creatine when I'm trying to grow or when I'm doing my strength phase. Because I feel that it definitely helps me in that strength phase. I do obviously take protein lots and lots of protein. But that's it. I think that the three supplements that I mentioned are crucial. Branch chains in amino acids definitely from muscle recovery. And obviously, I think that really helped me especially when I was trying to grow because I was really pushing my body to the max. A multi-vile man, especially when you're dieting. I mean, you should take a multi-vile man in any way, but when you're dieting, you might be reducing your calories and your body is definitely going to need nutrients to help supplement those nutrients that it's not getting. And protein. My protein does change when I'm trying to grow. The kind of protein that I use, I always use something that's higher in carbs when I'm trying to grow because it helps me get my carbs immediately after my workout. So that is one thing that I do differently. What I'm doing my strength phase, my hypertrophy phase, I try to incorporate a protein that has multiple proteins sources in it. And then I do a casin at night. I try to make it a little ice when you're in the case in the shape out of it. And when I'm dieting, I try to stick strictly with the way with a nice light. And I do it right after my workout and at night. It's definitely helped me reach my goals and I definitely do not go without those three. To get my full program, check out the page below. If you have any questions about diet tips or training or nutrition, you can find me on body space. These are names for me. And for anything else you need, for any other information you'd like to find, check it out at bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Building Boulder Shoulders ｜ Lawrence Ballenger Shoulder Workout [GFqh6Q_zhK4].txt ===

Success. Greatness. It doesn't find you. You have to chase it. Heartwork isn't hard at all if you're hungry. You have to taste it. I'm Lord's Balladry. How hungry are you? For a day's shoulder workout, it's going to be a lot of fun. We're going to have some heavy lifts in there. Go five to six reps. I want you guys to pound it out. Don't hold back for anything. I want you to be nice and heavy. Then after that run, pump it up and go about eight to twelve reps. Get a lot of blood into muscles. Little rest period is possible. When you guys come in, I want you to hit it hard. I don't want you to really think about any other thing throughout the day. Your focusing just on your lift, just on your dream physique, achieving your PRs, your personal records, your goals. All I want you to do is sit down and focus. Because success only comes to people that work hard and focus on their goals. Nobody is going to help you get to where you want to be besides you. Before we knock off this workout, you always have to warm up. You want to do it about five to ten minutes of cardio. Warm up your rotator cups and you show yourself your prevent injuries. So this is what we're going to do to actually warm up our rotator cups. You can do this with dumbbell. You can do this on a cable. You can do this with a band to damage using a band. You can do a touch to something that's sturdy and all you're doing is bring it in. Nice and control. It's not a real workout. You're really trying to get blood into your rotator cups. Then you just switch hands and you work your exterior rotator cup. It's by just slowly rotating your arm out. We're doing about ten to twenty reps and these switch arms and you do vice versa on each arm. You do this about two to three rounds and you're good to go. Just only take it about two to three minutes. Now we're going to do some arm circles and just warm up our shoulders a little bit more. You know, it's trying to get some blood into them so they're ready for our heavy lifts. And so we don't really hurt anything. We're going forward and back just about ten reps on each. Nice and simple. We're doing small circles not big ones. Alright, so now what we're going to do is we can start with military press. We're going to sit down. We're doing inside of a car rat. Just in case you don't have a spot. You want to be as safe as possible. We're going to do two warm upsets with about six reps. We're just trying to get into the motion and then we're going to do three working sets of six reps. You're going to take about two minutes break. Minute to two minutes break because you really want to bang out heavy weights as possible. Every day you're not going for the best. You're not going to be able to reach the same PRs you made last week. Sometimes nutrition, sometimes your central nervous system. So I want you guys to remember, push as hard as you possibly can. If you don't have a spot to help you lift it up, stop. You don't want to hurt yourself. Drop the weight a little bit and you'll be perfectly fine. And finish up your reps. So now we're going to keep the intensity going. We're going to hit some Arnold presses. I like doing it with a high back seat, but you can go with the regular seat if you like. We're going to do one warm up set followed by three working sets. With Arnold pressure starting to get more of your front dough into the action. So it's really getting a lot of power and a lot of size. And your front tip with a lot of people are really lacking. Really want to build a belt show to us. It really brings out the width of your body. And it gives your arms a well developed look. It's one of the most important things I've worked at probably one full time once a week. And then I hit it a little bit on chest day and on back day as well. So we just got done with the heavy movement heavy compound movements. Now we're moving over isolation. So we're going to do three sets of eight to twelve reps. Really focusing on the squeeze and controlling the weight. We're not just throwing it up. We're going to throw it all away throughout the motion. Keep your body straight. Squeeze it all the way up. Don't let it come all the way down and touch with the thigh. When you're doing this one, the weight's a lot heavier because you're not actually able to rock your body in about a minute. And you always have constant tension on that muscle. So don't really worry about the weight. We're about keeping the full contraction throughout the whole exercise. Make sure you're properly squeezing. You're not rocking. Your bench is insuane. Alright, so now we're hopping into cable and climb lateral raises. Great exercise. We're going to do three sets, eight to twelve reps. We're going to bang it out and kill it. So all you want to do is grab the handle and over slightly. And make sure we're keeping the same tension in the squeeze as throughout the rest of our exercises. So guys, you saw some of the reps were in a full 100-trip range of motion. It's about 28 to 90%. Just because you get so much blood in there, sometimes it's hard to actually contract the muscle fully. We're just going through the motion. Make sure it's squeezing as tight as possible. And keeping that intensity up as high as possible. We don't want long rest periods. It's 30 to 45 seconds, bang it out and keep on moving. Really great exercise because you're stopping the rocking motion. We're isolating each front and toe, laying back. Keep the intensity the same. Three sets, eight to twelve reps. We're going to go single hand. The best part about doing it on the ankle climb is to really stretch it out to front and Delta. When you're contracting your able to get a great stretch, get extra blood flow into it. We want to make sure we keep the intensity high. Those breaks were a little bit shorter. When I say 30 to 45 seconds breaks, it's really only if you need it. To go all way to 45 seconds. If you could cut it shorter 20 seconds, that's good. Keep the pump, keep the intensity going. Now we're going to reverse pec-deck flies. Really get a good contraction on your rear Delta, round out the shoulders. We're going to do three sets of eight to twelve reps. Keep the intensity high. You know, 30 second breaks if necessary. Keep banging out. Keep getting the great pump. So let's get started. A lot of people really think they hit their rear Delta enough on their back exercises. But I think you need to do it a little bit more just because it's in the collective area. You don't get that round as thickness to your extra shoulder and that your actual body. All we're going to focus on is keeping our elbows up, pulling back and tracking our muscles. You don't want your elbows down too much because you're not going to be squeezing your rear Delta enough. You keep your elbows parallel with the ground. You'll be able to squeeze your rear Delta. Get great detail and really round out the back of your shoulders. We're going to go right in the shrubs. Bang this out. Eight to twelve reps. Three sets. We're keeping the intensity high. I want to keep everything rolling. Keep the pump. You want to make sure that you're getting really, really good contraction. So let's get it started and knock this out. Most people go a little bit heavier on shrugs. It's usually a pretty strong movement for most people. So that's why I went barbell. Strap's are a lot easier just because you've been using your grip. To go through the rest of the day, you can rest of the shoulder exercises. This leg will all the movements I usually do. It's always a slight pause at the top. Really controlling the muscle. Really contracting it. If you go too fast, you're using a lot of momentum to move the weight. It's because they're not really contracting. They're kind of just going through the motion and everything's just bouncing. All right. So that's it for our shoulder workout. We went through high intensity. Some heavy lifts. Good contraction. Some good isolation. You're covering almost every aspect that you really need to actually get growth. So make sure to come back to bodybuilding.com for more content information for me and my team bodybuilding.com athletes. My name's Lawrence. I'll catch you guys next time.

=== FILE: Building Collegiate Athletes & Sport Training ｜ Ep. 17｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Zack Zillner [a-UMhcuZoCI].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Danielle Bits, and welcome back to the BB Com podcast. We are coming to you from Austin, Texas this week, and today I'm joined by Zach Zilner. Zach is the Women's Basketball Sports Performance Coach at the University of Texas. He's a certified strength and conditioning specialist by the National Strength and Conditioning Association. He has a CPR AED certification from the American Red Cross and has levels one and two certifications from the title is Performance Institute. Zilner earned his bachelor's degree in sports science with an emphasis in exercise science from the University of Kansas. He currently develops, implements, and supervises the training regimen for the Texas Women's Basketball Team in the areas of speed, strength, agility, conditioning, and flexibility. He also works with the areas of sports medicine and performance nutrition at the University. Zilner has experienced at three NCAA Division One institutions, most recently serving as Assistant Strength and Conditioning Coach at the University of Kansas. At KU, he uses sports performance coach for the Women's Basketball, Zalphal, Women's Golf, and Women's tennis teams. He worked directly with 2017, Big 12 Women's Basketball and newcomer of the year Jessica Washington. He also assisted with men's basketball, including 2017 National Player of the Year, Frank Mason, and was responsible for the development of incoming athletes. Zilner spent more than a year as Assistant Strength and Conditioning Coach at the University of Illinois, where he worked with the Women's Basketball, volleyball, and men's and women's golf teams. During his tenure, the University's men's golf team won the Big 10 Championship and the NCAA Regional with three players being deemed as all Americans. Zach, welcome to the BB Compaq cast. Danielle, thanks again for having me. This is great. I decided to jump in and just a quick backstory of how we got connected. So Zach was a colleague of my former collegiate teammate, back at KU, so shout out to Karen Robbins. Thanks for making the connection. It's gonna be a really valuable conversation today and I'm excited to jump in. Karen's the best song that she could hook this up. This is gonna be awesome. Yeah, absolutely. So Zach, topping number one, building Zach before we get into building athletes, right? But before we get into what it takes to build a lead level, collegiate athletes, let's break down what built Zach Zilner, walk us through your journey from start to present day, what drove you to the path you find yourself in and let's start with that upbrain. Yeah, so I think this kind of funny my mom actually got me into strengthening this team per se. She was crazy like 5 a.m. Every morning, she'd go to her personal trainer, workout. And growing up, you still watch all the like Conan the Barbarian and Arnold Schwarzenegger Terminator videos and I was like, Mom, how do you get muscles like that? And she's like, well, you workout. I'm like, what's working out? She's like, you know, the thing I do every morning I go to the gym, like that's how you get muscles. I was like, well, I wanna get muscles. And so she's like, oh, come with me. And she jokes that I would set my alarm every morning, you know, like, or it have her come in to check on me because I'm like six at the time, so I'm not setting alarm. And she's like, hey, I'm gonna workout, you wanna come and I'd spring out of bed, go there, and then her personal trainer at the time like included me on the stuff. So there's like little one pound weights, right? Make shift away to like sit on the bike to paddle them all that kind of stuff. And I would do it every morning. So I'd wake up a third, we'd work out and then we'd go to Starbucks after and I'd get a little blueberry muffin or something like that. And then she checked with my like pediatrician, like is okay for a six year old to work out. And luckily, he was like super advanced and I was like, it doesn't stunt your growth. So they made a little progression where they got me a weight set from like one pound to five pounds. And he was like, you gotta be able to squat at this many times, press it this many times, lunch at this many times. And then from there, the little ass weights for the pink ones and the yellows and the purples, but the big five pounders are blue. And so the whole time, I was like, you know what, I gotta do it every time to get to the blues. So like every day after school or whatever I come down, do my little workout routine. And then yeah, my mama check it off and I go down and down and down. And then from there, like most people, you know, you play sports when you're younger. And you know, lifting, I was like, okay, it's a tangible thing that I can see like, it'll get me faster, it'll get me stronger. It'll ultimately get me on the field. And then from there, I was, you know, an average athlete. I think where I excelled was like, I was always the kid who was coming to weights every single day. I would come early to practice stay after. And it was kind of like that war course mentality that I just loved. I found myself liking that even more than like the sport itself, which is kind of funny. And I guess that kind of lends itself to my job today. Yeah, discipline was still in the discipline of a routine. I should say it was a hell of a very early age. And that's so rare. I've never heard of anyone working with their pediatrician, especially you know, what 20, 30, plus years ago. Yeah, I was dialed in. Because of people asking me training questions. I was like, I haven't been doing this since I was like six. I obviously had a small level, but like, I've just always loved like pushing yourself and then every week like you get better at it. Like my mom has stories of me running around the house. And she'd time me while she was like making dinner, like yell out the times. And I don't know very many little kids that enjoy doing that kind of stuff. So not sure what it is, but I've always liked doing that kind of stuff. Yeah, there's always that conversation of where you born or where you made into what you are. And yours is definitely a little bit. You were just kind of born with the grind. Yeah, it's like a little kid. I'm sure the neighbors were like, what the heck is going on over there. Tell us about, you know, this becomes a passion for you becomes really. You sound like you're hobby, right? But when did the realization occur in terms of turning this into a career? So my senior year in high school, I got a job as the receptionist that the company my mom was working at. And I just sat there and answered phones all day. And people obviously see you throughout the day. And like, oh, what do you want to do? And I was like, I want to train athletes. People are like athletic trainer. I was like, no, I want to be like, you know, whatever it's called that gets athletes to run faster, jump higher, because that really wasn't very popular then. And one of the women that worked in the office, she was like, my brother-in-law is actually the basketball strength coach at North Carolina. She's like, would you like me to give you a z-mail? I was like, absolutely. So I sent him an email, Zach, interested in what you do. Luckily, he responded back to me. And one of his good friends was at the University of Kansas, which was 45 minutes down the street from my house. So I emailed Derek Arnold at the University of Kansas. And I was like, can I come shadow you for dinner? And he was like, sure, come on up. And so I prepared for it like it was an interview. So I showed up in a suit, had my resume, my odd jobs, and my grades in high school, toured. And then I was like, I want to intern. And he's like, we're going to have to go talk to the boss, who's Andrea Huddy, who you guys don't know. And I'm just probably the best basketball strength in the finishing coach in the world. Legend. Legend. I was like, I'm not gonna do her. And she's like, it was this guy in a suit, like, with his resume. And I was like, I want to intern. She's like, well, come back when you're a senior. Like, we only take people who graduate that way. You can prove that you can handle college. And this is what you really want to do. And I was like, well, can I volunteer in any capacity? And she was like, sure, you can clean equipment, but you're not part of the curriculum. So if you want to get up here every day and clean, knock yourself out. And so I was like, cool. And so first day of school, showed up at 5 a.m. they let me in, started to cleaning all day. And the rule was like, I couldn't observe until I was done with all my cleaning tasks. And that weight remote at the time was the size of a football weight room. So it was huge. Not sure the square footage, but like, very large room to be cleaning. So I knew, min's basketball trained at 2 p.m. every day. So I was like, okay, I'll give me at least six hours to clean. And then I got to go to the class and come back. So I'd figure out a way to get there early enough to get all my cleaning obligations. And then observe min's basketball from 2 to 3. And then my sophomore year, she had a big staff turn over. They got jobs. Other places, a lot of people want those strength coaches just because if you're a basketball, school at a different school, you know, you want that kind of Kansas pedigree, I guess. So my sophomore year, they like all left. And it was just her and I, she's like, hey man, let's see what you learn. Like hop in and get it going. So I was changing plates and making sure the guys are on task and everything like that. And after a month of doing that, she was like, think you have an act for this. Like I'd like to bring you on as an actual intern. And so from there, I did it all the way through. I graduated and now it's just something I was truly obsessed over. Off the bench to a starting player earlier than you expected. Rise to the occasion. Yeah. Yeah. So you know, would you, would you consider that your first job in the field, tell us, you know, a little bit about that? Absolutely. Like I would, you know, who do you always give me crap now because there'd be sometimes right skip class to make a session. And my whole thing was like, I hate class. I like this. This is what I want to do. I'm in the way. Exactly. Like let me do this. And so I was kind of lucky where my first job already had five years of, you know, weight room experience. And most intern, like you graduate and then you intern first summer or semester. And I'd five years of like reps. So I'd like my own teams. I would help out with like the cheer and dance team and cross country and some of these smaller, you know, size teams. And then from there, you know, I got my coaching voice. Got to learn from some of the best strength and finishing coaches in the industry. And so I think with my first job, I had five to six years of experience, which was definitely a leg up on a lot of people. Yeah, leg up for sure. And tell us, tell us where we go from KU. So when I finally graduated, took me five years. Right, all this class is exactly right. I had to make them up somehow. I left with one of our assistant basketball coaches to the University of Southern Miss. I did Minza Women's Basketball and then volleyball. So I was my first job. I was the director of that department. And I had a, it was in charge of a GA who was actually older than me. So I was 23 at the time. So we had like a couple players on the team that were older than me. So it was kind of weird dynamic of like, this is your first job. You're not in a system. You're running the department. And so there's a lot of learning. And that year that I was there was probably the most I have to grow up. I had to grow up my entire life of like your professional now. You're in these big meetings with these head coaches. Like it's kind of like, I don't know, every day was a new opportunity to fail. And then get over that. And it was a great, great growing experience for sure. The resources that Southern Miss were a lot smaller than there was a mid-major school compared to a power five. So our weight room was probably the size of two of these podcast studios. We had like two racks, thing of dumbbells, and that was it. So it's like how do I get 50 athletes through this room and a timely manner? So you had to get really creative. But now it was unbelievable experience. Different challenges, different skill sets. I'm sure required. Yeah. The stuff they don't really teach you in school. Yeah. What do you do with minimal equipment? You need to get maximum results. And you only have certain amount of time. And let's keep it rolling. And then you go to Illinois. You go back to KU and the Atlanta UT. Before we get there, this is a lot of moving. And this is kind of part of the nature of the job, which I don't think a lot of people realize. Like how are those decisions made? Was it easy for you to kind of just pick things up and move along? Do you have to kind of, what thought process goes into that? Yeah, it's tough. I mean, was that an advantage where I wasn't married? Didn't have kids. So I'm at the mercy of wherever I want to live and whatever I want to do. So when I got the opportunity at Illinois and then back to Kansas, I was like, okay, it's a way to advance. Like it was sooner than I thought I would. Usually I would pick tree now. You stay at a school for like two or three years, then two or three like that. But you know, I got the opportunity. It's kind of like you get only so many of these opportunities and you kind of have to go for it. Yeah. Tell us a little bit more about UT, the culture, the community, the athletic student, and they're for quite a while now. What do you love most about it? So this is funny when I was at Kansas for the second time. It was like, there's my alma mater. I'm from there. I'm like cool, this is my last stop at 25. Like this is great. I'm gonna retire here, be a J-Hawk for life. I've locked in. And then yeah, I got done with my first season. I'm like, here we go and Andrew hoodie came into my office and she's like a Texas Women's Basketball once the interview you. I was like, okay, I'll think about you. She's like, no, you don't understand. Like, it's Texas. She's like, if you get the job you're going. I was like, well, I don't, she's like, you're, I'm not letting you come back. And I'm like, okay, so I got the job and like being from Kansas, I feel like everyone from Texas, like you don't understand it. Like everyone's so prideful in Texas about like, they love Texas, they bleed Texas everything. And being from Kansas, I just like didn't really understand that. I was like, these guys are cocky air again, like whatever. And then after my first, honestly, we get UT, I was like, okay, I get it now. Like the pressure and everything that's involved, like that's the flagship school, the state. Every day you walk through the hallways and there's Olympians, national champions, Hall of Fame coaches. And here you are, you know, trying to make a splash as well. It's just, I love the Uber competitive environment. Yeah, absolutely. I, this is a personal moment for me. The Texas Longhorns were like my dream team when I was seven years old, watching college softball. I was like, I mean, they're, they dominate. Yeah, that was it, man. That was like, I'm going there. But I mean, it's just really cool to see that come full circle and a sitting here together. It's definitely special. You know, I, the last point I want to talk about personally for use act for a long time building your personal brand outside of college athletics has really frankly been frowned upon, right? Until recently, at your loyalty was for the brand of the school itself, but talk about some recent changes and how that's helped you professionally and to grow and expand your network. Yeah, I feel like the power of social media now wasn't something even 10, 15 years ago was a thing. Like, it was hard to find like, who was at the strength coach for a school? What they did? Like, you might get a bio on a website and then maybe a press clipping here there, but like you had no idea who these people were, what they were doing. And as social media went started to take off, you know, different coaches were posting, but it was kind of frowned upon. Like it's like, you know, you should be busy coaching around the, it's not taking videos. It's like, it's not that hard to take a video and one of your interns can take the video. And they're probably better at it because they're younger and tech savvy. So I was actually vending to my sister about this. I was like, all this stuff on Twitter, there's like bad training and people are putting up these bad videos. And I was just being kind of the guy and the stands complaining. And she's like, well, if you're so good at whatever you do, like, you don't put your stuff out there and like, no, you know, gave her the same excuse of like, I'm busy coaching. She's like, sounds like a excuse. And she knows me well enough if you want me to do anything, just tell me I can't do something or not capable. Well, I'm like, no, I'm gonna prove you wrong. Yes, sister knows. Exactly. She's like, well, start posting stuff and if you're so good, maybe, you know, you can help move the field forward. And I was like, oh, okay, fine. And so I post stuff like sporadically and I got some good feedback and help open up some doors to like, speak at conferences or like podcasts or different things like that. And then I always talk about like making an impact. And every coach is like, you know, I wanna make the biggest impact possible. But how do you do that if you only have 15 athletes? Like, you're only affecting 15 people every year after four years. Like, that's not very many people. And the biggest way you can impact a large numbers through social media. Everyone has a phone, computer, something. And so I'm like, if you would be a great resource for a young coach, like when I was coming up, like what I'd love to have that resource. Like the only thing we had was bodybuilding.com or like, T-nation or some form. And that would be basically it. But now it's like, in your pocket, you have access to all these coaches, all these different training methodologies, all that kind of stuff. So I started to post more of my athletes training, me training. And once I got over the, you know, the hump of what are people gonna think, what's gonna happen? Like, it's been very positive. Yeah, I mean, similar to me at seven years old sitting there watching the long horns on a softball diamond, there's no reason to say that someone's now on Instagram, seeing the workouts that you're doing, the way you're developing these college athletes, the way you're breeding, winning athletes. There's no reason to say, hey, I wanna get to UT and I wanna train with Zach, right? I think it's blown that opportunity. I think it's a huge recruiting tool. Yes. Like, we'll meet athletes to come in, either like transfers or freshmen and like I saw your videos. I do some of your ankle stuff that you post or some of your cool down or whatever basic lifts and like that's so cool to me that they kind of already know what we're about before stepping foot on campus. Yeah, and I would love to see the same happen with the athletic trainers, with the sports nutrition. All of that you guys are quote-unquote behind the scene, but kind of bringing you more to the forefront because you're the reason these athletes are able to do what they do. So I love all of it. Let's transition into topic two for today. So we're gonna define strength and conditioning because I feel like a lot of people really don't understand, you know, what that means? Yes, it's strength and conditioning, but we're gonna talk about CSCS specifically and then we're gonna talk about college versus life after. So we hear the word strength and conditioning consistently within a collegiate setting, but in the last few years, it's definitely leaked into the mainstream market. And that's not due to the fact that it's a concept by, you know, any means more so value than the value of certified strength and conditioning specialist is finally being realized by every day gym goal. So I think it has a lot to do with the emphasis of strength training, taking off for the general population, the science that's now being talked about, but it's likely the knowledge that you guys have had all along. It's just being discovered now. And I don't think people really even understand the difference between certified personal trainers and doctors at physical therapy and CSCS. So number one, let's just kind of start fresh and say, you know, can tell us about what a CSCS professional does and overview the job description itself, if you will. Just regarding collegiate professional or mainstream settings. Yeah, no, now to be working the NCA in most assume all professional organizations, you have to have your CSCS or CSCCA. And basically you need a college degree and then you have to pass, you know, a test, just like the ACT, the bar exam. It's the bar exam for strength coaches. I love it, friend it. So you pass that. And then from there, I tell people like our best, our job is basically we go by this quote all the time, like your best ability is availability. So, you know, when you think of strength and finishing everyone thinks of like, jump higher, run faster, all these like output metrics. But the thing is like if you aren't robust enough to handle, you know, the demands of play, like in your sport practice games, like it doesn't matter those, you know, metrics if you're on the bench, injured all the time with myself. So it's like how can we make the most robust athletes as possible? Walk us through the lifestyle of working with athletes coming in at 18 years old, progressing them over time within whichever sport they're there to pursue and excel at. I think this is the coolest part about the college realm is you get this 18 year old who's never been away from home. They're gonna be out on their own, making their own decisions, you know, away from mom and dad and seeing this like basically just the older child, you know, have to get used to making new habits, scheduling all that stuff and then seeing after four years, they turn in like a productive member of society, you know, like a functioning adult. And I think it's cool because you see these athletes, you know, the first day they show up and they're later on the right gear on or don't know what it's like to work, actually work hard. And then by the time they're done, they're the ones coaching the young athletes of like the standard and what's expected. So I think if you do a good job with training your athletes, like they should be your other set of coaches that are in the room, helping you know, give the same cues you see, know, and what to look for investing into, you know, their teammates in the program. Yeah, expand on that a little bit more because I think we, like you said, you touched on this, strength and conditioning and goes beyond just muscle and speed, right? We are developing these humans to become for lack of a better word functioning in a total, it's an end away, right? So talk about some maybe more of the additional characteristics that you're instilling in them once they walk through the doors of a weight room. These are big thing obviously we want them to be better athletes, but in order to do that, you need to have habits and systems in place. So we always talk about when you go to bed at night, your day, the next day should be planned out ahead of you. So you should know, what time you're waking up, what class you need to go to, what meals am I gonna eat during these times? Where am I gonna drink water? What's my time between classes? What time do I need to get to weights? What time do I need to allocate to treatment? Social time, whatever. So it's not like you wake up with your hair on fire. Like, I gotta get to this class, but then I have no idea what I'm eating and what time's practice? And so it's planning and setting up almost like a routine of how's this gonna make me the best athlete possible. So a collegiate athlete, they're most important time during the day's practice. So they need to be fueled for that, rested for that. And if you show up, under fueled, the hydrated, not rested, like the chances of you developing skill and practice to translate to the game is minimal. Yeah, and I mean, you need them kind of, as low stress as possible throughout the rest of the day. When they walk on the field, when they walk into the weight room, you need them dialed in, you need them relaxed, fed as you said are fueled, right? And well slept, absolutely. So all of these things are important, not only from a performance perspective, but just for them to be able to sustain the lifestyle of that college athletics requires. So right now, you're working with the Women's Basketball Team at UT, but you have a history with volleyball, golf, softball, et cetera. It's a tall ass to condense this within a few minutes, Zach. But can you begin to give us an understanding of your why and the how to your approach for each sport and why they're also uniquely different? So trying to just break open, yes, we don't train a golf athlete the same as a basketball athlete and then we're actually gonna walk through some of the sports once we nail that down. So the big thing that we train athletes like year round is health versus performance. So there's kind of this misconception about training, are you training to get someone more healthy or perform better? So how are you performing athletes aren't necessarily the healthiest athlete? So when you're at your most reactive fastness, all that kind of stuff, you probably don't feel that good as far as like everything's tight, that's lens itself to basketball. Like you need to be super tight and reactive, but you can't be like that all your round or you're gonna get injuries. So throughout the year, we kind of cycle through health phases, performance phases, health phase, performance phases, basketball is a change of direction sport. So at our gear, it's the hardest sport on the body, just because you're changing directions, at high speeds for an entire game, tire practice, and you're on a hardwood floor. And so like everyone thinks, you know, football is so hard on your body, but I mean, it's collisions. There's few positions that get hit more than others, but you know, you typical football plays 10 seconds and you got 30 to 40 second rest, then you do it again, basketball's nonstop all the time. And the nature of the sport is we train 48 out of the 52 weeks so it never really stops. Like, we'll have like a break off. Before the summer break after no Christmas break and it's like, you're a constant revolving door of stuff. So it's like, how do we balance, now getting performance metrics, but also keeping these athletes healthy? Waves of intensively. Exactly. And it's the same method that we preach just for Jen Pop as well. Everybody listen to this podcast, mostly I don't think we have too many collegiate athletes listening in just yet, but it's the same thing, right? And it's the same thing we preach on here almost every episode. If you're going through an extremely stressful time in your life, well, if you're not in collegiate athletes, you have that luxury to hate back off. Or I'm just gonna do some mobility, some stretching, we're gonna go to yoga instead of going into that hit class, things of that nature. Collegiate athletes similar to professional athletes, they're really is no off season. How do they have the professionals as yourself to navigate that? How are you dictating which athletes need what within your program? So I think this is a big one. And I'm gonna use myself as an example here for a second. This is not a good reflection of a great training conditioning coach, but I've had experience with not so great and then one to I would want to train with again right now, right? And one of those is Emily Shilling. She's with the, you know, she was without a doubt. She is the one who instilled the love for training the conditioning and just the love for weightlifting and really more so the behind the scenes efforts of athletics. So shout out to her, but I did at one point have one who would kind of copy and paste the programming for every single person. The bar was loaded up at the same way. Everybody was expected to lift that. Let's talk about, yeah, exactly. It was actually it was at the time the football. That's who I was training, who was training at the softball team. So my question for you is how are you dictating which athletes need what within your program and why is it really a case by case spaces, even though we're all training for the same sport, that each body is gonna be different. Yeah, so we'll come in as freshmen and everyone does this, honestly every couple months is really a sports science department and we'll go through every couple months and do a battery of test, movement test, different strength tests, a dexus, so your lean body mass, text, or test. And then from there we kind of build out what you need. So like if you're someone that's really high on the strength, like the force into things, probably don't need to keep hammering that. We probably need to work more speed, velocity base. If you're someone who's really fast, but super weak, you probably need to work more in that force continuum. And if you're just kind of somewhere in the middle, like a lot of these freshmen, like you need a little bit of everything. From there we force plate test them, so they'll jump through a kind of movement, jump on a force plate. And that kind of lets us know their loading strategy. So they load more through their knees, through their hips. Do they only bend their knee, a half an inch and jump through the roof, does it take them forever to get off the ground? And then from there we kind of put them into buckets of do they need more reactivity, do they need more strength, do they more speed, do they need more mobility? And then from there we custom tailor the program for what you need during that time of the year. So we'll get all these back. I'll go to coach and be like, hey, what do you expect from this player? How do you want them to play? Is that possible? How many minutes do you expect them to play? Is that possible? And then kind of give them a realistic idea of what we can do with each athlete. Like if you're a horrible athlete, there's only so much we can do. And also if you're a high end athlete, you know we just need to work on that health time the whole time you're there. And so we take all that into consideration, everyone has their tailor like NF1 program. Luckily we have enough metrics where we can compare you to players that play professionally. So like players that play professionally need this type of strength, this type of speed, this type of mobility in this area and how close or far away are you from that. And then from there we kind of build out a dashboard and go from there so it's just constantly testing, checking to see if we did work onto the next thing. It's the ongoing checks and balances and creating that balance within the player to because if we're on balance that's where we're sending ourself out for injury, right? So it's a really unique approach and where does rehab with injury when that does happen? Injuries happen. Sometimes there's a place for it, it's gonna happen, right? It's inevitably you can do all the pre-having, all the strength that work that you can possibly do, it's still gonna happen. Where does rehab with injury come into play? Let's use Rory's ACL, we're trying to play process for a perfect fitting example. Yeah, so ACL, we'll take care of for example, social, have surgery, I like to be involved in every aspect, so I like to be with the athletic trainers, PT's, doctors appointment, all that kind of stuff, so we're on the same page with everything, so we have a big group kind of chat where we can send all test results, what are you seeing, what am I seeing? And then it's basically in the first part of rehab, it's more PT heavy and less on my end, I guess, because you're pretty much limited in the early stages to upper body and the healthy leg. And then once it gets more towards where they can do more, it's more strength additioning, return to play than PT. And so I met every PT appointment and we kind of go through every day of, what they're doing is that painful, is that not painful, how do you respond from yesterday? Was it too much, not enough? And then from there, you know, silly build the building blocks so you need strength first, and once that gets in the equation, some power and then speed and then do that whole time, you're trying to build work capacity, so you're not fatigued in all those environments. But you know, we're constantly testing her to see, you know, what stage of rehab, she's at, where we can go. And she's been a trooper, like if you wanna come back from being hurt, another house, severe the injury is, like it's in everyday thing. It's not three days a week, two days a week, like it's every day, multiple times a day, if you actually wanna get back to, you know, better than you were before the injury. Yeah, I mean, it's the pit crew, bringing the car in and we have three, four people working on this individual to bring them back. It's a cooperative aspect. And the whole idea is like, have a cohesive unit, so everyone's speaking the same language to the athlete because what you don't want is the PT's saying, what I'm doing is wrong, or I'm saying the PT's doing and something wrong, if we only did it my way, we'd be this far ahead, like you can't have that, so it's gotta be the same language and kind of what direction we're steering the ship. Right, and setting that athlete up for the right expectations. If this person's saying, I think you'll be back in six, this person's eight, this person's four, you know, and just the mental, we just touch on this in our last episode that one's coming out very shortly, the mental health of these athletes as well is a huge, huge component that needs to be factored in, especially when they experience any type of injury, but especially when that requires a surgery, such as an ACL, it's the mind game, is it? I think that's the biggest piece, like your building back confidence and it's a traumatic injury, so your body when it gets hurt like that, like it's gonna be guarded because it doesn't wanna do that again. And then the biggest thing with rehab is the mental hurdles that you go through and the coping mechanisms, like I tore my Achilles, like a year and a half ago, and I'm washed up, I'm not coming back to play in the NBA or anything like that, but my whole identity is being active and during that eight weeks where I had to just sit on the couch, I was like, oh my God, like, questioning everything I've been doing and whatnot, and I'm like, if I feel like that is hopefully a emotionally equipped old guy, you know, what's an 18, 19, 20 year old doing, their whole identity is this sport, they wanna play at the next level, like what are they going through? So what things do we have in place for them as far as behavioral health, coaching to talk to about, you know, take it day by day, you know, be happy with your milestones and keep pushing. Well, can a support is given for them and I don't even more literal way, you know. So Texas, man, the resources there are incredible. So we have everything, obviously the best PT's doctors, all that kind of stuff you think of with a big institution, but we also have a big piece with behavioral health. So there's, you know, specialist to help with, like, performance anxiety or, you know, depression, like mental health thing is real, like we've never, when we were playing, like there wasn't really social media that was like, you know, Danielle went over four and she sucks and she's the worst softball player ever, you just like, had your bad game, there might be a little press clipping about it and then that's it. And now it's like if you have a bad game on a big stage, like people are constantly in the comments, talking, all this kind of stuff and I don't know about you, but if someone was criticizing me like that at this stage, it could be hard for me not to internalize it. And so it's not with these 20 year old sign up for is like to have, you know, Joe whatever comment that you suck and you should quit basketball forever. Well, it's like whenever the Olympics happen, it's like the guy seen on his couch eating chips, watching like the diving competition. Oh, yeah, that's it. You took her news more. Come on. You gotta do that. You're gonna fall off the couch. Exactly. But I mean, your your point is so extremely valued. I mean, I mean, at 1819, I didn't have the tools to cope with that. I mean, I did that was, gosh, that was over 15 years ago at this point. And the emotional security is that not there, the emotional maturity and they just shouldn't have to do. No, I mean, you feel like you're injured. So you're on an island. You're vulnerable. You can't practice. You're not in the game. You're like on the team, but like you're doing everything by yourself. And so it's like you go from this team, camaraderie, Robo Rao to like, you're on the sideline doing your PT drills. You're in the ice tub after practice. Like you're not playing in the games. Like it's a totally different scenario, especially someone who plays a ton. Like you're used to be the one out there, making the big plays and now you're just clapping on the bench. Like it's a, you know, I think a lot of athletes, it's tough not to just go internal and poor me, poor me. But some of the athletes, the way I see them respond, I'm just like that is so cool. Like she's taking the initiative. Like I can't play, but I'm gonna coach. So I'm gonna help these athletes with what they need to do. And that's, I mean, that's what you want right there. I mean, I love that you said that because they're, they're a divide definitely comes into play, even with that player and their teammates during that time. Of what they're physically able to do and what she or he may not be able to do. And that's where the bond really comes into place with the Shray thing in the Shinko Shia Athletic Trainers, et cetera. And they kind of just lean on them a little bit more during that time. But you said it perfectly, they do kind of become a coach in that way. They're now seeing things from a different perspective. They're able to help their teammates in a different way that doesn't involve them physically being in the game. So it's a unique outlook for sure. Let's dive into the specifics of some of these sports that can be applied to, even the folks at home. We're gonna go through basketball, volleyball, golf, tennis, self-well, other, anything else we want, and a wild car that we wanna throw in there. And I wanna break down what the straight looks like, what the condition of the aspect looks like. And then even the injury prevention looks like. So why don't you kick it off with basketball? Your hot spot. Yeah, basketball, I think the biggest thing is monitoring training load. So what happens usually is like, there's time periods in the NCAA. So in the offseason, you only get eight hours with your athletes. Two of them can be on the court. So you go from two hours and then in October, you go from two hours on the court to 20 hours, however you wanna use it. So you could use 20 on the court if you wanted. And the toughest thing is coaches have not worked with their athletes for a full practice for almost half a year. So what do they wanna do the first day? Like, let's get after it. Three hours, come on, we're need to get after it. And then it's like that spike in workload is kind of what makes your breaks people. So if you just like in any good strength and finishing program, you should periodize and start low and eventually add volume over time. And we're getting to the point with sport coaches to realize, hey, I know you really wanna get after them today. We can go two hours today, hour and a half tomorrow, three hours the next day and hour the next day, kind of this undulating model. And that's what helps athletes stay the safest. But as far as getting somebody ready for those demands, like there's no better way to get in shape for sport than playing the sport. And it seems common sense, but a lot of people, like the athletes aren't playing pick up to the same level that they should to be prepared for practice. And so it's my job to basically get them used to the demands of practice. And we have trackers that track the workload that they're doing in condition and workload in practice. So it's called catapult. They wear it in the sports bra. It's like between their shoulder blades. And it gives me accelerations, deselerations, how fast they do those accelerations and deselerations. Distance covered, we get pretty much every metric. So I can go through our week in the summer, and know like, hey, we need to get 20% of what a practice workload should be. Okay, today we need 50%. Okay, we need to back off and do 10. And so it's periodizing conditioning and getting them ready for the demands. So basketball is a lateral reactive sport. So a lot of the things we do or creating stiffness, your ability to break, accelerate, get them to be more efficient movers. Volleyball, you jump a ton. And so the running, like you're gonna run two or three steps. So the conditioning as far as running type of conditioning isn't really as heavily lean down as for basketball, but what we well do is a ton of pie metrics. And so with volleyball, you can kind of tease out by different positions. So like a middle, they basically stand there and go side to side and like a three foot box. And then an outside, it's more of like, they time up their shots every time. So it's a back pedal, they jump, spike the ball, back pedal rest. And so like their conditioning's gonna be kind of similar to that. A Liberos kind of like a basketball player. They gotta be lateral and reactive all over the place. So you kind of train those athletes a little bit differently depending on the position of the demands of their sport. Golf, funny enough, when we go through our health phase for basketball, we kind of train them a lot like golfers. So golfers rely heavily on rotation. So if you need a rotate efficiently, you can't be super stiff. And basketball players, they get super stiff so in order to make them healthier, we need them to rotate more. So golfer with rotation, you're kind of looking at everything from like the foot all the way up to the head of where's that missing link why they can't internally rotate their hip or finish through their swing and kind of go through there. So it's totally different the conditioning. We do a lot of like loaded carries and stuff because these guys have to carry their bag for such a long time. We'll do sprinting in small doses just because that'll help with overall speed, club head speed, all that kind of stuff. But a lot of stuff will do. If anyone knows what a Versa Climer is, it's kind of a miserable machine, it uses your whole body for cardio, but we'll do things where it's like, okay, you're gonna go 100 feet on the Versa Climer. Take 30 seconds, make a put. And so it kind of simulates, they're carrying their bag up a hill, their heart rates up, they have to get their heart rate down to sink a put. And so we can kind of play around with some of the things we do to kind of simulate their sport, which is creates a lot more by and for the athlete or sure. That can probably help with a little being tidy too. Absolutely. They're getting up there for that put. People are looking at them, all eyes are on them, and let's just develop the breath work that's developed the response needed to get that heart rate down. Very similar to a free throw. Who do you kind of that stuff? We'll do a sprint, gotta get your heart rate down, make a free throw. And it's tough to magnify what happens in a game because there's 10,000 people yelling at you. You got another person coming at you. And so if you can't calm down in a controlled situation, like what we do in strengthening the training, like you don't have a prayer out on the court. So we're trying to instill those skills as soon as possible. That's great. That's great. What about let's do tennis? Tennis. Tennis is actually super fun because the conditioning demands are crazy. So some of these matches are like three or four hours. And it's a change direction sport. I might say that might be the hardest sport on your body just because you're on, you know, concrete. But it's the best of both worlds. You need to be able to rotate, but also you need to be stiff and reactive. So with tennis players, it's honestly managing the load. So they're like pre-hab, rehab, recovery stuff is honestly more than the actual training. Just because these bouts and practices, like if you ever been to a tennis practice, like they're no joke. They run so many miles and it's stop-go, stop-go, stop-go. So it's all about keeping that body healthy. Let's run it out for softball, baseball, either way. So softballs kind of cool because every position's a little different. So I'll kind of compare them obviously. A, you know, pitcher is a rotation or a rotational athlete. Even with softball, like you're not rotating as much as a baseball pitcher, but there's rotation involved. So you're training them pretty similar to like a golfer. Running in softball, it's, you know, doubles and triples. Like people aren't doing that a whole bunch. Like trips. You can really concentrate on like power development. So softball, so my favorite sports to train because like you just get after it in the left. Like all of things you think about being awesome, lifting the weight around like that is softball. And the culture around softball, like you lift, like it is so fun to watch, you know, group of women, get together and like pushing each other like, let's go! So I love that. So pitchers are more rotational. Your metal and filters are kind of like basketball players have to be reactive. They usually your quicker type athletes. And then center field, or we're more like a sprinter. So you're going to have to track down those flyballs, all that kind of stuff. And then everyone needs to be able to rotate to hit. But all depends like are you a powerhead or you a slaphead or you all this kind of stuff. So everything, everyone always asks me like sports specific. It's more positioned specific within the sport. I love that. I can definitely test writing PRs on the weight room walls. Oh, it's so fun. It's the best. It's all about players with the best. I'm proud of you for sure. So it's that all these athletes graduate in your time ends with them. What's your advice for those who may seem a bit lost in terms of how they should work out for life after college? They're activity level significantly lower. Their goals are going to change. They probably likely aren't going to be eating as much. They shouldn't be eating as much as right. They're diet stuff, they're going to change. So walk us through that process. Walk us through the hand that you even play and helping those athletes make that transition as well. Yeah, so my just kind of backped a little bit. I couldn't be a strength in teaching coach. I wanted to be a teacher. So I loved to teach. And so my athletes always make fun of me because when we have the weight session, I explain the why behind everything. We're doing why is this movement important? Why is this rest period what we want? Why do you need to go heavy in this certain situation? And I think army them with that knowledge of the why behind everything. It creates a lot more buy-in. So I can either give them the why or they're going to find it off TikTok or their uncle or their old high school coach. And I'd rather come from me. And then we have a pretty open environment. So if any of these athletes have questions, like why am I back squatting? She's split squatting. We can explain, you know, this is what helps for your body type and your position and XYZ. And so the goal is to educate them to this whole time so they can write up their own programs or know what lifts work best for them and more importantly, which ones don't. And so they're armed to kind of like with this knowledge that they could put together, you know, intelligently designed for the most part, you know, weightlifting programs. From there, we know we've hearted on nutritional habits through their whole time. So we kind of correlate it to, you know, if you have a big day that's practice, you know, it's going to be three hours long and you have weights like you're going to need more gas and your gas tank. If we have a recovery day where it's yoga in the morning and you have the whole day off, like you probably don't need to eat like you're practicing for three or four hours. And so it's kind of correlating that of like your activity level needs to be correlated with your fuel level. And then food choices like we're always steering them to like whole food diet. So we go to it's called the tank more the athletes eat and we go there. I'm with them launch pretty much every day and we go through you make your plate of what protein do you want, what carb do you want, what vegetable, okay, we have practice today, maybe pick two carbs. We're not practicing today, let's get more veggies and more protein. And so they can kind of build their plate along with their activity level and then I like to correlate with you ate the great meal today, how'd you feel after? I've had energy wasn't tired. And then sometimes I'll pick whatever you want and they'll make bad choice. So how'd you feel for like yo, I need a nap on tired. And you're like, okay, that correlates, right? So if you want to feel good, if you want to feel crappy, eat crappy. And so kind of that advice goes well beyond calm. And like I always joke like, you know, like you need to educate these athletes on what to eat and I was like, if I gave it, we're on a hundred bucks to make a great plate deet for lunch. I'd say 99% of people know the right choices. It's like your ability to choose what's right for you or are you gonna give into the cake looks good. The burger looks good, the french fries look good. Like about short term, pleasure dopamine hit. Yeah, is that worth you feeling like crap or not performing at practice? And so like when our athletes are having bad practices, I'll kind of be like, what'd you have before this? And you know, like, oh, I didn't have anything or it's like I took fulla breakfast in a Coke and you're like, and you feel like garbage. We've seen, you're like, sprinter right now. Yeah, it's like how to correlate with that. And then we like to, like in the summer, we have an optional day every week and we'll bring in like a yoga person, go to Pilates, go do an orange, theory, class, go swimming, go mountain biking, and they can kind of see like, oh, I really like yoga. Maybe that's something I want to do next or I hate writing the bike. Like that's not something I want to do. So it's kind of giving them experiences of like different ways to train. And then when they leave, I always tell them, especially when they're on breaks from us, like they're going home for two weeks after next week. And I'll give them a workout plan and then between that I'm like, and then if you want to do something else, do it like you want to do a yoga class with your mom, do that if you want to go for a long walk with your grandma, do that like I don't care. Like it's your time to pick the other 48 weeks like I'm choosing. So the lessons you guys are teaching them on campus can then become intuitive decisions that they feel equipped to make once they step off campus. Like you said, even if it's just for two weeks, if it's for summer recess or break, and then beyond once they graduate. So it's just fantastic and it's so impressive how you guys are taking that approach. Yeah, I just wanted to be kind of a system. Like even our athletes that go train pro, like they can be someone to tell their new strength coach. Like here's what I'm used to here. The movement set agree with me. Here's the ones that don't. And then kind of take control of their own career because they're in the day like their body is their vessel to make money at the next level. And if they're not training it the right way that needs to be done, like it can make or break you. Yeah, well they're getting this experience now. The next person has their work cut out. So let's move into the final topic for today. And this is gonna be specifically around women's basketball. So we're in an electric air for women's basketball. It's exciting to see from Caitlin Clark to Angel Race to your very own up and coming stars like Rory Harmon or Madison Booker. These players are getting the views needed to put the sport on a long overdue spotlight. Tell us your thoughts in the recent explosiveness, the headlines around women's basketball. They take excitement in the fandom that we're seeing just break it down. I think it's awesome. Like if you look back 10 years ago, there was maybe one women's game on ESPN per month. It'd be like a UCon versus Tennessee and that'd be the only game you would see. And I always tell people like go to one game. And after that, if you never wanna come to a game, cool, but like go to one game. And so I've a bunch of friends on here. And they'll come for one game to support me. And then the next thing like yo, can I come to you have any more tickets? And like, now, yeah, like I have a bunch of friends, like males and females between 25 and 40 that are like huge women's basketball fans. Like that's all my friends talk about now. It's like the matchups, the NCAA tournament. What were crutes are we getting? Like who needs to play better next year? Who's like all this stuff? And that just wasn't a thing before. Like my friends joke, like they all watched the national championship game and nobody watched the men's one. Which and like what era has that ever been a thing? And I think it's the more notoriety and exposure. Like people see like there's some dang good athletes that play women's basketball at the collegiate level. And it's a fun sport to watch. What was that pivotal moment? Do you remember there'd be any specific point in time? Maybe it was a game, maybe it was media coverage. Maybe it was broadcast over the last decade or so and working directly with women's basketball. Was there a moment that you just said, wow, people are really starting to get it? I think honestly during COVID, so nobody was doing anything and you're at home and the women's and say tournaments on. And you're like, there's nothing else to watch. Like I guess I'll watch this. And there was so many good matchups, so many good players at that time and I think it just like took off from there and some of these athletes like building their brand bigger than basketball. And then like the whole like pagebackers, Caitlin Clark, like all these players coming in and being in the media spotlight. And you know, you never seen players like that before. Playing so dynamic and so skilled. And it's just a fun brand of basketball to watch. Like you can't. There's always the comparison of like men's versus women's basketball. That's like it's two totally different sports. Like if the men's game was played on a 12 foot goal and they couldn't dunk like nobody would watch it. You know what I mean? Right. But now you have, you know, these athletes that are arguably, I'd say more skilled than some of the men's players as far as shooting, dribbling, passing. Like it's a fun brand of basketball. Talk about NIL. Tell us what NIL means. Tell us the impact we're seeing. I mean, this is new. This is two, three years old at this point. So it's, it's an, it's infancy stages. So tell us what that means. Educate people at home about it. It tells what this means not only for athletes, but for you as well. So NIL is name, image and likeness. And so before in the NCAA, if you want to be a collegiate athlete, you couldn't accept any money from anybody. We went from a dollar. You couldn't get a free meal. Nothing. So you got your scholarship. You're gear from the school. Thanks for playing. And now with name, image and likeness, you can get sponsorships. You can be on commercials. You can get brand deals. There's collectives at schools to pay athletes to come in and exchange for a speaking engagement or various other things they've gotten creative with. But right now, it's kind of the wild wild west of things. And that makes with the transfer portal. It used to be if you wanted to transfer to sit out for a year. And now if you transfer, you can play it right away. So it's kind of turning into a situation. And it's also not very well regulated. Turning into a situation where like every year's free agencies. So it used to be, you recruited kids to your school from high school. They'd be on your team. Most of them would not transfer. And then you'd recruit a new batch of freshmen to come in. And now we're not only having to recruit new batch as a freshman. We're having to recruit transfers. And we're having to recruit our kids to stay at our university. And so that usually wasn't a thing. So it's like the money equation, the what is they made an image and likeness technically. And it's just not very well regulated. So different states have different rules, different colleges have, there's no salary cap. So it's now definitely in its infancy stage of what's going on. But I'd argue that it's no longer like amateur athletics. Like this is professional athletics. What's your personal opinion on it? I think better regulated. I think it'll be a good situation. I do think it's great that these athletes can make money off their name, image and likeness. Like before if your jersey was in the gift shop and somebody bought it, you got $0 from it. And you hear these stories of like Johnny Manzel, it texts a Sam and it's like him going there and the amount of buzz he brought to that school with jersey sales, tickets, new facilities, coaches getting paid more media contracts. And the athlete gets, hey, you get a free education. Like I don't think that's necessarily fair. So I think once they get like a better grasp of things, I think it's a great thing for the student athlete. All right, Zack, to round it, I have two questions for you. The one is tell us about your favorite memory as a CSES coach in the collegiate setting. And number two, give us some advice for any aspiring college athlete wanting to play in that setting. I think my favorite moment, probably during our COVID year, we had our brand new coach. And during that time, if anyone was in college athletics, it was miserable. Like you couldn't bond with your team because you had to be six feet away, get a max masks on. Their reeness had nobody in them. The team we had at the time was no offense. Then you know the athletes, like we weren't a very good team. And from the first day of practice, I'm like this is gonna be a rough year. Like we're gonna finish middle of our conference, hopefully make it to the NCAA tournament. And that team through teamwork, grit, all that kind of stuff made it to the elite eight, which was like far beyond anybody's expectations through one of the last 18 standing. And to kind of see that group, our point guard at the time, to transferred and she had three ACLs in her college career, never made it to the NCAA tournament and to see her, like, when that game to go to the elite eight. And it's just, there's nothing better than to see those athletes to look on their face when they recognize like all the hard work they've done has paid off. And I mean, as a coach, like that's what you want. Like that's why people cry when they win big games because they see like all the early mornings, all the late nights, all the little decisions that they had to make and choose excellence over having fun. And like to have that all culminate on one night as so special. Yeah, the thousands of hours that led up to just that one moment is definitely special. And then tell us about your one piece of advice for aspiring college athletes. I'd say like get ready to work. And I think so many high school athletes, especially when we get them, like you're the best player in the state, maybe in the country. And you might not necessarily have been coached hard in high school. Cause if you're the best player in the nation, probably the other 10 people on your team needed way more coaching and feedback than you did. And just going to practice is not enough. Like that's a requirement to be on the team. And if you really want to be excellent, like you need to come in before practice, after practice weekends, off days, like get used to that when you're in high school, like start out small, like 20 minutes after practice, shoot a bunch of free throws. You know, the next day coming early in the morning and work on your ball handling, like work on dialing in those little habits, they're going to separate you from everybody else. Like there's no secret, the greats are who they are. Like is there one single Kobe story where it's like, yeah, Kobe showed up right before practice. And the roundman is over, he left. And then he was partying on weekend and he didn't come to the gym. Like, no, it's like all the stories are he came in and early, he stayed late. Like he had this intense focus about him. And if you really want to be great, like that's what you're going to have to sacrifice. Is that one more for you, I lied? What's the impact you hope to have on the athletes that you're looking with? My biggest thing is like to instill this like work ethic that these athletes no matter what career occupation they choose, like if they just outwork, they use those same skills that they learned, you know, in the weight room on the court, they can do whatever they want in the world. And if you're just willing to, when you feel like quitting to keep going, like that's when most people quit. Like when you feel like quitting, that's when 99% of people feel like quitting. So if you just go through that point and then break through that barrier, like there's nothing in this world you can accomplish. Love it. Zach, thanks so much for stopping by today. Tell the audience how they can fall along on the rest of your journey. Yeah, I'd say my biggest way to get a hold of me is Instagram, so it's ZACK, underscore, Z-I-L-L-N-E-R. I'm most active on Instagram. I have a Twitter, but Twitter's just all negativity these days. So find me on Instagram and yeah, shoot me, DMF, you have a question or want to make it to a game. Thanks for coming in, my pastor Austin Texas. Absolutely, thanks for having me. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at Bodybuilding.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: Building Your Aerobic Base ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 21 ｜ Lance Parker [NQYniqXdaHU].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Daniel Bits and welcome back to the BB Compa Cast. Today I'm joined by Lance Parker. Lance grew up in Oklahoma City and played soccer for Missouri State University before embarking on his seven-year professional soccer career. He played goalkeeper for teams in the MLS and NESL, such as Chieva's USA, Miami FC, and FC Edmonton. Upon retiring from the sport, Lance moved to New York City and created his performance coaching company Parker Peak Performance, where he specializes in coaching trail and ultra runners and helps his athletes optimize their strength and endurance and mental fortitude among other key performance attributes. A founding instructor for Lululem in studio previously known as Mirror for six years and struck in over 2,500 classes during that span and currently contributes to Tonal as a cardio strength and recovery coach. He's currently competing in the grand slam of Ultronine which consists of four of the oldest 100 mile races in the country, all run within 14 weeks. He's completed the old Dominion 100 in the Vermont 100 and will be racing the lead bill 100 and Wossach front 100 next. Thanks for taking time out of your robust running schedule this summer. Excited to have you on and jump into today's topics. Yes, and you so much for having me excited to be here. Yeah, absolutely. I want to talk about, you know, this has been something that a segment that we've been doing for a little bit now, building Lance. We want to know the person behind the athlete behind the coach and get to know you a little bit more before we jump into our educational topics for today. So tell us about the journey that led you here. Your time as an athlete, a coach, and now human performance guide. So group in Oklahoma City, I played a lot of different sports growing up. But when I was 12, I was fortunate enough to be able to go on a trip, playing the tournament over in England, a soccer tournament, and I just saw the culture there and incredible vibe, and I just fell in love with the sport even more, and I was like, this is what I want to do. And so I stopped playing all my other sports, especially started specialized at 12, and played club soccer through my youth, played high school soccer, and then went to, as you said, Missouri State University for four years, played there, and then was fortunate enough to sign my first professional contract and played seven years professionally before retiring, starting my coaching company, transitioning into the coaching world, which is kind of just an unnatural thing to do from there, just from everything I was able to learn from being a professional athlete, and that's where we kind of are now, and I've recently gotten into the world of ultr running, which is actually something pretty new for me, because I was a goalkeeper, or more anerobic athlete, and this is the complete opposite, so it's been a fun journey for me to be a beginner again, and get to experiment and test myself and just continually learn new things to optimize my performance in this entirely new sport. Now it's intriguing for sure, and we're going to talk a little bit about that today, the switching of the modalities, switching between a fast twitch and slow twitch training regimen. Tell us a little bit more about getting recruited, going through that process as a high level athlete, such a young age, and eventually attending Missouri State University, tells about that process, what kind of went into that, to get into that point, and then to give us a little more detail of going from college to professional soccer. Yeah, so as a youth athlete, you're going to a lot of soccer tournaments, and there are high-level tournaments where college coaches do come, they're usually term showcases, or if that's what they call them back when I was playing, and so you'd be seen by different university coaches there, that would then contact you and follow you throughout your high school career. I was also fortunate enough during the summers in between my high school seasons to get to go to camp at a few different colleges. One of them was Missouri State University, and so they actually got to see me grow from my freshman year up to my senior year, kept in really good contact, and that was one of the deciding factors of me being able to go there. One reason I ended up going there is I wanted to get out of state, play division one soccer somewhere, and be able to go on a scholarship. So fortunately, I was able to get a full ride with both athletic and academic scholarships, and so those were kind of the deciding factors of why I chose Missouri State University. From there, the transition from college to professional, actually kind of a similar thing during the summers, since at the time university players could not make money, playing professional sports, and then go back to college and still be eligible for a scholarship, what they would do is in the summer time to continue to be able to play and develop their skills, some of the higher end athletes would go play semi-professional soccer. So we wouldn't get paid, but there was a PDL division professional development league that you would go to different teams and play for. So my first summer in between freshman and sophomore year, I was in Chicago, my second year between sophomore junior year, I was in Dallas, and then my third year summer between junior and senior year, I was up in Colorado, and when I was in Colorado, I was fortunate enough to be able to go into the full team, MLS side, the Colorado Rapids, and trained with them for a couple of weeks. While I was there, the head coach in the Goldkeeper Coach really enjoyed my skill level, and they said, hey, we're going to keep an eye on you, and keep in contact with you so after your senior year coming up, you know, be on the lookout for a message from us. So a lot of people that go into the MLS and play right away will get drafted, but that's not the route that I ended up taking. Fortunately, again, due to having that experience and the connections of those coaches who then moved to the club, Chief of the Youth at S.A. in Los Angeles, they invited me out to Preseason. I was able to prove myself during the Preseason and earn my professional contract that way. So that's how I was able to step from the university platform up to professional. Great, take us to present day Lance, breaking into the fitness industry, being a caliber trainer that you are today. What was that transition from professional sports into breaking into the fitness industry, tell us a little bit about your start there. Right. So it actually didn't start with training. I started with nutrition coaching actually, and one thing about myself as a professional athlete is I was never like the greatest. I was pretty good, but I was never great. I never made the U.S. national team. That was something I always strived for. But that also lent this desire to learn more and to study and always be trying to grow and better myself as an athlete. So learning different training methodologies, learning different nutrition protocols, recovery strategies, mindset, all of those things. And so instead of being just having that natural talent as some players fortunately do, I had to fight for every half percentage of improvement and that I had at that level. And so I think that actually leads and helps in being a good coach. I think if you ask a lot of the absolute top elite caliber players and whatever sport, like, why are you so good? How do you do what you do? A lot of them can't really answer it just because they're so good. They just do what they do. That's their jay. I don't know. I just wake up in the morning and I do. This is me. That's what I do. And so since I had to study and learn and like really practice these things, I have a better understanding of the why behind the what and how we're doing things to illicit different adaptations. That again, I'm fighting for those little half percentage points to to better myself and try to be better than the next guy. And so now as a coach, not only have I been able to play at that top level, but I understand the the processes behind how to get there. And on top of that, whenever you're able to communicate well with athletes, you can then start to teach them and coach them and help bring their skill level up as well. And so I think that you'll find a lot of good coaches, both played at the top level, but they were never really the best. They had to really learn and fight to be there. So that's kind of where I'm at with that. And so when I was ending my career, getting to the end of my career, I kind of knew I wanted to transition into coaching and one thing that I had recently died in, dove into was the nutrition side of things. And the main reason I actually dove into nutrition first was a personal experience with soccer. I had during a game compound fractured my arm. And so came out on across, punched the ball away, I was up in there. A couple of guys came under me, under cut me, I was up in a land on my head. So I stuck my fist out to essentially break the impact. So I didn't land on my head and break my neck. So ended up breaking my arm. Phone came out the back, it was a really nasty and had have surgery. The doctor said I would never play again. And so I went through 10 months of like brutal rehab. I was able to come back the next season after having all this metal put in my arm. Play the last half of the season. And then do another strength of rehab. Get the metal taken out after that and come back have the best season in my career. And then play a little bit longer after that. But getting back to that point when I was coming back to play my coaches, the the backup goalkeeper that had then got the starting spot. He wasn't doing really good, but he wasn't doing bad either. And so in sports, you usually don't try to fix what's not broke. And so I wasn't getting my starting spot back and I was like, hey guys, you got to give me something that's in my control that shows you that I deserve my spot back. And so they kind of like, I couldn't really think of anything. So they're like, oh, we want you to gain like 10 to 15 pounds because we think you'd be better able to control and command your box and come out and stuff like that. I was like, okay, well this has never been an issue before, but challenge accepted. So I got with the team nutritionist and learned a lot from her and we were able to put on 10 pounds of lean mass in 10 days, which is insane. And after a couple of weeks, I had my spot back. So took on the challenge and learned a lot again in that time of the nutritional awareness to change my own body. And so continued to dive down that rabbit hole and then towards the end of my career, started to share with my teammates because they saw the transformation that I came, can you help us? And that was kind of my first little coaching thing was just like with teammates and friends and stuff. And from there, started my coaching company after I retired, started with mainly nutrition and then just continued to learn more training methodologies on the fitness side of things, performance side of things and just continued to evolve from there. Two things I want to backtrack on. Number one, you said you gained 10 pounds and 10 days. What did you do? I ate a ton. So one, I started taking creatine because I didn't even know what it was at the time. Two, I just the nutritionist was like, hey, you have to eat often and you have to eat a ton. So I started with, I think it was six meals a day, like every three hours eating, I think it was 500 calories per meal and she eventually got me. I think it was up to nine meals a day of like 700 calories each. So it was just like, you know, thermodynamics, like if you put a lot in and you're not expanding a lot, you're going to gain it. So but that in coordination with the high-perrophy training that we were doing to just like just build build build. Back it on. Yeah. And something else that you said it just a few moments ago as well about something about not being number one. The first of all, you were a D1 athlete who then went on to play for a professional sport. So you were pretty damn good. We'll put that out. But I think there is, I think there's a gold nugget that is attached to not being number one because it instills a lot of hunger and it stills the quality for you to become a sponge and that seems like, you know, that's exactly what you did. You're always itching to be there and you're continuing to be beat out by people who have that kind of that natural born talent, right? But you end up in the winter at the end of the day. I think in the grand scheme of life because you do eventually acquire all these additional skillsets. So I think that's essentially a very important one to come to your journey as well. I want to break open a little bit about your mythologies in terms of coaching. What kind of coach are you, right? Who do you show up as with your clients and how can it be dictated? Maybe even by the person that it is that you're working with. I'm sure that's a piece of it as well. So how do you tackle helping people achieve their wellness goals? Like you just said, it really just depends on the individual. It depends on where they're currently at, where they're trying to go if it's performance based, if it's health and longevity based. I don't have a certain method. So there's not like a Lance Parker method. I actually just try to learn the principles behind the training qualities that I'm trying to adjust and manage. And then from there, learn all of the different methods that could potentially touch that. And use those methods as tools. And so acquiring as many methods as possible. So then I can elicit the same adaptation that I want in athlete many different ways. So if you're very proficient in knowing how to coach the barbell, the dumbbell, the kettlebell, and bodyweight. And you have a client that comes to you and say, hey, I want to do X and well, I hate the kettlebell and I hate barbells. Well, okay, you have two other options that you can train them with. If somebody's like, I'm a kettlebell, if the natic, that's all I want to do. And okay, well, now you know how to do it. And you can you can train them up that way. So again, just understanding the principles with the hemophysiology and how adaptation works will really help me guide my training decisions. You mentioned earlier, maybe even in our pre-talk, you're coaching a number of ultra endurance athletes. Has that always been a specialty of years or have you kind of ebbdened, flowed in terms of the type of athletes that you're working with? It has evolved with the athletes that have done at the beginning when you don't have really a roster of any clients. You're like, I'll take whatever I can get. And usually it's a lot of general population clients when you start. So you can't be as picky as your book starts to fill up. Then you can kind of be a little bit more picky on who you decide to take on and who you don't. And that becomes a lot more fun because then you get to work with people that are interested in what you are more interested or kind of aligned a little bit better with. So again, running was never like my jam. And so it's still relatively new for me. I did my very first race in 2018. It was the New York City marathon. And so it's just like go big or go home. Like no 10k is half marathon. It's just like I'm going to do the New York City marathon. It was actually one of my first clients that got me that to do it. And I had started getting more runners as clients. And I was like, okay, this is a perfect opportunity for me to not only like practice what I preached, but use myself as a guinea pig and experiment with the different types of training protocols and nutrition protocols that I'm giving my athletes and seeing at least for an end of one for myself. What's working for me? What's not working for me? And at the end of the day, I also gained a lot of empathy for what they were doing because I had never run over when I started training for the New York City marathon. I never run to miles. And so just the pain that I had to endure, that all of these other athletes had endured. Like I had true empathy like, oh wow, you got to go out on this long run. I'm so sorry. Oh, you got to do it in the heat. That's even worse. Good luck. So again, always use myself. I'll never ask somebody to do something that I'm not willing to do myself where I have not done myself. And so that's evolved from me a little bit more. After that race, I found out that I hated running on concrete. Like I did not have a good time, but I do love running outside in the trails. And so I didn't race for a really long time after that, but I would continually on and off get outside longer distance runs in the trails. And then it wasn't until 2022 that I said, okay, hey, I want to start competing again. I want to start racing. I started to have that itch again from earlier in my life where, oh, I was competing all the time. And I felt like something was kind of missing. And it was like, oh, that competition. I wasn't doing anything. So it was nice and that it gave me that, but it also gave me something to train for and focus on and keep me accountable. Because it's like, okay, you have this 50 kilometer race coming up. If you don't train for it, it's going to hurt. So that was a really good way to keep me focused and dialed in with what I needed to do and the training. And then again, like I said earlier, helps me give my athletes kind of the best training possible that I can give them. The related ability factor is I feel underrated at times because I mean, even for myself, like, I don't want to work with somebody who hasn't put themselves through the pink cave that I'm signed up for, right? If I'm going for a 70.3, like, I want somebody who's done a couple of those and kind of understand how it feels coming out of that. I love the fact that your first race is the marathon. Me too. 2019 New York City marathon had never, I've maybe done a 5K for fun, like a color run with friends in college. Never anything long distance jumped into a program training appropriately for it. Got the job done because I knew what I would feel like after that. If I didn't do it appropriately, so I got a coach, I worked with them. I followed the plan, completed the marathon, but that was kind of my love affair and how that started and just can. My partner gives me crap all the time about it. Like, you know, didn't do a half, didn't do a 10K, just went all in. I'm like, that's just how I am. I had to figure out if I like it or not. And it's like, you know, here I am today. But love that story, Lance, I wanted to start transitioning into topic two, which ironically is about transitioning modalities. So I'm going to talk a bit about what it takes to switch sports or training goals, especially if we're talking about going from a predominantly strength or fast-to-age athlete to an endurance or slow twitch athlete, which you yourself have experience doing at a very high level. So, you know, Lance oftentimes we underestimate the sheer time it could take to rewire your system to train for entirely different sport event or modality. I like to use myself as the guinea pig coming from a collegiate softball background where the primary goal was to be explosive and powerful to then switching to running triathons where you're retraining your body to move for five plus hours at a time versus five seconds. So my question here is how do we approach deviating what our bodies are trained for and striving for something new and how do we do it safely and efficiently? The first thing you probably have to keep in mind is patience. We live in a society today that like everything is instant. Like instant gratification is everywhere around us. And that's actually one thing that I love about longer endurance events is it teaches you delayed gratification? You have to train for months for one race and you don't get that satisfaction until you cross the finish line? I mean, there's a lot of little winds along the way that encourage people to celebrate. But when you're shifting, say from one end of the spectrum to the other in terms of say aerobic athlete to aerobic athlete, that transition is tough, right? Because normally as kids we figure out what we're good at. Usually you'll notice at the elite level of all sports, there's some body type that tends to excel. And so usually little kids we figure out what we're really well suited to do and everybody likes winning, everybody likes being good at what they do. So we stick with that and when you continue to train and develop those qualities through your youth, you're going to get really really good at that. Then later in life, if you're trying to switch over to something else, like it can be hard to be a beginner again. And so having that patience and that understanding, knowing that failure is actually a really really good learning tool. If we go back to when we're kids, we're trying to figure out how to walk, we're trying to figure out how to throw ball, all of these things. We actually learn faster when it's not done for us and we can fail doing it. It elicits that problem solving skill a little bit better and so we learn faster. And so if we can do that in our adulthood as well, we're going to be able to again, it'll still take time, but having the patience to move through that with grace is important. I think that's a great tip to start out with. Let's go through a tangible application of this here. Let's talk about a power lifter who wants to run a half marathon, right? Where do we start? How do we start to craft a program for something like that? Yeah, so the basics are the basics, right? So they're usually pretty simple, but simple doesn't mean easy. And simple doesn't always mean fun. So we need to execute the things that have been proven, deck it up to decade to give results. So if it's at power lifter wanting to run a half marathon, it's probably starting out, okay, well, they've been doing power lifter for a long time, so they're really strong, good anaerobic athlete. What are the buckets that they haven't been training? Well, that's going to be that aerobic base more than likely. And that's actually something that you need a large bucket when you're running a half marathon. So those are two, the lifting, power lifter, or Olympic lifting, and then the half marathon, those are at two different ends of the spectrum, right? And so one great thing about training the qualities that you don't normally train is that you will have quicker adaptations when compared to trying to get those vital few persons in the sport that you've been training for a really long time. So you do get to see advancement there, but it's still, you're still not going to be at that elite level that you would with the lifting. So for instance, that one, you know, going over doing long, slow, easy aerobic work is where you're going to start for that. Are we saying about so zone two training starting to implement there, long, so periods of zone two, are we looking to implement other type of zone trainings there? What's kind of like a good first step? A good first step is going to be that slow, steady aerobic base. So zone two, even zone one recovery stuff on a five zone model, can some people use a three zone model, some people use five zone model for today's discussion. We can keep it out of five zone model. So when we're talking about zone two, it's that's below the first threshold, whether that's, you know, LT1, VT1, New Year's Breakpoint 1, whatever decision you make there, that's below that first threshold. And again, that's going to help build that person's base. They're going to increase their mitochondrial density. They're going to increase their capitalization. And so that's going to allow them to be able to utilize more oxygen efficiently. I feel like sometimes people are a bit hesitant to switch modalities, especially the later in life, it gets or kind of just stuck in their ways. They're nervous to switch, like I've been doing this for such a long time, you know, it's it's probably not that realistic at this point. You know, I would argue, and I'm sure you'll agree, but let me know, it's going to be easier to switch a modality as opposed to just coming off of the couch from not doing anything at all. I think they're going to be transferable strains that come with you when you're an analiat athlete or a power lifter moving into running because you have that strength behind you. That may be somebody who is in a more seditarian state. Well, they've got to now get strong and they have to get their aerobic work in as well. And same thing for runners. I mean, runners going to an Olympic weightlifting regimen or a powerlifting regimen, sure you may not have that strength, but you're fit, right? You have the aerobic capacity behind you to get some of that endurance lifting done. So, I don't know. I don't know where I was really going with that, but I think my point is that I think there are a lot of people who tend to box themselves into a specific modality, and then it really isn't, you know, there's never a such thing as being too late of making that switch to something else you want to try. 100% and when you think about it, switching from one modality to the other, like you said, is going to be easier than coming straight off the couch. You can't even think about it from a team sport perspective to a solo sport perspective. It's going to be there's different things that come with that. And some of that is like the mindset or just the interaction that you have, the accountability you have to yourself and keeping yourself motivated versus having a team to be there for you. Like when you're playing a team sport, you lose, it's the team that loses, or you win, it's the team that wins. If it you're an individual sport player, it tends to player golf or runner, you know, like you win, because you did the work. Nobody else, if you lose, because you didn't do good enough, you know. And so there's a different mindset with that. But yeah, when you're, when you're already somewhat fit, whether regardless of how far you are on either into the spectrum with whatever type of sport you're doing, if you want to go all the way to the other in the spectrum, well, guess what, you already have, if you're a marathoner wanting to go to be a power lift or an hour Olympic lift or you already have that amazing base, right? Now, again, like we talked about, you just need to go to the basics. So transitioning the other way, like the marathoner would need to one, make sure they have good form. Like if you're getting under a bar, you need to know what you're doing to stay safe and stay healthy, right? So it comes back to learning the basics first, just like you would if you were learning it for the first time and you weren't an athlete. But again, like you, like you mentioned, you are starting from a higher point. And so you will find success a little bit sooner. But with that said, a beginner athlete, somebody coming off the couch, you will see greater improvements faster because you literally do anything and it'll change than it'll move the needle. It'll change. It'll be a better, right? So you don't have to, the more of a beginner athlete you are, you don't have to be as prescriptive with what you're doing to see changes. The fear you get and the better you get at what you're doing, that's when you have to get a little bit more prescriptive to continue to get better. We're in the air of wanting it all. I'll call it the hybrid decade. Everybody wants to be hybrid these days. They don't want to buck it themselves into purely endurance and purely strength. The word hybrid is really, in my opinion, means being fit. I think people just want to be fit. They want to be able to live heavy, they want to be able to run fast or really just run, right? I think a lot of this likely started and the heyday of CrossFit, a decade or so ago. What do we want the option rather, the luxury of being able to live heavy and run fast? What's the training plan for hybrid athletes look like? Take one of the grain of salt with individuality in mind, of course. Yeah, so the term I would say hybrid athlete is pretty new, but the idea has been around a long time. It's just like really good all around athlete. You look at the decafeline. They do it all. It's nothing new. It's just a new term. Whenever you're thinking about being good at all these different things and being good across the spectrum, you have to understand you're not going to be great. A really good hybrid athlete is never going to be an elite marathoner or an elite power lifter, but they're going to be really good across the board. You can be really good in that realm, but understanding that, okay, I'm good at a lot of things, but you can't be great at a lot of things because at that point to compete at the elite level, you have to start to specialize. And when you specialize on one end of the spectrum, you start to lose fitness at the other end. And that's completely normal. And so you have to make sure that you're aware of that and understanding like, okay, I'm fine, losing a little bit of my fast switch modes of fibers because I'm training to go these really long distances now. And that's what I need to be successful here. With that said, if you're looking to be a really good all around athlete, thinking about training the entire force velocity curve, thinking about training all of the different energy systems, making sure that you're showing up any weaknesses that you have. And if you're competing, trying to really let your strength shine. I would say that's probably the best way to go about it in a very just general term. I think hyerox probably gives way to the largest competition stage available to these quote unquote hybrid athletes. Do you have any recommendations for athletes who are looking to do their first hyerox or something similar within that that performative stage? Get comfortable, red lining for a really long time. It's not a comfortable thing to do. And just you training that ability to go into the pain cave and go to that place of discomfort and stay there for a long time allows you to get better at doing that. And so yes, you want to train the certain qualities of strength and power and speed and endurance to help you with each of those different modalities. And then when you're talking about more technical things like the ski, or the row or if you don't have really good form like getting a coach to improve your form, that's going to help. If you're not really good on the run, getting a coach to help you with your running, that's going to be very helpful because the running is actually half of the then. So that's more probably you can make up the most time is if you can improve your running and your aerobic capacity to help you recover in between each of these events and then while and then still keep a high pace while you're running. So like again, you said hybrid athlete for the high rocks, you need that massive aerobic base to help you be able to recover during in between the events. But then you also need to have a really high view to max and high threshold so that when you're sealing is pushed really high, you can have a high speed relative to that and it will feel like a lower percentage of that threshold. Great advice. I want to talk about VO2 Max. I want to take the topic of running and sprint into the topic three here of building an aerobic engine. So right now, Lance, you find yourself in a series of 100 mile races, which is elite as it gets in the world of endurance racing. Not many people listening to this can likely relate to an athletic pursuit of the stature, but many can relate to both the one and the need of becoming aerobicly fit. So what's what would you deem as the crawl walk run approach to adding more endurance exercising to your routine and we're talking gen pop here. So is there a science to the injection of the zone to how often what duration, how we're pairing, which training maybe leaves zone to off the table for right now and just kind of talking more layman's terms, how somebody just starts to get more aerobicly fit. The first thing to do when you're wanting to get aerobicly fit is find a modality, find an activity that you enjoy doing because while you're not necessarily going to have to love every second of it, if you don't at least enjoy what you're doing, you're very unlikely to do it at all and if you're not doing it, you're not going to get better at it. Right? So that's the first thing. It's find something that you enjoy. So that can be running, that can be hiking, cycling, and elliptical swimming. But when you talk about slow steady state aerobic building that base, it needs to be something again that's repetitive, that's cyclical, that you can keep your heart rate steady for a really long time and that is working primarily the switch muscle fibers. So those are some key things that you want to consider when thinking about what zone two is what modality that you want to choose. Then you have, okay, well, do you want impact? Do you want low impact? Do you want no impact? That will help you derive, okay, do I want sprinting, running? Why guess you want to be sprinting and then zone two? Do you want running? I mean, you have to be pretty fit too. Yeah, you look at these aerathoners that are going for sub two, like they're, they're, it's wild, they're paces, and they're just chilling. They're like metabolic, they're just like chilling, it's insane. But yeah, jogging, hiking, walking, whatever it is, being able to keep your heart rate steady with that repetitive motion focusing on the slow twitch muscle fibers. And just a quick side note to that is one question that I actually get often is, oh well, I don't really want to spend time on the treadmill and I have to strength train anyways. Can't, I use my strength training as a way to do my zone two. I can keep my heart rate steady and in my zone two, the entire time because I'm doing this strength circuit. And the answer to that is no. The reason why is when you're doing strength training, you're working your fast twitch muscle fibers. And so again, by definition, when we're in zone two, we're working slow twitch muscle fibers. And the heart rate increase that you're experiencing when you're doing this strength circuit, there's a blood pressure response to that as well. So it's not truly just this cardiovascular work that you're doing, you're having different pressures that will increase your heart rate. So that's a big differentiation to make, just something that I wanted to throw out. No, it's a valid one. Certainly, I mean, I hear that argument as well. Like, oh, I do kettlebell complexes, like that's my zone two and I do it for 40 minutes and I'm swinging the bell around. You don't have to be in a treadmill to do a aerobic exercise. To your point, you can find a modality that peaks your interest and helps you maintain the consistency that you need to do. But yeah, to your point, weightlifting isn't going to essentially replace it for you. And I feel like especially those who may have predominantly hypertrophy based background, strength based background, maybe they haven't injected a whole lot of aerobic training into the routine. And now they're looking to get into that. Find swimming, find, just go, you know, going for your walks, you know, find cycling, find something that you really learn to enjoy. And I always like to use the recommendation if you are in an area with nature that can provide those settings for you get outside. Now, you're not only getting in the aerobic benefit of it, but now you're surrounded by nature and, you know, there's not really much better than that for your mental health as well. Yeah, you're getting the sunlight, you're getting the fresh air, super, super important. Like if you can do this stuff outside in the sunlight, you're you're going to just compound the benefits of what you're doing. And to go back to your original question, kind of the the prescription for somebody getting into it, once you find that modality that that works well for you, that you do enjoy. The first thing that you want to build up is your frequency. So how many days of the week can you do this? Ideally, you get a minimum of three, and then you can start to build that up to a five or six times per week. And again, let's just take easy jogging or walking as an example. So we get ourselves to do five or six times a week before we start to increase the duration. So if all you can do is a 20 minute, 15 minute, 30 minute period of walking, get out there and do that. By the way, walking is one of the most underrated things ever for your health. So get the frequency up first. From there, once you can get about five or six days a week in, then start to look at increasing the duration. So increasing that volume to where your each of those sessions is at a minimum of 45 minutes. That's where ideally we want to be. But don't let that to track you from, oh, I can't get in 45 minutes, even though I could get 20 and not do anything. 20 is better than zero. 30 is better than zero. But ideally again, 45 is going to be the minimum. Something's better than nothing. Every single time, yeah. And with that duration, eventually getting one of those sessions per week of the easy slow, sustained duration stuff, have one of those sessions be a longer duration of at least 90 minutes or more. That's going to be very beneficial as well. So build up to 45 minutes each of those sessions, then at least one of 90 minutes from there, if you have the luxury a little more time, then you can start to shift one or two of those into higher intensity sessions. So once you get that aerobic base that you've been building for a while, the frequency is there. The duration is there. Now you're going to sprinkle on a little of the high intensity stuff. So you're working in zone three, zone four, zone five. If you're just a general population client, if you're just looking to improve health and longevity, play around with all the different zones. So in three, four, five, all throughout there. If you're a runner or an athlete needing performance, the closer you get to your race, the more prescriptive, you'll need to be as you get there. So the closer you get, depending on your race demands, you'll start to train closer to those. Then when we talk about strength training, because again, strength training is incredibly important to pair with that cardiovascular work. We want to be doing that one to three times per week. Again, depending on where you are in the season, if you're an athlete, if you're in season in the middle of competitions, you're probably going to bring it down to one, just to maintain what you've built in the off season, off season, you can get up to three, and some athletes, again, depending on where they're at, will probably hover around two for most of the year. But that's how I would go about developing those, those programs from people. We're going to go off script here for a second. What about people out there who they're like, I don't really need to lose weight. I mean, I feel pretty good about how I look. I don't really need to do whole ton of cardio. Well, there's a huge benefit of being a aerobically fit for your heart and for your longevity. Can you speak to the benefits on the cardiovascular system of injecting cardio? And it sounds like it's kind of a no brainer. But there are a lot of people out there who they stay fit enough just by walking around in a metro area, eating well, eating decently well, and having a relatively active lifestyle. Or there are those who are maybe just a bit more gifted than others, right? With a body type that they're very satisfied with, that doesn't take a whole lot of maintenance in the gym. What are the, you know, the bare bone benefits of cardiovascular injections into your everyday life for heart health? Right. So when you talk about just like doing the bare minimum, so again, getting, getting three of those 45 minute sessions in per week, we see a major decrease in all cause mortality. So cardiovascular disease, diabetes, you name it, it will improve your chances of not having those. When you pair strength training with it, it becomes even exponentially more. So you can do just strength training and have great benefits of reducing your all cause mortality. You can do just cardiovascular cardiovascular work and have the same, but when you actually pair them together, your health and longevity is going to be so much greater. So we talked about not just having a long lifespan, having a long health span. So how independent are you, late in your later years in life? Are you able to put your own suitcase up in the over-aid compartment when you're traveling? Are you able to pick up your brand-gid, you know, and play with them and keep up with them and run around just that independence, that enjoyability of life dramatically increases when you are just taking the time and making it a priority to do those bare minimums. Where does VO2 Max come into play? There's a lot of dialogue about the importance of VO2 Max right now. And I would say, when I was in college, we were barely measuring VO2 Max, you know, for D1 athletes, it's become so much more a piece of the conversation just for Jen Pop. Now you see the garments, you see all the newer technology measuring this, how accurate, a wearable on your wrist is a different discussion for a different time versus going into the lab to get this done. But how does VO2 play a part in, like you said, health span and longevity? And why are we using that as a metric for those components? We're using that as a metric. Can we see again, all cause mortality decrease when you maintain a higher VO2 Max? Now your VO2 Max will naturally decline with age, but there are norms that we see, okay, you're above this, you have excellent, you're above this, you're superior, you're above this, you're good. And at certain levels, again, you're your risk of dying early or getting these chronic illnesses and diseases is greatly diminished. Now an interesting thing about that is there's, I feel a lot of buzz, maybe just the world that we live in, but of recognizing that a higher VO2 Max comes with all these benefits, but in the studies and the literature, they're not actually measuring the VO2 Max, they're measuring the overall fitness and performance and they tribute that to VO2 Max, but there are other variables that come into play when talking about like fitness and performance and like so winning this race. So it's not just the VO2 Max that important, but again, it comes back to maintaining across the spectrum, working all the energy systems, working the entire force velocity curve, and just maintaining that healthy base as at the bottom as well as the ceiling at the top end. Let's can you explain what VO2 Max is to our listeners and layments turn just to understand what is actually being measured with this test? Yeah, so VO2 Max is your body's ability to utilize oxygen. So the better structures you have, so let's say the more amount of conjured density you have, the bigger amount of conjured, you have the greater proliferation you have, the capillary network that you have going to yourselves, if that's greater, you're going to be able to deliver more oxygen to the cells. If you have a higher red blood cell count, the carrying capacity of your blood is enhanced, and so you can bring more oxygen. So there's a lot of breakdown points in the human system, so a cardiovascular system, respiratory system, metabolic system, that can kind of staunch your VO2 Max, and so when we're doing our testing in the lab, we get a really good look under the hood of what's going on. Oh, is somebody hyperventilating and offloading too much carbon dioxide, is somebody just having a really low max heart rate. Whatever those issues are, we can get a very good understanding to look at it and then have training and nutrition protocol prescriptions to try and enhance that, whether that's through training and supplementation, again, trying to fix not fix, but enhance the structures that they're working with, through again, VO2 Max intervals, or base training, or zone three, like increasing the size of the left ventricle, so we can pump more blood through the system with each beat of the heart. So there's a lot that that goes into that. Last point on VO2 Max here, what is the difference between getting this measurement from this garment on my wrist versus going into a facility that's a equipped to measure it. Let's say more appropriately, right? I myself have had VO2 tests done, I'll shout out the spoke treatments here, and what's that? What that has allowed me to understand, like, I burned through my glucose pretty quickly, and that has helped me adjust some of my fueling strategies when I go after something like a 70.3, I probably need to start a little bit sooner than what I was actually doing. So that's just one of the many benefits and insights that you can gain from something like that, but tell us a little bit about the difference between this here on my wrist versus actually going into the lab to get this measured. Yeah, so the the risk-based, the optical sensor on your watch, your device, or wearable, is not going to be near as accurate, because it's measuring the light refraction from the blood, and it's throwing it in an algorithm and estimating what your VO2 Max is going to be. When you're going in and I actually did a VO2 Max test and recently met a ball crate test this morning with one of my athletes, and so what you're doing is you're putting on the mask and you're measuring the amount of oxygen that they're taking in and measuring the amount of carbon dioxide that they're blowing off. And from that, that's how you were able to see, oh, I'm utilizing this, this many carbohydrates when I'm working at this intensity. So a healthy individual will, should be burning more fat at lower intensity and less carbohydrate at lower intensity. As that intensity rises up, you're going to see that fat curve start to drop and that carbohydrate curve start to increase to where if you're working all out max effort, you're burning all carbohydrates in zero percent fat. So again, having that little chart that graph of like, okay, at 150 beats, I'm burning this percentage of fat carbs, 156, you will see that change and then you can use that and raise strategy to be able to say, oh, you know, I need to taper it down or I'm going to have to ingest more carbs and that's going to be over my limit because I know that's going to upset my stomach or whatever that may be. So using it as that, but also understanding, do you have good fat utilization capabilities even in those lower intensities? And so when we're doing a resting metabolic rate test, we can see at rest the cellular health of an individual just by that one metric alone. Do they tend to burn more fat for fuel at rest or more carbohydrates? And you'll notice in a lot of diabetics and pre-diabetics that they primarily burn carbohydrates. An interesting thing about athletes and you'll see this with like a lot of crossfitters and people that just hammer themselves and all they do is high intensity stuff. They never work on that lowerobic base. As soon as they start to increase the intensity, just a little bit, their body has been trained to go, oh, what we're about to go all out here. We better start dumping glucose into the system and because that's what we're going to need. And so they have a very sensitive shift in, in a burning a lot more carbohydrates than they should at those lower intensities. So you do learn a lot about yourself, about how your body works, by going into the lab and getting those measurements. And so the amount of oxygen that you're taking in at that highest level, there comes a point where you had a peak. And there's a, there is a difference between a VO2 max test and a VO2 peak test. A VO2 max test is a test where you get to the end of the test and the oxygen consumption has gotten to the top of what you can see. A VO2 peak test is where there's actually a peak in that oxygen consumption and then it will actually either plateau or slightly come back down and kind of go back and forth in between that. And that's how you know you've hit your true VO2 peak. Is if you see that at the end of the, the graph, the end of the test at those higher intensities, same with your max heart rate. If you're trying to get a true max heart rate test, you want to be able to climb your heart rate to a point to where you're continually increasing the intensity. But your heart rate hits a spot where it plateau's and it can no longer go higher. That's how you can know for certain that you've done a max heart rate test. And so with that indirect calimetry that you're, with the mass that you're again measuring the oxygen consumption carbon dioxide output, you get a true value of how much oxygen your body is utilizing. Whereas the watch again, it's not measuring your oxygen consumption, it's just guessing at what your blood is doing, putting it in an algorithm. And interestingly enough, and this probably isn't the case, but whenever I've compared the VO2 max results that I've gotten with my athletes to the ones that track it on their watch, for some reason, it's always 10 beats lower on the watch than it is in the actual test. So if you think your VO2 max is low because you look at your watch, well, it might be a little bit higher, so that's something good to think about. Yeah, there's a good takeaway. Thanks for bringing that down, Lance. Last heart rate stat that I want to nerd out on and before we get into our final piece of the discussion here today, heart rate variability. This has been a big one that's come up as well as of late. You've seen whoop start to inject that into their dashboard, other wearables are doing it as well. Your personal opinion is this a fair metric to be measuring on, again, a wrist wearable, how accurate do we think this really is. But then also, how important is this metric, right? I feel like five, six, seven years ago, no one was talking about HRV, right? So number one, what is heart rate variability? The number two, what's the best way of us measuring that word, Lance, do we need to really necessarily be measuring this, especially more so gen pop? Is this something we need to wrap our head around? Right. Heart rate variability is the milliseconds of variability between each heartbeat. And so your heart isn't exactly a beating once every second. It might beat 1.01 seconds and then 0.98 seconds. And so there is a little bit of variability there. The more variability that you have, the better it is because that means that your body's sympathetic nervous system is more in control, or sorry, I should say, parasympathetic nervous system is more in control. So that rest and digest system. If your heart variability is lower, that means your sympathetic system is a more in control. And that's your fire flight system. So if you're chronically stressed out, anxious all the time, you may find that your HRV is much lower than when you get it really good night sleep, or a couple of really good night sleep if you're chronically sleep-deprived, when you're well hydrated, when you're well rested, if you use yourself time to fully recover, so that's an important part is understanding that in like when your parasympathetic system is in the driver's seat versus your sympathetic system. It's not necessarily super important. I would say for the general population, but when you talk about athletes that are trying to optimize every little percentage point that they can and do it in a safe manner, they may have like a really hard training session on the schedule for the next day and then they wake up and they see that their HRV is plummeted for whatever reason. It can guide their decision on if they should do that workout at all or if they should taper it, maybe cut it in half, give themselves a full rest day, whatever that may be. So I would say it's more for the athlete and then with your question of, is it even accurate? Again, it comes back to quality and quality out. If you don't have a good measuring device and we go back to the optical sensor on your on your wrist-based wearable, that may not give you the best reading. If you can get it with a heart rate strap, that's going to be the gold standard and if you can get it first thing when you wake up before you've started moving around and gotten your heart rate up, like just sit there and measure that's going to be again the gold standard. And so with people one thing that we have to keep in mind is I can't compare my HRV to yours. I can't say, oh, yours is 96 and minus 72 so you know you're more covered than I am. But we all have a certain range that will kind of plan depending on how fit we are and how we're training. So the most important thing to do and this is really true with most things, even going back to the O2 Max is it's not the actual number on the day, it's the trend over time. So if your HRV is is chronically low for, you know, a male, it's 32 or whatever it is, then okay, well that may just be your normal set point. But if you see it rise or dip, now you know that something's happening. So looking for the trend over time is important. Same with your V02 Max, everybody has a genetic ceiling. You can push it a little bit higher and you look for that trend. But the number the number itself isn't like an end all be all. Yes, we want it to be high when we compare it to norms in terms like when we're looking at our health and longevity. But the most important thing is can we increase it? Can we have those those positive trends over time? Great, all great points. Thanks for breaking those down. I want to transition for aerobic training. Mindset is a large part of endurance. It's easy to crank some music and being out a few reps, speed in the gym itself is motivating to power through a lift. But you know it all too well. I know it when you're high on the road or in the trails for hours at a time with no one but yourself. The thoughts can come creeping in. So Lance, what's your mindset method for endurance training? We're going to talk about you personally for a second and maybe some of those personal experiences then transition into how you're you're speaking and then the dialogue that you're exchanging with your clients. But breakdown kind of the mindset that has to go into something, especially the 100 mile races that you're going after right now. Yeah, so when you talk about the mindset of running 100 miles, having the expectation that things are going to hurt, you like it has to be in the back of your mind. Like you have to understand and know that at some point things are going to hurt really, really bad. And if you think otherwise, you're going to be really surprised because like it's going to happen. And so just understanding and knowing that it's there can be the first thing to really help you get through it a little bit easier because okay, like this is normal. This is expected. I'm I'm supposed to feel this way at some point. When it comes to training for that, putting yourself in those difficult training runs every now and then putting yourself out in the middle of the day, hitting a humidity, you know, if you have a really hot race coming up and doing some heat stress training, that's that's really going to help. And like for instance, you said coming back to my training, the the first race of the Grand Slam that I did this year old Dominion, the heat took me out. And I knew it was going to be really hot in human. I didn't realize how hot in human. And so my heat stretch training, I would say wasn't as good as I would have liked it to be leading up to that race. Everything else was really good. And so my strategy during that race was okay, the race is starting at 40m. I'm going to hammer as many miles out as I can, like try to get some time, bank some time. And I was able to do that. My banked about an hour of worth of time. And then once the sun came up, it got hot, it slowed me down. I lost that entire hour, plus another 30 minutes of the pace that I wanted to be on. And again, if I, if I would have been able to do more heat stress training and be more comfortable in those comfortable situations, I would have gotten through that with a slightly faster pace. But then at the end of the race, when it got dark again, now I got my head lamp on again. And I'm going through the night, I was able to make up most of that, but not quite all of it. And so this, this second race that I just finished this week in the Vermont 100, I did the most intense heat stress training that I've ever experienced. And it was so uncomfortable. The heat is my kill as heal. I love the cold. I overheat so easily. And I actually got at the end of the race, I was walking back to my car. And the Vermont 100, you're racing against horses. By the way, so that was a really cool experience. And some guy comes up behind me and he goes, oh, you must have won the Clyde's Dale Division. Just goes on this big dude, like the biggest guy out there against all these like smaller alterunners. And I just like really made me laugh. No Clyde's Dale horses out there run and no. But anyways, I have a lot of body mass. And my surface area isn't that great when you compare it to like a thinner, spindly or long, limbed runner. So that essentially means that they're better at dissipating heat than I am. And so your, your bigger athlete, you'll, you'll notice that they'll tend to overheat much more. So I was like, okay, I have to do better with my heat stress training because this is my kill as heal. I know it's going to kill me. And so every single day for ever since the, the first race old menion, I was doing either running in the middle of the day, running in the middle of the day with a rain jacket on to create like even a hotter environment, doing saunas, doing hot tubs, whatever I could to get physiological adaptations that would help me during the race. And that was one thing that really helped like the seven weeks of misery of running in the heat allowed me to not be quite as miserable on the day and for a month. And I was able to to get through that without as much discomfort and my RPE, my rating of perceived exertion during those really hot moments where I would either be fully exposed to the UV or I would dip down and hit a pocket of humidity that wasn't as great as what I think it would have been if I didn't put myself in pain cave and and do those things leading up to that race. I think this is a really great transition into telling us a little bit more about how you're training for these races lands. So we're going to close things out today by turning up the intensity and you know complaining on one mile wrong can be daunting for some of the gen pop listeners let alone 100 but bring us a little further inside the pain cave of what you've been going through what it looks like the train for these races, how you manage your time, what fueling looks like. So number one, let's just talk about training cadence and breakdown. What's a week look like for you right now? So right now because I'm in between two of the races that are really close together I'm just recovering this week so I'm only doing massage, did some cold plunge to I'm still my legs, my feet are still swollen so trying to get as much inflammation out of the body before I start training up again but when I am in actual training block to where I can push things I'm training six days a week and I'll have one full rest recovery day because that's where you actually get all of those positive adaptations right you you have stress then you have rest and that's what you equals growth if you don't have that rest component then you're just perpetually breaking your body down and you're never fully realizing those benefits and I find a lot of ultra under because you have a lot of type A people that do like ultra and triathlons they'll hammer hammer hammer day in day out and never give their body a full rest day and I'm like you're really not optimizing like all this hard work that you're putting in. So I think it's a very important at least once every 10 days to have a full rest recovery day even just to leave your central nervous system chill out and recover. So for me I find that for my body once every week works really well to have that full complete rest day and then in that I'll do during the training I'll do one to two strength training sessions and that'll be focused on maximal strength because with the ultra-end distance running you're filling up those buckets of your aerobic base and the slow twitch muscle fibers and so we talked earlier about training the entire force velocity training all of your energy systems so when you're in the gym if you're doing medium to light weight and you're doing 20-30 reps of something you're training muscular endurance and you're getting that out there when you're running. So I like to say to the endurance athletes you know do build strength in the gym build endurance on your runs don't try to build more endurance in the gym you're just overfilling that endurance bucket so I'm trying to fill those buckets probably where they belong I'll have two long runs during the week and I'll do them on back to back days usually a Friday Saturday or a Saturday Sunday and what that allows me to do is to safely accumulate a ton of volume and a really short amount of time safely because you're getting that little bit of rest and recovery in between so I would never really for myself or any of my athletes for a training run program more than 30 miles so during a peak week of training it would be say a 30 mile Saturday and then a 20 mile Sunday so you're still accumulating 50 miles of volume on that weekend in a 36 hour time frame but you're not at the risk of injury near as much as if you were to hammer that out all at once. From there I also make sure I had at least one high intensity effort I usually do two and again the high intensity efforts are dependent on where I am in this season the further away I am the further the further out that I am from the race and the event the more I'll be working at the top end of the spectrum the VO2 max stuff the threshold stuff as I get closer to the race I need to get more race specific so I'll do a lot more zone three tempo interval stuff so for my high intensity days and then from there the other days are filled with three to four easy runs and then again lots of recovery you can't train what you don't recover from and so that's another thing I see is like people put in a lot of volume a lot of intensity but not put the time into recovery and that is when your body adapts and you get stronger. The first reaction to something like this for somebody who's never done something like this is who has the time. Time management has to be a big player here talk a little bit how you manage to run your business and train with your train your clients and then train for yourself for something like this. It's all a compromise right so I don't have I don't currently have a family and so in that sense I can be very selfish with my time. I have my own business so I can be very selfish with my time I can set my own schedule so again very fortunate that I have those capabilities and then I can kind of put those workouts in where they'll fit in between my clients which is which is really really nice and then I don't have a lot to do in the evening you know I'm not social I don't go out at night like my I have zero social life like running is life running is life training is life coaching is life and like I'm very fortunate that I really enjoy what I do you know it doesn't seem like a job to me it's it's just the hobby that I like to do and so it's it all kind of works out that way but with with these higher volumes in spending more time I am really busy so I'll have 16 17 18 hour days and with that again I don't have time to go out with friends and stuff like that so I do make sacrifices and during certain times of the season where I need these higher volumes like that's just something that I prioritize that doesn't mean that you can't do these types of events and with a family and kids and a social life you just have to be a little bit more savvy with what you're doing and manage the training a little bit differently there are plenty of people that can compete and do well with lower volume stuff lower volume weeks lower volume training and I would I would say if you're in a lead level and you're competing at the top you don't have that luxury you do have to kind of go all in but if you're at that level you're making money doing it your family probably understand like okay hey like we're getting some money from this like this is how we're paying to bill so like go off on that three hour four hour run whatever like we'll I'll take care of the kids during that time um so again it just really depends on on your lifestyle on your priorities how elite you want to be or how competitive you want to be at that um but yeah you can you can definitely do it at a lower mileage and say like three key runs a week one one being a long run one being like a threshold tempo run and then an easy run and then like one session of strength and then like the rest recovery so you can do it in other scenarios what does rest and recovery you mentioned having that that dedicated rest day either every seven or ten days right full stop and then there's of course some active recovery days that people can inject as well if they find that they they need more than just that one solid day but what does what kind of recovery modalities are you injecting into your routine you mentioned massage before what other modalities are you using yeah so I'm a big fan of massage so every week on my rest day on my full rest day I'll go get a 90 minute full body massage and then on one other day of the week I'll also do an hour foot massage and I have honestly felt over the last couple of years that when I miss that I feel so much worse and so then my next week of training is not near his high quality so for me understanding that like okay my body really responds well to massage like I have to keep this in other things that you can do you know some people respond well to red light therapy when it comes to cold plunge and cold baths I usually detract from it unless you're doing like maybe back to back things say you have like two back to back and you need to recover because the body needs that little bit of inflammation that happens like a little bit of inflammation is good a lot of inflammation is not so good so after a race I'll do I'll do the cold plunge and I try to get as much of that inflammation out during training I'll just deal with the discomfort of inflammation to get the training adaptations of training benefits from it some other things that you do like stretching active mobility working on your joints is very very important again road running I would say is a little bit worse when it comes to just getting in that repetitive motion there's not a lot of linear off-counter movements you don't have to like chop up your steps because you're going over rocks and roots and things and so it's even more important for road runners trail runners is a little bit better you're having that very slight variability with your running but if you do find that your recovery is not as good as you like you can all ways also do some cross training so if you still want to build up that cardiovascular system you can do some electrical work you can do some biking work you can do some swimming some other again like zone two modalities cyclical work that's going to help improve that cardiovascular system just understanding that you may not get the neuromuscular components of it that will transfer over to running I'd be remiss not to ask you what the heck you're eating to keep up with this amount of mileage on a weekly basis so how are you fueling what does nutrition look like and you know what what have you found is working really well to get you through the summer and the challenge I eat everything one thing that I love cookies so cookies are on the menu pretty much every single day but another thing that's on the menu every single day is food meal sorry every something else it's on the docket every single day is meal prep delivery so I use a meal prep service where they deliver the meals at the beginning of the week and they're in my fridge and I can just put them in the microwave or I can put them in the oven it's really quick and it that also allows me to be a lot more time efficient and be able to slot in more client calls have more time during the day because I'll literally shelf it in the microwave for three minutes shovel the food down my mouth and then I'm on to the next thing right so just getting the calories yeah and so so that's another thing like you make the you make it less of a priority to okay I'm gonna go out to a nice dinner and we're gonna spend 90 minutes two hours and enjoy the food it's like all right I'm gonna the food's good enough and it's it's getting all the requirements that I need it I'm getting the protein needs I'm getting the calorie count that I need to support the training that I'm doing and that's probably the most important thing is is matching your caloric intake and your protein needs with the training that you're doing to make sure that your body can recover properly and a big thing I didn't mention but the most important when it comes to recovery is just sleep and sometimes unfortunately like I'm not the best at that either because I'm trying to fit in so many things during the day that my sleep window shrinks but when it comes to preparing for those big races it's like that is the priority the weak leading up it's like okay if I'm if I'm behind it all like we gotta get on my sleep so trying to make sure that I'm not programming in any clients in the early morning so I can just sleep in catch up on that because when you're racing for 24 or 30 hours that becomes a major player in how you're feeling we know from different studies that the more sleep to drive you are the greater your perceived exertion level or the greater your perceived level of pain is and that was actually talk about earlier the like the mental tricks when I was doing my 200 mile race last year I that was a race that you actually have to sleep during and so I slept for about five and a half hours total during that 200 mile race and I was in extremes amounts pain like nine out of ten on the scale but I knew from those studies that oh if if you're sleep deprived it's gonna feel a lot worse so I'd be like okay I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna get to the next state station I'm gonna take a 30 minute nap 45 minute nap 75 minute nap whatever it was and if I don't feel better when I wake up then I'll quit but I won't quit until I give myself that option and so I would always wake up and it would only be like a six out of ten I'm like okay I'll make it to the next state station halfway there back to nine out of ten same thing all right I'll quit after I take an app see how I feel so if I'm not feeling you better so sleep is a very very important part of that recovery process. Sleep is king I think with all the recovery tools and all the bells and whistles that exist today you can get the boots you can get the guns you can get all the shiny toys but if you are not sleeping and getting quality sleep none of that's gonna matter it's that's the most bang for your buck that you can get when it comes to recovery. For your nutrition I think what you said it was interesting because I think every athlete kind of gets to a point where you really do start to view food as fuel I remember that light bulb moment for me when I was in the middle of a training cycle and I was just feeling tremendous and I was like one of my doing right now that sets this apart from anything else that I've done in the past any other challenge or endeavor race and it's just my nutrition was the most dial that had ever been and I started to learn from that experience and you really do start to understand all not everything I have to eat I have to be over the world about right I was not to say you need to go into the old school chicken broccoli and rice like we're not saying that I think we made that clear plenty of times on this and this series but it gets to a point where you start to understand what foods drive you and help you feel your best whether you're sitting in a meeting for work or you're going out to the trails for a run. What do you find that is for you Lance? What are your key foods within the macros that you're eating that kind of help you feel your best? So my pre-race meal will always be overnight oats. So I've kind of dialed that in that always makes me feel really good it gives me a little ballast to kind of solidify things because once I get into the race it's usually a lot of gels and processed foods and so having that more whole food solid food leading into that race is very very helpful when I get into the race again like I mentioned when we look at the results on of the O2 Macs test even though we're moving in an ultra marathon at a very slow pace considered to compare to what we could do and that intensity is low we're utilizing a lot of fat but we're still utilizing carbs too and even this guinea stavas will have 50 to 70,000 calories of fat stored on their body and so we don't necessarily need to fuel with fat when we're running when we're training when we're racing but we only can have about 2,000 calories of carbs and that'll get used up really quick so you see in marathoners around that 20 mile mark hitting the bunk you know hitting the wall, bonking that's usually because they're not fueling too well and they've lost primarily all the carbohydrates that they have so replenishing your carbohydrates as you continue through the race is absolutely key again fat it's actually going to slow down the digestion absorption of those nutrients and you need them uptake fast right you need you need that that carbohydrate in there the later stages of the race you will definitely start to crave more solid foods so during the the evening time aid stations sometimes they'll have like porrogues and hamburgers and hot dogs and you'll see people slamming those back a lot a lot of warm foods usually in the night time because it will get cold but when it comes to to racing and training it's important to have a list of foods that you know work for you and then a list of foods that you know don't work for you and you can only do that through experimentation and so when I talk my athletes about nutrition and trying to figure out what those are for them there's there's kind of three buckets that we've talked about so you talk about like your processed foods that's your like carbohydrate drink mixes that's your gels um then you have your semi processed food so that can be like your bars and your choose potato chips things like that and then you have your your whole foods that can be your rice balls your hamburgers things that are a little bit more full and so within those three categories I recommend to my athletes finding different foods that agree with them and each of those categories and then within each of those categories finding something that is sweet finding something that is savory and finding something that is salty can be very beneficial so you have essentially nine options sweet savory and salty that's processed sweet savory and salty that's semi processed and sweet savory and salty that's whole foods and you know if you're fortunate enough to have a crew with you then they can have all of those things for you ready to rock and roll when you get to the aid station and you know get what you need when you need it because after 3040 miles there's no telling what you're gonna what you're gonna want but there are definitely times that you're gonna be like I can't touch another gel I don't even want to drink this carbohydrate drink like you just get so sick of it and so yeah so having those different taste profiles having those different consistency is really important to allow you the opportunity to continue to get in calories continue to get in carbs so that you can continue to fuel your body and not just break down and so I want to end today's episode with you giving us three tips for someone looking to break into endurance training for the first time yeah so tip one we talked about it earlier is choose an activity or activities that you really enjoy doing the benefits from endurance training continue to develop over months and years and even decades and the more enjoyable the activity is for you the more likely you'll stay consistent with it for this longer time frame so that's number one number two build up your volume slowly and gradually so different structures in our bodies adapt on different timeframes so for instance our cardiovascular system will get stronger faster than our tendons ligaments and bones will and people will often accumulate volume too fast because their heart rate is adapting quickly and they don't realize that their soft tissues aren't quite ready for the uptick and this will often lead to injury so your shin splints your planar fasciitis killies to nidus those things number three would be when it comes to how much time you should spend training at different intensities remember this training almost high coup from Steve Magnus lots of easy occasionally go hard very rarely go see God love that lands thanks so much for joining us today tell the audience how they can fall along in the rest of your journey yes so I'll be posting a lot of my journey on instagram instagram is Lance a Parker I'll also be documenting and putting some of it up on my youtube channel which is Parker Peak performance and then my website is Parker Peak Performance.com awesome looking for it to see some of the behind the scenes content good look on the rest of your series thank you so much thank you for having me this is fun thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: Built by Science ｜ Anatomy, Biomechanics & 6-Week Training Program [ukDf53OlKwE].txt ===

The human body is a complex collection of muscle, bone, and tissue. It is intricate, beautiful, full of potential. It's a work of art, and it's yours to create. Your anatomy is a blueprint. You are an architect, beneath your skin, by the plans for your fastest, strongest, most powerful sound. If you can learn the structure of your skeleton, you make up of your muscle, and the mechanics of movement, you can create your best possible body. Learn muscular anatomy, biomechanics and calc, the skeletal system, muscle function, and the best exercises to build the mass mass. Your knowledge is power, memory of self, to build yourself, build yourself with the best. Mind, muscle, mass the peace.

=== FILE: Butt Lift (Bridge) - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [URhjZLFfKMs].txt ===

Life out on the floor with your hands at your sides and your knees bent less than 45 degrees. Your feet should be placed about shoulder width apart. This is your starting position. Now exhale and push mainly with your heels while you lift your hips off the floor and keep your back straight. Then inhale and slowly return back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Butt Lift Bridge - Legs ⧸ Glutes Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [MqQlfjQOmHA].txt ===

Life out on the floor with your hands at your sides and your knees bent less than 45 degrees. Your feet should be placed about shoulder with the part. This is your starting position. Now exhale and push mainly with your heels while you lift your hips off the floor and keep your back straight. Then inhale and slowly return back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Butterfly - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [oGxc2ph8Fnw].txt ===

Sit at the butterfly machine with your back flat on the pad. Adjust the arms of the machine so there's a slight stretch when you grasp the handles. Your upper arms should be positioned parallel to the floor and your elbows should be slightly bent. This will be your starting position. Now, exhale and push the handles together slowly as you squeeze your chest in the middle. Then inhale and slowly return back to the starting position.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's 10 Commandments Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [q-6M4uzur8Q].txt ===

I'm CT Vulture and here are my 10 commandments of weightlifting. Command number one! I said I command you to grow and some of you motherfuckers will come up to me and say CT I told my muscles to grow and they wouldn't listen to me. They would not obey me and that is because you do not have the proper mental attitude behind it. If you don't say it with conviction, if you don't fucking mean it then shut the fuck up. You're just wasting breath. You're talking to your goddamn self and they like people up for doing that shit. You must train your goddamn brain. Believe it! Speak it really, really fucking believe it. That is the difference. If you just say it to be saying it or just the copy this, oh motherfuck know it's not gonna work. You have to really, really fucking believe it. Then say it motherfucker. If you ain't gonna say it without believing it, then just shut the fuck up. Fuck up. This is command number two. Listen up motherfucker. Question. Question for yourself. What is impossible? Never accept the limitations of someone else. Somebody told you that it's impossible. Don't even try. Give up before you even fucking try it for yourself. Never accept the goddamn limitation that someone else has placed it on you. These side for your fucking self, what is your limitation? Try it to you son of a bitch. Try it for your fucking self. Then that is the only way. The only fucking way to know if you can't do something. I gave it a fucking try. That's how I know. Get your punk ass in there and give it a try. Command number three. Pain is necessary. It's any scapable. It's no way. Let me out of pain we are born. Pain is a must pain. It is a necessity of growth. Be comfortable with being uncomfortable pain is unnecessary evil. Get used to it motherfucker. Make friends with it and the kick fucking pains. And that way when it comes to take you down you can first start fucking shit off. I'm used to you motherfucker. Bring it on come on pain. Sit your ass down and let's have a fucking lunch together. Me and you pain. Let's do it. Best fucking brings. Command number four. Listen. Listen to your own fucking body. The best judge of what you should and should not do inside the gym is your own fucking body. Learn to listen to it. Learn. It will speak to you. Your body will tell you if a movement or exercise is working. What should I do today CT? Take your punk ass in the gym. I'll go into the gym and if I do a set of curls on the picture bench and that fucking set is feeling exceptionally good. Guess what motherfucker? I'm going to keep doing it. If it's the only fucking exercise I do during that workout, I'm going to keep doing it. Because my body told me that this shit is working that I am beneficial to you. I am gaining from this. My body told me not fucking something glasses motherfucker with a test tube and it's got damn hand. Tell me how to work out. Fuck no. My body told me that this shit feels good. Listen to your body motherfucker. Learn to listen to it. It will tell you what's the perfect rep range. It will tell you the perfect amount to live. It will be your fucking personal training. The man with number five. Pay attention motherfucker. Get a picture. Get a clear picture and your motherfucker in mind of what you want to achieve. Focus. It is so fucking important to be focused. A whissy whissy motherfucker. You need to hide. You need to coo. You fucking in the middle. Fuck I can't stand any indecisive motherfucker. I can't stand a motherfucker that I don't have a test tube. You look forward to the stick with something. Be focused. Pick your goal and stick fucking to it. You wish he watched the motherfucker. I can't fucking stand you. Get the fuck out of my goddamn gym with that bullshit. Focus on what you want and goddamn it don't let nothing stop you from getting it. Commandment number six. Listen up. Change. Changing the routine. Your body is adaptable. It will adapt to the same routine over and over again. Our bodies are magnificent creations. Magnificent machines designed to adapt. We put it through rigorous training and the body is able to adapt to that training. So you must change it up. You must trick the body. You must convince it that this is something new that you must adapt to. Don't get comfortable motherfucker. I got something new to throw it to you ass. And your body will be like shocked. What the fuck is this? Crazy motherfucker did something totally different. I wasn't ready for this shit and he threw it at me and it will be forced to change. And that change will produce a growth. Commandment number seven. Angles are essential to grow what the fuck guy you talking about. See, tea? What do you mean to angle the angles all our bodies are different? We are unique as to where the good lord made us. Your insertions where your muscles connect are different than mine. So therefore we can do the same fucking exercise. You'll feel it at the mid range if you buy a sip. And I'll fucking feel it at the bottom of my buy sip. And we're doing exactly the same goddamn exercise. Why? Who the fuck in different? Do the little different experiment. Don't be afraid to go outside the norm. Outside the book because the perfect angle only the perfect angle for you can be determined by you and how do you do that through trial and fucking error. And the one that feels best. Do that motherfucker is that simple. Commandment number eight. Overloading as defined by CT footage. You can overload the muscles by taxing the fuck out of them by putting extremely heavy weights upon them and forcing them to do that goddamn way. That's one way to overload the muscle. Another way to overload the muscle is by volume. I just come at you so hard with so many motherfucking reps. The overload the goddamn muscle make the muscle uncomfortable. Back is overloading to me. Stress it the fuck out making muscle stretch. God damn him. Fuck. What is this crazy motherfucker coming up with next? I fucking think I'm gonna throw it at me next. One minute he wants me to lip on his goddamn weight. And the next minute he wants me to do throwing the goddamn rest. This psycho son bitch is crazy. He's fucking throwing shit at me. And what does he want me to do? I want to fucking make you a dad. I want to fucking make you change. I'm going back to change overload that fucking muscle. Make it do what you wanted to do. Command that motherfucker because it's yours. Tell it what to do. It must grow. You must grow. I command your podcast. You grow. Command that number nine obsession. It's not just a fucking word that I like to use. I don't care. What it is that you do. If you want to be the absolute best day, I don't give a fuck at the slipping pancakes, washing windows, cutting a fucking grass or taking out the goddamn trash. If you want to be the best at it, motherfucker is nowhere around it. You must be obsessed with the YCT because I'm fucking sad so that's why obsession is any stable as any fucking champion. You dream that shit. You sleep that shit. You eat that fucking shit. You breathe that fucking shit. If you have obsession, it's fucking dead. It's dead. You can taste it without obsession. Your ass will never be great. It's impossible. Fucking obsession is an absolute muscle to greatness. Command that number 10. And this is the good one. I'm big enough. I'm satisfied. Never ever become satisfied. Satisfaction is the death glow. It's the end of the line. You cannot progress farther than satisfaction. Satisfaction is the end of your growth. It's over for you, motherfucker. I am satisfied. I no longer need to struggle. I no longer need to push myself. I'm done. I have reached my goal. Fuck. Satisfaction. Am I satisfied? Not about long fucking shot. If my journey over fuck no, and I fucking will not go quietly until the night. I will go kicking and fucking screaming. Fuck Satisfaction. Fuck it. Those were CT buttiers. Tink Commandments to grow. Follow them. And remember, I command you to grow.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Armed Warfare Arm Workout [fsPKfahw-B0].txt ===

I'm the one that you were told about. I am the one who commands his muscles to grow. I was the be anything but happy. And the land of I'm the one who commands his muscles to grow. I was the be anything but happy. And the land of I'm the one who commands his muscles to grow. Hey you paid here with me. I'm sitting my favorite foot. Fuck that bitch. Here we are beautiful. World famous metrophlex non-vis and guess what? Guess who's in the house today? Bodybuilding.com and the superman from Compton. They ask you to see what is your style. My style is a combination of geosarsic, preacher, Raven, lunatic, all that chicken buying in one. Hold on to your seats, my little fucking food. We're gonna do some spectacular today. We're gonna work arms. Arms. Are you ready? Act like it there. Alright, our first warm exercise that we do is something called random selection. Why do we call it random selection? The man that is doing the exercise has one dive. And that is the key. Pumpkin out, try safety extensions. And sets of 10. The other man will be on the pin. Every time 10 reps are completed, he will change the pin. He will change the pin to whatever the fuck he feels like changing the pin too. That's why we call it a random motherfucker. He will change the pin to different times. For 10 sets, 10 times, 10 way to fuck back when I was in school was 100. Random selection. Let's get it. One set. 100 reps. It won't be as easy as you ride making it look. But you ain't ride my fucker. That's why if you do it yourself, you might have a tendency to take it easy on yourself. But if you have another motherfucker switching to pin, you don't give a fuck about how you're feeling. Then it's random. Come on, Blue Oak. Alright, bye, Svell. Come on, Brad, did it. Woah. Rock,ich? What for, Boo Lo? I guess we can start working out now. Alright, next exercise. Single arms, pizza curler. I love this exercise that allows you to concentrate on your efforts primarily on the body steps and muscles. Hmm. Hmm. Hi, Redweapons. Barrow's tune predicted that the one from Pomp that was come. The Superman from Pomp that would be here. Little today, no. The one is here. Come on, Boo Lo. I was working out with Abba to Einstein. I'm sure you heard of him. Boots of hair, faculty on animal, smudder, fudging. He's fractured my fucking head. He said, sit down, he reps your rubble. He's like, you never have, you know, got them sit like that. I'll rip. You do them to your can't do them, motherfucker. You know, fuck me and so strict. Fuck going by the book. Fuck the book. I was a jeans, but I was just no. There's a little structure. But at the end, the last set of every exercise is until failure until you can't do no fucking more. Albert. So you motherfucking MC squared slide rule of using motherfucking's digital answer. TK, you know, fucking more. That's how I mean. Get it, Boo Lo. Yeah. Get it. Shit. Hey, you don't get it. How do you get it, man? Take my stuff, I want to do. Oh, get this shit. Put this, let's, let's talk something about, let me do a pause, let's get this shit. Dude. Come on, Rob, get it. Woo! Rob, get it. Rob got power. Ooh, the front is motherfucking pole. See. I mean, you're gonna do a boo, Lo. I can't do it, I can't do it. I can't do it, I can't do it. Frinch curls. He's next exercise. Bye to be able to knock on. Keep up. Hey, Carl, let's have Frinch curl. There's an anger I shit to do with curl, and you're gonna be, you're gonna drop it down to your back as far as you're, old ass arm, and let you in my face. Just do this thing. Put the meat in part of the trash, sir. Alright. Back in camping in the garage where I started training, we used to just call them back on. Me and Stone Pony Jim Brick. I never asked that motherfucker how many reps, how many sessions are gonna do. If I was that motherfucker was there, I was gonna be there. My rest bitch, last and long as the cheap, my training partners or partners do they fit. You got to end me, that's the sign of tiffing. If I can get shit at Bullho. Working all heads in the three headed monster, try to fit. I don't know, so just want them to talk to him, with yourself, my mime remind me, I'm 55 year old man. Fuck what I hate, I mean, the prove that damn you know. See, that's when that other boy takes home. My motherfucked ass shit, I'm still got CT motherfuckin' foot. Damn that would be. Hey, you can't deal with me. Hey, you must submit to my wheel. Fuck, pain. That's right, I see the fuck you pay. T-Crues. It's a modified exercise, dumbbell curls and hammer curls. Time of change, you're done with a little twist. And arms will be out to the side. Formant 18, not much weight will be you, but not much weight can be you. Notice how the dumbbells, or cap in the T position. They're uncomfortable, so motherfuckin' uncomfortable exercise. Every day it's probably funny, comfortable. Big ride doing a T-Crues. Legend, dare me, boo, low. Everybody know him. Come on, Rod, dude. There we go. Exercise number four. Two positions kick out. I do have a number for you motherfuckin'. We will do 20 repetitions in this position. Man, without taking a rest or a pole. We will switch position to the overhead kickback. And perform another 20 repetitions. All right, first position, cross body. And I don't have to remind you motherfuckin' my elbow. It's fucked up. You're gonna talk about me, not fully extant. It's time to take motherfuckin'. Two. First 20 down. Without getting up. A resting, I'm calling you, my momma. You're here up and on the telephone. Same thing, other side. If you keep the tricep, slain it toward the rear. Toster tension, even in the lock-up position. The tricep was under stress. Oh, fuck that fit up again. Get it, boo-lo. That good, didn't boo-lo. Carving our bodies. Out of pressure and blood. To be different, distinct and individual. I don't want to fit in your mouth. Mother fuck your mouth. 32 year love affair with this shit. Never cheated on, I'm not once. Three this shit. I ain't in my mother fucking bones. Two thousand five they spit me open. And put a motherfuckin' metal bag inside my heart. So motherfuckin' when I tell you I got iron in my heart. I mean that shit literally. I don't want to be at it. Fuck that shit. Three position, pull-ups. Three position reverse grip pull-ups. They will be done. Three position. Why? Medium and close. Three position pull-ups for biceps motherfuckin'. Come on, boo-lo. Demonstrate. Medium grip. Good guy damn boo. Look at him go. Finally, close grip. Yeah buddy. You think that shit's easy? Well, I got to have a take your prepped to meet nads over there and try to see that. It is not easy. Your biceps will be fucked up. Medium grip. Close grip. Ha ha ha ha. Medium and two hundred seventy five pounders. You see doing each fucking reverse grip pull-up. Underbar. By the heat motherfuckin' was gon' be doing this. That ain't it. You hear must go under the bar. Hmm. Have your head is over the bar. Are you even even with the bar? You are doing it incorrectly. Must go under. No way. Fuck you try to set up. You'll notice that some reps, I do with my hands in a medium position for added tension or little extra twifts filled with the hands close together. I'll try to set up. Maybe try to have the hip out. You will fall the fuck flat on your face. Get it, Bullo. The diamond. You will see we have five sets of dumbbell lined up in order. heaviest of light. We will start by doing 20 repetitions with the heaviest dumbbell. And a progression, 20, 20, 20, five different dumbbells, five sets. And as a reward for successfully completing the first 100 repetitions, we will be in the beginning, the descent back and reverse order. So, an all-in-all. One set. We'll consist of 200 repetitions. Challenge yourself. Don't look for the fucking easy way. Now you motherfuckers are already bouncing it off the floor. No, what happened is we touched the floor. They want to make sure that we're going all the way down. Everybody is different. Some of you motherfuckers are pretty strong. And some of you not. It's okay. The way the stills tip, to make it even playing feel for everybody is effort. Effort can be given a 100%. 200 reps along the way your mind will have time to play tricks on you. Your mind will have time to sneak a, I can't do this sitting your head. But me doing something good job on the first 100 reps. Rob is going to reward me by letting me do another 100. Thanks Rob. That is where I tell you how important mental power is. How important your will, your spirit. How important it is to be able to say, I'm going to do this shit. I don't give a fuck if it does hurt. I'm still going to make it through. My wheel is strong and it's still my desire to be the best. Right through the pump. Right through that motherfuckers pump, right up. Lactic acid is built up like a motherfucker. Right through that shit. At T-shirt, tight there motherfuckin' now. Come on, boo, low. Fist this guy damn shit, boo, low. Wetch money, do motherfuckers is coming in. Say, not me. Alright, buddy, build them.com. You got a chance to witness a little of what we do over here at Met Your Square. All you motherfuckers out there in, Bodybuildup.com land. Try to sit at home. Everyone use the best supplements on the fucking planet. Muts of farm motherfuckers. To get the entire workout and hang out with the big boys and rarefire at air, Bodybuildup.com.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #1 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [QtS_io6Q-Dk].txt ===

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I got damn brain believe it. Speaking really, really fucking believe it. That is the difference. If you just say it to be saying it, or just to copy this, oh mother fucking, no, it's not gonna work. You have to really, really fucking believe it. Then say it, mother fucking. If you ain't gonna say what I believe it, then just shut the fuck up. Plan? Plan? Plan? Plan? Any way? No idea. Plan? Can I never make a line Contact you , or tiff? F !

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #10 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [TZWRJPSYJNE].txt ===

The Manment Number 10, and this is the good one. I'm big enough. I'm satisfied. Never, ever. Big come. Satisfied. Satisfaction is the death blow. It's the end of the line. You cannot progress farther than Satisfaction. Satisfaction is the end of your growth. It is the end of your journey. It's over for you, Motherfucker. I have satisfied. I no longer need to struggle. I no longer need to push myself. I'm done. I have reached my goal. Fuck Satisfaction. Am I satisfied? Not by a long fucking shot. It's my journey over fuck no. And I fucking will not go quietly until midnight. I will go kicking and fucking screaming. I'm not satisfied. Fuck.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #2 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [_ZDW8aONSNA].txt ===

This is command number two. Listen up motherfucker. Question. Question for yourself. What is impossible? Never accept the limitations of someone else. Somebody told you that it's impossible. Don't even try. Give up before you even fucking try it for yourself. Never accept the goddamn limitation that someone else has placed it on you. These side for your fucking self. What is your limitation? Try it to you son of a bitch. Try it for your fucking self. Damn that is the only way. The only fucking way to know if you can't do something. I can't even a fucking try. That's how I know. Get your punk ass in there and give it a try.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #3 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [9KyZE1GJNyU].txt ===

Come on man number three. Pain is necessary. It's any staver ball. It's no way. And the out of pain we are born. Pain is a must-pay. It is a necessity of growth. Be comfortable with being uncomfortable. Pain is unnecessary. Even get used to it, motherfucker. Make friends with it and the and kick fucking pains. And that way when it comes to take you down you can first If they're fucking shit off, I'm used to you, motherfucker. Bring it on. Come on. Pay six o' ass down and let's have a fucking lunch together. Me and you pay. Let's do it. Best fucking readings. Thank you.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #4 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [ueR4uPw42O8].txt ===

Music Command me number four. Listen, listen to your own fucking body. The best judge of what you should and should not do inside the gym. It's your own fucking body. Learn to listen to it. Learn. It will speak to you. Your body will tell you if a movement or exercise is working. What should I do today CT? Take your punk ass in the gym. I'll go into the gym and if I do a set of curls on the picture bench and that fucking set is feeling exceptionally good. Guess what motherfucker? I'm gonna keep doing it. If it's the only fucking exercise I do during that workout, I'm gonna keep doing it because my body told me that this shit is working That I am beneficial to you. I am gaining from this my body told me not fucking some thick glasses motherfucker with a test human. It's got damn hand told me how to work out fuck no my body told me that this shit feels good. Listen to your body motherfucker. Learn to listen to it It will tell you what's the perfect rep range. It will tell you the perfect amount of it. It will be your fucking personal training.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #5 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [OukPSEocqSU].txt ===

The man with number five! Pay attention motherfucker. Get a picture. Get a clear picture. And your mother fucking mind of what you want to achieve. Focus! It is so fucking important to be focused. A wishy-wise, you motherfucker. And neither high, you need the code. You fucking in the middle. Fuck I can't stand any indecisive motherfucker. I can't stand a motherfucker that don't have a testicular 42 to stick with something. Be focused. Pick your goal and stick fucking to it. You wishy-wise, you motherfucker. I can't fucking stand you. Get the fuck out of my goddamn gym with that bullshit. Focus on what you want and goddamn it don't let nothing stop you from getting into.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #6 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [NoenDJI5e1g].txt ===

music music command number six listen up change changing the routine your body adaptable adapt to the same routine over and over again our bodies are magnificent creations magnificent machines designed to adapt we put it through rigorous training and the body is able to adapt to that train so you must change it you must trick the body you must convince it that this is something new that you must adapt to don't get comfortable motherfucker I got something new to throw it to you ask and your body will be like shocked what the fuck is this this crazy motherfucker did something totally different I wasn't ready for this shit and he threw it at me and it will be force to change and that change will produce a rope

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #7 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [3huzqB-WTy4].txt ===

music Commandment number seven angles are essential to grow what the fuck are you talking about Steve T. What do you mean to angle the angles all our bodies are different? We are unique that's the way to get Lord Mades. Your insertions where your muscles connect are different than mine. So therefore we can do the same fucking exercise. You'll fill it at the mid range if you buy a set and I'll fucking fill it at the bottom of my buy set. When we're doing exactly the same dynamic size wide can we're fucking different? Do the little different experiment. You'll be afraid to go outside the norm outside the book because the perfect angle only the perfect angle for you can be determined by you and how do you do that through trial and fucking error and the one that feels best? Do that motherfucker is that simple?

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #8 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [ujTPd8itonQ].txt ===

music Commandment number 8 Overloading as defined by CT Footch. He did all of the muscles by taxing the fuck out of them by putting extremely heavy weights upon them and forcing them to do that goddamn weight. That's one way to overload the muscle. I never wait to overload the muscle is by volume. And that just come at you so hard with so many motherfucking reps to overload the goddamn muscle. Make the muscle uncomfortable. That is overloading to me. Stress it the fuck out. Making muscle stretch the goddamn head. Fuck, what is this crazy motherfucking coming up with next? I put the fuck as he goes through it. He wants me to lift all his goddamn weight. And the next thing he wants me to do to earn the goddamn rest this psycho son bitch is crazy. He's fucking throwing shit at me. And what does he want me to do? I want to fucking make you a dad. I want to fucking make you change. We're going back to change overload that fucking muscle. Make it do what you want to do. Come man, that motherfucking because it's yours. Tell it what they do. It must grow. You must grow. A command your podcast grows.

=== FILE: CT Fletcher's Commandment #9 Of Muscle Growth - Bodybuilding.com [yOQus9QrzIM].txt ===

Come on, man. Number nine. Obsession. It's not just a fucking word that I like to use. I don't care. What it is that you do. I don't care. What is it that you do? I don't care. I don't care. What is it that you do? I don't care. What is it that you do? That you do. If you want to be the absolute best day, I don't give a fuck at the St. Pancakes, Washington, Windows, cutting a fucking grass or taking out the goddamn trash. If you want to be the best daddy, mother fucker is nowhere around it, you must be obsessed with. Why see? Because I'm fucking sad, so that's why. Obsession is any's edible. Ask any fucking champion. You dream that shit. You sleep that shit. You eat that fucking shit. You breathe that fucking shit. Obsession is fucking dead. It's dead. You can taste it. Without obsession, your ass will never be great. It's impossible. Fucking obsession is an absolute must to greatness.

=== FILE: Cable Crossover - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [aoP0s_MjN-g].txt ===

To get in the starting position, raise the pulleys to a setting above your head. Next, select the resistance you like to use. Then while holding a pulley in each hand, step forward in front of an imaginary straight line between both pulleys while pulling your arms together in front of you. Your torso should have a small forward bend from the waist. This will be your starting position. Now with the slight bend in your elbows, breathe in and extend your arms straight out to the sides in a wide arc until you feel a stretch on your chest. Then using your chest, bring your arms back to the starting position as you breathe out. Make sure you use the same arc of motion used to lower the weights. Hold for a second at the starting position, then repeat the movement for the prescribed number of repetitions.

=== FILE: Cable Crunch - Abs ⧸ Core Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [3qjoXDTuyOE].txt ===

New below a high pulley with a rope attached. Grasp the cable rope attachment and lower the rope into your hands or next to your face. Flex your hips slightly and allow the weight to arch your back. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your hips stationary, exhale and flex your waist as you contract your abs. Your elbow should lower toward the middle of your thighs. Hold it the bottom contracted position for a moment, then inhale and slowly return to the starting position. Make sure to keep constant tension on your abs throughout the movement.

=== FILE: Cable Rope Overhead Tricep Extension - Tricep Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [mRozZKkGIfg].txt ===

I touch a rope to the bottom pulley of the machine. Grasp the rope with both hands and extend your arms with your hands directly above your head. The palms of your hands should be facing each other. Your elbows should be close to your head while your arms are perpendicular to the floor with your knuckles aimed at the ceiling. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the rope behind your head while keeping your arms stationary. Then you lowering the rope until your triceps are fully stretched. Then exhale and use your triceps to return the rope back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Cajun Chicken and Sausage Meal Prep IG： lisabrunolli #mealprep #healthyeating #dinnerrecipe #fitness [mPk_88rwyLE].txt ===

I love a quick and easy meal prep that is full protein and with 40 grams of protein and only 360 calories. These cagin chicken and sausage bowls are just that. You're going to stir by placing two tablespoons of uncooked rice into each container. I like to use minute rice because I feel like it cooks really well in the oven and then you're going to add one fourth cup of bone broth to each container. Bone broth is a great way to get some added protein to this meal and then you're also going to add one fourth cup of fire roasted diced tomatoes. You can use any brand you want. I used the Trader Joe's brand and then you're going to add a teaspoon of cagin seasoning to each container. It's sort of really well. I like to do this before I add the raw chicken into it because that way I can taste it in a just a seasoning as needed and then you're going to add your vegetables of choice. I chose yellow bell peppers and red onions. I did about a fourth cup of each one in each container. Now of course we have to add our protein. I found these chicken sausage links at Trader Joe's and I cut up two of them and divided them evenly amongst the two containers. Try to find chicken sausage links that are around 160 calories and have 16 grams of protein. I also cut up a pound of chicken in bite-sized pieces and I divided that evenly amongst the containers. I mixed it up really well and then of course I topped it with my favorite seasonings, a new powder, garlic powder and then I added a little bit more of that cagin seasoning on top. Put them in a preheated oven for 45 minutes during halfway in between. When they were almost done I took them out and I actually topped each of them with two tablespoons of cheese because why not? Jesus life it makes everything better and it adds extra protein. They came out so good. You guys gotta let me know if you tried them.

=== FILE: Calum von Moger's 20-Minute Chest Blast [7gajG6Dk7Pg].txt ===

I'm not interested in today's bodybuilders. It's too much. A classic for ZX. I don't know what's in there. Dave Draper, Ranko, Colombo. That's what I want to look like. But maybe just a little bit better. I'm calmed down for a little bit. So this workout I used the last five weeks leading up to the Miss Universe. I competed in the LVC and it's great for basically hyper-chry, getting ripped and ready for a show. Basically the workout consists of five exercises, starting on dumbbell flies, pre-exorse chest, after that dumbbell incline bench press followed by dips followed by flat bench press and lastly cable flies. The A with this workout is quite intensity. It shouldn't go any longer than 20 minutes. So you end, get it done, get out. Start a go for your dumbbell flies. Do two sets, that's 12 to 15 repetitions. So a little light weight, the A-mins, to basically pre-pricete the chest for the rest of the workout to follow. Following each set, the rest for at least 30 seconds to a minute. So with this one, you want to use strict form, full range of motion, nice stretch right at the bottom and the squeeze of the top. Consistent tempo, nothing crazy, you're just trying to warm up the muscles. So for the dumbbell incline press we did three sets. These ones are a bit high intensity. You want to use reps ranging between eight to twelve reps. The rest time is about a minute. So do one sort of warm-up set followed by two heavy sets. It's always full range of motion, don't say yourself short, get right down there and full squeeze of the top. So full contractions. For the dips, these are essential for our basically building an overall square chest. I think they are very overlooked, the highly recommended them. Basically you want to be doing three sets. You can manage 10 to 10 if you do 20 to 20. The main thing is, is you only rest 30 seconds max between each set. So you want to keep them from keeping up the takes and working with the fire. So when you get up to the barbell bench press, by this time you should be well and surely warmed up. So you don't really have to worry about a warm-up set so much. So you do three sets reps ranging between 15 to five. Today I did a high set of the start followed by a medium set about ten reps. I maxed down three reps to the very end. So at the very end of the workout we do the cable flies. Just do it completely, flood your muscles with our blood. Get a good pump, two sets, we do about 20 reps on each month. So not heavy, you just the aim is to just pump them up. 20 reps each set resting about a minute max between each set. Strict form, you want to go full range of motion, squeeze it, hold it for a second at the bottom, and then slowly let it go back up to the top. So that's it for this chest workout. The full article is broken down on the page on bodybuilding.com. Go check it out. For more articles, videos and content like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Carbon by Layne Norton Now Available On Bodybuilding.com [3Q0wa-SSYt0].txt ===

My name is Lane Norton. I'm a BS and biochemistry and a PhD in nutritional sciences. I'm a competitive pro-natural bodybuilder and powerlector. I formulated the carbon line of supplements because I saw the need for science-based products with effective ingredients that were properly dosed and no proprietary blends. Every ingredient in every product in the carbon line has a specific purpose to help you reach your goals. Now I've made a career busting bro science. And what I saw in the supplement industry was quite frankly a lot of bro science. A lot of products with ingredients that weren't backed by any science or ingredients that were science backed but way underdosed. Further, the idea for proprietary blends drives me nuts. You as a consumer should know exactly what you are getting in each product with each ingredient. So you can pick the best supplement to reach your goals. I'm a BS and biochemistry and biochemistry.

=== FILE: Carl Roberts' Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [PzMwnxfFIVo].txt ===

Hello, I'm Carl Roberts. I'm Marine and winner of the Military Transformation Challenge by the NACMOM. Growing up, I was always running here in high school. Based on my graduate, I graduated from the United States. It was always pressure. It was always been small. I tried out the football and I prayed. You know, stayed on the team for about a month. Well, it wasn't. Growing up, it wasn't never really a big concern in mind. I just went to school, I had fun. You know, it didn't really bother me. I just did whatever I had to do. And you know, it wasn't about it. It didn't really come a pressure until I was in the Marine Corps. And it recorres a big thing to stand active and stand in shape. That's when we came up big part of my life to try to get more active, try to put on masks from like that. I got the station in open-out with Japan. Once I got an open-out with Japan, you know, just being a new fresh out of school, try to find out where I was, I said in, I just went out for boxing. I did that with the coach for about a year. After that, I would say, probably towards that my last year. I was a junior deployment. I started transitioning from daily boxing to a base of the weight training. I had a roommate. And a couple of guys that I stayed with that, for a big, you know, a gym rat. At first I was going with them and that base, like I had no knowledge of what I was going to do. This is the one I was going to try to put in the heaviest way that I could live. Going there and pushing out for your time, going to another machine. But basically they would give me the basis. And the guy lines like, these are the compound movements, which is supposed to do overtime. I was just doing them on. So it became just a daily routine in my life. I would go to work, go to the cafeteria, you go to a prep child. And gym. And that was just basically every day I was at the gym. I just kept that same routine. I came back to state side. I would go to work and then child and gym. Once I transferred to reserves, I was activated and deployed to Afghanistan for a year. Once I came back from that deployment, I basically transitioned out of the Marine Corps. And I swear to God, again, I stayed at press. It was a hard time for me to accept. Once I got out of the military. It was a big car on up there. So all I had knew, and I stopped working out. I was just sitting home, hanging out, and basically I just got out of the real bad shape. So it took me just to take a look at myself and to like, man, I really can get back to the gym. I just kicked myself in the butt and got right back into the gym. Basically I was on the internet one day, just googling. And obviously I was looking at some military stuff. I came across military transformation challenge. I'm by the building that calm. So I figured, you know, why not choose this as a beginning to get myself back in the States? So it gave me a goal, three, four, something motivated me. I'm a type of person. Someone tells me that I'm not going to be able to do something. That's what motivated me more to try to do it anyways. But once I set my mind on something, and anybody can attend to that special repairs, I'm a stubborn person, so I'm going to try it out. You don't try it out from my cell here. So me having that goal to reach four, I'm going to do whatever I can to reach that goal. So that's basically how to happen. Just search around the internet, I came across it and did. And it's just like that. Everyone's body is different. So what will work for me without work for another person? Like, I don't switch to an anger. I've been 18. I would look at his workout. I tried to do his workout, I spent a little like him. And my body structure is not like his body structure. So basically what I would do is I would work out like the log of what I would do. And if it, you know, hot film after that workout or the day after, I feel good about it and I keep it. If I didn't, I just toss it out. So basically I got to get a feel of what work for you. What's trending, I constantly try to switch up my training. Try to keep my most confused. Everybody, every two to three weeks, I try to incorporate some new. Whether it be weight training, I change up the reps, I change up the sets. I basically try to keep the class and change my work. I'm changing here. When I first started, I would do basic bodybuilding routines. I would do bench press, ink, and deep line, and things like that. Now over time, I transitioned into incorporating more resistance. But I would put the resisted bands on my bench press or just don't want more superstitions. Dropsets, negatives. Like I said, I can't switch up the routine. I don't want to do the same thing every day and every week. So I try to keep it class, keep it switching to set. If it would be a proper fit one day, that stuff like that, I try to keep it constant. Change my training. I try to keep my reps and set it based off my goals. So if I'm trying to build mass, I obviously have to increase the weight. Drop the reps and increase the sets. I try to do nothing less than eight reps. That's trying to keep the split. It's like a three-day split or four-day split. Right now, I keep my split and three days, which is usually chest shoulder and trice. Back and body, then legs on one another day. And then I throw up the abs, no. Within three of those days as well. Photos three days split, I keep most of my training bases. Just free weights, the basic squat, bench press, military press, deadlift, main, corporate machines. So I keep it basically bodybuilding, bodybuilding style, weight training. And then those, the extra, like a Saturday, just not do it. Something like a high intensity training, crossfit, stuff like that. Now cardio, it varies. Some time I make the cardio in the morning. I try to keep, when I do cardio, I try to keep a good break in between it. If I do cardio in the morning, I'll give myself a four-hour break before I do weight training. I don't really need too much cardio. So I just live in my part of about 15-20 minutes a day. Now rest days, basically try to stay away from the gym or rest days. I just refuel my body from all the feasts I gave it throughout the week. Just try to stay away from the gym, I don't do any cardio, any of that, just strictly rest day. My motivation for weight training is just, it's like the feeling that it's been there in the gym. Just going out there and taking out the stress of the day, just going to gym is going all out in the weights. I get the natural high while I'm working out. Just being dedicated, so even though I met the sacrifice going out at night, it was really nice one day of the week. It's just basically keeping that mindset, it's damn mode of motivation. Nutrition is the main thing. The most important part, you don't really grow in a gym, you grow in a gym. So my most important part of my course work at a meal. I base my diet off of what my goals are. So whether it be leany, leany, mass or just maintaining what I already have, I stick with hopefuls, hopefuls, and fit a big part. In my transformation, over doing research and reading, I've learned that hopefuls are more beneficial to everybody. So most of my proteins come from lean meats, my carbs, my crunch, rice, red cereal, and then I keep my fats with almonds, peanut butter, almond butter, and things like that. I incorporate a whole lot of veggies in my diet, fruits, I keep to a minimum, base I use those for F-my dessert at the end of the day. The try to switch up the meals every week or something like that, just to suck a little bit different. Instead of just baking it, some of the time I just cook it in a crack, I just base to try to switch up the hot prepared and just go for an air. With seasonings, I try to stick to two to three seasonings, salt pepper, maybe seasonings, salt, hot sauce, does play, I love hot sauce on all my food. I don't try to incorporate a lot of ingredients. I try to keep it to a minimum, so I can know what I'm putting my body. I stick to six to eight meals a day depending on how much I'm going to schedule. Play's out, what I start eating, I'm practicing about six, thirty-seven in a morning, and I try to eat every two and a half of the three hours. I want to restaurants a big part of keeping track of what I'm assuming is an app, as far as calorie counter. Base and you can basically, as a bar core, you can scan something that's pretty different in store, or if you go to the store, you can type in the restaurant, and then pull up all the items that they have in it menu, and you can see what the company carries is in there, I'm in the car, so things like that. So I can still keep myself from my nutritional look. Cheat meals, I do love my Cheat meals. I go to my mom, she has the soul food, come back from church having a big day. So I look forward to those Sunday fees, where the fries, macaroni, fried chicken, stuff like that. So I still consume those meals, but it's keeping me to a minimum. I'm hitting all my goals, or if I'm prepared for something, not me, limit my Cheat meals to once every 14 days, or something like that. But I get at least give myself one Cheat meal based on the reward for the artwork that I've got throughout the week. I pick myself based off what I need in my daily diet, to reach my fitness goals. The most of my supplements are basically what I'm not able to get to do out just consuming daily foods and natural foods. Usually I stay with protein, creatine, multiple vitamins, healthy fats, like fish oil, postwork out, food, and things like that. I started out not being very knowledgeable about what I was taking. I would buy something and take it thinking it was going to do the work for me. Over time I've learned to read up on the supplements, I do a lot of research. I go on the internet, read reviews, look up the ingredients. The main thing is basically what's in the supplements. A lot of supplements have a lot of junk in my builders. So based on look at what the supplement does as well as what's in the supplement. When I wake up the first thing that I do take when I wake up at RMIBCA, I think my most vitamins also consume protein shake in the morning. Sometimes in place of breakfast before I work out, I take my pre-work out. Don't take a pre-work out that often. I try to cycle that. Most of that stick with the black coffee and some BTAs before I work out. Take the creatine, I was before and after I work out. I take my protein and mix it with the peanut butter, oatmeal, sometimes with those some berries in there. Just a different field. You give it a different taste that it's having to say. You know, playing protein shake. So I like to throw different things in there to increase the playground. Everybody's body reacts different. Different supplements. So once again, what works for me was actually working on the first thing. So I basically tell everyone what's up. With protein, creatine, multiple vitamins, based on the most important start-off. I would never go back. You never say, this has been a big part of my life. Even my job now, and I'm a first trainer at the gym. So I try to keep the gym as a big part of my life. Period. I feel that my goal here is just to be helped and motivate others. You know, like myself. It wasn't for other people out there. For me to look up to, I probably will be where I'm at today. So if anyone has any questions or any information, I'll even visit my body space at C.R.R.V. Jr. or on Twitter at Let me Skope Jew and Superman as well. For more videos, content, keep coming to Body Booter.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Celebrating 26 Years of Bodybuilding.com ｜ An Annual Look Back [UgKxh8kj9x8].txt ===

Oh

=== FILE: Celebrity Trainer Gunnar Peterson Trains Sly for the Expendables - Bodybuilding.com [8ePMb16DBpA].txt ===

You're working with somebody who not only has a background in bodybuilding and a background in training and a background in athletics, but you're working with somebody who has a mind set of an athlete and is ready to execute it from the mini walks in the door to the mini walks out of the door. My name is Gunner Peterskin, I'm a personal trainer. I've been a Los Angeles for 22 years and anybody in everybody. The people that I'm lucky enough to work with work hard, they bring intensity to it. It's not an accident that they're at the top of the food chain. At the end of the day, these people are putting in the hours they are putting in the work and their diligent and their relentless and they're unyielding and they will not be denied and that's why they are. They are. This is one of the few things in life that's completely fair. Meaning, whatever you give it, if you do give it all of that, you will get all that back. I think I have the best job in the world. I like watching people get it. I like watching people catch that same jazz that I call it years ago as a fat kid realizing well, I can change how I look, which changes how I feel, which changes how I carry myself, which changes how other CV, which changes how I see myself and it all connects. It really does connect. For me, everything that goes on here, for me, helps me do everything outside of here. That much better. And I always tell people, if you can take this and the strength, you know, little and figurative that you gain in here and let it loose on the outside world, you can do whatever you want. You can do whatever you want. If I weren't with my kids, this is the only place I'd rather be in really. I've been working with Slype on and off for eight years and seen a lot of different metamorphoses of the physique and the one thing that's consistent is the intensity of the work and the consistency of the work, the variety of exercises, meaning it's constantly changing. Based on my design, his interpretation of it, we go through a number of different things every single time he's in here and I'll tell you that there's nobody who puts it down as hard as he does. So I'll have him do or he'll do a gorilla pull-up where he talks at the top, but then we'll add a plyometric component to the upper body. So it's when you catch him with these turmen. So he's going to get the pull plus the tuck. I want it to fly it. I want it ballistic. I want it release catch. That's not all I mean. So what it would look like is, it's not just a standard pull and it's not just a standard pull, gorilla pull with a tuck. It would look like that with a catch release, but then it's having repeated. So he's going up. So for your joints, when you're strong enough when you're comfortable enough with it, that when you feel what it does for you, you've got to train the movement, you've got to train the joint and you've got to train the muscle. You know, flies more than the guys who doesn't come in for a movie. He's a year-round guy. He's a 50-week-see-year guy. And there's also saying in my opinion it's maintenance, but we're training constantly striving if that are constantly pushing the limits and pulling back when there's a reason to pull back, whether it's injury, and the guy's been through. I mean, because he does so many of his own stunts, he's been through every injury from torn calf, broken toe, jacked up from, I don't know if Jack up's the medical term for, but you'll see him the expendable. He has something on his thumb that's actually due to a real-life injury that became part of the character because of the injury. The guy's about as close to bionic as you'll find out there. You have to take into consideration the cost of what's you wearing in this movie. Is this a shirt off scene? Is this a shirt off movie? Is this a straight-up Tommy Tanktop? Or is this going to be more buttoned down suits with the occasional forearm flashing? And then depending on if he's training on the day of XYZ scene, you work around that too. He's not afraid to take chances outside of the gym. That's somebody who had no problem eating canton and drinking water for two weeks straight. If that's what it takes. And that's why people think, well, he's only training three to five to seven hours a week how come I can't get there? Because if there's 160 hours in a week, pick away seven, what are you doing for the other hundred? What are you doing for the other hundred and sixty-one? So I will make the right choice of 10 times out of 10 outside of here. He understands his body, he knows what he can't do. He knows when to pull back and he'll come in and say today, you know, we got to watch this, you know, the traps of the will tight this will jack up so we'll be able to learn. Over the years of our training, the workouts go anywhere from my hour to two hours. This is not a guy who comes in, works out and then goes out and sits in the sun. When he writes, he has kids, his wife is a family. I've heard this from him and I know it to be true. What keeps him coming back is that he knows without the gym, he wouldn't be where he is. Had he not found a gym, he never would have found his path to cinematic great. There's just no way and he will tell you that. I think the shape you're going to see is lying. Pretty expendable is going to blow you away. I think he's going to raise the bar, the fact that he's not 28, he's not 38. He's not even 48. If you could put him up there again, send anybody. You can send anybody. And let's not forget that Rocky won the Oscar for Best Picture in 1976. This movie is something that he's passionate about, that, you know, he's all in on this. The people who are in it do represent action, physique, over a number of years. They cover a lot of different demographics. I mean, I've seen the trailer for it. I've seen parts of the film. And it's exciting. I'm fired up to go. I'm ready. I will get the powerful with no butter. The movie comes out August 13. And I will be there with a pack of friends. That's for sure. I hope you guys do watch the explain holes. I think you're going to be happy with it. And I certainly don't have to feel Sliding Keep working out because you know he's going to. I'm going to Peterson. I'm going to watch the explain holes. You should too. In fact, I may go right now. I'm going to be there with a pack of friends.

=== FILE: Cellucor C4 Pre-Workout ｜ Science-Based Overview [_lAP0mp24gE].txt ===

My name is Chrissy Kendall. I'm the Science Editor here at BodyBilding.com. I received both my Master's and my PhD in Exercise Physiology from the University of Oklahoma. And in today's product review, we'll be discussing Celia Cores C4. C4 is a pre-workout that contains a combination of ingredients to help energize you through your workout, but also help with building muscle strength and size. This product contains beta-alony, creatinine nitrate, arginine alfakita glutinrate, and an energy complex that contains caffeine and the accruing. So when Celia C4 formulated C4, they put together a combination of ingredients to really help you in the gym. Beta-alony helps to delay fatigue. It's great for interval training as well as high intensity resistance training. There's also creatinine nitrate. It helps with increasing muscle strength and size, but with the addition of the nitrate group on the creatin molecule, it helps it to dissolve better in water, so you're not left with any sort of sand or gritty taste at the end of your drink. Also, the nitrate group works really well with arginine alfakita glutinrate. These help to increase blood flow to your muscles, which will give you your muscle pump during your workout. The blend is great because it contains 150 milligrams of caffeine per serving, but it also has the accruing. And the accruing is a stimulant similar to caffeine, but has less of a tolerance issue. So it's still going to help give you energy and focus in the gym, but less likely to be habit-forming and won't disrupt sleep at night. So C4 costs about $1 per serving and comes in really unique flavors, like pink lemonade, strawberry margarita, and my personal favorite orange dream cycle. And that concludes my product review for CeliaCore C4. For more customer reviews and ratings, check out the store, and for everything you need to reach your health and fitness goals, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Change Your Life - Goal, Plan, Track, & Motivate with BodySpace from Bodybuilding.com [NTv-CW_RMsY].txt ===

This is how you change your life. You set a goal, pick a plan, track your progress, and get motivated. When you hit your goal, you begin again, goal, plan, track, motivate. You hit your next goal, and the next is again and again. You keep getting better and better and better still, but you won't settle for better. You want to best. Body space is a revolutionary social fitness platform, built on a simple, forced-ed process. You're going to have a goal, plan, track, motivate. Within eight months, my father who was at diabetes passed away, then about eight months later, my sister passed away from health issues, and then I got a divorce, and that was all within eight months, my first year of teaching. Once that happened, I kind of sunk into a depression, and fitness no longer became something that was really important to me at that time. That time it was more of survival-moting, keeping my head above water, just trying to get through each day. Eventually, one of my friends from college said, hey, you got to check out this program. It's on BodyBilly.com. It was a 12-week transformation, and I started in that program. After 12 weeks, I dropped about 45 pounds. My name is Josh Black. My body space is Amin Black. I am 36 years old, and I am a professional teacher. I ended up in an unhealthy relationship, and I had gained a lot of weight, and my health just started to decline, and I wasn't happy anymore. And I knew I had to make a change. I wasn't setting a good example for my patients, as a physical therapist, and a coworker introduced me to BodyBilly.com and a challenge that was there. And so I signed up for the challenge and started reading about everything on BodyBilly.com, and it changed my life. I'm ginger-journ again. My body space username is G.Jern again. I'm 30 years old, and I'm a physical therapist. I wound up being 255 pounds in 2008 after having a back injury. Putting on the pounds really resulted in me being uncomfortable. I'm hardly able to tie my shoes. It was just not who I truly am. When I got my back fixed, I was able to start working on my health and eating better. And it wasn't until I saw on BodyBilly.com, there was this diamond-ties nutrition challenge. I got really excited about it. So I decided to take the 12-week challenge. After 12 weeks, I lost like 40 pounds, and saw that I had a lot of muscle, and I was very excited, and it entered some BodyBilly competitions. I wound up setting the goal of outlandish goal of becoming the natural Olympia champion for women's bodybuilding. I'm Pam Brown, 46, mother of one, married, and my body space name is Hedgehog. I'm an engineer at the local utility company. In 2007, right after Thanksgiving, I woke up the next day, lifting the mirror, and I was completely disgusted with the way I had looked. Ever since I was a kid, I've always known as having big bones, stocky kid, but when I was looking at the mirror at that time, I had seen that I had ballooned up to 315 pounds. I was dating so much at the time, and I was basically called fat. I was called unattractive, and I told myself, nah man, I ain't going out like that. My name is Antonio Wright, my body space username is Hedgehog. I am 33, and I'm a network administrator. Your best self starts with a goal. Whoever you are, this is where you begin. You select a destination before you get in your car, set a goal before you get in the gym. My initial goal was that I had to start getting weight off, because I didn't want to be called fat anymore. But over time, my goal progressed from when I started getting into competition, it was more of a sense of, I'm just trying to look getting more. I actually tried to look good to look my best on stage, goals change, they change, and you have to change with. Having goals is imperative to stay your success. If you don't have a goal, if you don't have a vision, how are you going to know a direction ahead? When you set a goal, you're in charge of that goal. You make the goal. So you know exactly what you're going to get out of what you're doing. I like to set some that kind of scare me and push me outside of my limits. Goles to conquer my fears, and then smaller goals just to make sure I'm having daily success. I think goal setting is really important because it gets you in that mindset. You start thinking about where you want to be, and you have that mind-body connection, and your body follows where your mind wants you to go. To reach your goal, you need a plan. The goal without a plan is just a dream. A plan will make your goal a reality. If you don't have a plan, you're going to fail, and everyone needs a plan that you need to have a start, you need to have a middle, and you need to have it and gain. One of my favorite quotes is if you fail to plan, you're planning to fail. I mean, whoever has gone out and tried to achieve something great, unless they envisioned it first, and I think if it kind of like a roadmap, who's ever gone out and road trip, knew the destination where they wanted to go, but just drove around hoping that they would arrive at their destination safely. Right now, no one does that. You usually do everything you can to set up success. When you have a plan and follow it, that's how you get to your goals. I think it's extremely important to have a plan because it's your roadmap, and you're tracking what you're doing throughout your process of change, and getting to your goal. Once your plans in place, it's time to track your progress. You won't know where to go without knowing where you've been. Keep yourself accountable by monitoring your results. It's funny. I see people going to the gym actually daily basis, and I'll see them just go in, they'll work out, and they never track anything. And I always ask myself, how do you know if you're really making me progress? And I've always told myself, you know, numbers don't lie. Mirrors lie, people lie, but numbers never lie. I know that on December, such as such, I was able to bench 250 pounds. January 1st, I was able to bench 260 pounds. If I didn't track that, I would never know. It's important to track your progress because you can see how you're coming along. You can see if this plan is actually working free. You can look at your pictures that you've put online and see from week to week. Oh, my waist is getting smaller. My biceps are getting bigger. As you go through the process of going through your plan, it's important to look back and re-valuate and see, okay, well last week during this workout. This is how much weight I was lifting. My energy levels was I feeling good that day, was I sick because it's all about pushing yourself. So you can look back and say, okay, well, I did this many reps with this weight. I want to push a little harder this time. So I'm going to increase the weight a little bit more. So the trackings really important for reflection as far as evaluating how you're doing yourself and your efforts. It's important to track what you're doing so that you can see your progress along the way. Having before and after pictures is good, but seeing your progress along the way is even more important because a lot of the times we don't realize how much change we've made throughout the process. It's really important for me to see those changes to know that I'm on the right plan and that I'm on the right track and that I don't need to change things up. The final step is perhaps the most important motivation. You must become motivated and motivate others. You have to light the fire and carry the torch. You have to hunger for change and make change possible. Become an inspiration. When I wake up in the morning, I go to bodybuilding.com and I go to the motivation tab. I also turn to my friends on body space and look at what they're posting and seeing their successes and what they're doing and how they're progressing because really it's addictive. It's addictive to look at other people and see their successes. Most importantly, I like to surround myself with positive people that have the same goals that I do. I'm thankful to have a really supportive family who is involved in health and fitness, but I also found a huge support system through bodyspace and bodybuilding.com because of all the positive information and all the support you get from the other members online. Staying motivated has been important because I've done this time and time again where I start and then I end up falling on my face and just failing. And this time what's different is I feel like I've kept that in my mind all the time and I've got accountability with my body space members and I know that I'm going to be sharing with them later so I don't want to disappoint them or myself. And I aspire to a lot of people through my transformation story and I'm still staying consistent. I'm still inspiring. Not only have I helped change my own life, I'm helping other people change theirs. This is how you change the world. Join body space and change yourself. Body space is a revolutionary social fitness platform built on a simple for step process. Go, plan, track, motivate. It's the world's best personal trainer combined with the largest online fitness community. It's a precise system of innovative workout tools, tracking technology, personalized content and social support. It's the bridge between dream and do. It's absolutely possible to change your life. I changed my life and there are other countless stories on bodybuilding.com and body space of other people that have changed their life. You can definitely change your life. I'm a prime example of that. You know, I went from a 315-pound beach whale to being here at the Bodybuilding.com headquarters. When you finally believe when you realize it's possible to change your life, you can go from this obese person to this fantastic physique where you've got energy and passion and full of life. It doesn't matter where you're at, what low point you're at, how far off you think you are because, guess what, there's somebody else that has been just as far off as you are. Just as bad as you are, just as overweight or unhappy as you are. And they've been able to work through it. Been able to get through whatever situation they have. That's the beauty body space that you can find people that are just like you, that we're in that situation that you might be like right now. And look to them for strength because they were able to do it and they got through it and realize that it's not a pipe dream. It's not something that's not going to happen. It's something that can happen. If you believe, if you look to somebody else that's done it, again asking yourself, without person's done it, why can't, why can't I do it? This is body space. This is how you change your life.

=== FILE: Chassidy Smothers' Training, Diet, and Nutrition Program - Bodybuilding.com [YfSzyUynrHw].txt ===

My name is Chassidy Smothers. I am the 2014 Bodybuilding.com BodySpace Books Model winner. I am a MPC Bodybuilding Champion. I am a US Army Soldier and I am a wife. So my mom was a young mother. She had me at 18. She worked a lot to take care of us, but she was present as much as she could. I was a basketball player. I played basketball from seven all the way until I graduated high school. And she was at every single game, no matter what. If she had to ask the people if you ride the bus too, she was there. There's no greater person. 23 years I lived in Sacramento and I always wanted to leave. See what else was out there. But I felt kind of chained to home. I didn't want to leave. So joining the Army was kind of an excuse to see the world. I was immediately shipped overseas when I joined. So my first experience in the Army was living in South Korea for two years. We got up every morning as a company and five-thirty we were running. When I was in basic training we had three minutes to eat, you know, or you didn't eat. You know, you couldn't eat sweets at all. You know, we went, you know, 13 weeks without sweets. Everything that I had experienced, you know, the three years that I was in the military prior to competing, you know, just kind of rolled on to the competition lifestyle. I never really had my dream body, but my husband actually entered into his first men's physique. Bodybuilding contest and one of the things I thought was, you know, I couldn't be insecure in who I am. Going to this bodybuilding show where there's going to be amazing women walking around. You know, I need to be secure with who I am so I can support him, you know, ultimately. And that's really where it started. And then he went on to win bodybuilding shows and so I was like, let me try this. And so then I started competing and that's really how it all began. I put everything I had into gearing up for my very first competition, which was July of last year. And I placed eighth. It was an extreme, extreme let down. Like, I really, I put everything into it and I really wanted to win, but it kind of was the fire really helped me start succeeding because I learned to just not give up. And if you fail a million times, you got to keep going. So my second bodybuilding show was two months later and I ended up winning overall. So it was a quite an experience. My bar view as far as training goes is I like to focus on, you know, where I actually need improvement and then everything else secondary. I lift weights six days a week and I do cardio six days a week and I take a rest day. I like to feel every single rep. And as far as lower body because my lower body is a little bit bigger, I like to keep my weights lighter and I like to do more reps. So more on the 20 and 25 range. What most women go through is, you know, the, I think that I'm going to get huge. If I lift heavy weights, so that was totally an extreme shock for me when I just started going heavy and my body started altering in, in a facet that I wanted it to, you know, alter. Monday, I typically do heavy leg day with a glue focus. Tuesday, I normally do an upper body day. I like to mix, you know, my upper body all together. Wednesday will be the glue plyometriate stay, so I'll do pretty much any glue exercise that I can find. Thursday, I will go back to upper body and I'll do, I'll touch the parts of my body that I didn't touch on the prior upper body day. The fifth day again is legs and then they six, I do, you know, whatever I feel like I didn't get to hit hard enough or if I feel like I had a really good week where I'm tired or exhausted, I'll do maybe an hour of cardio. I'm definitely not anti-cardio. I like to run, but I have troubles with my knees so I run as much as I can. Then I'll get on the elliptical. I'm anti-ster master though. I'm anti-added. It's the devil. I don't do the star master. Sometimes I like to do like sprints in interval training and then other times steady state. And I like to do steady state more for the mental aspect where I can just like zone out and you know think about my goals and stuff like that. I feel like there's so many different ways to approach nutrition that there isn't a right way. My nutrition, regimen changes all the time. But right now I am high protein, low carbs, vegetables to fill it in. That's pretty much where it's at. Two-mill a week. If it's not hot sauce, it's mustard on absolutely everything. MISSES dashes, seasonings is what really helps me out. There's no sodium and MISSES dashes season and it gives some flavor to your meats and pretty much everything you want to put it on. So I've actually only been doing this for exactly a year. I have done three competitions in the year and when I'm not competing, 80-20 is a good ratio. It's a good goal. It's not always 80-20. When I am doing an 80-20 diet, I will have maybe three to four cheap meals during the week as opposed to when I'm on prep when it's only one to none. But I'm big on feeding my taste buds. I don't really like to deprive myself because it misses with you mentally. I would never tell somebody to eat something that they don't like because it could be discouraging. You won't want to continue to eat clean because you are forcing food down your mouth. Draw out a plan and I stick to the plan a matter of what. As a woman, you might eat the same things over and over one day. You wake up and you feel extremely skinny. The next day you're like, oh my gosh, my thunder thighs. You really have to trust the process when you start doubting yourself again. It goes back to remembering why you're starting and your goals and where you're going. Again, cheap meals, they help. They help. You know satisfying taste buds or sprinkle cheese on there. Not every time, but sometimes you just have to satisfy your taste buds so you get out of your own way. I think it's important that people know not to depend just on supplementation. Work out and your nutrition is the biggest part of transforming yourself. So supplements are just the added bonus to just get, you know, that little extra in there, that little put you over the meal. My glutamine I do put in water as well as the BCA is. My protein it depends on how I feel that day. If I'm in a hurry, then I will shake it up with water and drink it if I'm at home. For a little while longer, I love to put it on ice and have my milkshake or whatnot. Social media actually is, you know, a great tool. You can see what other people use. And I like to look at what they use and, you know, see if it's something that might benefit me as well. Definitely buyable.com, they send these sample packets in all of their orders. So that is a great way for me to try things to do. I absolutely want to be up service to as many people as I possibly can. I want to reach out to everybody who feels like they can't and show them that, you know, I didn't and I'm nobody. I'm nobody. If I can do it, anybody can do it. So I definitely want to use this title to just reach as many people and be up service, help as many people as possible. If I can fail a million times and be an example for my failures, you know, that's what I want to do. So if anybody has any questions for me, they can find me on my body space, chest, medical. And for more videos and content like this, keep coming back to www.bubble.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Chest Anatomy & Training Program ｜ Built By Science [2R7VYUEHKvs].txt ===

You are now to me is a blueprint. You are an architect beneath your skin like the plan for your fastest, strong, and the biggest, most powerful self. If you can learn the structure of your skeleton, the makeup of your muscle and the mechanics of movement, you can create your best possible body. How my corroborate sin this is built by science. When young guys first get in the gym, what's that first muscle group they think of and want to hit? You got it, it's their chest. It's not uncommon to see a young guy get in the gym and hit at 20, 30, 40 sets of bench press and one workout. And that's just one workout. That's not over 3, 4, 5 days a week that they're in the gym. The bad news is if you're hitting 20, 30, 40 sets of bench press every single day, you're either going to end up with a shoulder injury or at the very least bad posture. So as we go through this video, I want to teach you guys not only how to be more efficient and effective in your training, but taking that to the next level with some smart, targeted peck and chest strength. In this video, we're going to cover the muscles. We're going to cover the bones and the joints. We're going to cover all the individual movements that those bones and joints create. And we're going to throw in a few key exercises so that you guys know the exact moves and techniques we want you to use to get the most out of your peck and chest strength. And as that being said, we've got IFB physique pro, Crayca Perso in the house. You guys got an amazing physique, he shredded, he's going to help all of us better understand how to target and really hit our chest muscles. Let's go ahead and jump right into the anatomy. When we're talking about your chest, we're going to focus on three muscle groups here today. The first one and the one you're probably most interested in is your peck major. And that's your big chest muscle. Now, within your peck, there's actually three subsections. You've got your clove vehicular head. And that runs from your clavicle, comes down in a cross, and attaches onto your humerus or your upper arm bone. Second, you have your sternal head. And that runs from your sternum, all the way comes across and also inserts into your humerus or your upper arm bone. There are certain anatomists, they'll also tell you there's a third head and it's called the abdominal portion of your peck. And it actually runs from your rectus sheath, which is a big part of connected tissue, and comes up in a cross, and it also attaches onto the humerus. So while there's three unique subsections, two your pecks, these are a major player. And most times, a lot of guys are really going to struggle with this top portion that's clavicular head. So we're going to make sure we throw a few key exercises into the workout to make sure you're really dialing it in and hitting this area. So we've got peck major. The second muscle group we're going to focus on is called peck minor. And this is a really small muscle group. You're probably not going to want to spend a lot of time in the gym trying to develop it, but it actually runs from a little boney prominence on the top of your scapula called your core co-ed process. It comes down and it attaches to ribs three, four, and five on your rib cage. So again, I want you to know that it's there, but you're probably not going to spend a lot of time trying to develop it. It's mostly there for improving your breathing and your respiration. Last but not least, we're going to talk about your serratus anterior. And this is a muscle you may not spend a lot of time developing in the gym, but it's absolutely critical. Not only for a nice balanced physique, but for developing good healthy shoulders as well. So with your serratus anterior, it actually starts on the inside of your shoulder blade, wraps around and attaches or connects onto the front of your rib cage. So as you guys can imagine, if you've seen really lean bodybuilders like Craig, they've got that great looking serratus, we're going to make sure we show you how to develop that muscle as well, because it's really critical, not only for physique, but for performance as well. Now that we've covered the muscles, let's take a look at the bones and joints involved in creating movement through your chest. We're going to start with the back side of Craig's body. So he's going to turn around here. And if you can imagine, you've got your shoulder blade or your scapula. Now this is really important. When you're setting up on an exercise like a bench press, you want to pin those shoulder blades down and back. So that's really important. It's going to give you a stable base to press from. So your scapula is actually really important, especially when you're doing big, compound exercises. You got your scapula, and then you have your humorous. And those two joints are those two bones come together to form your Glenokeumirl joint. So this again, this is very important. If you don't have a good setup for your chest pressing exercises, you're leaving your shoulders exposed to injury. Last but not least, I'm going to have Craig just give me a quarter turn here. You can't talk about chest without talking about the elbow. Now a lot of people don't think about this, but every time you're doing a pressing exercise, you're going to extend your elbow. So you can't just talk about chest without thinking about shoulders without thinking about try sets, without thinking about all of the joints involved in those movements. Now that we've covered the muscles, the bones and joints involved in your chest training, let's start to put all those pieces together to see how it looks in real-world functional movement that you're going to use every day in the gym. We're going to start off by looking at your pecks, and specifically your peck major. As you recall, you've got three different sections here. You've got your clavicular head, you've got your sternal head, and you've got your abdominal head. So all of those will work together to create what's called internal rotation of your shoulder. So if Craig's got his hand up here, and he turns his arm downwards or forwards, that's called internal rotation. A lot of times people aren't too focused on that. If they're talking about chest, they want to know how do I get those striations, how do I look big and lean like this. One of the best exercises is a horizontal fly or an incline fly. In that exercise, you're creating what's called horizontal addduction. So you're pulling across your body, and as you guys can imagine, just think about those peck fibers. They start here, and as he pulls across, think about how they're shortening up and getting tight. So all those muscles work together to create what's called horizontal addduction. Now this next piece is important, go ahead and relax, boss. The next piece is your clavicular head, and when you think about the clavicular head, it comes down and across right here. So it's responsible for shoulder flexion, like you would when you raise your arm up overhead. So if you're going to imagine Craig gives it an incline bench. You guys know how you're kind of at an incline, you got your arms raised up overhead. This is why you're going to hit the top portion of that chest or that clavicular head when you're bench pressing. Now on the opposite hand, you've got that sternal portion of your peck as well or that lower portion. You're going to hit this the most when you're doing like a decline bench, or even a pullover. Craig and I were just talking about this yesterday. When you guys really cinch over at the top of a pullover type exercise, that's where you're really hitting that sternal head of your peck. So as you guys can imagine, the torso position, the position of your shoulders, all those things are going to make a difference in what portion of your peck you're actually training when you're in the gym. So we've covered the pecks. Now one other muscle group I want to focus on is the serratus anterior. So if you can go ahead and give me a profile. You guys will remember serratus the anterior runs from the inside of your shoulder blade and it wraps around onto your ribcage. So this is going to be most noticeable when you're doing something that does what's called pro traction of your shoulder. So if Craig really reaches long, not only we see this when somebody's reaching long out like the start of a row, but you also see this as they finish at the top of a push up. So even though you may not think of a push up as a great chest exercise, it may not just hit your chest, but also your serratus anterior as well. One final function when you're talking about serratus, go ahead and reach up overhead for me. Your serratus anterior is one of three muscles that allows your shoulder blade to rotate or create upward rotation. So serratus anterior, your lower traps and your upper traps work together to create that upward rotation to allow you to get your shoulder overhead safely and effectively. So that's something I want you to know. When you're walking away from this serratus anterior, it's not just great if you got a built physique like Craig, but it's critically important if you want to keep your shoulders healthy as well. Now that we've covered the muscles, the joints and the function of your chest, we're going to put it all together and demonstrate a few key exercises that you guys are going to want to use. When you get into the gym. Now one thing I want to make note of, Craig's a rock star, he's going to make this look really easy and the weights aren't super heavy. Just because we're not going super heavy on film, doesn't mean we don't want you guys to go heavy and push yourself when you're in the gym. So with that being said, the first exercise we're going to demonstrate is a dumbbell in client bench press. If you technique points as far as setting up, make sure your abs are nice and tight. Whenever possible, keep your feet on the ground. You keep your abs in your legs tight. You're going to be able to move more weight. From this position, he's locked in and he's just going to press the dumbbells overhead. Now one thing I always like to cue my clients to do is to tuck the elbows slightly when they come down. If your elbows are really flared out to the side, it puts a lot more stress and torque on your shoulders. So think about tucking the elbows slightly on the way down, full range of motion and then finish strong at the top. When you're doing an incline bench, you're really using all three heads of your pecs. You're using the clavicular head. You're using the sternal head. You're using the abdominal head. But when you go on an incline, or when you start to flex those shoulders, that's when you're really going to bring out an attack that clavicular head of your pet. So if you're having problems filling in the top portion of that chest, make sure you get some incline venting or some incline flies into your program. One final point. When you incline bench, if you have any kind of shoulder issue or this causes any discomfort, move to a neutral grip where your hands are facing each other and then try it again. This is going to give you just a little bit of breathing room for your rotator cuff to move and operate and chances are it's going to feel a heck of a lot better. The next exercise we're going to demonstrate is a dumbbell fly. This exercise is really going to hit the pecs as far as that horizontal adduction component of the movement goes. So Craig's going to go ahead and lay on his back here, set himself up, good stable base, abs tight, legs tight. And then from this position, he's just going to keep soft elbows, get a nice stretch through his pecs. And as you guys can imagine, you can just see those pecs kind of opening up and lengthening. And then from this position, he's going to pull it back together and shorten it back up. So it looks like a very simple exercise. The man's got great technique and it's really going to help build balance pec development. Going to hit the clavicular pec, the sternal head, and even the abdominal head of those pecs pretty evenly. The last exercise we're going to demonstrate is a push-up. Now I know what you're thinking. You've probably been doing push-ups for years. But I want to give you guys a few subtle cues and a few subtle tricks that I think are going to make your push-ups even more effective. So I'm going to have Craig go ahead and set up here. And we guys are doing a push-up. The nice thing about this, it's a total body lift. Really connects your upper and lower body. So I want you to make sure your abs are nice and tight. And from this position Craig's going to tuck the elbows slightly, lower and self-dando the ground. And then the key, if you really want to hit that serratus, it's to finish strong. Exaggerate trying to push your body as far away from the floor as possible at the top. When you do that, that's when you're going to really engage your serratus. So think about abs tight, tuck the elbows, control all the way down, and then at the top. Finish strong, exaggerate, and really try and squeeze that serratus. After watching this video, you essentially have a Ph.D. in chest muscle building. So you've got no excuse. You can't simply go back and do what you've always done, which is probably mindless sets of flat barbell bench press. I get it, it's a great exercise, and it's going to help you build some muscle. But after you watch this video, you should have a really strong understanding of how all the bones, the joints, the muscles, work together. About how changing something as simple as your shoulder position is going to help you target and hit specific areas of your chest. Don't be afraid to mix it up. Use barbells, use dumbbells, press, do flies. The more you guys mix it up, and the more you guys understand the actual anatomy and the function behind this stuff, the better your physique is going to look. Make sure you watch all the videos, because we cover every single muscle group and this amount of depth and detail. Let the gym be your lab. Try new things, research new methods, because there's no better way to learn and understand how your body works than to try new things on yourself. With that being said, I'm Mike Robertson, this is built by science, mind, muscle, masterpiece. Run muscular anatomy by mechanics, the skeletal system. muscle function, and the best exercises to build the mass mass. Knowledge is power, know yourself to build yourself, build yourself with the best mind, muscle, masterpiece.

=== FILE: Chest Workout with Derek Charlebois - Bodybuilding.com [DCrCny0_ync].txt ===

Hey my name is Derek Sharlaboy and I'm here at BodyBoolin.com and today we're going to feel my hardcore chess workout. I'm a representative bodybuilder. I have the bachelor's degree in exercise science and I'm also a certified personal trainer. Now today's workout we're going to focus on building up your strength and size in your stubborn chest. Today's workout is going to consist of bench press, reverse band bench press, incline double press and then we're going to move our vertu to the decline hammer strength press and we're going to attach some bands to that. Now this workout consists of some advanced techniques using resistance band. Resistance bands offer a different stimulus for hypertrophy and strength than the traditional freeweight exercises. Now for today's workout you're going to need two different types of resistance bands. The first one is going to be a little bit thicker. This is for the reverse band bench press. Because when reverse band bench press is a heavier exercise you're going to need the band that offers more resistance. The second type of band is going to be a little bit thinner. It offers less resistance and this is what we're going to use to the decline hammer strength press. You can get both of the bands you need for today's workout here by clicking the link below. The first exercise in today's workout is a standard bench press. Today we're going to be doing seven sets of three reps. Now today we're going to start with the lighter weight and add 20 pounds to each set, building up to our max weight for three reps. We're going to be resting two minutes between each set. Resting two minutes between each set will allow some maximize recovery and strength and allow us to lift the most weight possible for each set. First set I'm going to do is a warm-up set. A warm set prepares your body for the heavier weights you're going to lift. Now this first warm-up set is not count towards my seven heavy sets of three reps. For bench press today we're going to be doing it in the power rack. Now the power rack is good because there are safety bars which allow you to do the bench press safely without a spotter. It's always best to have a spotter but if you don't you can perform the bench press in the power rack. During each and every rep you always want to control the negative portion and forcefully explode during the concentric portion. It is important to control each and every rep and not let the bar just drop and bounce off your chest. You always want to be control of the bar in the weight. We just finished up our seven heavy sets of three reps on bench press and now we're going to move on to the reverse band bench press. We're only going to do five sets of five reps. Now we're going to keep the weight the same as the left off on bench press and just attach the bands onto that bar bell. Now let me show you how we're going to set the bands up. To set the bands to the reverse band bench press you're going to want to attach the band to the top of the side support being. What you're going to do is take one end loop it over the top of the rack. You're going to create a loop with the band. Put the other end of the band through the loop and pull it tight. Now for this we're just going to pull the band over the weights and put it on the knuckle of the bar bell. Now you have the band attached to the bar bell and you're ready to go. Just like with bench press we're going to be increasing the weight by 20 pounds each set. We're going to be doing five sets of five reps with about two minutes rest between each set. As you lower the bar the tension of the band increases decreasing the weight of the bar. As you push the bar up the tension on the band's decreases and the weight you push increases. This allows you to overload the top portion of the bench press increasing your lock-out strength. As you can see on my fifth final set and we got four reps instead of the five reps out is targeted but that's okay because I took that set the failure. Now if you hit failure before five reps that's the end of your set you don't want to rack the weight and do a rest pause or do a drop set you're done. We're after maximizing performance with your max weight for five reps on that set and then that's it. When taking the bands off of the bench press you want to make sure to leave some weight on the bar. You're going to want at least 135 pounds which is 45 in each side of the bar before taking the bands off. Otherwise the bar will cling up in the air due to the tension on the bands. Now let's move on to our next exercise which is inclined dumbbell press. With this exercise we're just going to be doing three sets of six to ten reps with the same weight. We're not going to be increasing the weight for each set. We've got started with one one upset with 50% of the weight that I'm going to use for my max sets. So let's get into the warm upset. We're going to move on to the final exercise of today's workout and after decont hammer strength press. Like that we find dumbbell press we're going to use the same weight for all three sets. Now with this movement since we're using bands you're going to have to use less weight than you normally wouldn't have to sexize because the bands offer additional resistance. And the reason we're using these bands is a little bit different than the reverse band bench press. And the reverse band bench press depends decrease the weight as you lower the bar and increase weight as you increase the bar. With the bands here we're going to attach them to the back of the support beams onto the handle where you push the weight. As you push the weight forward the band stretched causing you to have to accelerate the weight faster. It also increases the eccentric portion of the movement which increases muscle damage and can be helpful for muscle hypertrophy. Now this isn't something we want to do every workout but it's something you can incorporate here and there to improve your results. Despite with the in-kind dumbbell press we're going to do one set with 50 percent of the weight for a warm up. Again we're going to be resting about one to two minutes between sets. We're going to do three sets of six to ten reps on the decont hammer strength press. We just finished up our hardcore workout designed to boot up size and strength for that stubborn chest. Now today we start with the bench press, move down to the bench press with reverse bands, did the in-kind dumbbell press and finished off the decont hammer strength press. I recommend doing this workout once a week for four weeks at a time. Doing this workout for more than four weeks quickly the overtraining due to the heavy resistance from the bands. You can get the full workout on this page. Just click the link below and print it out and take it to the gym with you. This is Derek Starboy from Team Sivation. I hope you enjoyed my workout. Be sure to check back on bodywind.com often, drop the content articles and videos. Enjoy the workout. Let's get some results.

=== FILE: Chest and Triceps Workout ｜ Kris Gethin's 12-Week Muscle-Building Trainer ｜ Day 2 [sFlvqkAy-D0].txt ===

It's day two of the muscle building trainer here. Live reporting from Mumbai. A little bit sore from yesterday. Not as sore as I thought I would be after the CrossFit. It's asian, making that loosen me up, but I know that doing a fine-tensity and sports training is a cardio-string after the workout. It does assist with the recovery. You have to be mentally applied as well. You have to want to chase and embrace that pain to a certain degree. So if you're not in pain, then that's unusual. You should be disappointed. As long as you're more comfortable with the pain, then you don't tend to feel it as much. It's more of a normality. So just before we head on out to the door, I'd let all now for chest and triceps. I'm just going to quickly show you my goodly covered, my snack covered. I've normally got some quest bars in a year as well, but I've eaten them obviously. So I've got some protein bites here. It's like a soy protein. 20 grams of protein, great snack. Good if you're going to go to the cinema. And obviously I've got my nutrition bite designs. Here I always got on hand, got the beef flavour there. Got the chicken flavour there. A lot of the time on grab one of them. I don't normally make a habit of it, but if I'm heading out of the door, and I can't grab a meal, that is the perfect meal. When I'm travelling, and then obviously I've my gluten free. Sometimes I'll throw that in a shake-a-bottle, with some protein powder. There's another meal. Here I've got kale. Now, these are what I actually got from Toronto recently. When I was there last week, shooting over view videos, but I've actually cooked it myself since. Just put in some kale, in the oven. Excuse me, in the oven. And I just put some rosemary, some rock salt, and some garlic over that. And 10 minutes each side is perfect. And I've got some gluten-free puffs that I order online. As well. Here I've got a bit of PB to peanut butter, with a lot less fat than the usual amount. Sometimes I'll just mix that up with a little bit of fruit. And just as a little bit of a... Just not craving, pick me up snack. So now, I think it's time to hit the bone. I've got an hours drive now. So navigate the traffic and get to the gym. So what the videos didn't capture last night, after I left here, I went into the CrossFit session. Reason being, is this is going to be an alternative form of cardio that I want you to do on your non-training days. So I really suffered yesterday, and I feel a little bit depleted today, but it's my own fault. So you know, you just got to take better care of your nutrition, make sure that you're extremely hydrated, and especially your supplementation. So supplements obviously only give in like 3, maybe 5% of your overall results. Maximum, and that all depends on you yourself, and what you like with your respiratory and nutrition. Obviously, if you miss a lot of meals, then obviously a protein powder, protein meal replacement, is going to be of more assistance to you. And you know, we're building up a lot of free radical damage, we're utilizing a lot of vitamins and minerals, so you need to compensate by actually supplementing with that. Alright, so today we're going to be smashing chest and triceps. Hidden our upper body. Lower body may be dragging ass a little bit today, because we could be limping from yesterday's workout, but that's a past victory. You do not think back to that. You do not look back, except for seeing, you know, the pile of sweat that you left at the bench. So remember, we've only got 12 of these chest and triceps workouts, where we've got a totally obliterate, these muscle groups, and transform these muscle groups. So we're hitting Y3T again, between the eight to 12 reps, principle, and so now I'm just taking my pre workout, as you should be two about 20 minutes before your session. Use this time to mentally get focused, clear your brain of anything that could be corrupting it, or cluttering it from the day, and just focus everything into the next hour. Let's hit it. I've got the program here on my mobile phone, via the email that Neil Hill sent to me. So remember to take your program with you on the mobile phone. You can follow it, so it's very portable, and it's easy to follow through, just make sure that you don't drop your dumbbells on it. So we entered the gym, and we started immediately with our rotator cuff movements. It's always good not just to use that as a cure for any torn rotator cuffs, but good as a preventative measure. So I always like to start with about three sets of rotator cuff movements before going into any shoulder or chest exercises. Then we started off with the incline chest. I think we did about eight repetitions on the first set, and then I went lighter, because it did feel heavy, and so I was able to attain the eight to 12 reps. So for instance, if you do just manage the scraper eight, and you feel that you're fatiguing, and you're not going to be able to get your eight to 12 reps on the next set, lighten it just a little bit, so you do reach failure within that rep range. That's exactly what we did for those four sets. And then we went flat press, and did about 10 to 12 repetitions on there as well. I don't know if you could tell, but I was getting a little bit frustrated at this point, because my strength is so far down, and it's really demotivating to pick up lighter weights to what I'm used to, and really struggle with it. So we started to use an explosive manner, but Neil had told me to strictly utilize about three sets, and I realized about three second rule doing the negative. So remember that, slow it down a little bit, work the negative to about three seconds, and then you can explode out the hole. So we started with the incline press, did four sets there, and then we went flat press, and then I finished off with flies. I was just struggling to get my eight rep in order. I was getting to seven hitting failure, and I just locked it out for a few seconds, just until I could replenish some ATP to get out that extra rep, so I made it to eight repetitions on those sets. And then our last exercise for chest was the dips. This was supposed to be a weighted dip movement where you're supposed to have a belt with a chain that holds some additional weight. For me anyway, and if you're strong enough to do so for yourself, but my body weight wasn't enough. When with a wide grip, make sure that we leaned the body right over, didn't stay vertical, because that would target your try so small, and really work that lower chest and work the negative. Again, reach and failure, order round eight repetitions, and you will notice between every exercise that we were stretching. So that's something that I do advocate that I do recommend that you stretch out your pecs, really make sure that you stretch out faster, give them muscle more room to grow, and obviously you want to utilize it to prevent injury and open up your shoulder joint as well. So that was chest done with then we moved on to try set, several minutes later. After we allowed our ATP to replenish itself, get our breath back, get our head aligned and motivated to totally obliterate our try sets. We started off with the cable push downs. Elbows were a little bit warmed up from hitting the multi-joint exercises of the pressing movements, so we didn't have to warm up too much there. Again, use your instinct. If you feel like you need three or four warmups, then do it. I was reaching failure, probably about eight or nine repetitions, but then I would utilize the rest force principle again. I really like this principle. I just locked it out, held it there for a couple of seconds. Got my breath back, knocked out another one rep. Did that same again for a couple of seconds, knocked out another rep. So really, really push that muscle, be on fatigue, be on failure, and give it purpose to grow. Then we went on to the bent overhead, cable extension to really target the rear head. And again, bending over, keeping the back straight, utilizing the rest force principle, just to get one or two more reps and really work that negative and keep the tension on the try sets all the time. Make sure the elbows are always pointing in, and the same when we moved onto the last exercise, which was a compound movement, being the close grip bench press. So we're going to do the close grip bench press on a Smith machine now. Someone was on here a second ago. I thought if we're going to have to wait around, we just go to a traditional bent. So if you don't have a Smith machine, or if there's people hugging it, just go on to a traditional bench, just make sure that you've got somebody there to unrak the weight and racket back for you with a Smith machine. You can pretty much do it by yourself. So we shouldn't be resting for any more than a minute. So let's get into it. So we've already pre-futined our try sets with the isolation moves prior. So that puts us in a perfect environment and the compound exercise such as close grip bench press without bringing in too much pecking volments. So again, elbows tucked in tight, hands up towards the head, and by the shoulder width distance apart, and then really make sure that we push out the positive and work slowly on that negative. And I know three seconds and I'll, you know, one and a half seconds up if that. Knocked out three sets of, it was eight to 12, but I think I was reaching failure there at about eight non-repetitions. And so we're fell within that gap. So it's a good work out. I was a little bit frustrated because I was weak, but the main thing is, is don't let that frustration get in the way. If anything, use that frustration as a positive energy to explode out of these movements. So this is our double prong attack. It's our double postwork out shake. It's our little secret. So we have the branch chains, a glutamine, the BCA is a latte buffers straight after. I will look out immediately before the cardio, then the cardio will allow to shuttle that around the body. And then as soon as we finish with the cardio, so that is sucked in. We still have that window of opportunity to suck up the protein and the glycogen, the carbohydrates as well. So we have, we further have a shake with the battagua and protein immediately after the cardio. As well. So it's our double postwork out from attack. All right, same. As day one, we're doing 15 minutes of cardio, high intensity interval. So we'll do 30 minutes of medium pace, get the heart rate up, but able to carry on a conversation as I am with you now. And then for that one minute, we go all out. So that's it. The rest of the day is all down to you. Where you make sure that you get your meals in on time within every three hours. Make sure you have a good night's sleep recovery. Prepare your food tonight for tomorrow. Same with your pre and postwork out shakes. And your gym bag because of guarantee, if you sleep in tomorrow or something comes up, it'll give you a perfect prime excuse as why you didn't make your workouts. It eradicate those excuses, be prepared, or you're gonna prepare to fail. Thank you.

=== FILE: Chin-Up - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [fNZ8Ty7jSFA].txt ===

Grab the pull-up bar with the palms of your hands facing your torso and a grip closer than shoulder width. Next with both arms extended in front of you holding the bar, bring your torso back about 30 degrees while creating a curvature in your lower back and sticking your chest out. This is your starting position. Now exhale and pull your torso upward until the bar nearly touches your upper chest by drawing the shoulders and upper arms down and back. This is in trade on squeezing the back muscles once you reach the full contracted position and keep the elbows close to your body. Your upper torso should remain stationary as it moves through space and only your arms should move. Your forearm should do no work other than hold the bar. After a second in the contracted position, while breathing in, slowly lower your torso back to the starting position where your arms are fully extended and the lats are fully stretched.

=== FILE: Choosing the Right Footwear For Movement ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 23 ｜ Jake Boly [7GC7ulacsZ8].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and welcome back to the BB Compaq cast. Today I'm joined by Jake Bowley. Jake is the founder of that fit friend. He's often regarded as a go-to resource and various performance shoe communities. He's been reviewing shoes and training gear for over seven years and has hand tested over 400 pairs of shoes. Jake is known on the internet and YouTube for blending his review processes with strange sports and personal training background. Jake has a master's in sports science, a bachelor's in exercise science and a CSCS. He's been personal training for over 10 years helping hundreds of clients get stronger, lose weight and accomplish their goals. He uses his exercise science brain and personal training background to make curate and thoughtful review content on the fitness gear that he's testing. Jake, welcome to the BB Compaq cast. Thank you for having me on. I am honored to be here right now. Awesome. Well, we're excited to jump in. We're excited to have you on today and we're starting out with topic one as usual. Everybody building Jake. So this is our opportunity to learn a little bit about our guest where they come from the story that brought them here today. Jake tells us a little bit about your background and health and fitness and tell us about you know point A to point Z of rope brought you here today. Yeah, for sure. So I guess it started back when I was 12 13 dad got me into lifting. I played high hockey growing up. So very into sports lifting, etc. About 16 17 I decided and I don't know where I got in my head that I'm going to move to New York. I grew up in St. Louis and I wanted to be an editor of the minse health. So basically I wanted to work and finish editorial. So basically from 18 on I shifted my whole career and trajectory of life towards that single goal. So 19 rolls around. I moved to New York to go to college. That's where I started doing my actions. As science bachelor's, eventually went back to my master's was also training all throughout college and my thought was if I get the educational background and training that's better to then tie into the editorial background so that way I can kind of be my own expert in whatever anything else. And have a level up. I think on just journalists who report on the stuff but then have to go out of their way for quotes and eventually finish my master's, Mr. Training College, landed a job at a company called barbond.com which like we a lot of folks listening have seen. They are a strength sports media site. They cover a cross-fit, strongman, weightlifting, etc. Work there for four years was their first employee helped them build up a lot of different verticals for their fitness content and eventually got to a point where I was just burnt out and started asking myself what I want to do in an ideal world and that's where that fit for in my business now kind of came to full circle in the sense of tying in my training background but also love for design and performance gear because growing up like I wanted to be a designer for like a peril and stuff like that and that's a whole other story we could talk about but it basically tied all these things together and being my own boss seemed really interesting like I had never came from an entrepreneurial background so taking that leap was a completely buffet. Had no idea how I was going to go, had like no money saved up or anything basically just started on a whim and yeah three and a half years later that fit friend has been my bread and butter and my baby and that's what I do full time. Have the website YouTube channel and the social channels and we have a really dynamite community and on that I basically share fitness content to tie in the coaching background to scratch that edge because I think it's very important if you're going to be reviewing performance gear to have the background there and also be walking the talk basically. It's a rare combination with the editorial and the journalistic background blending with the exercise science and fitness you know it's it's a hybrid that we don't see too often and it's definitely a unique POV to be able to put this type of content out. Let's back up and talk about what goes into achieving a degree in exercise science tell people a little bit about the learnings that come out of something like that how that blends well with the quick follow-up that is the CSES certification right so give us some contextual background there. Yeah and college I was going to Hosh University that's where we actually met and the basic like foundation of that is you know by a mechanic learning your basics for personal training how to navigate that and navigate clients and everything else and I think what really helps with the educational background in that context is also just personal training at the same time because it almost blends like this academia with actual practice because a lot of times I don't think academia really delivers in the sense of the situations you're going to navigate from a psychological standpoint with clients and just how everybody is different and they're biomechanics and how they think and how they move and so the schooling was really fun and interesting and there was a lot of I would say biomechanic focus in the Hoshia program and I think they did a really good job of trying to set us up for success if we wanted to go like the formal college coaching or collegiate coaching or professional coaching route or if we wanted to do our own personal training thing or find something else but but yeah I think for me during that time too like the blending of the writing component that's what I felt like it was kind of lacking and so that's why it was for me very important to in turn a place is to where I could write and do freelance stuff and I think for most trainers in school if you're going to school for exercise science writing is such an invaluable skill to build up and doing it just over and over and over getting reps in because it likely your program won't have a writing focus in it I think it'd be huge and it could open up so many doors outside of just training and then all of a sudden you're doing freelance work for different companies and blending in your coaching background and then you also you can market yourself better if you want to go to your own business route the foundation of like getting an exercise science bachelor's because I have a lot of folks who often ask me is it worth it? I think it is worth it in the sense of giving you a level up over you know just going to get your personal training certification because you should be doing these things in tangent to one another I think having that educational background teaching you the foundations of biomechanics and some of the teachings in the sense of how to navigate different contexts of training and different settings whether that is from a healthcare perspective a sports perspective a collegiate professional team etc it's really cool because it gives you I think just more exposure and to okay how could I realistically take this career and degree into different directions but all that to say I think it's also very important that if you do go to school for it you definitely want to be personal training at the same time and blending in what you're navigating on a day-to-day because academia I think at times and I think more schools are picking up speed here they kind of drop the ball in the sense of like prepping a lot of the students for the day-to-day of what personal training looks like or like coaching or you know offering you a different lens into how this degree can basically help elevate your career and so blending in that personal training element with the academia side when what you're learning and academia is cool because then you could like take things that you learn put them into practice and then also with the editorial side of my life I would highly suggest even if you don't want to go that editorial route as a trainer as somebody who might be doing exercise science or considering it start writing more writing is one of the most valuable tools I think everybody can possess and that's not only just from like an editorial or journalist standpoint but from a marketing standpoint being able to language yourself better even just being able to articulate thoughts better when comes your own life being able to do that more cohesively on paper is such a skill but yeah it's it's interesting like I get asked that all the time is it worth it to do my bachelor's and exercise science is it worth it to my master's and in some cases no in some cases yes but I think if you do decide to go that route it can give you a level up if you're also considering okay how else do I implement this into where I want to take my career next? I think the your point about putting it into practice is probably the most important takeaway that I heard through that I think too often you know our heads are in the books where like you said we're not getting out there and getting the real life experience until probably you get your degree right so learning it in real time being able to take those situations that you might be put in when working with individuals and then bring it back into the classroom with your professors and say hey what happens when XYZ happens and learning that right there can just I think double the productivity of that degree that you're there for absolutely and I think that's actually you bring a really there were times I remember in school where you know we would talk about something I would implement that in the gym or I would learn something in the gym and then I would bring it back and then to make them I'll make it almost a case study with my professors and like you know students at the time who I was homey's with and we would just chat and figure it out and to that point it's it's so incredibly valuable and I think don't wait until you get your degree to start doing that stuff because I know folks from school who did that and then they either wanted and stick with it and it's like okay now you have a bachelor's in this and you're not even using it for your career because you waited and then you feel like you're behind and then you find something else to do because you feel like you're so behind that you're just like kind of give up but really making sure that you're getting ahead of that and just being able to think of training and from a different lens because now I think with social media and everything too we have so many different points of view that if you're not putting some of those into practice it can almost feel so overwhelming and get you here per hour so by analysis like looking at all these concepts without physically practicing them and figuring out okay what do I resonate with how do I blend these things together what is this actually look like in practice is this valuable do I need this because there is a lot of knowledge you're going to learn in academia that you likely will never implement and that's okay but at least you have the availability and the options to know what's realistic and what's not realistic versus like with the actual career and what you plan to do with training. Yeah I agree I mean we're in the era of information overload specifically on on social media and I think the skill set of being a really great writer can set you apart on a lot of these platforms you know acquiring the skill to create a 15 second video a lot of people can do that but if you really dedicate the time to becoming a really fantastic writer you're putting that work into your captions your writing blog and editorial content that you use your social media platform to drive to and create extra value for your followers I think that's really kind of the the type of creator that's going to outlast the short form way that we're living through right now 100% and I mean it just gives you another level up on connecting with more folks right because not everybody resonates with the 15 second clip and I think we're getting to a point now where it's like you see so many things it's like boom it's gone people have already forgotten but I think what I'm noticing at least within myself that I am clicking you on the creators and people who I like to look up to more and more from that level of depth that makes me feel something outside of just entertain me for that 15 seconds so the entertainment stuff is awesome the short form is awesome but being able to tie this nice cohesive message that I can then think about and think of myself and then maybe even put into my own articulation of writing kind of figure out like okay like I really like what they said here but how do I put that into my own life and well it is like what does that mean to me how can I extrapolate data from this and implement that into how I look at the world of my systems and I think that's to your point just that's like a level of depth that you can reach now in audience that won't necessarily always be reached from that way so it's just a bigger shot on that regarding bringing in eyeballs to connect with you and I think piggyback off of this I think where we're going now with social media too is community is going to be the biggest outlast for folks who build dynamite brands and being able to build connection is I think what people are craving more and more that's why we're seeing a big boom and experiences and brands doing that route and brands trying to invest more in creating more of a storytelling element behind everything they do and that all circles back to writing and be able to do that and articulate that and blend it all together and reach more people doing so. I couldn't agree more when do you feel like you really started to put the editorial craft into action you know for your own career and start blending the fitness and wellness background with the writing and media. So I think my first exposure with physically trying to write more about fitness was back when I was like 17 or 18 on Tumblr and I thought about it. Tumblr and like it was and I think about that content and I hesitate because I'm like I don't think any of that's left on the internet but like if you find it like please don't share it forever share with me because it is so cringe but that's when I started getting a little bit of a dip into you know just putting more of my thoughts out there with the training interest with writing and then from there I interned at a gym and college where I was personal training and they had a website and stuff and I was like hey can I build your blog? I don't know what I'm doing I'm just like I want to write and like write about the things I'm learning at school right about the things I'm doing here in the gym with the clients we have it helped them build up their blog and then one thing needs to another and that's just like passively doing that because I just was ahead of the interest there and like my dream was to do the editorial route and then loan behold by to a shop corporate found my writing on their blog and had hunted me and landed a job there as a content writer and then loan behold far bend wrote for them randomly because I was like hey I just want to write and like put this like topic on paper as a post activation potential and one thing I do another there and then it landed me a job and then four years later now I'm not running my own thing that's very based in writing so it's like this it was very much like a baby step of like cringe little bit less cringe little bit less cringe it's the evolution right and it's awesome to hear so tell us a little bit more about that bit friend tell us you know what you're doing here and why you're so passionate about putting out this content yeah and so I think the base route of that fit for an awye started it outside of just my own interest in that niche of performance gear and also training is I think when we look around the reviews industry in these strengths boards and just like the fitness space there's a lot of BS and there's a lot of reviews out there that I think can be a little bit misleading for example like roundups from like a New York mag or one of these big editorials that don't have people really testing the stuff it was kind of my nudge to be like okay if I wanted to build this type of content like what I want that to look like what level of depth would I want to present in this that ties in the background the showing you everything I'm doing in the shoes and everything else it was that like need for connection and honesty that I think kind of thrust me into that fit friend and that's what kind of like really lights my fire in the sense of what keeps me going when it feels like everything is like just kind of you know imploding out of myself and that the rat race of content and everything when I feel exhausted but the the ability to I think just build honest reviews and try to create a community that is fostered with trust and everything else because that I think with review content too and I'm curious your thoughts here I feel like there is a line you have to strike between integrity and capitalism because obviously you need to make money but at the same time like where does that pendulum swing I think oftentimes for some of these folks it goes way too far into the make as much money as we can burn out all the trust at all those costs and then where does that get us it gets us to people not trusting content not trusting reviews and that fit friends basis I think is really on that hey I'm a small business I'm a single dude producing all this content I'm going to show you exactly what I'm doing and if you ever have questions I'll be honest with you does the product suck I'll tell you does it is a great I'll tell you who is the best for and I think that's where for me it's really interesting to keep being in front of in the sense of the coaching background too with the brand is just being able to recognize the context in which things are great not great for and then you know building a more home like homey like small business feel with it I think something that is applicable to brands regardless of size is that they need to lead with injecting more value into what they're doing creating a better product a lot of this starts with just quality products and caring about the product that you're putting out into the world and building that trust you know we always like to say something to the not of leading with content and community and that ultimately resulting in what you're looking for on a commerce front right so giving people and providing that trust value to them through the content that you're producing building real valuable community you know how many brands don't even know where to start when it comes to creating and nurturing a community that would solve a lot of you know kind of question marks that are sitting in top executive's heads right now who are in a meeting room looking at the numbers if you lead with quality community and content it can likely solve a lot of your commerce woes and you know when it comes to reviews to your point they've become a bit saturated right and we're seeing all these tools being injected we're seeing all these platforms who are specializing in in bumping the SEO and bumping your top quality reviews and problem is and and reality is it's probably your product that you need to go back and look at right yeah 100% yeah it's interesting and I feel like we're in this day and age now too or we're seeing like I think affiliate marketing start to die a little bit more because how many times do you get people just pushing product to push product to make money and that's okay great cool like I'm already forgot about it I've already moved on it's been interesting too I think talking to brands because I buy everything I review and they're always like well like you don't have a big following so blah blah yeah but like the big influencer is not going to convert for you in the sense of you know giving you the the trusting eyeballs that you want and to your point it all starts a community and you don't need a huge community I think to really build a dynamite business brand product etc you just need enough people to understand the why in the mission and have them buy in and then from there just let everything else just grow organically and that's been like I think the basis of that fit for him too and that's something that I'm very proud of is that the community has grown nice and slow and organically and I love that people are like oh like well don't you don't you want like your vidrio go viral as I know because I don't know then who's going to be coming into the channel like I want people to be subscribed and like following that you know give a damn that want to actually see the content I don't really care about growing that fast because like I know how much I need to get by on a day-to-day basis from a business context and that allows me I think to be really much more conscious of that underlying element of what value am I providing you and do you actually want to be here? Well go to the BB com marketing master class every funny I agree with you the days of the macro influencer I think have really become depleted I think the trust that we are just speaking to a moment ago really lives within the micro and the nano world of individuals who are wholeheartedly using these products on a daily basis and there are some brands who are caught up with that fact and they are contracting that size of influencers at scale and there are others who are blowing their entire influencer and marketing budget on the one to two nano's a quarter and scratching their heads looking at a very low ROI on those contracts. The big question that I always think about with that fit friend and like that idea too of like also where I want to take this business next which is eventually a brick and mortar is like what is the strongest element to get you to buy a product? It's a referral from a friend. Anybody in your circle that you trust that is like hey this is actually a dynamite product like go get it that is so much better than just seeing it really fast from a marketing lens or like an nano influencer and that's I think also like the basis of it too is when you think about whatever you're producing whatever it is like wood I recommend this to a friend or would I buy this if a friend recommended it to me and if you lead with that it's a game changer regarding just how you conceptualize content and how you foster those connections within the people who are consuming your content. Yeah I agree it's a great stress test for shoes for supplements. Would you give this to your parents? Would you put your siblings in this? Would you put your friend of 10 years in this or suggest that they start taking this on a daily basis? That's a really great filter for a good product. 100% and I think speaking too you know more of this reviews industry when I think really gets under my skin is when you see some of these reviews that are very shallow and it's just like money driven. I think about the beginner like my mom to your point like when you said parents it kind of triggered this but it's like my mom she likes to work out at home she doesn't know much about fitness and stuff but she'll go to like you know a CNN and see like this nice review but she doesn't realize that it's honestly all like it's all fake for the most part in the sense of like they're not really testing stuff it's all affiliate driven and it's just like where do we where do we walk then tow that line of okay like at what point guys do we have to like you know create a higher buried entry to make a lot of this stuff way more worthwhile in the sense of consumption, producing, etc and yeah we're in a very interesting place I think right now with the review space too and just I think people are losing trust in it because of the types of sites like that and the types of content like that and it's making it very difficult I think for me but at the same time speaking to the slow growth and organic and connection community standpoint I think what people do find the channel hopefully they're like oh like this is sick like I've had so many people comment like hey I spent more time trying to research to find you than I actually did like anything else with the product and it's been cool I think seeing that but yeah it's an interesting industry right now and we're seeing I think a pretty tumultuous nature of is it really feasible to build a reviews business anymore like what does that look like and that's kind of where I'm starting to shift my mindset too with the business yeah I agree I want to move into topic two for today the closing thought for our first topic I really think everything that we're talking about really is why we're seeing the decline of the big giants that have been around for the past 10 15 20 25 years and we're seeing the rise of the quote unquote little guys right and your testament to that who are just doing really honest work people are in dire need and desperation for finding people like you so good was everything you're doing and let's let's jump into the the meat and potatoes of today's discussion which is topic two footwear matters so Jake's gonna drop some knowledge on us today and we're gonna start with the question why are shoes so important for accomplishing different training goals yeah for context to that fit friend the shoes I review are cross-training shoes we're lifting shoes barefoot shoes all of the shoes have different purposes and I think when we look at the footwear industry sometimes it could be a little bit dogmatic and people can box themselves into one thing and I think looking at shoes is tools in the sense of how are you training what are your preferences how are you moving that's the more productive way to look at shoes and so it's for example like my folks out there who love barefoot shoes and love training barefoot I am all for it I train barefoot often I train barefoot shoes often but I'm also not necessarily limiting myself to that type of footwear alone and I implement all of these different types of shoes based on what I'm doing if I'm doing a cross-fit-watt for example and I ran the day before I might be feeling more beat up and if I train barefoot or barefoot shoes the amount of stress and just load on my body in terms of the ground reaction the force it might be too much so being able to build this lens of how am I training what am I doing what are my preferences how I'm moving and then blending that with different types of footwear I think that's the secret sauce and I think when people finally started adapting that mindset of okay what type of footwear is gonna allow me to perform my best and this is the type of footwear that isn't you know blanket with my bias is my brand royalty that I just buy every time like I'm a Nike I buy Nike okay but those Nike they're actually subpar for what you're doing like if you get out of that lens in mindset of this is what I've always done and you look at shoes instead of hey this is a tool solely to prop up my performance and my comfort and my preference it changes the game and that's how I try to language shoes on the channel in the sense of hey I like to use a little bit of everything based on what I'm doing now how you want to do it that's your own bread and butter like figure that out and you go do a lot of trial and error do a lot of testing to see but leading with that mindset of this is solely a tool to get me from point A to point B in the most efficient and you know best way possible regarding my biomechanics and how I'm moving where do we even start on the hunt for a good shoe for something like this like there's tow job there's a new troit there's all there's all this terminology out there right and we go to the product pages on you know the big footwear brands and we will read the details well what if you don't have a clue right and you're looking to to get a new pair you know we can put a specific sport into place but I don't know what are the key features and characteristics that you're looking to take into account yeah so let's talk cross-training shoes I feel like that's the broadest topic regarding what people are using in the gym this is the type of shoe that you're going to use for a little bit of everything you can lift in them you can do some short runs give or take like every we're all training shoes a little bit different in that context but then also it's a shoe that you can do agility and different type of versatile workouts maybe some hidden and when you look at cross-training shoes like think of them on this massive spectrum of stability versatility somewhere on the line the shoe is going to fall and that's where you're going to then think about okay how am I training every week if you're somebody for example lifting three times a week you do a hit class and then you maybe do some short runs you're going to want to shoe that probably toes that line a little bit more on the versatility side so you're going to want something it's a little bit more plush and a little bit more responsive but you also want to be stable enough to lift in now when we start to focus in on that and how you plan to use that shoe then we could start diving into some of these construction details and if there's anything you take away from this podcast with cross-training shoes three construction details that can really be huge to think about that really aren't that complex that you could pretty much identify pretty fast from a product page is number one the midsole of the shoe this is that layer of material that separates the outsole aka the bottom of the shoe from the foot so it's that foam layer that is going to dictate how much stability and responsiveness that shoe has generally speaking lighter density foams more plush foams there'll be a little bit more bounty little bit more comfortable and then you'll have like you know lower stack height aka the height of that midsole the shoe itself that height of material that separates your foot from the floor will be lower it'll be a bit more dense that's going to give you more stability and balance and so when you think about what you're doing for this person who's lifting doing some hit and doing some short runs they'll want something that probably toes that middle ground a little bit more on the edge of her utility again it's going to be a bit more responsive and comfortable it's not going to beat them up when they're running if they're not used to running on a denser surface the second future to consider is the outsole now when you're thinking about how you're training so you're that person that you lift you do some hit you run I feel like we need a shoe here I feel like you need a feel he's going to take a shoe off everybody go look I like to okay this is also running shoe so like we're going to have to like we're just going to use the pieces of the shoe yeah so midsole is the foam material right here as you can see like a running shoe very bouncy very plush now running shoes we're not going to dive into them right now but they have a huge range of midsole's and feels and et cetera but for the cross training shoe example this wouldn't be a good shoe for lifting and this wouldn't be a good shoe for somebody who does that lifting hit training like running bias because likely you won't get the stability you want for your lifting context and because you're lifting more than you're doing hit running that would indicate to me you should probably look for a training shoe for this and then if you want to do longer runs maybe find your running shoe for that or find a separate shoe for that the second construction future to look at is the outsole so this is the bottom of the shoe this is going to be what's going to give you traction and grip in the gym so when you're thinking about how you're training so lifting hit doing some short runs generally speaking what are the surfaces you're training on are you training on turf are you training on rubber gym floors wooden platforms etc that will dictate what type of outsole you should be looking for on a product page win and doubt generally speaking if you go for outsole's that are fully rubber or mostly rubber you'll be in a really good spot it's going to give you a bit more durability it's going to give you a bit more traction and that is why also for like a running shoe here you have more exposed foam they're trying to save on weight or whatnot there's enough tread to give you durability and grip but they're also trying to save on weight with a training shoe you got to think like okay if I'm doing a lateral skater jump on turf I want this to be able to grip me down this might not give me enough grip and traction so when you're thinking about how you're training in your shoe the outsole can be incredibly important and if you are varying your surfaces and you just want more durability going for shoes that have full rubber outsole's near full rubber outsole's can be huge and from there we could talk durability but we're not going to unpack that there and that's where a lot of the wear testing does come into play and watching reviews can be really useful the third construction character see that I want to talk about is the upper construction so the upper is basically the upper of the shoe it's all the material that locks your foot down this is incredibly important because when we're thinking about how we're training this is what's going to give our foot security it's going to help us from spilling over the out the midsole here so for example if you have a shoe that is designed for let's say hit but it's not the best for lifting if you're for example going for a power clean and you are catching the weight and you start to spill over that's going to hinder your ability to perform well be efficient with your lifts and then also it's just going to be not that comfortable and you never know what can happen when you're wearing a shoe that has an upper that's letting you spill over I don't want to talk injury because it's not an always injury but there are things like that that can come into play there so the upper construction is being incredibly important and when you think about how you're training if you're lifting if you're doing any form of explosive work you're generally going to want to find an upper that locks down the foot pretty well so looking at shoes they have like knit biases like this model this isn't designed to give you max stability I mean max security if you're doing multi directional work for example it's designed to lock you down enough for running aka running forward and give you ventilation while you're running but for a cross training shoe you're going to want something that's going to be a little bit more reinforced with the layers if you're doing a lot of lateral work looking at the upper and seeing if there's reinforced here on the lateral forefoot can be really important looking for materials that will be a little bit more resilient to your general wear and tear so for example if you're a crossfit athlete finding a cross training shoe that's built for crossfit can be incredibly important because generally speaking those shoes will have reinforced layers at high abrasion points aka the midfoot the heel for handstand pushups for rope climbs for burpees on the toe box you'll have a reinforced toe guard extra synthetic layers additional materials here and considering the security can be incredibly important and then you have those three features from there that's when it can be really useful to consider durability but from that on that context you're not going to generally see that on a product page that's where you're watching reviews and just listening to the communities who are wearing the shoe already can be really important so all that to say three features for a cross training shoe to consider midsole that's going to dictate your versatility stability outsole that will dictate your grip traction and overall durability of the shoe and how you're protecting the bottom of the shoe and the upper construction aka the upper on the shoe that is going to give you security and lock down when you're doing your various forms of training. Thanks for the real time demo, Shanky, you want to have your shoe back on now. You want to switch back over to Spotify or Apple in the Azure time. So it's safe to say that finding the right shoe not only can help you perform better but it can play a role in injury prevention right and I don't think that consideration gets taken a whole bunch by Jen Pop right. I think we often like to reach for what looks the coolest. Maybe what's the most comfortable comfort is surely something to consider but there are times to take into account. I'm going to say like Olympic weightlifting for the perfect example. You want that really flat solid surface underneath you. I mean you should if you're going for Olympic weightlifting investment repair weightlifting shoes. I mean you've reviewed a bunch of weightlifting shoes. What would you say about weightlifting specifically? Yeah, weightlifting shoes can be a fantastic tool for anybody who wants to get into the sport of weightlifting or if you are for example across pedathlete and doing weightlifting on a regular basis. Or if you're just a recreational lifter and you do want to explore that type of footwear for getting more into clean, snatches, etc. They can be really useful because with a weightlifting shoe, the midsole is going to be entirely different. Think of this as like you're going to your toolbox, you're finding this specific five footwear for this activity. They can also be great for squats because of this type of construction that they have. And three calls on to weightlifting shoes to take into account for this sport is when you're doing any formal weightlifting you generally want to be catching weight with a more upright torso in a deeper range of motion. So catching a clean at the bottom or squatting to depth for example, what a weightlifting shoe is going to have is it's going to have an elevated heel. That is going to put your foot into a planter flex position before you physically start lifting. Which then can allow the knees to track a little bit further, which can then allow you to feel like you can sink your hips back a bit more, give more depth while maintaining more upright torso. And so with a weightlifting shoe, three things to think about here, similar to our cross-running shoe is the height of the heel. If you know for example that you struggle with mobility or you struggle keeping an upright torso in catching weight in a clean or if you're just having trouble with depth in the squat, a higher heel can generally be a good bat, but most weightlifting shoes will have a heel height around like 0.75 inches. And that's usually a good bat for most the second thing that we're lifting shoe will have to your point is like that nice stable outsole or that nice very firm outsole. And that's designed to allow you to catch the weight from a nice stable context while also really feeling the floor and getting a nice grip. Generally weightlifting shoes will have a full rubber outsole. If you're buying a weightlifting shoe that doesn't have a solid pass on that shoe, it's not going to be worth it. So you have a higher heel elevation, you have a very stable and grippy outsole. And you also have similar to the cross-treating shoe, a reinforced upper but with weightlifting shoes, you'll generally have straps. Or even like a bow-alacing system like on the EIT's Lesting models that give you additional security. And this prevents any form of spillover because to our point like if you're catching a clean and cross-treating shoe with a really loose upper and you're spilling over, a weightlifting shoe will have like dual straps to really lock that foot down generally like leather upper or synthetic upper that are really going to lock the feet down to prevent any form of spillover. But all that to say yeah weightlifting shoes can be a super specific tool and another question that I get asked with weightlifting shoes while we're on this topic is do beginners need them. Does everybody need them? And in most cases probably not. But I do think they're really useful tool to just have in your toolbox and generally we're lifting shoes will last you a while because they will offer just a different way to train. I think it's very important too for example squat with a zero-dropper or flat foot position but then also with a weir lifting shoe depending on what your goals are. I think a lot of folks into your point with like the injury context is we often don't realize if something's a problem until it is and a lot of this could just easily be prevented by using the right tools at the right times and it's like a great example is like okay you're front squatting and you're squatting bearer foot and you don't realize like what you get to a threshold like your torso is dropping so much that you can't physically move efficiently a weightlifting shoe could actually help prevent all that allow you to perform to your fullest and then you could also just implement any form of other squat variation and leg variation with a flatter foot position so you still get to train in that range of motion or whatnot. It's crazy to think I mean you can be it's really the repetition that catches up to you. If you're going day in and day out or week over week over week for a matter of years right and maybe you don't have the best ankle mobility or maybe you know your to your point you're not able to maintain the best spinal position or or even you know posture position within the catches or within our squat specifically that 0.75 inch can do so much for you just by investing in a pair of shoes that hopefully at least in all in the Olympic weightlifting shoes that I've invested in will last you for years you know it's not similar to running shoes where you're going through a couple hundred miles and then you've got a throw in the trash to get new ones right this really is an investment that that should if you're buying the right pair last you for many years. I really loved what you said about looking at shoes as going into your toolbox for the activity that resonated with me so clearly because it makes sense like I have my running shoes I have my weightlifting shoes I'm not my all-y lifting days are well behind me but I have my strength shoes I'll call them right for my general squat, deadlift, etc. days I have the pair of shoes where I'm doing a little bit more of my explosive and agility work and I have the cross trainers and then I've got my super cushion comfy shoes when I ran 13 miles a day before and I want to offload my foot the next day so shoes really are an important accessory to keeping up with the demands that you're looking to point onto your body if you're somebody who really is continuing to push the limits no matter how old you are but then also just helping you stay safe which I think is probably the bigger take away here because let's be frank you know as people age you know their days of the Olympic weightlifting and you know pushing themselves as hard as they may be used to in CrossFit classes will start to decline but they're going to still move their bodies and you know picking the right shoe where it can set you up for success there 100% I think one of my favorite examples is sometimes I get comments and it's like why can use my running shoes for this and bubble a lot and I'm like that's fine and you can for sure you can wear whatever shoe you want to the gym and they'll work until they don't and that's where I think understanding to your point like where those thresholds exist to where that gets more important is really important for the longevity of it. It's preventative 100% you can get away with you know training whatever shoe you want but once you start moving enough weight or you start doing a specific type of activity like a CrossFit or a hit class that has a lot of multi-directional work that is where that is going to matter more and it's like on the spectrum of specificity similar to how we approach most things in life as you get more specific that's where it's going to need to get more dialed in. Yeah I agree you mentioned barefoot training before and I want to I want to specify this one I want to give it its own moment because it did have its own moment I feel like in the in the fitness culture for a number of years and it still does right I still see I still go into the gym on a daily basis and I see people popping off their shoes to to crank out some dead lifts so is it over and and if we're over it why did it end let's talk about the rise to its fame and the science behind why people were going barefoot training a lot of this came from well let's break the mold of the over cushion and really develop that foot connection with the ground right but we like always we humans tend to go overboard on thing so let's talk about kind of the the problem that started it's it's rise to fame and then let's talk about why we're a bit more conservative with it today. Yeah I think barefoot training and just barefoot shoes in general really started the game traction and being on the rise with the ideas that we should be you know allowing our feet to spread and display and move and sometimes shoes will take us away from that and when you're wearing a certain type of shoe for so long you are kind of like almost like putting into a cast might be a little bit dramatic but you are kind of putting your foot into a position that's not allowing it to do its natural thing and so is it in the decline I don't think so I think we're actually seeing the biggest boom of barefoot shoe use and barefoot training that we've ever seen and I think it's because we're finally starting to get more mainstream coverage of barefoot shoes and the benefits of training barefoot and when we talk about its rise and like why I think it caught fire it's because it just makes a lot of sense once you do take off that shoe when you start training and you're like oh like this actually feels awesome I'm moving and ranges the motion that I didn't even think about my foot and ankle actually feel great now the chain like my knees actually feel a bit of my hips feel a bit of better and it's because you're giving narrow yourself an exposure to ranges of motion and like it's strengthening intrinsic muscles that you might not have been hitting when you were wearing the certain type of shoe for so long and so all that to say I think a few things to keep in mind with like the boom of it is number one just getting your foot and ankle into different positions and really allowing those intrinsic deeper muscles to strengthen that might not be strengthened in shoes has been really important in the sense of why people are adapting this type of training number two I think just the appropriate set of elements of feeling the ground below the feet can be really powerful for folks when they feel it for the first time I feel so balanced I feel so stable like this feels great like my dead looks I've never felt better and I'm dead lifting barefoot and everything else and then there's also just the component I think of folks looking at it from like this bigger holistic picture of okay for my mindset of like using shoes as tools I am a huge proponent of barefoot she isn't training barefoot even if you like cross training she's running shoes etc because you're exposing your body to so many different ranges of motion that you're basically taking all these boxes you're like okay I'm getting like the best of all these worlds here I'm building my feet and ankles but still not necessarily only training barefoot and training barefoot shoes because I recognize that I do like way lifting shoes for my squads etc and I think people are starting to finally realize like okay like this is actually just a tool and it means to an end to give me like the best performance possible and to build just dynamite ankles feet and lower body in general regarding just my health and integrity of the tissues and everything else where do we teetor the line of going overboard with barefoot training and opening ourselves up to the increased risk of injury yeah and this is always a very complex topic and there are a lot of strong opinions on this on the internet but I think where we get in the trouble is when we create almost this boxed-in mindset of this type of footwear and we only think we can use it for that type of thing and that's like the only thing we can use for health purposes because it's interesting too because I have a couple of friends who do PT and they're starting to actually like because I talked to them a lot about like footwear choices of their clients and stuff but they're starting to see more folks come to them with issues with their feet and ankles from using too much barefoot shoe usage too fast like this is a type of footwear that you have to acclimate to the way you're going to feel the ground below your feet when training especially when doing plyos and running is going to be very different there's going to be a lot more force going through those joints and so you want to make sure you're really strategic with it and I think where we get in the trouble is when we create an identity and a boxed-in mindset with this type of footwear and we don't allow ourselves to be more objective with okay is this the most productive thing I should be using in this moment or am I trying to force it and at the same time like at what cost because now like I have like a stress issue or some other issue going on and I think that's where we can get in the trouble and I think for folks too it might have some abnormality with their movement I think at times barefoot shoes they can be really useful for helping that but equally they can also exacerbate that for example like if you have any form of tenderness on your heel and you're like afraid to put weight on it and you're wearing a barefoot shoe that's going to be felt a lot greater and so then you might actually buy as your movement more and so I think just making sure that you're objective with your choices of footwear based off of what's going to allow you to objectively perform and feel your best on paper not with what you want to do or what you think you should be doing because social media told you to that's where we need to really focus in and hone it on. I think I agree with everything you just said I think we have to remind ourselves how delicate our feet are right just because we're on our feet all day long where you have to be conscious of how much force to your point in explosive movements and running we're putting on those meditarsals if we're feeling tenderness in the fashion running up to the Achilles which is a huge injury that no one really wants to experience right impacting that Achilles um I think what we often see we see plenty of stress reactions and stress factors already in regular shoes from people going too hard too fast and ramping up their mileage far too quickly I mean if you're going from zero miles you signed up for your first 10k race let's say you go from zero miles to your running 15 miles a week I mean something's going to get there right you have to be slow and your progression up towards running the mileage that you need and I think the same applies to barefoot training right you know if I'm working with somebody and and they don't have the best you know foot connection with the ground or they're they've just historically wore very cushion shoes or maybe it's something who wears heels all day right they're often some of the worst when it comes to understanding how that foot should actually perform in a stable spot when they're strength training right maybe they've never strength trained so you know be conservative take things slow start with body weight movements like master a body weight squat master a kettlebell deadlift right before you start ramping things up and certainly before you start introducing explosive moments and anything you know a little bit more impactful on the feet and a bear foot or in a bear foot shoe yeah and you bring up a really good point and I think for anybody considering bear foot shoes and bear foot training don't fall victim into that mindset of like UC comments of like well this is how human should be moving and look at this person they did 100 like they're not you they can't mend it at exactly I think that the the lack of the multifactorial nature of bearfoot shoe usage and just training histories pass injuries like these are all things that should be considered just because this guy can go run at marathon with awesome form bear foot that doesn't mean I could ever do that but that also doesn't mean that I can't use bear foot shoes for running it just might look different and to your point I think that's where we get into a lot of troubles when we start letting these other opinions who say like this should be it or this is how it should be or like we're like think of these like case studies look at them do it that's not you and it's similar like we we talk about all the time of training right where it's like oh well this person is not you in the sense of how they've grown how they move etc so why are we doing the same thing with bear foot shoes it just doesn't make any sense and so scale it back acclimates slowly remember where the context lies of your experiences background etc and then go from there to your point yeah to high heel cool you've shortened your Achilles for how many years and now you're going to go squat with three going to go to a boot camp and just bounce up and down and a flat foot yeah people forget that the tissue takes time to acclimate and yeah if you if you have been wearing running shoes longer for example you might need more time and that's totally okay and how you acclimate there are so many ways to do that and we could totally unpack that probably at a hold of their three-hour podcast but all that to say I love that point and I think you drove it home with you have to remember where you are when you're starting to implement this because it's going to look very different than somebody who's been doing it for years and they're already used to it and a fair warning I mean you by all means can blow it off and go for it and try it by yourself but the feet take a really long time to heel and I'll shout out my friends at bespoke physical therapy who we've had here on the podcast before um not a lot of blood flow goes down you know into that area to to heel so if you find yourself with a stress reaction with a stress fracture with plantar fasciitis it's going to take some time so just do your due diligence set yourself up for a success with the preventative measures because when you do experience a foot injury it's going to take a bit for for that area of your body to heel you know the most humbling type of rehab that I think I have have had included exercises like towel drags with like towel scrunches with your toes and you just put a you know a small hand towel on the floor take your socks off be barefoot put your foot on top of that and try to scrunch that towel closer and closer to your heel just by using your toes and see how quickly the arch of your foot starts cramping on you another one is picking up marbles with your foot in placing them from one spot in the room to another and just using all those muscle fibers and those small muscle stabilizers that you really never isolate um again very humbling so don't sleep on on foot strength don't sleep on you know showing your feet the right love that they need um and if you've had a long day on your feet you know sometimes the better thing to do is just rest and not push the limit so show your feet some love 100% so Jake your wealth of knowledge when it comes to foot where especially for activities why are you now shifting your e-commerce efforts uh to a brick and mortar experience and how are you planning to stand out against the rest? Yeah so when I look at that fit friend from a top level down I think the community and everything that it's been built with with the sense of folks who are just really interested in shoes has been awesome and I think the the way to take the brand next for me personally is to add another level of connection and I think being able to not only review the shoes but then also being able to sell them to the site and give you all the context and info you need blended with that review content is gonna be really important but then also potentially exploring brick and mortar so that's where I'm at now and the reason for that is one the connection element but too when we think about cross-running shoes with latin shoes barefoot shoes like where do you go to try those on there's nowhere few stores will carry some sure like dexporting goods they'll carry like the big nightkey the undarmer where do you go to try strike movement the rad one the tier the born primitive so many smaller brands that arguably make better shoes than these big brands but you can't try on anywhere in sizing is always a pain and that's the main of my existence as reviewers trying to give sizing recommendations but all that to say I think building this store that is really fitness focused with the footwear that it's gonna have is needed there really isn't a store that's doing that right now at least at scale in the sense of where to go in this city where to go in this city and where do you go to find like okay the proper sizing or like the proper information for hey I do this type of training like what should I go to you go to dex shore and you'll get like you know your baseline okay this is for cross-training but like what type of cross-training if you got that by Nike Metcone 9 for example for cross-training but you also like to run that's who's gonna be the heck out of you so where do you go to find that and that's kind of idea behind where I want to take everything next is connection but then also be an outlet and a resource for folks who want to try stuff on before they buy that you just can't find anywhere and I think being able to do that and aggregate that sizing data and just provide better information for folks will hopefully then help bring down return rates better for the environment better for the company better for the consumer all these things that could be nice little wins with this type of vertical well Jake we wish you the best of luck when it comes to this endeavor and bringing this to life it's certainly certainly gonna be a journey for yourself I want you to to lead the listeners with a good way to follow you and that fit friend on the journey that you're taking on yeah so the best place to reach me is either on YouTube or Instagram that fit friend and then if you ever have questions on shoes drop a comment reach out to me I literally answer every DM every comment honestly I feel like most days it's like a blur because I am answering so many questions but I try to hit everybody back and that's really important to me so if you ever have questions always feel free to reach out you hit me on a personal Instagram Jake underscore BOLY I will respond to you there too so there are a lot of different ways you can reach me if I ever don't respond just hit me on another platform with that oh I'm so sorry like I totally forgot and I will hit you back the man is accessible everybody. Thank you so much for stopping by the studio today here at BB com thank you so much for having me as an honor thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: Chris Thompson's No Excuses MVP Arm Workout - Bodybuilding.com [fQMCCRlBtfs].txt ===

If you've seen any of our previous videos on bodybuilding.com, you'll know that primary goal for me is to move quick. I have a pretty busy life that involves a lot of travel, so hotel gym sometimes have to make do. So two things that are here is to make best use of time and best videos to look with it. Move fast, get it done. Today we're going to do an arm workout that consists of buys, tries, and we're going to bring in shoulders to round out the entire arm. We're just going to run some dumbbells. We're going to work our way through with some triceps with some compound movements and some drop sets and hit a high amount of volume to achieve our goal. The goal today's workout is to be able to complete the entire process in as little as 30 minutes. The first time you go through it, you might not be able to pull it off in 30 minutes. So run through it, get it down pat, and then work on your speed and get it down to as little as you can. We're going to start off with workout today with buy-sips. We're going to do an exercise called 21 which involves three portions to the movement. First part of the contraction is 50% of the contraction. You're going to do that for seven. Second part of the movement is the top contraction part that upper 50% of the contraction for seven, and then you're going to complete the movement with the full range for an additional seven. Hence the 21. We're going to start out with 30 pound dumbbells. We're going to use this little rest as possible, get down to the 25s, 20s, 15s, and tens. When you first start out, it's not that tough, especially with a 50% contraction movement and not that heavy. But as you start getting a little bit further, even as the weights come down, you'll continue to challenge yourself. And you're going to have to push through both physically, but additionally you're going to challenge yourself mentally. As we get done with bice, we're jumping right into tries. We're going to do three movements in the tries. We're going to make it a try set, three different exercises, and we're going to move as fast as possible. Since today we're trying to use limited equipment to replicate challenging situations like hotel jams, we're using dumbbells to do skull crushers. You're going to like flat on a bench, you're going to do an overhead extension. We're going to start with the third piece. We're going to get in the 10 to 15 rep range after the contraction there. We're going to slide over to an inclined bench, and you're going to do another extension with your elbow pointed out that's going to hit a different head on the trice up here. If the third movement that you're going to do in the trice set is back to the bench as a close grip bench press, again hitting the trice to fatigue. As soon as you complete that movement, we're going to drop down to 25s and then we're going to do it all over again, staying in that 10 to 15 rep range burn out each time everything you have, and we're going to reduce it all the way down to the 10 bond dumbbells, and you won't have much left, even with little 10 pound dumbbells. We're going to the third and final movement of our weight training shoulders. This is the last part you're going to be fatigued from bise and trice, but we're moving quickly and we've got to get this done in 30 minutes. So you're going to slide over to the 30 pound dumbbells and you're going to do three movements all over again. We're going to start with the lateral raise for 10 reps. We're going to go to overhead press for 10 reps and a front raise for 10 reps. You're going to drop the sets down to 25s, 20s, 15s again down to 10s, and even though 10 pound dumbbells are not heavy, you're going to feel them by the end. Now we're done with the weight training portion of this and we're going to finish out with 10 minutes of high intensity interval training cardio. We're going to put that grade and 15. We're going to start with 60 seconds of walking and then we're going to alternate that with 60 seconds of running at this fastest pace as your body can handle. You'll use the next 60 seconds to recover and keep alternating that until you hit your 10 minute mark. When you complete those 10 minutes, you will have finished up a 30 minute high intensity by try shoulder and cardio vascular workout. That's it for our no excuses arm workout with some cardio thrown in on top. All the details for this workout are broken down on the page below. If you have any questions on this workout or for me in general, you can follow me on body's face, Instagram, and Facebook. For more videos like this from the muscle militia keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Clay Guida's Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [W7WmYeXvsx8].txt ===

Hi everyone, I'm Clay the Carpenter Guida, here with Bodybuilding.com at the Muscle Farm Training Facility. I'm here to tell you guys about my training, my nutrition, my supplementation that really drives the carpenter to get my lightweight title. Yeah, pretty simple. I live in a van down by the river, you know, any of my loyal fans know I live in a window baguette in the Indian reservation in Albuquerque, New Mexico. So I've kind of secluded myself and it sounds kind of cliche but I'm always on the road to victory. When I wake up in the morning in the R.E. and it's just I look out and I see you know, with a buffalo around, literally there's like 30 or 40 buffalo always wandering around the RV. It's kind of surreal and it puts me in a training mood. I want to just get out there and get closer to my dream and nothing's going to stop me and say, get that belt. I think you say it to say I get my hard work ethic for my parents, my mom and dad, we're a couple of jobs and they've always brought us up that nothing in life. We're getting, you know, comes for free. So I've always had that mentality. Started at a young age, wrestling playing football, playing baseball and just kind of always said that hard nose, you know, go get her attitude and it is kind of, you know, bend my, my go to and my mixed martial arts career and you have see people see the wild hair and all that but I'm really driven by, you know, my workout partners and by my training, my trainers and things like that. So I just know, you know, what I lack in town, I want to make up for heart and just hard work and he works like crazy. I wish I could convey the work ethic this guy has. He's in there all the time, always even bugs me. He's like coach, when can I get a new move coach, when he's always on me, he's like, come on, I want more, I want more, I want more and I love that hunger. I don't want to fight in front of an empty crowd, I'm getting one does. I hear the crowd stomping their feet and screaming my name. We, you know, you know, I mean, that drives me, I can feel it in my blood, you know, and I feel with every punch I throw, I could be the sweat that comes out of me. It's something special. The fans is what drives me, you know, you look at all these, these other professional sports, the NFL, they had the lack out for a while, the NBA, they might lose their season, but I honestly can say that mixed martial arts fans, UFC fans are the most true, the most loyal fans out there in the professional sporting world. They're the ones that pay our bills so the least I can do is give back to them and put on a show every time out. I'm always fighting for the fans, you know, people ask me all the time, how do you, you know, what does it feel like to do that walk out? It does it feel like to be in the cage there. I, you know, I kind of tell them, you know, take the most awesome 10, the most gnarly rock contis you've ever been to and we're in rapid into like a five or ten minute, you know, spot in your life and I tell them, I feel like I'm the lead singer and this is, you know, it's kind of like my own show, you know what I mean? It's about the closest I can come to describing it. He loves to fight, he loves to compete, and I think that love, that real kind of just organic love for what he does comes out in his personality and his training and most of all in his fights. When he gets in there, you can just see he's getting psyched up, he's getting empty, loves to be in there so much and when you love to do something, even when you're tired, you're happy. And so he's bouncing around just as happy as a clam in there and that's I think one of the secret to being able to go, go, go, go, go the way he does. He just loves it. I have a thriller competition, it's never left me, you know, I wrestled college and I never was a national call for, I never made it down to national tournament in high school, I never made it down state and this is I'm making up for things in life that didn't do earlier. So this is something that it's just an undying passion for the sport, you know, that desire that until I get that belt and I hold it for a while, I want to be that guy that gives my belt away after, you know, I'm done and tired of, you know, competition and I think that's everything to happen. Clay has a very unique approach to training and that is that he does a lot of it. I love training. A sad day to me would be a day that I couldn't train to me getting up, you know, like they're getting up in the RV or in the van, not by the river and no one, I get to go to the gym to work out with some of the best fighters and the best trainers in the world. It puts a smile on the face of the day. Clay Greeda is one of those guys. It's the first guy there and the last guy to leave. You know, my day is broken up in a three or four kind of short workouts. The morning one being the team workout where you know, it goes from like an hour to an hour a half and then the next three or four workouts whatever it is, go from 30 to 45 minutes just a game plan, technique and conditioning. A typical week of training starts the Monday morning we have our MMA training, whatever Greg wants us to do either small gloves and then we do, he has his focus on a grappling or we do, you know, kind of light, 70% on the feet where you throw in light strikes because with those small and big gloves you know, you can get cut. We'll do about an hour, hour and a half on Monday of MMA training after that. My second, second workout will be, I'll go do kettlebells and with the kettlebells it's great. It's different than crossfit, it's different than like, you know, just getting on a treadmill things like that and also it's not just we don't just sit there and swing kettlebells for an hour we do a lot of circuit training in between so they will have me just do basic you know kettlebell swings, snatches, cleans, you know, different things like that and then they'll have me do, you know, tire flips and hit the tire with the hammer and just different stuff for explosiveness. As you see most mixed martial artists were more like sprinters were not long distance, you know, even though I feel like I can go, you know, 10 rounds that you know, I'd be fine but we talk about explosion with we do a lot of kettlebells, about 45 minutes I do that twice a week, then after that, on the third session of the day I'll hit mids with Mike Winkle-John about 20 to 30 minutes of just solid technique and then he starts putting heat on us, you know, where it's like a conditioning drill as well so about 30 minutes of hitting mids and then after that I'll, you know, game playing with Greg and then who have me just do repetition and technique. So a lot of times, you know, I'll get it, you know, be able to take a quick nap or maybe a couple of hour nap, get some lunch, you know, quick bite after workout and then, you know, relax for a while but some of them are kind of, you know, block full, you know, two or three workouts back to back to back. I almost like that, that way I can just, you know, I just run right through it, I feel, you know, that, I feel like I just want to, you know, just hammer through it and, you know, and all in the workout, you know, a lot of people, a lot of guys, you know, just got to get through this workout. Me and it's different, it's not like getting through a workout, you know, just get through life, you know, you want to get the most out of it, I want to get the most out of my day, I want to get the most, you know, productivity out of each workout. You really have to listen to the body so taking a day off is, you need to do that. You know, if you train five, six days a week, maybe a, maybe Sunday, I'll be, you know, the day right, just kind of lounge around, let the body repair, go for a run. I prefer a long training camp. To me, anything over, you know, anything over eight weeks is, you know, icing on the cake. And I'm always, you know, I always stay in shape even after my fights, I'm always running and, you know, training things like that because this is what we do a full time, you know, you never know when you're going to get that call. So I'm always, you know, kind of grinding at the bit and you know, always working out, but, you know, when I got to New Mexico, I'd say nine to 12 weeks to me, it's a good camp, it's a great camp. And I love being out there, you know, like I said, getting myself away from, you know, that every day grinding, you know, being back home and, you know, little distractions. And, you know, sometimes I'm my worst distraction. So I always, you know, find it, it best to be, you know, located in Albuquerque, and just, you know, mind in the prize. But, you know, preparing the body is huge. I have a very good trainer in back home, DJ Jones, and she's been a huge part, you know, a huge part of my game. We'll stretch after, you know, the workouts, you know, sparring and she'll do like a 30-minute stretch of roll on my shoulders, my hamstrings, quads, you know, hips, all this stuff. So she's implemented a huge part of my game that I was missing because a lot of, you know, a lot of times I've got, all right, done working out, hit the shower, go home. But your body's still working out and it's still like trying to find, you know, that time to relax and she just kind of elevates it. You know, a bad day, the gym is better than a day in the job or a day sitting on the couch, you know, doing nothing so I might get banged up in the gym. But, I know that I'm putting in the time and I'm always improving. Feeling the body, yeah, that's a huge part for professional athlete. And sometimes, you know, I slack a little bit. A lot of times I'll forget to eat sometimes and I'll do, I'll go four or five, six hours without eating and I'll train a couple of times in between then. So I'm always drinking a lot of water. I guess, you know, a good time to start a meeting at morning for breakfast. I get up and I love either a bagel, bowl of crispy, sort of bowl of cereal with some bananas. It's sliced bananas in there. My like, the instant oatmeal, like the peaches and cream or blueberries and cream and stuff like that. So it's not the healthiest breakfast, but it's not that, you know, it could be a lot worse. I could be going out and eating, you know, half upon a bacon and cheesy omelters or another morning. So that my morning breakfast is, it gets me through my morning workout. And after the next workout, I'll have sometimes I can, can't shake and dark a white meat and, you know, mix that with, you know, some rice or noodles with something like that that, you know, some carbs, protein things like that that are going to get me, you know, to my evening workout. After that, I like red meat. You go out for a steak, sushi, and something that's going to feel me, you know, and healthy repair for my, you know, my next day's workout. I eat, when I've, these past couple weeks, you know, or these next few weeks to my fight, probably four to five times a day. I think guys that, you know, carry a little bit more weight than I do. Me beat more in order to, you know, for their diet, but right now my weights, my weights always good. I don't really cut too much weight. So I think four to five times a day and eating regularly between workouts is definitely boosted my training and I've been getting the most out of my workouts. I'm not, you know, the measuring cup guy where everything's got to be kind of, you know, just so imperfect, you know, three ounces of rice and four ounces of broccoli and, you know, you only so much, you know, half a slab of, or half a chicken breast, things like that. I just, whatever's in front of me, I eat it and I move on to the next workout next meal. Since I was little, but parents always, you know, taught me to kind of eat whatever's in front of you as far as, you know, my diet goes. I don't stick to a strict diet. Obviously, I don't drink soda. I don't eat fast food. I stay away from all that stuff. I'll go to a restaurant by a $12 cheeseburger. I'll sometimes do anything. So I'm not real fussy about what's in front of me, but because I know I'm going to go to the gym and work it off in a matter of what. Now, I got a little bit of a sweet tooth. A month out, I don't eat the, I don't eat desserts, you know, for 30 days or a month before my fight. So I'll have starburst though, sometimes I just eat the big sprees and, well, I'll get a little stuff like that, but I don't go overboard. I love all vegetables. I love broccoli, I love salad bar stuff, I get it. There's not really any vegetables. I won't eat, I love fish, colopia, my, my things like that over rice. I've grown a little bit as far as, you know, nutritionally and, you know, I've learned about my body a little bit more. So yeah, I don't really consider cutting weight because I walk around, I'm like, 1-65. Fight week, I'm 1-60 and we get one pound allowance until I get to my title fight where we have to be your scratch, 1-55. And right now, I don't have to cut weight and I don't plan on it in the future. I think everyone needs to supplement, you know, just outside of drinking, you know, water and gatorade, there has to be some sort of catalyst as well that helps you, you know, kind of get an edge and you work out. In the morning, after breakfast, I'll start with my protein. I'll do like 16 ounces of the battlefield, whether it's cookies and cream or, you know, with no layer of chocolate peanut butter, I'll drink like half on the weight of the gym. So I'll like 8 ounces. That's about the only time to catch me measure of anything. Drink like 8 ounces on the weight of the gym that we're not too full before practice. And then immediately after practice, I'll finish the rest of it. Finish 8 ounces of my protein right after. So there's, you know, some recovery there, you know, then I move into the recon, you know, helps you rebuild the muscle and things like that. Like, yeah, I would say the body must rest. The body must rebuild as well. I always just overlook that and I would just, you know, get ready to stuff like that or heavily, you know, but as a professional athlete, you learn different things about your body that things that are going to escalate your recovery and muscle farmers, you know, been a huge key to that, you know, to help me, you know, be the machine that I am. Pretty work out, you know, I've always been big on if you can't get up for a workout, you're probably in the wrong sport, but, you know, it kind of helped it out a little bit. The muscle farm assault is, is been huge, you know, it doesn't get you that jacked up, like, you know, kind of shaky, but it gives you just a steady burst that you like, you know, 12 ounces of a soft before workout and I feel great. Top three supplements I would recommend that have been huge, you know, my keys to success, trying to get a good, good, good coasts of me. You know, you take that in the morning and even for you go to bed, it's great. Multivitamin's fine something, you know, either fruit and vegetables, you know, or, you know, just to, you know, some sort of multivitamin's same thing in the morning and the evening, and definitely a solid protein, you need something that you're going to take a couple of times a day, that's going to, you know, replace the meals that you might miss and help you, you know, throughout your day training. Everyone needs, you know, supplementation with these rigorous workouts three, four times a day, like I said earlier, you need some sort of catalyst to get you to these workouts and, you know, and help you get out to the next one and, you know, to get the most out of your workouts, you know, and that's what it's all about, you know, peaking at the proper time. And then having these, having these great products is, he's really been, you know, testing the team of my proper training. Hey everyone, I appreciate you guys joining me. Once again, this is Clay the Carpenter. We just signing off. I told you guys a little bit about my nutrition, my supplementation, kind of different foods I eat, but I live in a fandom by the river, where the buffalo realm. So I appreciate you guys tuning in and also checking out the biggest fight of my life, November 12th on Fox, but in Ben Henderson and it's going to tell a tale. It's almost show time. So once again, thanks for joining me. And for more videos, check out BodyBilling.com, muscle farm, and check it out November 12th, don't blink.

=== FILE: Clean and Jerk - Shoulders ⧸ Legs ⧸ Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [v13d7g_uUXM].txt ===

With a barbell on the floor close to the shins, take an overhand grip just outside the legs. Lower your hips with the weight focused on the heels, back straight, head facing forward, chest up with your shoulders just in front of the bar. This will be your starting position. Begin the first pull by driving through the heels extending your knees. Your back angle should stay the same and your arms should remain straight. Move the weight with control as you continue to above the knees. Next comes the second pull, the main source of acceleration for the clean. As the bar approaches the mid thigh position, begin extending through the hips. In a jumping motion accelerate by extending the hips, knees and ankles, using speed to move the bar upward. There should be no need to actively pull through the arms to accelerate the weight. At the end of the second pull, the body should be fully extended, leaning slightly back with the arms still extended. As full extension is achieved, transition into the third pull by aggressively shrugging and flexing the arms with the elbows up and out. At peak extension, aggressively pull yourself down, rotating your elbows under the bar as you do so. Receive the bar in a front squat position, the depth of which is dependent upon the height of the bar at the end of the third pull. The bar should be racked onto the protracted shoulders, lightly touching the throat with the hands relaxed. Continue to descend to the bottom squat position, which will help in the recovery. Immediately recover by driving through the heels, keeping the torso upright and elbows up. Continue until you have a risen twist-dunning position. The second phase is the jerk, which raises the weight overhead. Standing with the weight racked on the front of the shoulders, begin with the dip. With your feet directly under your hips, flex the knees without moving the hips backward. Go down only slightly and reverse the direction as powerfully as possible. Drive through the heels to create as much speed and force as possible and be sure to move your head out of the way of the bar as it leaves the shoulders. At this moment as the feet leave the floor, the feet must be placed into the receiving position as quickly as possible. In the brief moment, the feet are not actively driving against the platform, the athletes effort to push the bar up will drive the feet down. The feet should be split with one foot forward and one foot back. Receive the bar with the arms locked out overhead. Return to a standing position.

=== FILE: Close Grip Bench Press - Tricep ⧸ Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [OYoc93qAAEY].txt ===

Slide back on a flat bench. Use a closed grip to lift the bar from the rack and hold it straight over you with your arms straight. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar down until it nearly touches your middle chest. Be sure to keep your elbows close to your torso at all times to maximize tricep involvement. After a brief pause at the bottom contracted position, exhale and raise the bar back to the starting position using your triceps to push the bar upward.

=== FILE: Close Grip Front Lat Pulldown - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [ecRF8ERf2q4].txt ===

Sit at the pull down machine with a wide bar attached to the top pulley. Make sure you adjust the knee pad to fit snug against your legs. These pads will prevent your body from being raised by the weights and allow you to perform the exercise correctly. Grip the bar closer than shoulder width with the palms of your hands facing forward. Both arms should be extended in front of you holding onto the bar. Lean your torso back about 30 degrees to create a small curvature in your back and stick your chest out. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and bring the bar down until it nearly touches your upper chest. Draw your shoulders and upper arms back to do this. Once you reach the bottom contracted position, concentrate on squeezing your back muscles. Your upper torso should remain stationary during the movement and only your arms should move. So make sure to use your forearms only to hold the bar and not to pull it down. After a brief pause at the bottom contracted position, inhale and slowly raise the bar back to the starting position with your arms fully extended and your lats stretched.

=== FILE: Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer ｜ Trailer [2JftMzYyKJ8].txt ===

There are a lot of differences between the 24-7 fitness trainer and any other program that's ever been released on bodybuilding.com or really in the marketplace. This is for any person that wants to dramatically transform their body and be able to maintain 365 days a year. This is our last exercise of this circuit. You should be getting as many burpees as you possibly can. All of the workouts are shot in real time. You've got 30 seconds of this. She's got her elbows nice and tight to her head. You can follow along at home with me and the clutch body shop athletes that are doing the program. We are making it so that you can choose whether you want to shred that or build muscle. Last that a pull-up to go is fast as you can. Every workout is 30 to 45 minutes. This is our last round you guys. Make sure you're pushing it. You need little or no equipment at all to complete these workouts, which makes it super easy. It's really a no-excuse approach to getting your results, getting you in and out of the gym, and making it something that you can maintain no matter where you are.

=== FILE: Cobra Back Workout ｜ Terry Crews [K_m2ECqiE9o].txt ===

Hey everybody, my name is Terry Cruz and you might know me from the expendables from everybody hates Chris, my brand new show, how we there yet. I am here right now with you with bodybuilding.com to show you the number one back workout that I do, my favorite one. By the time we get done, we go have one of those cobra bats. I'm just doing a thing. This is you and me. We work it out together today. By the music up, turn your jazz up because we bought the hit it. Everyone focuses on the push movements, but you're really to get your back together. You got the focus just as hard on the pull movements. And this is what today is all about. Alright, ain't no bacon on this one. Let's do it. Ready? First thing we're going to do is start with a five minute warmup on the bike. Alright, here we are. I cannot stress the importance of getting a good warmup because man, it gets everything the blood flowing, the whole deal. You can't run for our attempts to roast the straight from zero to 100. You got to kind of guide your way up. So here we go. We've got the juggle in this bike man. We've got our warmup on. And you know, usually set the resistance a little high so that you can warm up your leg. If you have a bike where the resistance is between one and 15, one being an easiest, 15 being the hardest, I say you set it between five, six or seven. You don't want to go too fast because this is not the workout. This is all about this warmup and it does. Okay everybody, our first exercise is the Romanian debt lift. I brought my straps. We're using heavier weight and not going down so far so we can really focus on what this is about, which is your back. I usually start out like 135 at the warmup set and then I go into four sets of 10 with heavier weight. Make sure your knees are slightly bent and keep your back arched. You not want to roll your back. Time to get a little break. This is something good on each two oh man, it's a way to go. All right, our next exercise is a good old fashioned puller. Now you straps just because I want to focus on my back. The first set of our pull-up exercises is the behind the neck and we're going to go all the way to failure. You're going to get about a minute rest and then we're going to go right into a one arm pull-up. Take each arm to failure. You basically have a grip on both of them but you're doing them focusing on one arm at a time. Switch. And then go to the middle and even it up. Burn it up. All right, the next move and our pull-up exercises are the close grip pull-up. Again, it's all the way to failure. There's it there. Here we go. Really get an extension. Nice. The last set of these four pull-ups that's two failure is just a standard pull-up. Just the same ones you have a gram popper used to do. That's it. We just got down with our pull-ups. We're headed right over to the squat rack and this is it. I usually use an underhand grip. Some people like the overhand. It depends on what's comfortable for you. All right, this guy's down with the first set. I'm going to add some more weight. We're going to hit the second one right now. We're going to add a little more weight. We're going to hit the third one. All right, now we're headed over to dumbbells. We can get those rolls over there. Now we're moving on to the bent over dumbbell rows. You want to be really careful, you want to keep your back straight. You want to really feel the squeeze at the top. We're going to do four sets of 10. I'm working with 100's here. I stay with one weight the whole time. This is all about concentration. You're trying to work on the details. You switch. That's one. We're going to get a 30-second rest and then we're going to hit it again. That's two. One more set. Now we're going to move on to the hammer straight. We're going to hit the whole other section of the back. You want that cover. You got a paper that covers. Now we're moving on to the hammer straight. We're going to work the lower section of your last. The idea is to get four sets of 10. The last set is to failure. And I add weight each time. Another thing I want to stress is that a lot of guys use these hammer straight. They keep their feet on the floor. Here you want to make sure that you get your feet up on the post here. Because if you're feet on the floor, you have a chance of rocking. And then I can just think over it. Especially when you get into heavier weight. This keeps your secure and keeps your lock down. Really stress the back and concentrate on where you want this thing to hit. That's the first set. Trying to put some more weight on. Forget about 30 seconds rest. I'm going to put my last set on. I got five plates going on. And I'm going to fail you. This is it. That's failure. Okay, we're going to do four sets. Try to get 10 reps. We're going to add a little bit of weight each time. And this is pretty much the last heavy kind of exercise you're going to do on your back. I don't go heavy weight on with this because we went heavier. I really want to focus on what you want to hit with that middle of your back. Make sure you keep your feet up. Good grip. And here we go. So I'm going to add a little bit more weight. One more to go. I'm going to add a little more weight about 30 seconds rest. And we'll hit the last one. That's it. There we go. Now we're over here over at the back extensions. This is basically a warm down. I do four sets of 10 because we've already done a lot of heavy heavy motions with a lower back. So now it's all about kind of like warming it down and making sure everything's still in place. You know, after you've already hit it. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. We're going to do some sit-ups because with your core you want to keep it balanced. You've been working your back so hard. I like to use a ball today because right now my back is pretty tight. We're going to do four sets all the way to failure. I like to keep my arms in front of me cross and we just crunch it up. Oh boy. I got a little cramp. I just got a cramp on my first set. And you know when you're cramping that might meet failure. That's a good one. We're going to keep going. I actually started to drill a little bit. One more. The last one of the day, y'all. This is where all the games happen. Four quarters. Five seconds left. You get the ball. I got it. Here we go. Let's take it all the way in. All right, y'all. That's it. You did it. You made it. You got the cobra back. You got the bite somebody with it. I'm telling you, thank you for doing this with me. And if you want to incorporate this workout and the other day it would be, please check out the page below. I'll tell you. I'll tell you. For more content, just like this, check out bodybuildin.com. Oh. Guns are going up. What?

=== FILE: Colton Leonard's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [YhH26__D0wU].txt ===

My name is Colton Litter. I'm a Slycore sponsored athlete and a national level strong man competitor. I started bodybuilding for a long time to that for about four or five years and I just recently last year I moved on to strong man. I got my start while I was playing football in high school and really enjoyed it. I always had fun competing in football. I ended up hurting my neck a few games out from the end of the season. I didn't have any big schools lined up but I was talking to a few and after that happened I was faced with a decision. I could either let it have some surgery, get started and get playing next the next season maybe for a college or I could give up football. I looked at it and I said, you know, I'm not in any constant pain. I don't want to go down surgery. I don't think it's right for me. So I moved out of football and started trying to incorporate something. I was determined not to be the person who was the I used to person. The person that I used to be able to do this. I used to be able to do that. So I started weightlifting and eventually met up with a friend of mine now and he was he's been competing since he was about 15 or 16 and he got me started inviting and did my first show and really enjoyed it. How a lot of fun. I decided that I wanted to do something a little bit bigger than just a local show the following year. So I decided to go off with team nationals and took a second there and the following year after that did the collegiate nationals took fifth. Recently the last year so I ended up losing my mother and when that happened I lost all motivation. I couldn't get motivated to eat right. I couldn't get motivated to do anything but go to the gym. That was it. And even when I did go to the gym it just wasn't really worthwhile. Soon after that I a friend of mine he's actually a minister. He's my minister and he was he had just gotten an astrol man and he said, hey man you need to come on do this with me. Just come out and just have some fun. We'll do one competition. Tell me if you like it. So okay I mean I'm only trying anything once. I've always been interested. It always looked fun and after that first competition I was hooked. I was absolutely hooked. Strongman was always an outlet for me to you know to really just get me and get nasty you know the everyday society you can't do that. You have to be polite, yes, man, yes sir and that's great. Did you should be but you know there's something inside of all of us that we want to let out sometimes you know we got to let up the beast that we want to walk and strumming an amazing outlet to do that. You can get in there. You can train hard and that was that outlet for me. All the tension and all the grief and everything that I had built up. I'm losing my mother and the hardships so they're in the year. I was able to to really let out and really just you know tear up the weight it's basically you know go out there and do things that a lot of people would find really difficult or impossible to do. I was able to do that. I've got a nine-day rotation that I currently use. I really like to go two days on one day off. I feel like this allows me to to recover. Strongman is very high intensity exercise and if you know I take this in time off everyone's normal you will get burnout really fast and if I just won't be able to keep up. I like to on the nine-day rotation I take a let's say in three-day increments. You got a heavy day, a lighter day which may be like a gym type workout and then an off-day and then I repeat that cycle for your usual three-toe times. I have a couple different tons of workouts that I like to do. Some may incorporate a normal workout like to say in the gym and I may toss in one event at the end of that workout whether it be for cardio or for strength purposes. I've got a normal gym training day where you know I'll go in I'll do some tests workout get a great pump I'll get some conditioning at the end and be done and I've also got strictly event days. Each day each workout I try to focus on kind of three different levels. I begin my workout with a strength movement that could be one or two exercises sometimes maybe even an implement like a log press or something like that. The next phase is hypertrophy so I do like to bring back a little bit of the bodybuilding type into the workout that way I still maintain my size and with a big guy I want to stay big and I believe it's it's great for over health and everything. The third part is conditioning you know whether that be hop on a treadmill and knocking out just 20 or 30 minutes of some steady state cardio a couple times a week or if it's going outside and using the implements at a light away longer distances and more you know pain intensity type cardio. Strongman is not is not necessarily powerlifting. Powerlifting you go in and you focus on three movements basically and you go home you know you do some auxiliary lifting go home. Now strongman incorporates a lot of different sports you've got to be in shape you've got to be big you've got to be strong. I do still incorporate a lot of isolation movements just like a bodybuilding in his routine. You do have to still maintain size as well as strength and instrument. There are a ton of events for strongman. My personal best are actually at was stones. The sports known for that was stones and that's great. The personal records of the naval load a 400 pound stone for two consecutive reps in contest the strongest man in Texas. Police fourth not too bad showing it to get made a couple looking mistakes that I dropped me down a little bit but I'm looking looking forward to getting you next year but I was the only one in Texas to actually load the 385 pound stone so I do take a lot of pride in that and and and get into a strong stone. Since I started strongman I have been a big believer in using those some of those movements for just conditioning. If you're just an avid gym goer and you're just trained to kind of get a little bigger a little leaner I highly recommend if you take anything out of this video just taking or just try it. Pick up heavy object and carry it for a distance see how you feel afterwards. Do it after a workout it really has changed the way I train when you know I do plan to get back into bodybuilding at some point in time of the future and when I do make that jump I will definitely incorporate certain things like farmers walks maybe heavy carries. Those things are just amazing for conditioning and functional camping. Do you have to remember that because strongman are competing and they're burning so many calories that they do need to eat to perform. You have to eat the right and the right quantities of foods to to perform properly. For instance if I were to consume 2,000 calories a day that might be normal for a certain individual but for me I wouldn't be able to perform my strength would decrease my size would decrease my body wouldn't be able to keep up so you have to keep that in mind and you have to adjust it to your personal level because just because I'm 310 pounds and I can eat 5 or 6,000 calories a day doesn't mean you may need 5 or 6,000 calories a day. You're going to need less than that you have to adjust it to yourself and what you're doing and how you work outside. Now I can go out and I can get a cheeseburger and I can get tons of calories from that and but you know when I go to train I feel horrible after a big grease in meal after pizza after stuff like that I'm not saying that I leave those out of my diet but there's proper times to incorporate them you know if you're eating pizza and burgers and fries every day you're not going to perform well I don't care what you do when you're eating clean and healthy foods and getting with the right vitamins and minerals and everything and you're going to perform better you're going to feel better you're going to have a bit of cardio I've noticed a huge difference in my training when I eat clean and when I don't and believe or not I'm actually a big propired of peanut butter and jelly sandwiches I feel like they've got tons of fiber tons of nutrients and it's really quick and easy way to get some extra calories in throughout the day so it's all seen that in with my my chicken and my rice throughout the day really makes a difference to get those calories high but in a clean way I prefer to get in a little bit bigger meals at a time I really enjoy eating I just do so when I sit down I want to eat a big meal and I want to feel full so instead of eating you know 5, 8 times a day I'll eat more like 4 times a day and bigger quantities of those sit-ins. It's still spaces me out probably about 3 hours a part or so so I don't really go much longer than that my protein sources I try to keep me fairly clean I do do a couple protein shakes throughout the day I'll plenty of chicken red bean really enjoy red bean a couple times a week I carbohydrate sources mainly sweet potatoes, wheat breads, wheat tortillas actually I use those a lot and vegetable salads that's always a big one my cheat meals aren't a silly planned out but I'm just conscious of when I am eating those I may sit down and I may eat a pizza you know with the wife and enjoy it but I know that the next day I don't need to go back out and have another pizza you know I don't need to go on any burgers or breakfast tacos I try to time those and I just try to keep you know keep it conservative and I think that's a good way of looking at it for a lot of people that you know maybe they are trying to train for strength but of course you want to stay healthy it's just moderation by doing that you're balancing out your lifestyle you're balancing out your eating habits and that's what I believe in I think that works best for me I do believe that supplements are necessary you know some people may say that you can you can achieve all your supplements early all your vitamin and mineral and macromycrone needs from you daily food intake I think that's difficult for the average average person even eating princess on like buy builders diet during contest prep you know I I don't believe that that person is consuming enough food to get the right vitamin minerals I'm a firm believer in the basics I like to use protein multi-vitamin fish oils as well as joint support and a pre workout I really enjoy using pre and post workout supplements the multi is a basic but I firm I'm a firm believer is real-carbon I can sure get in the right vitamins to to help perform and to help you know keep your body healthy the the multi helps fill in all the little gaps that you may be missing from a whole thing your diet protein is essential just it helps to ensure that you are getting in the right amount of protein during the day and and sometimes eating nothing but chicken or or eating meat sources can kind of get boring and monotonous so by having that extra protein supplement you can get a couple extra grams of protein in quickly and what with less awesome I feel that pre workouts are great um natural boost caffeine is wonderful um the additional creatine as well makes a big difference I enjoy taking most of my supplements at least with meals I feel like my multi my visuals they can get it absorb a little easier and get that just a fast food you have meal and your stomach pre workout it's the more essential that you take it without a meal on your stomach that way that caffeine and stuff can get in your system a quicker I do think it's essential that you take some time off supplements every once in a while when I when I personally do I know do notice a difference in a little bit of my performance maybe that's looks like a logical maybe it's not but um there's something I notice especially like with my pre workouts strongman is a great way to change up your program and I really do recommend that everyone take take some time and try to fit in maybe a carrier or something into your workout and I think it really changed the way the way that you can train it's amazing for functional strength if you want to learn more about me or learn more about strumming please feel free to contact me if you can find me here on byluna calm through body space or you can hit me up on facebook or twitter if you want more great articles or videos and content like this check out byluna calm

=== FILE: Concentration Curls - Biceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [ZcU2hN76UyA].txt ===

Sit down on a flat bench with one dumbbell in front of you. Use your right arm to grasp the dumbbell with an underhand grip. Place the back of your right arm against your inner right thigh. Your arm should be extended and the dumbbell should be above the floor. This will be your starting position. Now while holding your upper arm stationary, exhale and curl the weight upward while concentrating on the biceps. Continue to raise the weight until your bicep is fully contracted and the dumbbell is as shoulder level. Hold the top contracted position for a moment. Then inhale and slowly lower the dumbbell back to the starting position. To maximize the benefit of this exercise, avoid swinging the weight at any time.

=== FILE: Cooking With Christina Series, Episode #1： Chicken, Rice, & Vegetables - Bodybuilding.com [SyBMPFaqWOw].txt ===

So I'm going to go over high-prepared marks, lunches, I prepare them for lunches for the following day and I do am I prepares food every evening. Everybody building house will have to have a scale and I turn it on and I will place my pot on top of it and I will zero it out. Say I'm going to cook 100 grams. I will basically just wait out 100. After doing this for so many years, I kind of know how to eye the water in it. Basically for brown rice, you want to for every cup, you want to have about a cup and a half of water. Mark prefers it that way. He likes his rice very moist almost to the point of being a soggy because it's more fulfilling for him. And if you're preparing white rice, you want for every cup of rice that you cook, you want about a cup of water. So I'm going to fill this up. Just eyeballing approximately right about a cup and a half of water in there. I get it started out on high till it comes to a boil and then I will drop that down to medium and let it slowly simmer. And of course the next item that I prepare is the chicken. We prefer to boil our chicken for his four lunches. He essentially eats two tenderloins. So that's one, two, three, and four. So what I do here is I just fill the water till the top of the chicken. And I'm going to place this right next to the rice and I'm going to start that out on high as well. And once it starts to boil, I'll bring that down to medium and let that simmer down. We're looking at marks' rice right now and it's a little dry. I probably did put enough water in it or evaporated very quickly. So I'm going to add a little bit more water. Like I said, he likes his rice very, very moist. I'm going to put that back on the stove and I'm going to drop that down to a low. His chicken is coming along great. I can tell it's cooked when it starts to kind of separate. It's been boiling now for about 15-20 minutes. It's probably about done. Again, these are tenderloins. They take less time to cook than it breast is great. It looks like the chicken is done. As you can see here, the chicken split. Very good indication that it's cooked. So we're going to go ahead and take the chicken. We're going to dump it out and give them a quick rinse and cold water. Okay. See here. They're pretty good. Then I'm going to put about two tenderloins in each container. Then what I do is I just shred them up in little pieces with my hands. Much quicker than cutting with a knife. Mark doesn't like his rice added to the Tupperware in place in the fridge quite yet because when you put rice in the fridge it gets crunchy. So the rice is perfectly cooked now. You can see that it's plumped up. It's nice and moist in there but it's not dry. We mark each of this will be just straight for him. So I just leave that on the stove top. Obviously it's off. Leave it there overnight. Tomorrow morning I will open up Mark's Tupperware. I'll add the rice and his vegetables. Put it in his backpack and he's ready to go. So Mark is about four weeks out from his competition and I'm going to show you how I prepare his lunches so he can take him to work. He is eliminated brown rice right now. He's eating about two cups of corn, one cup of pea and about a handful of green beans. I'm going to go ahead and show you how I do this. Go ahead and lay out my chicken. All the top soft. I'm going to go ahead and pull out my vegetables out of the freezer. You don't do pans. Frozen is much better. It's just, it's more, it's fresher. The pans, peas are almost like a muted color and they don't taste as good. So I'm going to go ahead and put it in the cup here. Roasted corn. He likes some roasted. He has a little bit of a nutty flavor to it. So I'm going to measure out. Just one. Two. One cup piece. I'm going to go ahead and rinse this out. You're frozen. I'm going to rinse them in hot water so that they can kind of defrost. His first meal was usually around 9 o'clock, 9'30. So if I don't rinse them out, they'll be kind of crunchy. It's pretty close out. So now I'm going to go ahead and evenly distribute this. Let's see. I do thought. I'm going to put some cup there. I'm just kind of eyeing it at this point. Just want to have it fairly even. Then we're going to do the handful of green beans. This I don't measure out. It's a nice handful. Same process. Rinse them out. So they put these in. It kind of squeeze the water out of them. Other than just way too much water. Just a little handful of each. Each container. That is Mark's lunches for a week's out from a show. So this isn't enough protein for Mark's meals at lunch. So he usually will have egg whites with his lunches. About half a carton full. We usually purchase these. They're easy to take with him in his backpack. He knows exactly to drink half a carton for additional protein source. So I usually pack these in his backpack.

=== FILE: Cory Gregory's Squat Every Day Trainer ｜ Trailer [-9K0DD_k0yc].txt ===

We'll eat all the meat we've talked to many times about what makes a champion a champion. And it's really, it's his mindset. There are certain types of people that would challenge himself every day in life. And they don't have to be driven. Because it can't be only to be held back and those who be patient with the leaders. And there's kind of people that are just the followers that just go with what people say, just kind of fall along and just to tell them what they're like. You know, this is why we chose way lifting or body building or whatever we choose. And people take the path of least resistance, interest is inshrening, it doesn't really ever make sense to me. I mean, the whole idea for doing it is to challenge yourself to be better, to be stronger in every way possible. So, squatting every day is just another way to challenge yourself. You know, I truly believe that squatting every day is not really going to build character, but it's going to reveal your character. Like you're truly going to find out what you're made of. Can you get up? Can you go to the show? Can you get on to the bar? You'll get tired if it's teagued and you can still earn your work. But guess what? Here's to live. You get up to next day, you do it again. And if you see things in your life from a point of necessity, that point of desire, you'll be way more successful. The people have become world champions of the mindset. You can't beat those people. You think you can't themselves know option for filling. One of the things that I've told all my lifters when they come in the gym is whoever can endure the most pain will be the best lifter.

=== FILE: Cory Gregory's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [MW-th8Mj1K8].txt ===

I'm Corey Gregory, co-founder of Muscle Farm, CoverModel and owner of the old school gym. I got my exercise specialist degree from Columbus State here in Ohio. I'm also any SCA nutrition coach certified. I have the specialized strength training certification from the West Side Barbell and I just recently got my CrossFit level 1 trainer accreditation. So I'm a little bit of all angles to my training and that's why I'm not really married to anyone's system. What's cool about my family's history is both sides lifted weights. Irish, English and Italian. We have all the Italian guys are all stocky, thick dudes, it always power lifted. My mom's side was all more athletic wrestlers but they're both coal miners. So for your first generation of coal mining was like late 1800s all the way through to me. So fourth generation miner saved my money to go to college in my first gym and so the work ethic that I've received was blue collar through and through in the gym and out of the gym. That's why people always, they like to see kind of like the grimyness that I still keep because that's me. That's what got me here. That's what will continue to push me forward. So that's what I think a little bit unique and they always make fun of me saying I'm the real zoolander which is very funny. But realistically that's the kind of work ethic that was instilled in me at our early age and so I carried that through. My passion for this industry started at the grassroots level in my basement in the gym at 14 years old just trying to make myself better. That was a competitive natural bodybuilder, could be the 14 events over 20 plus powerlifting meats and just love it. Eat it, breathe it and as I got better got more confident than it was about making other people better. And so the natural fit for me was becoming a trainer and for I knew it had about 25 training clients. And so I'm 20 years old. I'm in the industry. I said you know what I got nothing to lose. I must start my own gym. You know the old school gym is me. It's got the concrete floors. We got the coal mine belt in the way room. It's a unique facility. It breeze work when you walk in. It breeze sweat. I don't care what you wear. I just want you to come work hard. And what's cool about the gym is I don't know what does some myers who's been my high school friends since I was. I think we started lifting together and we were 14 or 15 years old. And so we literally were in his dad's garage one day and said dude we should just own a gym together and just be cool, lift weights, make money, do whatever it is. And we were joking obviously. And so but half series that the same regards. And now he trains Olympic wrestlers, UFC guys and a fel guy. I mean Dan Boomharr and XO High State running back, place for the bangles. Working with Beanie Wells, place for the Cardinals. Been coming through here, Maurice Clarette, former National Championship, running back with the High State. This place is in the middle of nowhere but you got a little bit of who's who coming through here. The natural next move for me was supplements. I always love supplements and diet and so becoming a supplement owner, co-founder and trying to push myself to the high level of fitness at the same time was huge and just a every day I pushed for that. And so when we found it muscle farm, man, I was like a dream come true to me. And now I have a platform to be able to get all this information out to help people and also set the blueprint for their success too. And so that's what I'm truly passionate about. And now I get a chance through bodybuilding.com through my Twitter, through Facebook, to reach hundreds of thousands of people every day, which is awesome. It's hard to define my overall philosophy because I'm not really married to anything. Right? I have bodybuilding like high volume old school background originally. I moved into a west side method powerlifting, which I love. Actually, it's probably one of my more passionate about that anything. And then I have this cross-fit kind of spin-off that I've learned lately. I like the band training with chains. So I'm kind of a big inner mix of all those things. But that's also what's kept myself growing stronger. My body weight has ranged from 170 photoshoot ready to 40 in powerlifting. So I've seen a whole different aspects of me personally in performance too. So it's all over the board. That's what makes it cool. I try to centralize what I'm doing go-wise though. So right now I'm doing a mixture of bodybuilding with some powerlifting moves and a little bit of high-intense stuff because I was getting ready for photo shoots. When I come out of that photo shoot, I might go some lower reps, some more powerlifting stuff that put on some size. I'll change it a little bit. But at the end of the day, we might be doing parallel things and then all of a sudden I go right back to an Arnold Lake, they just were fun. So I just want to keep myself involved and dozed and we got a group of 10 guys that work out of this. So I mean, we want to keep it different and fun and challenge everybody. And I'm challenged some high-level people. So I got to bring my egg game as a trainer too. Even though I'm not training them, but I'm running the group. So it's the same. Monday through Friday is way lifting, oriented right now. It's kind of a west side concept with bodybuilding. On Saturdays, we do what's called my thousand-remark out, which is 10 bodyweight exercises 100 reps each. And sometimes we do a weighted, sometimes we do without weight. But that's a pretty unique program that we got set up other than that. I take off some days, fully off Sundays. Lemma hormones, kind of relax, get back and check. Just lemma brain, kind of heel. But I have to, it's hard for me to stay out of the gym. I've put together programs for the community that are four weeks at a time. You can wave it three, four weeks that's fine. For us, we're at a level to where my body needs a different variable each time. So realistically, I'm never going the same workout the same week, multiple times, or row. Ever. One thing that you need to know if you're just getting into weight training is I think that you need to go and be around somebody that gets it. Like gets it for real. And take some time and vest into somebody around you that can help you. Somebody that's going to lead you in the right direction, right off the bat. I mean, that's what I've preached everybody. Because you want to have the correct direction. I mean, that's it. That's it. Don't be a little lot of figure on my nutrition. And I realize that I'm super insulin sensitive. And meaning like, I really can't eat a ton of carbohydrates whenever I'm training. It just, I could never get tight. It just seems like I'd be rotating, oatmeal, and sweet potatoes, and all these things. And it just never worked for me. And so over time, my chief formulator at most of our doctor Sarano, we started working on something that he said, Corey, I think he should go more towards a high fat, low carb hydrate. And really then you don't have to count calories as much, but quality foods, and for obviously. And so I kind of came up with my own approach with the doctor. And so when I created the busy diet, which you can download at boughtablein.com, it really started to work for me. So five meals a day, low carbs, medium to high fat. And as my metabolism gets faster, I can eat more and more. And so that's where the adjustment part comes as you get more used to doing these things. My eggs went from three eggs in the busy diet to six eggs. And from a quarter couple of almonds to a whole couple of almonds, but I'm still losing weight. And so I adjust those things as it goes. But the base of it is the busy diet that's at boughtablein.com. My whole goal is to stay within six to seven weeks of a photo shoot, a video shoot, whatever it is. And so I try to keep my body fat percent and check mostly all your around. I don't really believe in the up and down stuff like I used to. I used to be the guy that would blow up the 220. Then really have to struggle to get back to mid-a-weight to compete at 174. It's just too difficult. And so I like to stay really about 190, 187 190. I can compete at powerlifting at a couple different weight classes, where I can get ready for photo shoots, um, 67 weeks. I do let myself have some things on the weekends if I need. I like pizza, which I don't eat that very often, because I really messes me up. I really like, and I always tell people, my cheat meals, I go a more towards sugar cheat, rather than bread cheats. The bread just totally messes me up with my insulin sensitivity, but I can go eat me a very clean blizzard in this wrap. It's funny because on Instagram, my recipes are whatever it is, and crush red peppers on top of it. So people like, dude, do you eat anything else besides red pepper black pepper? That's really, I'm one of those people that zones in. I call it tunnel vision. I zone in. And I know what's going to make my body look that way. That's what it is for me and I'll do it. Once I lock in on the goal that I've got to achieve whether it's training or diet, it's over. I mean, I just, I just lock in and I'm ready to go. So it's hard for me to come out of that mode. I think everybody needs to look for their selves on what really works for them. You got to be your own science project, guinea pig, whatever you say. I did it the day. There's so many different issues with so many different people. You're going to have to tweak it to you. I think that you can't go wrong with a medium fat, low carbohydrate, you know, hide a medium protein type of diet as a base. And I always say, you can't need a maintenance diet to get an adequate result of what you're going. No one wants to lose a half pound a week. No one. They want to lose two, three pounds a week or more. And if you're going to need a maintenance diet, you're going to get a maintenance result. So you got to do something that's a little bit difficult and put you uncomfortable. My whole thing is, if you live comfortable, you're probably going to get that kind of result. You got to live a little uncomfortable if you want to push yourself. The training that we do that I've shown is not with a normal guy that's walking around. My opinion, you need extra things because no one's getting the amount of food in. I mean, I prepare food like crazy, but you're still having a hard time meeting the needs of your body from the performance level if you don't have supplementation. So I'm obviously proselable when it's being the most farong guy. What's cool about my situation is I was able with Brad and Dr. Sorano to create the supplements around what I thought the need was for myself when I was gaining weight, when I was losing weight, and truly was able to test product during phases that I was going through, which is I think a pretty unique kind of thing, you know, in the industry. One something that I can't live without while I'm getting ready for stuff is shred matrix. Part of the reason why I created shred matrix with these guys is that I was in the cupboards at night because I needed something that I'd have to press in at a high level. I didn't want something that had caffeine that like blew my head off. I wanted something just clean energy and I just wanted something that kind of kept me drier. And so that was like three major components and focus that I look for. And so that's one that I can't live without. For sure, I'm so busy with my job and with the company that muscle gels been huge for me just because on the go protein, which I talk about the busy diet like crazy. On the other regards, just having the hybrid and no or the salt pre-workout, just having a solid pre-workout that's clean and really at a night time recovery, knocks me out, but I still feel refreshed in the morning. And then usually other protein sources I use just combat, which is our blended way. And it's digested and end-time, so it's really easy on my stomach. So really those are the main core products. I do use CLA, use Armour V, I mean I've actually so many supplements. It's not even really fair, right? So I mean the biggest perk to me, sometimes they think it's hanging out at the UFC fights or the athletes or the cool things we could do at the end of the day. I'm like a straight-sultant of my guy, so to me, having unlimited branch chains, there's this of key to my success. Absolutely, so. All right, so that's it with my training, supplementation and nutrition. If you have any more questions, just hit me up a Twitter, muscle farm press, or on my body space. And for more content like this, just check out BodyBloom.com. Don't forget to check out theVity.till.

=== FILE: Courtney Prather's Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [LVK-v-xP290].txt ===

My name is Courtney Craather. I'm theBodybuilding.com 2011 Fit Body Model Search winner. I was also runner up for Flex Magazine's Model Search at Olympia Weekend, and I am a nationally-ranked bikini competitor and fitness model. Growing up, I was always athletic. I played soccer. I did running in high school, and, you know, I liked being outdoors, but I didn't realize what it took to really get that physique that I'd seen in the magazines. I wanted to look like that, and I wanted to have that fit body, and, you know, it didn't really click for me until I decided to do a competition, and really learned what it took with training and nutrition and being consistent and putting on a program together. And, you know, I started my journey at 24% body fat at the same weight I was when I stepped on stage at 12% body fat. So, it's not necessarily, you know, putting on a ton of muscle or getting that number down on the scale. It was for me, it was really getting that tone fit physique that I wanted. When I began competing, I, you know, I had no idea what to expect, and after my first show, I realized how much I loved the competition, aspect of it, and having a goal, and something to work for, and really drove me every day. And when I heard about the bodybuilding.com, fit body model search, that was something that, that was a big deal to me. I really wanted to get involved. I had been on the website, had a body space, you know, that's where I got a lot of my training routines from, and so took the chance and sent in my photo, and getting the compete in Boise and the finals was one of the highlights of my year, and I'm winning that show has really been a blessing. You know, a lot of good things have come from it, and I'm just really excited to see where this goes. I started out obviously training for a competition. I had almost no muscle, mass. I did follow a traditional bodybuilder split. I would focus on one or two muscle groups a day. You know, a lot of heavyweight training, and I had something I had never done before. I was, I would do cardio, and I would go outside, and I would run, but I had never really lifted weight, so it was a parade to get too bulky. You know, getting over that fear was probably the best thing for my training and helped me achieve the physique that I had today. I work out five days a week in the gym because I work Monday through Friday 8 to 5. It really helped me to set a plan and stick to it. So every morning I get up and I go to the gym just like I go to work. What I have a show in a week or in 10 weeks, I train like I'm preparing for it, and I like to sweat, I like to leave it all in the gym so that I know when I leave, I can feel good about my workout, the minute I enter the gym, I'm just focused already. You know, it really find me chatting or messing around too much because I do have a tight schedule with my full time job, so I get in and I have who most effective and tends to work out that I can in the amount of time that I have. A lot of girls out there think that, you know, you need to live in the gym and spend two hours a day on the treadmill to really get the body that you want, and that's just not the case if you follow a balanced nutrition program and you do a efficient good workout in the gym. You don't have to spend a ton of time there. And that's really what's been the key to my success as organization and finding balance. And finding a way to do a goal, having a full time to career, making the time to get into the gym, and really sticking to a diet plan has been really instrumental for me to take my body to the next level. It's just like when I walk into the gym and I have a plan, I have to have a plan with my nutrition. I have a really busy schedule and with the full time job, to central that I pack and plan my meals ahead of time. You know, Sundays are my cooking day and I'm ready for the week. And my friends like Fundamix anytime, I use Gov to their house. I have a bag of food with me, so I can stay on track. It takes the guesswork out of it. You're more likely to grab for something that's not clean. If you don't have something readily available, and when I started with competitions, you had to be really strict. It was the first time in my life that I had ever followed a really strict cleaning plan. I was a bit of a foodie. That's part of the reason why I never achieved the physique that I wanted. So once I really learned to cut that stuff out and to eat really clean, I did get the physique I wanted, but it's hard dieting for a show and being really hardcore and then not so. And I really saw the effects of the yo-yo on my body. So now I've learned to really have a balanced approach to nutrition. You know, carbs, proteins and fats are all essential. And sure, a high protein low carb diet will get you really lean, but it should be safe for special events. And I will do that for photoshoot shows to really maintain my physique around. It's about finding balance. Just because I'm a fitness model and I've been an incredible shape on stage. Doesn't mean that I'm perfect all the time. And 90% of the time I'm spot on. I'm clean. I have my food pack and ready. And I don't be VA. And you know, 10% of the time, that's when life happens. You're going to have to go to a corporate dinner or a birthday party or a wedding. And I allow myself to be flexible and not beat myself up for it. I don't really like to think of it in terms of dieting and cheating. Because just this whole negative concept to it. And when I am cheating and enjoying that food, instead of enjoying it, I'm beating myself up over it. And it's important to just allow yourself to have fun and to enjoy and moderation. And you know, then get right back on it and pick back up the next day. Living in California, there's a cupcake bakery or a frozen yogurt place on every corner. And those are definitely my weakness. You know, you find different ways to make them at home and substitute. And I, you know, there's almond flour and oat flour and apple sauce instead of oil. And there's all these tricks. And if you really do your research and bodybuilding.com is a lot of recipes too that you can find that are good alternatives. So I really had to learn how to cook in the kitchen and come up with ways to make my healthy meals taste good. You know, I didn't want to be that person eating chicken and broccoli six times a day that's boring. And I would hate it. So, you know, let's be honest, you know, boredom breeds creativity. And I really learned from from just taking the time to educate myself and then applying it in my own kitchen and making it work for me. And I'm just getting creative with some of the foods that I love. My philosophy when it comes to supplementation is to really do your research before you jump into it. There's a lot of supplements out there. And they are tailored specifically for certain goals and needs. You know, I had never really taken any supplements before because I'd seen these big guys with a lot of muscle, you know, downing protein shakes and taking free of tea and all that. And I just was so foreign to me. I didn't really know what to do. And if it was right for me. And so I really had to do take my time and do some research read the reviews online. And I keep it simple, you know, supplementation just like you can't out train a bad diet. I don't think you can supplement a bad diet, you know, it's meant to fill in the holes, but it doesn't make up for getting whole nutritious foods. And so that's really my focus to get as much as I can from healthy eating. I would have to say my top supplements are protein, obviously when you get in a bind and I don't have food with me. I, you know, I need to supplement that and having protein available, at least make sure that my, I'm getting what I need during the day. Definitely a good multi vitamin. You're working out so hard in the gym. It's important to make sure you're immune system. It's getting the proper vitamins and minerals that need. Also a fish oil. And then I would have to take glutamine, I keep it pretty simple, but glutamine that helps my muscles repair and definitely work out very hard. So it's important that my body gets all the help it can to repair and get back at it the next day. Make sure as you add things into your program, you add them in one at a time and you give your body some time to react to it. And really know, you know, how does that make you feel and is it something that you need? With my protein patterns, I definitely get pretty creative with them and I will, you know, bake things. But I blend it typically with ice and water or almond milk, but also a handful of spinach in there as well. Because you can never get enough veggies that I promise you can't taste it. But it's just a good way to have a thicker shake. The one thing I found that I do love is PB2. It's powdered peanut butter and it has only 45 calories for two tablespoons. And like a third of the fat of normal peanut butter, which if you have ever competed, you probably love your peanut butter. It's one of my obsessions. So just remember when you're trying to devise a supplementation program, to keep it simple, start with the basics, the essentials that you need, and just don't be afraid to revise it as you move along your plan. And do your research online, bodybuilding.com is a ton of reviews on all the supplements that you have available to you. So just make sure that you get educated, you start slow, and you add as you need. So that's me. You guys know what I'm about, you know what I do, and if you want to learn more, you can check out my full program on the page below. Or find me on Body Space. I love to answer any questions or help. You guys out if you have anything you want to know. My username is Courtney Murray, and you can also check me out on Facebook as well.

=== FILE: Craig Capurso Back Workout： Loaded To The Max - Bodybuilding.com [eGD-6e7-DJI].txt ===

What's going on guys is CRECORPIRS of the 2012 Body Space folks model mail winner. What we're doing today is going to be my back workout something I call a heavy volume. The way I train to help me get the physique that I have. Today we're going for a hundred reps on the T-bar row. Miss heavy as I can I'm going to fail around fifteen on a first set and as many sets as it takes me to get to that total number. After that we're going to get into some supersets I'm going to be pick about six exercises in total for the set but we're going to do two exercises superset back to back and then we're going to do one static finish. The first set is important because it's going to set the whole weight for the rest of the exercise. I'm looking to get a hundred reps I got six plates on there right now. So what I'm doing fifteen reps today first set that's where I'm aiming to get after it. Hopefully I can get more than fifteen, hopefully I can get fifteen. I think I'm setting my weight accordingly but what's going to happen afterwards we're going to take every single set to failure. I do not know how many is going to take what you're aiming for is six to ten sets. Probably in that range hopefully I can finish within that range if you can't finish. No matter get a hundred reps. This is how most people do it. They got to plate. They're going to use something like this a V-bar row. You're going to wrap it around the bar. They're going to bring it up and they've only got, I don't even put my arms up. It's like a forty, it's not even a forty five degree angle when I get to the top. So I'm going to arrange a motion. What I'm going to do, take an abs rep. I'm going to attach this piece right here. It's going to fit on the end so I'm going to bring it up. Look how much more range of motion I just got. I've got a belt on because the weights heavy you want to support your core. I'm going to be getting after it's going to be pretty hardcore. We'll do some of the exercises later on to slow it down and do a little bit more squeeze out of the exercise. But right now we're going heavy volume. We're going to be taking three minutes rest time in between so I can maximize the squeeze. I'm taking everything to failure at this point. So I'm going to need those three minutes of rest to actually get the weight. Set two, eighty five to go. My good pace. I'll probably finish in seven sets if I can keep up this pace. We've got set three, seven here you go. Fifty five to go. I'm going to keep it in a good 15 reps. See if I can keep on that pace it's getting tough. I was letting it sit down for a minute. This could hold the breath in the weight at the same time. If you need to put it on the ground, you're allowed to put it in the belt. It's a little bit heavy. You need to set an amount of bottom. Pull it up after that. My legs are feeling a little bit. A back and a certain crunch. Arms are giving out. Groups are important right now. I would never be able to hold that weight. I can't talk. I got a rest. Set seven. It's my only because it's the last set. So happy. Hundred. And there we go. We're going for twenty reps a piece, two minutes rest in between. On the other one, I'm gonna be going. It's, you'll see the grip where we're coming in. We're going in the front, we're squeezing out here. All the way up, I wanna stretch them all the way out. That's what you wanna do is stretch full range of motion. Keep the intensity up, I wanna see some sweat on this one as well. We're gonna get after it. That one's killer. Stretch it all the way out, all the way in. We're gonna keep after it, two minutes rest. Second set, 20 reps, here we go. Watch better. Burn it, 20 reps, two minutes rest, next. Third set, boys, we're gonna have to. We're on a super set number two. We're gonna do a low cable incline fly. We're gonna focus on the lats and lower back. We're not going so much up on the rear doubt. You're gonna see me come close. I'm gonna do a little bit of a pause. I rep range, probably 15, if I can get 20, I'll go for it. I actually got no weight on the bar. It's just gonna be whatever the rack holds. And then we're gonna get into over here. We're gonna do a straight bar. I wanna widen my lats as I do these and I'm gonna squeeze them out the same way. Looking for 20 reps on these, two minutes rest in between the total set. I'm gonna rub my chest over the top of this, my feet are on the floor. And when I come up, I wanna squeeze my lower back a little bit. I'm gonna get a little lower back with this exercise. Second set guys, make sure on these, you come up, use your lower back. Get like a back extension on these. It's important. Two minutes rest, last set. Here's how I finish it off. We're gonna do a static pause. We're getting up top, just to burn them out, just to hold it out. Everything you got, you're gonna hold that top squeeze, lower a little bit, lower a little bit. That'll be it. Two sets of those should be done. I'm still strapping up because my grip shop. I'm gonna do a static pause. I'm gonna do a static pause. I'm gonna do a static pause. I'm gonna hold this long as I can all the way up all the way down. I'm not gonna attempt it again, another one like I did last time. I try to hold 10 seconds on each, burn them out. The reason I do these again is being a fitness model and doing different shoots and actually being on stage, you're required to hit a pole and actually hold it out. It's something I actually do in the other part of my routines as well. You want to hold the static pause. You want to be hitting a muscle if you're holding a shot on stage, if you're flexing, whatever you're doing, you're not working out. You're not moving the motion. You're holding the weight, you're holding the spot, you're holding the bicep crow, whatever you're doing is a static pause. So kind of work out that way too. It's like if you're a football player and you're doing football exercises, kind of the same thing. If you're a bodybuilder, you're a fitness model. You're still practicing what you preach in the gym. It's probably gonna help you out. It's probably gonna make you grow, but this is how I train. This is how you're gonna look like me if you want to look like me. For more workout plans, nutrition chips or anything you might need, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Craig Capurso's Fitness 360 - Bodybuilding.com [sEWBVbnV6Wg].txt ===

My name is Crecca Perso. I hope I'll turn into my sport. I played that through high school in college and played a little bit of semi-pro. And while in college I was Dean's List, I was one of the smart guys and that's what kind of me took me into the trading arena. I go by to the badge of meat. It's kind of my brand at this point. It's who I am and fitness. It's who I am in the world. It's like, you know, I'm a fitness guy but I'm also a business guy. So I got the long hair too so that kind of goes with it. And you know, I carry bags of chicken with me on the floor. So I actually got fine $250 because I got reprimanded like three times for walking on the floor with chicken. You're trading jacket and you got these little pockets on the inside. Well, sometimes they're filled with bags of chicken because you don't want to leave the floor and you got different food in you. There's a no food policy on the floor but sometimes you got to do what you got to do when you're competing. My first show was in the fitness Atlantic and Connecticut. I took first in that show so I got the bug. I went down in Miami the next show and the model universe. I took fifth that I like 70 guys so I thought it was pretty good. But I just saw where my niche was. So I was like, all right, I'm a fitness model. So I started doing some of the WBFF shows the beginning of the year. I got into the NPC and I competed 10 times so far and have five first place victories. And of my last team universe, I turned pro. So I'm a new IFV pro in the men's physique division. With me, I think it's just my passion. It's like, I always try to better myself. I want a better the 2010 person. I used to be. I want a better the 2011 I just made IFV pro. What am I going to do in 2012? It's about pushing yourself. If you can't look in the mirror and say, I'm happy with what I see, then you're not going to translate much into life and not going to give back a whole lot. You're not going to inspire those other people. You're going to be Debbie Downer if you will. You're not going to give back. And I had a kid just, you know, I used from Germany. He was like 16 years old and it was like, hey man, you inspire me. You look great and I was like, and I touched someone all the way over there. I don't even know this kid. People hit me up all the time saying, what can I do to get better? And I'm always about giving back. I always hit my fans back. If you message me on Twitter or body space or any of the other social networks I have, I'm getting back to you just because it's about giving back. It's about inspiring everyone around you and it's about spreading the fitness lifestyle. I adopted a new style. I used to be big power lifting, strength and power just for football. So I've adapted a new style of heavy volume. It's more or less not so much bodybuilder style, but more fitness style. I'm doing very little rest. I'm trying to push as much weight as I can. But I'll go in the gym randomly and be like, I'm doing 100 reps of this exercise. How I get there? I don't even know. I usually change it up every single week. That's about confusing your body and never let it get used with certain exercise. Confuse this. You like, look, I'm going to give you 100 reps today. You never know how you're going to do it. You know what the weight you're going to push is just about confusing. About just being spontaneous. It's also about, I think, agility. I train a little bit with my boxing and football style. I always exerting my body as much as I can and say, hey, I'll worry about the next set when I have to worry about the next set. A lot of people say that. They're like, look, I could have got 9-10 on that set. I'm not doing 9-10. I'm stopping at 8 because I can't get 9-10. I do not do in cardio. That is not what I like doing. So I'll find a way around it. I'll box. Even though that's cardio, but I'll hit the bad. I'll hit this beat bag. I'll jump rope. I'll do different things that aren't considering old school cardio walking on a treadmill on an incline. I'm a fitness guy. I'm going to be agile. I'll do jump. I'll be running around the gym. I'll be doing lunges around the gym. I will be training hard. You'll see me sweat. I feel like my heart rate is in a cardio basket. They're burn zone. My entire workout where others will take too much rest. So I'm getting my cardio basket. They're in my training regardless. If I'm 12 weeks out of a photo shoot, I'm probably training one body part per doing five days. Most likely, maybe two days off. If I feel like I want more, I'll do six. But I usually give me a day off. As I transition to a show, three months out, I'm doing that. Two months out, I'm probably now supersetting or even adding an extra day. I won't start my intense training cardio if you will. The way I do it until a month out. I don't like to lose as much of my offseason bulk as I can. I try to use my diet to take down my body part. I do go offseason sometimes. I don't, you know, I did much better this time. In the past, I was not as educated as I am now. So I took my body and went to 12% body part. 13% body part, which being a fitness model, that's not going to get a done. Obviously, if someone calls you up and says, hey, you got a shooting two weeks. I've always had big quads, so I feel like I have a good base. I have a good back from just the power exercise I've done through the past. So I mean, certainly my training method over the years has built a certain physique. But now I'm getting judged on everything. So it's like you have to bring everything into a certain aesthetic. So now I'm like, okay, I've got to now bring up these calves. I've got to bring up these arms. So maybe putting another time in a week. I have a big back. I like training back. It's not, it's not. I'm going to say my favorite, but it's a good one. I get to pump it up pretty good in there. Cows are my worst. And you could obviously tell why. But I got to start doing that more. I got to have to start putting those into my routine on a regular basis. I kind of neglect them because they're like, you know, the red head of stepchild, if you will. But, you know, they need to start being my main son, if you will, in this relationship. Oh, my skinny kid, and I want to be bigger. And my bigger person and I want to be smaller. So then you can start playing with your calorie intake. So that's like step one. So if your 3000 calories a day and you want to lose weight, you might want to take it down of 2500 calories. And, you know, don't be too aggressive. You want to make sure that it's adjustable. It's that you're going to be able to maintain what you're doing for yourself. And then educate yourself, find out what a good carbsource is. Find out what a good protein source is. There's good fats. Just from doing that alone, if you're just a normal person going through your normal life, putting those sources in, are you going to start changing your body and you'll start seeing, you know, the results in a relative fast way. When you're dieting or when you're doing nutrition, stress less. I mean, think about adding one stress at a time. So change your diet first. Then you're going to change your calories. Then you're going to change the weighty carb cycle of calories cycle, whatever it is that you're going to do. If you're having a low fat diet, moderate carb, high protein, that's one way to do it. You can have, you know, across the board, you know, 33, 33, 33, 33, if you will, as far as calories that you get for protein fat carbs. And just educate yourself as the best way. Be smart with your choices. Make healthier ones. And you'll start seeing a change in your body for a pitta-like. If I'm off season, I'm trying to bulk up because I'm coming off of, you know, at six months fitness season where I'm, it extremely low body fat. And I'm trying to put on size. And if I'm in season, I'm changing my calories on a caloric basis. I'm saying, I maintain 3,200 calories. I'm dropping down to 2,500 calories. So it's just about transitioning what your goals are. What do I eat? I'll give you some choices of foods that I eat. I'm pretty basic as far as I'll eat chicken for protein. I'll eat steak for protein. I'll eat tuna to lafia. Turkey. I'm a large-sourced, adult. I'll eat a lot of brown rice, I'll eat yams, I'll eat rice cakes, granola. Very limited fruit. My fat sources, you can have your olive oils, you can have your nuts, you can have your peanut butter. Things of that nature, make sure it's all healthy. Try to, you know, read the labels and know what it is. I always tell people how to educate yourself as far as what a calorie is. One gram of protein is equal to 4 calories. One gram of carbs is equal to 4 calories. One gram of fat is equal to 9 calories. No fat. So read your label. You don't add up, realize that there's filler in there. Stay away from it. You don't always want to have your body in a way that it's saying I'm always trying to lose weight. I'm always trying to lose weight. You want to have to pump it up every now and again. You want to be when you're in your office, you're gaining your anacloric surplus. So you're trying to maintain a little bit more muscle. You're trying to give your body every opportunity it can to take in muscle, convert whatever you just gave it in calorie form into more muscle, etc. So I allow myself certainly more cheats in the office because I'm more lenient and I'm not a three month competitor diet. In the beginning, I'll allow myself more cheats. Maybe once twice a week, just to maintain because usually I won't love myself to be too out of shape. So it's certainly not going to be too bad. You're eating seven great meals and you might have a cheat meal once twice a week. Try to make healthy choices 90% of the time and maybe 10% of the time you can you can flake a little bit. I think it's good. People have to live and have to enjoy those little spices in life and that's one of them. Treat yourself to a cheat meal, especially reward yourself for being good. 90% of the time, enjoy it. When you're breaking your body down on a regular basis, it's getting deteriorated. So just make sure you fill in the void that you're not getting through your diet. There's no quick fixes in this industry, guys. There's not supplements. Supplements are there to help you as a supplement to your diet. Certain things that I feel are necessary. A good protein source is a great meal replacement for you. A good recovery drink when you do workout. A big believer of branching and amino acids. Pre-workout during your workout and you get your protein so you get most of them to have the BCA's in them anyway. So it helps extend your energy through the workouts and get that nutrition that you need as a supplement. A good multi-vitamin is great for you guys because like a lot of times when you're on a strict diet, you're not always seeing all these sources of nutrients that you should. So make sure you're just getting enough of what you need. So it's certainly about the time of year. You might be supplementing with a meal replacement that has a bunch of carbs in it. Instead of a lean carbs source, something a lot of times supplements are all about lean carbs sources. But hey, there's that guy who's 120 pounds. That wants to be 180 pounds. He's just a skinny kid. They want to get better. So he doesn't have enough knowledge yet to go cook every meal for him or he's even a young kid. He just wants to get those extra calories because he needs to say, hey, Craig, Joel, me, I've had to take in 3000 calories. I'm only taking in 2000. How do I get there? Will a cheap source is supplementing? So get a reputable protein. I would say, make it from a lean source of protein. Don't have one that has the high carb concentrate or the high fat concentrate. Have it as an iso, which is the trend these days that has a leaner, filtration source of protein. So get yourself a good protein. Find out what works for you, what flavors work for you. Then I would say the next one would be carbs source. Something that's going to benefit you when you need it. It's important part of your diet. I know they have a bad name in the industry at this point, but find out how to use it, educate yourself. You want to have it most likely post workout, or when you need those extra carbs sources, and you can't eat them. And then like a good branch, a lot of data. If I got an endurance, something that's going to give you that extra nutrition during the workout diet first. I mean, if you have a solid diet routine, you should supplement well. Don't think supplements are going to fix your problems. Don't think that you take the right supplement. You're going to make your goals transform. I think they're a good part of the program. If you use them right, don't just take everything out there. And you're going to spend a whole lot of money for no reason. Use the ones that you want to use specific to what your needs are, what your diet goals are, what your aspirations are. So there's a lot out there that can help you. If you want to follow my workout advice, my diet advice, my workout is my nutrition. You know everything that I have going, pretty much everything I touch based on this, check out the profile below. I'm on body space, Crecca Perseau, I'm on Twitter, Crecca Perseau. I kind of don't hide behind an alias. I'm pretty much on all those websites, but more or less you're going to find most information that's going to give you detail on body space. Crecca Perseau, you could also look on my website, Crecca Perseau.com, which I have links to pretty much all my social websites, if you will. For more content like this, check out BodyDum.com. The more people I can inspire, the happier it makes me, because I started away, bigger stronger faster was my motto. In the beginning, just working on myself and it just grew beyond me. So I'm just happy to get back at this point.

=== FILE: Crunches - Ab Exercises - Bodybuilding.com [YdZakh0Pkwc].txt ===

Life flat on your back with your feet flat on the ground or resting on a bench with your knees bent at a 90-degree angle. If they are elevated on a bench, place them about three inches apart and point your toes inward so they touch. Place your hands on both sides of your head and keep your elbows in. Be sure to press the small of your back down on the floor to help better isolate your abdominal muscles. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and slowly begin to roll your shoulders off the floor. Your shoulder should come up off the floor about four inches while your lower back remains on the floor. At the top of the movement flex your abdominals and hold for a brief pause. Then inhale and slowly lower yourself back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: Crush Your Fitness Goals： Unleashing the Power of Diet Consistency and Preparation! [vywU7SUL8d8].txt ===

See this? I want to give you guys the best nutrition advice you have ever heard and what it is is you need to keep it simple so you can never fail to prepare. Everyone wants to follow a diet and get amazing results eating super tasty food. And yes, trust me, you can do that but sometimes it's just easier to sacrifice all the amazing taste and keep it simple so that you can stay prepared. Because the number one reason people fail with their fitness goals, they fail with the extra food they're diet and they always have cheat meals and just stuff comes up is because they are unprepared. They do not have their meals ready to go. So if you want to set yourself up for success, make your diet or make the meals that eat simpler so that you can mass cook everything to then have it in meals ready to go. Because I guarantee if you take like three to four hours one time for a week to prepare your entire week worth of the meals, I guarantee your progress is going to start becoming much better. Anyway, there's no excuse as to why you fail besides you just didn't do enough to get it done.

=== FILE: David Otunga's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [zoINGk8gZQI].txt ===

I'm David Otando, WWE superstar, lawyer and actor. I earned my bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Illinois, and following that, I managed to co-ordinate neuroscience lab at Columbia University. Now after that, I went to Harvard for law school. And after earning my JD at Harvard, I landed in job at the top law firm in Chicago, so they started to work with me. And then reality TV came calling. So I started in VH1's, I love New York too. So after that, it's like, why this newfound fame, what should I do? I want to become a professional wrestler. I'm going to Harvard Law School, Biggest, Oh Scumgall! The next step was the WWE. I debuted in 2010 in the New Show NXT, and now I'm a star and raw and smacked out. So I'm about to leave, and it's all about your outlook. It's you, I see you know one, you look at me, and you see it so. I didn't always look like I do today. Growing up as a kid in Illinois, I was short, I was a sholy, I had thick glasses, and make things worse. I did pretty well at school, so I got labeled a smart kid, actually a smart sholy kid with a thick glasses. So kids used to make fun of me all the time, a calming age, like nerd and door glitch. Actually don't really sound like that bad of insults, but at the time, they really affected me, and people used to just push me around. And I looked around and I would see these other kids who weren't getting a big dime, and you seem like everybody was just so athletic and so buff. And I wasn't. I was like, I don't understand what I'm doing wrong or what they're doing right. I got into my head, what if I start working out? I can have those muscles too, I just seem to start training. It's around my freshman year, I decided, alright, I'm going to start taking the gym seriously. But I didn't know where to start, so my best friend, Rob, his older brother, had an old weight set. It was the old plastic coated cement, basically. And so I got a couple of those from him in an easy curl bar, and I just started out to an easy curls. Every night I would do sets of 10 sets of 10 sets of 10, that was my thing. And then the next night I would do push-ups, 10 sets of 10, and then I would slowly increase it. And I did this for maybe three or four weeks, and I kind of felt better by necessarily seeing a difference. And then I remember one day during the summer, Rob and I were at the mall, and we saw these girls from school. And I knew one of them, she was an upper classman, and happened to me one of the same classes with me. This girl comes over to me and she's like, hey, David, what are you even doing? And she grabbed my arm and she's like, you're starting to get muscles in your arm. I was shy, that's waiting. What? She's like, oh, you're showing your muscles in your arm. She's like, did this girl just compliment me and say that I had muscles in my arm? That was it. All I could think about in my head was, oh my gosh, it's working. It's working and people are seeing my results. And after that, I couldn't even, you know, hang out at the mall. I wanted to go straight home, and hit more push-ups and more curls, because now I knew it was working. I was going to be able to be able to be even that much more. And from then on, it was like my thing. I would come home from school every day. Before I did my homework, I would work out, work out for an hour or two, and then hit the books every day. It's amazing what I think about it, just that one single compliment led to so much, because after that, working out became my lifestyle. You know, I did this every day through school in high school. And then when I went to college, I already was in a great routine, so I thought, why mess it up? Let's keep going. And there was a gym right by my dorm, so I would go every day and work out and then study. I carried it all the way through law school. Even when I worked at the firm, I used to take my lunch breaks and go straight to the gym. Come back, eat my chicken breast, let my lunch table and work the rest of the night. And then even now, the crazy thing is working out has become my life. That's my job. It's a WWE wrestler. Part of it is working out and having a great physique. And then now I'm doing so many other things in bodybuilding and fitness. And I sit back and I just think, wow, it's so cool that all of this came from me just deciding I wanted to change, and I wanted to build some muscles. And then somebody complimented me and let me know that it was working. Being a professional wrestler, I have to be in top physical condition. I mean, what we do in there takes so many years of practice, conditioning, you get strength. I mean, you name it. It's one of the hardest things I've ever done in my life. I mean, basically, I get my bucket every night. In different cities all over the world, I'm getting my bucket every day. But the same time, I have to look good. You and me and I know that I get my bucket in the next night. So I have to be in shape and my body needs to be able to stand. And so because of that, I have to be able to train around injuries and to make sure that I stay injury free. Now, I don't know how much you guys know what goes into becoming a WWE superstar. But on the average, I have to work out five to seven days a week. Luckily, I'm able to find a gym everywhere we go. That's my first priority. As soon as I land and get off the plane, the first thing I do is go to the gym and work out. Even if I have a match that night, I know that I need to work out. So I work out hard, but I'll give myself enough time to rest up before the match. My week starts on Wednesdays. I usually fly home Wednesday morning and on my way home from the airport, I stop by the gym and I train legs. Now, Wednesdays, I'm super tired because I always take the first flight home, but this is my toughest workout in these legs. And I just can't breathe. Next day is Thursday. This is typically a chest day. And I'll go in and I'm resting and I have a great workout. Now, the next day is Friday. Friday is I usually fly back out on the road to do live events. The first thing I'll do is I'll find a gym. And typically, this is going to be a back day. It's going to be heavy dead lifts and all kind of rows. Then I'll have to show that night and then we'll drive to the next city, which I'll take us to Saturday. I'll sleep for a few hours, wake up, first thing I do. I find a gym. And now it's going to be chest. It's going to be upper chest and shoulders. You know, hammer this out. We're going to have to show that night. And then I'm going to drive to the next city and how it's Sunday morning. I may take Sunday morning off because our shows are earlier, but I'll still try to get in the gym. And this might be something small even if it's just abs or calves or cardio. But I usually like to get in there and do something. And we have to show Sunday night and then I'll drive to Raw for Monday. First thing I do, go to the gym. Now my cycle has repeated. So there's no excuses in my book. If I can go, anybody can go. I train pretty much like a bodybuilder. I've always considered myself a bodybuilder at heart. You know, that's how I got into training also. It was reading a lot of the bodybuilding magazine. So I'll go in with a specific muscle group. I want to work that day. I typically use moderate volume like 8 to 12 reps and probably about five to six working sets per exercise. However, this changes depending on how my body feels that day and whatever injuries I'm working around. Which is only the thing. I'm very fluid with my workouts and my plans. I know what I want to do. I know a body part, but the exercises aren't etched and stone. Let's say for example, I'm going to do arms. And I go in there and I'm thinking of making straight bar curls. But that look over and they have a really cool, pre-tri-girl management. Wow, I like them. Okay. Maybe I'll go and I'll hit that. Or maybe they have the arm black. So I know what he uses, but I love how grab that. And I'll just crank out some sets. And I'll get a great pump doing what I felt like doing. If I forced myself to go to the straight bar curls, I wasn't really feeling that hot about that day. So I'm very big on if something's telling me to do that, I'll go and do it. And I also believe in when I'm doing an exercise. Sometimes I'll do a lot of sets. Like, I might hit my six working sets and still really into that. I'm really feeling the city that might must have connections there. I'll just keep going. I might be 10 sets. A big part of being professional wrestler is your endurance and your win. You have to have great endurance, great cardio-bass, good conditioning. However, I don't really enjoy doing cardio. So the best way I do it is in the gym. I short my respire. I finish the set and I put the weights down just long enough to get a few deep breaths. And then I'm right back out of the next set. And it keeps your heart rate up a whole time. My respire is anywhere between 30 to 60 seconds. So I'm constantly moving into gym. And one of the things I started doing was when I heart rate modern. So to see what the zone is, I wanted it in the beats per minute. And I try to keep it there. And so I'll check and I'll see, okay, I'm dropping a little bit, I'll do a set of jumping jacks even, and then start the next set. And I always have to have my music. I cannot train without music. And I have my playlist set up depending on what the workout is. And I have certain songs that are more intense. They build up an intensity. By the time I'll get to certain exercises and certain sets. Each workout I go into, I usually have a goal depending on what it is. And I want to outdo my previous workout. Now it isn't always more weight. It might be more reps with a certain amount of weight. Or it might be getting my heart rate up faster or getting more quality reps in a certain exercise. But there's always something that I'm reaching for because I mean, you need some motivation. I look at myself in the mirror a lot. Like I'm always in front of the mirror studying myself. And I see what I want to work on. Say I want to build more definition of my triceps. I'll go right to the mirror and you just do push downs right in and just watch it the whole time. Look at it. And just imagine how I want to look. It looks great. You know, just in the mirror and just write their flux in. And it's like, that's what drives me is to have the best body I can. And if I see something on my body, I want to change. I do it. I want to keep going. Maintaining a healthy physique, you know, starts in the gym, but that's only one or two hours out of your day. It's what you do with the rest of the 22 hours of your day. Now a lot of that is going to be eating. So a nutrition is so important. I think nutrition is as important as making 78% of, you know, you're overall healthy. I don't view it as everything on a diet because I'm not. This is my lifestyle. I eat healthy. I eat like this 360 five days a year. I have to because of my profession. I always have to be a top physical shape. Whether I'm on TV or whether I'm at a live event. And the people come up to me in the airport. They know who I am. They see David O'Tongue. They know they're expecting me to be ripped. I have to be ripped. I mean, what if they want to see my abs or something like that? I got to be ready. I can't say, oh, you know, give me a few weeks. And I never know what opportunities going to come. You know, what a photo shoot may pop up. So I tried to stay ready. Specifically the high protein diet to help look muscle. All lean meats, you know, low fat and moderate car wide drinks. Usually after complex car wide drinks like sweet potatoes, oats, fried vegetables and greens. I try to plan my meals when I have schedule for that day. So obviously the first time I try to do this workout. So I'll either go on a empty stomach if I have never seen you to work out for a week or the morning. What if I know it's going to be later on in the day? Usually have oatmeal. What's going to help fuel my workout later on? Now immediately after the gym, immediately after my workout, I have a protein shake. And now I start for about 50 grams of protein, branched in amino acids and some fast-acting carbohydrates that I'm too. And then about an hour later, I have another meal. It's usually going to be probably some meat, chicken breast or lean and fish of any of the lot. It's a lot pillating with some sweet potatoes. And then about two and a half of the hours later, I have another meal. And this is a lot of times staying. And also depending on what time it is, how alter the carbs. I may have sweet potatoes or something else but then. If I know it's getting later in the day, it might just be vegetables or a salad. And if you've been the following meal, it's going to be pretty much the same. But now the carbs are almost completely cut out. So it's just going to be the meat. But I always eat creamy throughout the week. And then I'll give myself like a cheat meal. Sometimes it's a cheat day. Because you know, I'll get on live at three-year-old son and he wants to have pizza hamburgers or ice cream. And so I want to be able to enjoy that way. And also it helps keep my sanity. Like it's my reward for eating so helping throughout the week. I can kind of relax a little. Self-lementation is a huge part of nutrition as well. I mean, you try to get all your vitamins and minerals in the salad we do eat, but it's difficult to do that. So taping supplements will help you supplement it. But for example, protein. I need to re-segram reporting per pound of body weight. So for me, that's about 250 grams of protein each day. If you're on the run, you may not have time to sit down to have any nutritious meal. You may look around at all you see as fast food. But if you have your protein powder there, you can have a quick shake. And that's going to keep your metabolism going. It's going to keep your protein intake up. And it's going to help you build muscle and fight that at the same time. But then there's also things that you need more of like branch-chain amino acids. You know, a huge believer in those. And you normally get those to stake. But like I said, there's only so much stake you can eat. But if you get the powdered for me, you can mix that right in your protein shake. So easy. And then a multi-vite, I think everybody should take a multi-vite. I just recently started taking it like the past couple of years. But I wish I had been doing it before. It was going to feel so much better. And fish oils, that's another one that's great. It's great just for your joints and actually will help you lose body fat as well. If I had to recommend only three supplements, I would say number one above all is protein. You need protein. Weight protein, casein protein, doesn't matter. But you need protein. Number two, I'm going to say the branch-chain amino acids. You need that to go along with the protein to get the full benefit of it. And number three, this is what I have been using a long time, but creating, creating fast-baked works, you know, like, if you're just looking to get big, creating actually will help and you'll notice a difference from it. For guys to start not getting into the gym, I can't stress how important supplements are. Like, I noticed that when I first started working out, I wasn't taking a supplement or even, you know, taking my nutrition seriously at all, but I was still growing. However, once I realized the value of good nutrition and, you know, supplementation, I just started growing like crazy and I loved it. One of the biggest things I can stress is, do your research. I mean, know what your goal is, know what you're trying to do, or you're trying to build muscle, or you're trying to tone up, or you're trying to lose fat, try to build endurance, whatever it is. You can do it, but do your research and learn about it, find out what other people are doing, who have been successful at that, find out what supplements they're taking, you know, but always do your research at the best answer I can give anybody. Bodybuilding and fitness and working out is added so much to my life. It's helped me to reach dreams that I never thought were possible. It helped me to work hard in school, helped me to work hard in work, and even in athletic endeavors and in WWE, but also, it's helped me even in acting. Like, I look at it when I get a scene and say, okay, this is an exercise, and I'll hit it with different sets and reps going through my lines, went through my lines. And also, since then, I've had appearances on Oprah talking about, you know, my transformation and just following my dreams and everything that I've done, they cooked my own appearance on Oprah. I mean, obviously my fiance is trying to put her in, and so I've been on it with her before, but it was a major moment for me, but I booked my own appearance to talk about reaching my own dreams. So I encourage all of you out there, reach for your dreams, whatever it is, go after it, have a teetone fitness, if it's transforming your body, go after it, you can do it. And I'm always here if you have questions, you can reach me on my Twitter, at David Otunda, the API-D, OXE, UNGA, I love it, it's your questions about fitness and nutrition. You can find me on Facebook and you can check out my body space, and also, you can see me every week, a Monday night Raw on USA Network, and also on Friday night SmackDown on Sci-Fi. And if you want to get more David Otunda content, check out BodyBilly.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Day 1 ｜ 30 Minute at Home Strength Workout ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [YdB1HMCldJY].txt ===

So today is your strength one workout. You're going to be doing chest legs and back. This workout you're going to start with a dynamic warm up. You're going to move into your stretch series and then you're going to do two different circuits. Each exercise in the circuit is going to be comprised of 30 seconds. And they equipment that you're going to need today is a pull-up bar, a set of dumbbells or resistance bands. And for today's workout, we have clutch body shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player Michael Gasperson joining us. And remember, for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch life 24-7 fitness trainer, you could follow along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV, or computer. So let's get started with the strength one workout and begin our dynamic warm up. Starting with jogging in place, Michael's going to get us started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warm up is going to be completed at total of 30 seconds. And again, every warm up that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7 to 10, 10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you really want to be pushing it during the warm up. We want to get the muscles ready to do work. So just about 10 seconds left. How you feeling, say Michael? Ready to kill it? I'm fine. Okay. Did you think it did? Four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. Here we go. So Michael's taking a nice, wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people that are doing kind of going like this. Come all the way up. Bring your feet nice and wide. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. Supporting that you're really focusing during your workout, getting your mind in the zone for the workout that is about to take place. Good. Four, three, two, one. Good. We're going to get right into butt kicks, warm the hamstrings up. Good. Michael, if you can just turn to the side, show the people at home, the angle. So his knee is staying right underneath his hips and that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it, hence the name, but kicks. Good. Keeping the upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath. You want to be breathing. You want to be loosening up. Good. Just about 10 seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out, getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. We're trying to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. Get blood moving into all the muscles. Say, are about to work today. Five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Moving right into walking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these back and his football days. Yeah. We go. So again, with all of these warm up exercises, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. We're trying to tell the body, hey, guess what? We're getting ready to work. I mean, everything nice and engaged. Good. It's five, four, three, two, and one perfect. All right. So that concludes our dynamic warm up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. We ran into it. Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows it's highly conditioned athlete. You should feel this at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet again, that's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay, good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out and he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. Now we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up again. You can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes as your body's getting warmed up, your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that your breathing don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like you should be relaxed for getting this time period. Good. We relax. We're going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it. One more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work and that's exactly what we want. Also, when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. So you're going to get more out of these stretches. Good. Just about halfway there on the second stretch. And second slap. Good. And five, four, three, two and one. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. And again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be hex messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. Five more seconds left on this side. Feel them warm. Oh yeah. Good. And relax. He's going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. This is going to be really, really important in the stretch for today's workout because we're doing a lot of legs. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our body weight workout. 10 seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Our hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. And relax. Just come up. Shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in a perfect position for this stretch. We're about halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. 10 seconds left and five, four, three, two, one. All right, on our feet right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and ripping through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's like perfect form. I mean, smelling it right out of the gate. 10 seconds left on this first round. Part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. And relax. Shake it out. We'll be right into the next round. Again, so often at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injury. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the weekend. Take good relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he Michaels is going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're bringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good five seconds left on this right side. Good and relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I mean to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthen down out, you're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four, three, two, one, moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of buildings is so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. Last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six, five, four, three, two, one, good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend to. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching at least you're getting the body warmed up in prime for the workout appropriately. Good. Ten seconds left. And we're going to move right into our tricep stretch. Good. Four, three, two, one, good. It moving right into our overhead tricep stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow, top of his elbow rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lot and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. You feel in it? I see a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down in today. Good. Three, two, one, good. Relax. Shake it out. We'll see you into the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym, committing to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place it needs to be to give 100% for today's workout. Good. Four, three, two, one, good. Relax. Shake it out. Let's move on to the other side. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. You know, so often I see people at the gym and they go, you know, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone? Well, the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to work out and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that headspace before you get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space to give 100%. Good. Five seconds left. Three, two, one, good. Relax. Okay, good. Let's move right into our L.O. Soastroch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it, up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more. They should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor, the L.O. Soas kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. So we want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. Four, three, two, one, good. Shake it out. We're right into the round two. Good. And again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit farther than you did the timing before. So go cautiously into the first one, find where comfortable. But on the second one, you want to push into it a little bit more. Eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, good. Moving right over to the other side. So preparing to stretch for this workout, he is really important because we're working the whole body. So from this workout, you can really expect for going from upper body to lower body back to upper body, the whole point of this methodology is to really confuse your body. It doesn't know where to pump the blood. So you can expect to be winded. You can expect to be fatigue. But again, those are all good problems to have because over time your body is going to acclimate to it. You're going to get stronger. You're going to burn fat and you're going to be in the best shape of your life by the end of these four weeks. Or hopefully you continue on for 365. Good. Go ahead and work. You can be right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building workouts in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, pair it with these workouts. You will build muscle as well and not have to be in the gym for two hours because a lot of people might self-included. I'm sure on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. He's just going to cross one leg over the other. Yep. And just twist down perfect. Yep. And again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. See that a lot. You really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good, relax. I'm going to shake it out and move right into the round two. With any of these workouts, it's so important for us to stretch our back out because all of these movements go right through the center of our body, whether it's a bodyweight squat or we're doing pull ups. We really want to keep the body nice and flexible. Good, just about 15 seconds left, there's the second stretch. And we're getting so close to getting into this workout. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, let's twist over to the other side. And I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other and that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side has needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good, five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Good, relax. Now our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So my side is my right side. If I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find that the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good, and relax. Perfect, moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight across the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. Listen, we got to warm up the glutes. We're doing a lot of lower body stuff. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body, your low back comes in and tries to take over and that is what will create a lot of problems for you. So when it comes to the glutes and when it comes to this flexibility, portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good, relax. We'll go one more time on that side. Sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension that's going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. Good, 10 seconds left. Good, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1. Good, let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that in my opinion is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place. The more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. So go ahead and relax. It's a go ahead and shake it out. I'm going to be right into the last round. We are almost about to start our workout. Are you ready? Ready to get it done? Absolutely. This we're going to get it on today and you're going to get it on at home. I know Michael's going to kill it. Go over here to put it in work. And that's really the headspace that you need to be in you are here to put in the work because you want a change with your body. The way you get that change is by going 100% for the next 25 to 35 minutes through each one of these exercises. Three, two and one. Great. All right so that concludes our stretch series. We're going to get right into our first circuit. So let's get started with our first circuit. Starting with a push-up. Michael's going to get into position and go. Each one of these exercises you're doing for a total of 30 seconds. Michael's doing the advanced version which is a plyometric push-up. For all of you advanced athletes out there you can go ahead and do the same thing. If you need to do push-ups from your knees that's fine too just whatever is 100% for you. Good. We're halfway there. You can also do a variation of both. Like Michael's going to do. Good. We have five, four, three, two, one. Good. We're right into our pull-ups. I was going to go right over to the pull-up bar. Not taking a lot of rest between these exercises. Perfect. Getting us chin all the way over the bar. Perfect. And again if you're doing pull-ups at home you can do pull-ups that are just bodyweight or you can also use a resistance band. Using a resistance band will hopefully help build you up to doing just bodyweight. Good. Perfect. And five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right over to squat jumps. Right over to his mat and let's go. Good. So he's coming down just to 90 degrees and exploding up off the ground. And again with these exercises along with any exercise in this workout if you need to take a brief pause during the 30 seconds take a deep breath. That's fine. The thing that's most important is that you're pushing 100% whatever that means for you. But we are halfway there. Michael's legs. I'm sure are all repeat burning. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Good. Right down into our push-ups. Here we go. 30 seconds. Remember guys, as many reps is possible in these 30 seconds. Don't pace yourself out if you need to go and then rest, go 10, rest. That's fine. Good. 15 more seconds. We're halfway there. Try steps should be burning. You should be feeling this and your chest. You should be feeling this and your core. Perfect. Good. And five, four, three, two, one. Perfect. Right back up on our feet over to our pull-ups. Right away, he's taking no rest. He's in these more right now. Let's go. Good. Four. I think he's going to get at least 15 out of these 30 seconds. Good. Good. Good. Good job, Michael. Come on. Good. Here we go. 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. So you guys, it's okay to struggle at the end of each one of these exercises. The most important thing is you're pushing 100% for you. All right, let's get right into our squat jumps. Perfect. Halfway there. Good. And last 10 seconds. Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. Right. All right. So Michael's a highly conditioned athlete. So he's going to take 15 seconds to get some water. But for everybody at home if you need more than 15 seconds, go ahead and just pause this video now. So Michael's going to get into position. We're going to start with a decline pushup. So you can do this exercise off of anything that has a ledge, a secured ledge at home. You can use your bathtub, a chair, whatever you can find. All right. Again, each one of these exercises in this circuit, you're going to do for a total of 30 seconds. Let's go. 30 seconds starts now. Good. So guys, by this point in time in your workout, you're going to be tired. Stay focused, stay in the zone, and just do the best job that you can. Good. Halfway there. Perfect. About 10 seconds left. Good. 10, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, and one. Okay, perfect. Now move right on to our dumbbell row. Michael's going to go get his set of dumbbells. You guys get yours. You can also do this exercise using the resistance spam. All right. So again, 30 seconds. He's going to get into position. Ready? Here we go. Perfect. So again, he's in a great position. He's got his back. Totally straight. His glutes tight. He's got a nice bend in his knee. And that's exactly what you should be doing at home. Make sure that you are clenching the glutes because otherwise the low back is going to take a lot of heat in this exercise. Perfect. We got 10 seconds left. How are you feeling? He's killing it. He's killing it. Good. So you have five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Time. Let's move on to our next exercise. Our Bulgarian split squat. So Michael's going to go right back over to the bench. One leg is going to get to up on the bench. And the other one is going to be at 90 degrees. So we're going to 15 seconds on each leg. Here we go. Good. He's coming all the way down to 90. I don't want you to pass at 90 degrees. So if you do have a mirror, then you can use while you do this exercise. Go ahead and use it if not just eyeball it. That knee should not be coming out over the toe. Good. Switch. 15 seconds. Switching legs. Here we go. Perfect. And again, his upper body is staying nice and straight. All of his weight. He's placing in the heel and pushing straight up from the heel. Good. And three, two, one. Perfect. All right. So let's move on to our next round. Back into our decline. Push up. Michael's ready. I hope you guys are ready at home. Here we go. Again, guys, you want to get his mini reps as you possibly can in these 30 seconds. If you need to take a pause for a couple seconds and then keep going, that is fine. Good. So Michael staying nice and straight. He's not letting his torso drop down to the ground. Good. He's taking a slight pause. Here we go. We're over halfway there. 10 seconds left. 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Perfect. Getting right into our dumbbell row. Get some breath. It back into the body and let's get into position. Here we go. 30 seconds. Again, perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Form. He's not jerking. When you're doing this exercise, you shouldn't be using your momentum to bring the weight up. If you're doing that, you're training out of ego, drop the weight down to a weight that you can do without swinging your body around. That's how you sculpt beautiful muscles. Here we go. 20, got 10 seconds left. I know you guys are fatigued. Keep pushing through this. You are so close to being done with this workout. The worst of it is nearly over. Done. Time. Moving right into our split squat. Again, good. Take a deep breath of air. Get into position. Get your balance. Here we go. 15 seconds on this like perfect. Michael is in perfect. This is exactly where your knee should be. It's not coming out over the toe and all of his weight is right in that heel. Good. 10, 2, 1, switch. Perfect. Right onto the other side. You feel that in your booty? Oh, yeah. There we go. Good. Five seconds left. Five, four, three, two, one. Killed it.

=== FILE: Day 1 ｜ Legs and Abs Workout ｜ Kris Gethin's 12-Week Muscle-Building Trainer [QMfOJMmvS4Y].txt ===

I am an idiot, it's official. I just went to upload the video onto the computer to send over to the bodybuilder.com headquarters and when I wake myself earlier, I don't know where that video is. I either didn't record it or I've accidentally deleted it so I'm weighing myself again after a meal now. I've just got a t-shirt on and some of these like are there not going to weigh in if much. So let's just see, can we see that a little bit down? So 89, 89. So first day we have legs. I love starting a week with a challenge. Unfortunately I'm not dressed in the entire that I'm used to that I like to wear as you can see here. I'm wearing some pretty fancy like her. Not something that I like to wear at all but when I was getting ready for the triathlon I was wearing this and because of my hamstring tear my physio and specialist recommended that I wear compression short compression pants whenever I'm doing exercise to begin with until I'm fully rehabbed. So I'm really not going to make a habit of wearing these. I'm going to try them for the first day because today's my first day doing legs. Welcome to day one of the muscle building trainer we're here in Mumbai this time. Thanks to Alexia Fitness by pretty it's going to be a very fun experience especially for me because I haven't trained for four months now because of injury and rehab so being the first week you are going to get exceptionally sore especially if you're a beginner but you should use that as a motivational factor that you are transforming. Your body is evolving. You're going to have little muscle fiber tears and the only way you're going to repair is through eating adequate amount of protein rest recovery branch genamine o acids. I'm taking my pre-workout now I'm ready to get into this workout so I'm just going to talk about the training program that we're going to be following for this week. It's going to be week one of Y3T so there'll be progressive work throughout the 12 weeks where the program is going to change week by week, week one of the Y3T being mainly compound movements which is going to be great because it's going to help our secondary muscle fibers and secondary groups and our core stabilizers to prepare ourselves. Especially for next week as we hit more isolation movements it'll help prepare the tendons, the ligaments, the movements, the stabilizers so we can better isolate in week two and then obviously in week three we just hit the annihilation week. All right so let's get straight into this leg and ab workout. Okay that's our warmups done now we'll get straight into the first set with the Y3T. Rep range is going to be about to 8 to 12 legs feel okay hamstring feels okay the torn hand string lungs unconscious of it and obviously I'm a lot lot weaker than what I'm used to because I got less muscle as I grow more muscle or be stronger. So just make sure when you're doing this that we're doing just a shoulder with a stance and you push it through your heels if you push your toes you will have more pressure placed on your knees and obviously we want to protect our knees as a perfect weight then for failure reach failure right on about 11 to 12 reps. Could have rest paused to get a couple more reps out but I think now is absolutely perfect especially for the first week get the feel of it activate the fibers get prepared for the war. So only hit 10 reps so obviously for to get started sat in a little bit that's okay lungs we reach failure. What feels really good is that my hamstring feels fine it gives me the confidence that I can push it that much more a little bit next week and then I can comfortably wear something a little bit more comfortable in as I posted these leg like Chris. Not that I've got air thin wrong with anything against Kai Green or any of the body builders of the 80s it just feels a bit odd feel like a family wear and stuff. When you do an hacks what again make sure that you push in through your heels not few toes there's not too much pressure on your knees it's a little bit more emphasis throughout everything glutes in your hamstrings as well or and on the quads but not as much so you join. I have my heels of a fisted since apart on this just to make sure that we really accentuate you know just sweep off the quad so you get that split between the hamstring and the quad. Good job that I did like the load because we only just got I think it's 10 reps out of that one. That's you're really quick but that's good. No breaking down on my saltissio. Long as we're feeling injury free we're good lucky that Neil didn't put any more sets on there because I feel cooked on that but it's good everything feels fine so I know I can go all out next week won't be any talking next week This is an exercise at Neil Hill come up with hence what it's called hills squats so really targets your boots and hamstrings more than air thin you have to really make sure that you find a center of balance focus on one particular thing keep your back as straight as possible if anything it feels like you're leaning back just to make sure that you're keeping your back aligned and pushing everything through your heel so you can really fire your hamstrings and quads and normally when you go on to the second leg it is a little bit tougher because you are a little bit pre-fitting from the first set and again from weight training obviously it's a different type of thing as a lot of the cardio training that I've been doing this is obviously training legs we're playing a lot of oxygen that's just a bit of a shock system first we go not first day or not only got 12 workouts man even got 12 leg workouts to totally change your shape make every rep count make every set count count them make a count so to begin with we do four sets of the stiff leg in their lives here one performing this remember your legs are supposed to be locked and instead of just focusing on bending over push your hips back so you bend and over putting all your weight through your heels pushing your hips back and allowing the steel cables that you should be imagining in the back your hamstrings pulling your back up up So I just did 12 reps on the first set. The next 4 sets are Manusus squeeze out 10 reps. Do you know about a 3 second negative about 2 second positive on that? Just to really make sure to accentuate the squeeze. Obviously you can all turn it exercises that are similar that will target that muscle group. So if you don't have a seated, do the line. We have 4 working steps on here to perform three more. We're going to about 12 reps, I just did 12 repetitions there. We're a good exercise to start with the carb. It's great for the fillet. A piece of muscle that runs on the neutral gastronenias. One, two, improve the blood flow and the elasticity of that muscle. I find that you're able to develop the gastronenias that much more. So we're doing the prone leg press here for carbs because we don't have a standing calf machine in this gym. If you have a standing calf, that is your next exercise. Whatever it is, it's a long-term leg straight. You're going to hit your gut feeling and slip the target. We've finished half of the body, hit in legs. Now we're just going to go up to the natural bit of abs. The exercise that I'm performing here, I call it the three point lying leg raise. So we're hit both ends and the middle portion. That's why generally you call it three point. I'll generally hit abs more often when I'm putting on weight than if I'm on a fat loss diet. Because with the more foods that we're eating on a mass-filled diet, the more chance I'm getting a little bit of the tension. Obviously if you're like a stomach, we don't want that. Well, make sure that we got abs. We've got a flat stomach, we've got a tight transverse. Now we're just going to do straight incline raises. Just directly up and down now. You can use an incline, normal bench at a slight angle. Just so you increase your resistance a little bit. And nice and slowly with the negative and the positive. Make sure that you really bring your lower back off at the bench and feet up towards the ceiling. It's a really target, your lower abs. Really get that deep contraction. You can use them and do a hundred reps. You know, all you can really contract, break down that muscle fiber and isolate it and do like ten repetitions and get better results. So we finished that now. What we're going to do is have our postwork out shake. So this is when I have my uncaged straight up my workouts. I want my branch chains. I want my glutamine. I want my loose scene. I want all the recovery agents that I can possibly get my hands on after a tough workout like that. Then I immediately follow this with my cardiovascular exercise because it assists with recovery. We're trying to put on weight. We need a flush this area with oxygen rich and nutrients rich blood. It's getting to three minutes now. So now I'm going to increase the speed for one minute. For that one minute, it really rates your heart rate. Obviously the 50 you are. The heartier you're going to have to push it. You can choose whatever cardiovascular exercise you do. Whether it's a treadmill, electrical, stay a master, crossfit, whatever it is. Just make sure it's three minutes lower intensity, but you still push in it. But then for that one minute, you need to be pushing a tough. You need to be kicking it. So, that's day one in the bags. It's a first time that I trained in this gym. So I was trying to wrap my head around the new equipment. Feeling extremely uncomfortable with the lycra. Anyway, I won't be wearing these bloody things again. It felt really good to be back into the gym. I'm motivated. I can't wait to get this muscle growing now. Being the first week you should be entirely prepared with your Tupperware containers, with your groceries that you're filling your cupboard. Get rid of the crap that's in your cupboard, so you don't have any temptation to eat any shit. You need to be eating and fueling yourself on this growth phase with clean calories. So now I'm having my egg whites, my pineapple, my pomegranate, and my oats. And that's what I like to eat. I like to have fish, I like to have egg whites, and maybe a heavier meat. You're not allowed to miss one single meal on this plan now. So I've got all my meals here, prepared from yesterday. Being the Sunday, it was a good time for me to prepare. So I've had a couple of meals already. Obviously now I've got some egg whites, some pineapple, pomegranate, and some gluten-free oats. I eat gluten-free, I don't have to. I've got my salmon and my sweet potato in there. And I've got some more salmon and quinoa, or couscous. I sometimes eat in there. And then I have my last meal, which is my steak meal, with some green vegetables in there. No carbs in that meal. And pretty much that is it, making sure that I'm drinking absolutely minimum. A gallon of water a day, because here in Mumbai gets humid. And I sweat my ass off in the gym anyway. Remember our bodies are about 70-80% fluid. We need to be hydrated to get full output. So that's it, make sure that you're on track with your nutrition. Get all your meals in today. Tomorrow we're going to be hitting the gym. For what meals got written down, chest and triceps. Get a good night's sleep. And I'll see you here tomorrow in the gym for chest and triceps. Rock on. Day one is in the books. And I'm absolutely knackered to be honest with you. Did training today, which took a close to about an hour and a half to get through legs. And abs. And then did some high intensity interval training, some cardio. And for about 15 minutes. But then what the video guys did not capture after that was literally... ...hour and a half is four o'clock in the way I did a four o'clock crossfit class. The reason being is because I want to show you guys crossfit on a weekend. And this coming weekend would be my first time. And obviously I didn't want to look like a dick. You know, trying to navigate my way through a crossfit class. So I thought I'd be mentally and physically prepared beforehand. Bad idea. It was definitely a leg dominant workout of the day, you know, WOD. So, you know, we started off with 10 minutes of squats. And then seven minutes of cleans and squats. And then we did a circuit of box jumps, burpees. And chins. And then we had to do like 50 toe to bar leg raises. That was cooked. Man, I've eaten so much food. Like, I was going to start on 3,200 calories today. I think I blew that about a thousand calories a go. Because my body is just so hungry for food. And I'm listening to it. I'm giving it just clean calories just so I can feed it. Or it's going to kick my ass tomorrow. And it's not even nine o'clock at night. And look at me. I'm in bed with my book. And I'm ready to wipe out. And just hopefully get a good night's sleep. And the recover to foot tomorrow. Like tomorrow we probably going to have a lot of domes. You know, delayed on set muscle solenoose. So I've made sure that I just had my last batch of branch chenamine o' acids. My glutamine. And I'm going to have this steak meal that I've got here along with my cup of tea. My steak meal there. And that's the jarnas by the way, not underpants. So we'll have that and then brush teeth and then just wipe out for the night. And hopefully I won't be crawling around by my lips. My legs will be of some use. And then we're going to smash chest and try some herbs tomorrow night night. Thank you.

=== FILE: Day 18 ｜ 20 Minute at Home Flexibility Workout ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [PcaHrxetRas].txt ===

Today's workout we have clutch body shop athlete, professional firefighter and former NFL football player, Michael Gasper, and joining us. And remember, for today's workout and every single workout in the clutch life 24-7 fitness trainer, you can follow along at home in real time using your tablet, smartphone, TV, or computer. Starting with jogging in place, Michael is going to get us started. Each one of these exercises in this dynamic warm-up is going to be completed at total of 30 seconds. And again, every warm-up that you do is part of this trainer should be on a scale of 7-10 being the highest intensity that you can have. So you really want to be pushing it during the warm-up we want to get the muscles ready to do work. So just about 10 seconds left, I feel like I'm saying Michael. Ready, Michael? Ready, Michael? Okay. Which you've made it? Four, three, two, one. Good. Moving on to the next exercise, jumping jacks. There we go. So Michael's taking a nice, wide stance. Don't have ass jumping jacks. I hate seeing people that Jim kind of go in like this. Come all the way up, bring your feet nice and wide. Good. Just about halfway there. Good. So important that you're really focusing during your workout. Four, three, two, one. Good. We're going to get right into butt kicks, warm the hamstrings up. Good. Michael, if you can just turn to the side, show the people at home. The angle. So his knee is staying right underneath his hips and that leg is just coming right back to his butt and kicking it. Good. Then, the hip-hop is coming right back to his hips and knees. Good. Keep your upper body nice and relaxed. While you're warming up, you don't want to be holding your breath. You want to be breathing. You want to be loosening up. Good. Just about ten seconds left. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Switching right into a switch kick with arm circles. So he's kicking those legs out. Getting those shoulders nice and warmed up. Keep in mind that his arms are just parallel with his shoulders. We're trying to get the shoulder socket nice and warm. Get blood moving into all the muscles. Good. Five seconds left, four, three, two, one. Moving right into walking high knees. Let's get our hip flexors nice and warmed up. Michael did a lot of these back moves for ball days. Yeah. There we go. So again, with all of these warm-up exercises, you want to make sure that you're keeping your core nice and tight. You don't want to just kind of be throwing your body around. You mean, everything nice and engaged. Good. Five, four, three, two, and one. Perfect. All right. We name my core up. We're going to move right into our stretch series. Perfect. Do you run into it? Our first exercise is a seated hamstring stretch. So he is going to sit on his butt. His feet are coming straight out in front of him. Good. He's just reaching out. And see, he dropped his head immediately when he did these because he knows. He's a highly conditioned athlete. You should feel his at home coming all the way down your back and right into your hamstrings. If you can't get all the way out to your feet again, that's okay. You can always hold on to the back of your calf because by the end of this program, you should be able to get out to your toes. Okay. Good. So he's going to come up. He's going to shake it out. And he's going to go right back into that stretch. And again, the reason that we do each one of these stretches twice is because your body's natural response to being stretched is designed to protect itself. So if I was a step out of my car and twist my ankle, that stretch, my body's natural inclination is going to be to fight against that. So when we go into the first stretch, you're going to find that you feel a little bit tighter on that first stretch by that second stretch your body goes, oh, hey, I'm not injured. I'm just stretching. And so you're able to get deeper into that stretch, which is exactly what we want. Good. All right, come all the way up. And we're going to move right into our next stretch, which is a quad stretch. So Michael's going to stand up. Again, you can also do this stretch on the ground if you're so inclined. He's just going to bring that foot right behind him. If you can't balance on one leg, that's okay. You can use something nearby to hold on to. Sometimes his body's going to warm up. Your balance may feel a little bit off and that's completely fine. So again, Michael's keeping that knee right below his hip and his foot is straight back. Again, through these stretches, you want to make sure that you're breathing. Don't hold your breath. Don't hold tension in your face. Sometimes I see people stretching and they literally look like, ah, you should be relaxed during this time period. Good and relaxed. I'm going to shake that out. He's going to go right back into it one more time. The more you breathe through these stretches, the more you're going to oxygenate, the muscles that are about to work and that's exactly what we want. Also when you pump oxygen into the muscles, it's going to help the muscles to relax. You're going to get more out of these stretches. Good, just about halfway there on the second stretch. 10 seconds left. Good and five, four, three, two and one. Perfect. Let's move it over to the other side. Again, when you're going through this stretch series, you really want to be mentally getting yourself your head should be in the game. You shouldn't be looking around if you're in a gym. You shouldn't be looking around seeing what other people are doing. If you're at home, you shouldn't be text messaging. This is the time to really set your intention and to get your head in the game for what's about to happen, which is you're going to give 100% this workout just like you are with every single workout in this trainer. That's how you're going to get the results. Good. Five more seconds left on this side. You feel in warm? Oh yeah. Good and relax. He's going to shake that out. Come right back up. Perfect. That's a little perfect. Good. Just about halfway there on this second round of quad stretch. Good. Five, four, three, two, one. Good. Moving right into a sumo squat stretch. He's going to take a nice wide base and just drop your hands right down to the ground. Yep. Just let your butt drop all the way down. My goal can get a little wider on this stretch than I was able to during our bodyweight workout. Good. Ten seconds left. This is again excellent for warming up and opening up the hips. Your hips get really tight because we spend so much time sitting down. Good. When you relax, just come up, shake it out. We're going to move right into the next round. Perfect. Again, he's keeping his back nice and straight. He's not bent over everything. He's in the perfect position for the stretch. Good. Good. Good. Good. About halfway there. After we finish with this stretch, we're going to move right into our upper body stretches. Good. Ten seconds left. And five, four, three, two, one. All right. On our feet, right into our dynamic chest stretch, he's just going to shake out. Again, he's not forcing it and lifting through his body. We're just getting the body nice and warmed up. Perfect. That's perfect for him. He's killing it right out of the gate. I got his chin. Yeah. Ten seconds left on this first round. Perfect. And part of this stretch, you may also fill this in your shoulders and that's great as well. Good. It relax. Shake it out. Moving right into the next round. Again. So often at the gym, I see guys working out and they'll just pump chest all day and then they never stretch. And that's what really creates that kind of shoulder rotation forward. And over time, that's also what leads to injuries. So with any clutch workout, we always have people warm up and stretch all areas of the body because that's what really is injury prevention. But believe it or not, you'll also get better results because the muscles are able to have better mobility and range of motion throughout the movement. Good. Relax. And we're going to move right into our across the chest shoulder stretch. So he, Michael's just going to pull this arm straight across. If you feel any sort of pinching in your chest when you do this exercise, that is an indication that you need to spend more time stretching your chest because as you're ringing that arm across, your chest is actually contracting. And if you feel that chest want to tighten up, just spend a couple of extra minutes stretching your chest against a wall or however you know, against a machine, however you need to do it to make sure you're keeping those muscles nice and lengthen. Good. Five seconds left on this right side. Good. And relax. Take it out. Oh, sorry about that. I'm going to be hitting you. Moving right into the next round. Good. So again, we want to make sure you always want to make sure you're stretching your upper body appropriately. Sometimes people spend time stretching their lower body, never thinking to stretch their upper body. And it's so, so, so important by keeping those muscles nice and lengthened out. You're actually going to get better range of motion, better mobility. And over time, that's going to lead to greater strength gains. Good. Four, three, two, one, moving over to the other side. Especially for somebody like Michael who now has to spend his time fighting fires and carrying around tons of gear and carrying people out of building is so important to how that flexibility through your upper body. Last thing you want to do is catch cramp in a moment. It's not that much like that, right? So it's probably super important for you. Good. Eight seconds left. Six, five, four, three, two, one, good time. So we're going to shake it out and move right into the second round. If you're short on time and you're going through these stretches, it is okay to complete each one of these stretches one time. But I always recommend two. But if you are short on time, the most important thing is at least you're stretching. Good. Ten seconds left. We're going to move right into our triceps stretch. Good. Four, three, two, one, good. And moving right into our overhead triceps stretch. So again, Michael's pulling that arm right next to his head. His head is not doing this. His head is in a neutral position and he's just pressing down on that top elbow, top of his elbow rather. Just perfect. So I can see this is also coming down into his lat and that's exactly what it should be doing for you at home. I feel a little sweat coming down already. It's about to go down here today. Good. Three, two, one. Good. Relax. Shake it out. Moving into the next round. Perfect. Again, you guys, during this time period, you really want to just be thinking about your intention for what today's workout is going to be. I think so many times people get to the gym and they get there and then they've got no intensity. Well, that's because you did spend time on the way to the gym, committing to being intense once you get into the gym and being focused. So take this time and use it to really get your head in the place that needs to be to give 100%. Four, three, two, one. Better relax. Shake it out. The other side. So we have just about 10 seconds left. Five, four, three, two, and one. So often I see people at the gym and they go, how do you stay motivated? How do you get yourself in that zone while the truth is is that you have to get yourself in that zone on the way to the gym. You can't just show up to workout and be like, oh, now I feel intensity. You need to get yourself in that head space before you get to your workout. So this is your time to do that while you're stretching, get yourself in that space. You give 100%. Good. Five, second, left. Three, two, one. Good, relax. Okay, good. Let's move right into our LAO-SOS stretch. So Michael's going to put his foot out and now he's leaning right into it, up and over his body. Perfect. So again, if you don't feel this, you just need to lean back a little bit more and they should feel this right through your abdominal area right through here because that's where your hip flexor, the LAO-SOS, kind of lives on each side except it goes right through the center of your body. So this hip flexor is essential for pretty much all movements. We want to make sure we spend some time stretching it out. About five seconds left. Four, three, two, one. Good, shake it out. We're right into the round two. Good. And again, on each one of these exercises during the stretch series, when you get to that second round, you really want to try and go a little bit further than you did the time before. So go cautiously into the first one, find where you're comfortable, but on the second one, you want to push into it a little bit more. Perfect. Good, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one. Good, moving right over to the other side. Good, go ahead and relax. working right into the next one. And again, these workouts, they're short, right? So often we're told we have to be in the gym for two hours a day doing body building workouts in order to build muscle. That's not true. If you follow the building program with the nutrition plan, carrot with these workouts, you will build muscle as well, and not have to be in the gym for two hours. Because a lot of people, myself, included, I'm short on time. I don't have two hours. So this is actually a perfect program and something that I follow, something that I have a lot of my clients follow as well. Go ahead and relax. All right, great. Let's get right into our low back stretch. So Michael's going to lay on his back. And he's just going to cross one leg over the other, yep, and just twist down perfect. Yep, and again, he's keeping his upper body nice and relaxed. Again, you don't want to have your arm kind of sneaking up. You see that a lot, you really just want to stay in a completely neutral position. And while you're in this position, you really want to be focusing on breathing air right into that low back. Believe it or not, that will help open everything up a lot faster. Good, relax. Shake it out and move right into the round two. Good, just about 15 seconds left for this second stretch. Good, five, four, three, two, one. Good, let's twist over to the other side. And I can see that this side for him is a little bit tighter, which is fine. A lot of times when you get into these stretches, you will see that one side of the body is feeling a little bit tighter than the other. And that's fine. That's why we're going through the stretch. So if you feel that one side needs a little bit more attention, don't be afraid to go through the stretch even three times. Good, five seconds left for three, two, one. Good, relax. Our body will do really funny things because we spend so much time sitting down now. Everyone has a side that they favor. So if my side is my right side, if I'm sitting in my car, I'm always leaning on the right side of my body. So sometimes when I get to the gym, I'll find that the right side of my back is a lot tighter than the left. And that's why going through these flexibility exercises is so important because we don't want to have those imbalances because that actually changes the way that our body fires while we're doing these exercises. Good, and relax. Perfect, moving right into our glute stretch. So Michael's going to sit up and just keep one leg straight. Cross the other one over his body and pull that knee right into the chest. Last thing we want is a pure formus or a glute to get super super tight because you know what happens when you don't have the flexibility through that area of the body is your low back comes in and tries to take over. And that is what will create a lot of problem through you. So when it comes to the glute, so when it comes to this flexibility portion of these workouts, you really want to make sure that you are staying focused when you're going through these exercises. Good, relax. We'll go one more time on that side. You know, sometimes I see people at the gym and they're doing stretching but they're not really doing anything. You should be slightly uncomfortable while you're going through these stretches. You should feel tension in the muscle. That's a good thing because it's that tension. That's good thing going to get that muscle to relax and lengthen out. But 10 seconds left. Good, five, four, three, two and one. Good, let's switch over to the other side. For people who have body fat that they can't seem to get rid of, you know, a lot of that, in my opinion, is due to cortisol because we're so stressed all the time. Our cortisol, the dumping and our body literally is dumping the hormone that is responsible for body fat. So stretching is a great way to relax and the more we can do things that help us to relax and allow our mind to be in a peaceful place, the more our body is going to have the balance hormonally to burn fat. Go ahead and relax. It's to go ahead and shake it out. We're moving right into the last round. Ready? Good done? That's really the head space that you need to be in you are here to put in the work because you want to change with your body the way you get that change is by going 100%. 3, 2 and 1, great.

=== FILE: Day In the Life of Jay Cutler, 4x Mr. Olympia Bodybuilder ｜ Living Large [hSo7yopmdcA].txt ===

I always say to people about the mentality of a body, but you have to have something has to be triggered inside. You can't be normal. You know, you have to have that satisfaction of never being satisfied because you always want to be better. You always want to better physique. You have to push yourself beyond limitations. You look at some guys that potentially could be the best physique in the world, but they don't have the mental capability to push themselves. Mentally you have to be, I think a little crazy. You don't understand the benefits of being a normal person, so you look at someone like me who can't try to close off the shelf. You can't eat normal places to eat. You can't ride in certain size cars. You can't ride in certain size airplanes. You're going to hotels overseas to stay in small beds, trying to fit in small showers. It's hard to shop. It's hard to go out to eat. It's hard to travel. When you're 290 pounds, it's very difficult to do a lot of things. You know, you're so abnormal. I mean, it's compared to what people used to see. People laugh as they just never see anyone. So huge. It's hard to hide it. I don't wear big baggy clothes. A lot of times I wear more form-fitting stuff. People don't. It's not the norm. You're certain places we've brought, and you're like, I want to be there. And this is one of those places. I came to Vegas the first time in 97. I fell in love with it. That was before I was built up even the way it is now. But what other place can you go in 24 hours a day? You just wake up and decide, I want to go do this. I want to go do that. I want to eat. I want to go workout. I want to go see a movie. You know, I want to go to the supermarket. I want to go eat at this restaurant. You know, it's just you can do anything you want pretty much. You're going to have sushi till 6 in the morning. I don't know any place in the world really that that's, you know, on a consistent basis that you can do that stuff. I like the fast temple of Vegas. I couldn't live in a slow environment. People always ask me, you're going to move back to my, I could never go back to the slow base, you know. People ask me, how do you train and focus in Vegas when there's so many outside things pulling at you on that? I think that I thrive on that. I love to be able to know that most people can't do that. You know, I love to be able to have that at my fingertips, even though I never take advantage of it. It gives me more drive, being in a place that's so actively, just crazy and I'm still so focused on what I do. It's kind of like the opposite thinking a little bit. Here we are. What's up guys? What's going on man? All right, pull ups. Shirts off. Kelly, you're getting all swall dull. I have to do something for the Olympia. Put bodybuilding.com in the back of my head. Jake, cut their trainer. I'm being over like a couple of times. So I'm taking it down. Yeah, I can do it. I'm going to see my face too. Keep it up. Yeah, just a little tight, you know, tight at the bottom. Nice and clean. Like, like a tape, right? You know, I find myself nowadays. I don't even touch my hair in the morning. I get up. That's what my hair looks like. Then I jump in the pool. Traveling and being Jake holiday. It's not an easy thing. Everywhere you go, you're noticed. And of course you're in demand. People say, what are you do for a living? I said, I eat sleep a train. That's it. I kind of joke like that. Because it does seem like that a lot of times, but there is some fun built in there. But I never looked at myself and said, I'm so obsessed. Because I always seem to have some sort of balance in there and I always realized that this is a career. And obviously if you go at it, full tilt all the time, you're going to burn yourself down. So you have to set a certain pace for yourself to the point where you're continually moving forward and being great. You want to do that? You want to do that? You want to do that? You want to do that? No, I'm going to pick a shot. I'm going to pick a shot. I'm going to pick a shot. The Olympic chair. We should get it. All right, I need your help. What's going on with the shirts? I just called Kevin actually. So he is going to call me back. He's going to be there. Everything should be done this week. I know what this week, meaning. What tomorrow, Wednesday, the latest. I always honest at that, I believe they're done. Usually, like I show up at like what he wants to do? No, 9 in 10. He wants to show up. 9 in 10. The depends if he goes out the night before. No, I don't even go out anymore. I just work at night. Every day is different. I say, pay this bill. You're going to call these people. It's literally I sit in a kitchen and I scream to him, hey, do this. You know, so he's trying to do a job that probably takes three or four people. And for a 21 year old kid to be able to do that, like, I mean, it takes a lot of his time. He works six days a week, at least, you know, sometimes seven. You know, when you think you've seen someone work hard, like, all the way, he works hard. And then you meet someone like Jane, you're like, this is a whole other ball game. You know, it's not like we're operating a huge operation over here. I mean, we're running out of my house and my garage. And yes, there's a lot of space. But, you know, we have, we have day to day things. And we need to get done. And I'm only home on certain times. I traveled this year extensively. And I, we had one or two days to get stuff done when I was home. And we rely on other people and it's impossible to do that. So we try to do everything, you know, on our own. What do I overnight that I've never, overnight? Anything. I know you like to spend money. Dude, I see how much a cost, a cost, a 35 bucks a cent in the imposter. No, it doesn't. What do you talk? A cost, a 35 bucks that one poster cost. I saw it. Did I not see a star? No, it didn't cook in 35 dollars. I'm sure you write it. What did I say about that poster that day? Don't lie. Yes, I have just seen a set of that. Well, you said that. I have no choice. That's what they choose. Oh, what kid was it a poster in the large one? No, it was a poster by itself. Yes. And a cost 35 dollars. Yes. Okay. I'll pull it up right now. And if it's $35, then you can have your pay. Yeah, my child. You have my whole shit in the commodity of pay. Don't start money. I'm in a bad mood that even Larry said I came out in a bad mood this morning. And that's the thing. You run with the crew and this time when we play and this time when we work. And this is this is all business now. I mean, this is, I admit, half my life is play time. Three quarters of my life is play time. But when it comes down, it can get a business. And the business is now, mean, there's no, we have no time for fun. You know, I've been a four-time champ, you know, and I've been six-time runner-up. And I'm the greatest bodybuilder ever. There's no question. I feel that I'm the greatest. I still want to compete at my best, even at the age of a mad. And, you know, people say, past your prime. I mean, I don't know if there's any past your prime. When I'm still competitive, you don't want to think about that. You're not going to go into a show and say, well, I'm past my prime. I'm just doing it for the, you know, just to stand up there. That's not how an athlete or a champion bodybuilder, you know, trains for a competition or things. They always want to think about winning and being your absolute best. There is no failure at this point. You know, they've done it all. There's never going to be a day to pass. Because that I'm going to step out and people are going to know who Jay Color is. I don't see it ever happening. Brian, what's up? Oh, no. Now I'm back in Vegas for the week. I think Dave's coming next this coming weekend. He's going to shoot some training stuff. And then I shoot with Bernal next week. I think for some features. Hey, what's the name of that pizza place next to? Kyzen. I like more lounge type places like hide lounge at Belageo. Monique or trust at the win. I don't go to Strip clubs. I got a stripper pole. My bedroom. I don't need a strip clubs. You know, when you have like 30 something in its thighs and you've had 22 and a half in charms and you've got a 19 inch neck and a broad shoulder. It's difficult to find things. Are the then tank tops and shorts? Everything's custom. I mean, I can't fit into normal sleeves. Obviously, the dress shirts are tailored. You know, like the button up shirts. My suit jacket is I think of 58 or 60 or something like that. I mean, it's crazy. If you look at what's considered an ideal drop to a manufacturer of suits, it's a six inch drop. That's a difference between your chest and your waist. I've got some guys that, you know, are fairly serious body builders and they've got a 10 inch drop. And Jay has 20. It kind of defies the physics of what you can do with fabric, you know, in a constructed sense to go from here to here. All right. Jay, you're going to go to work. I want to stop and tell you now, remember. Okay. Okay. This is 54. And we're 57. That's big difference. Feet together. Wow. That's about five inches less Jay. That's pretty serious. I won my first Olympia heavier than I weigh right now. There was convenient against Ronnie and how. I mean, what I came back in one in 2009, I was 254. It's all illusion. 37 actual thigh 29 19 good flex 21 and a half. You've lost a lot of weight. So we're going to we're going to be doing some different things here. So we're going to be full body and we're going to. Yeah. It's hard to hide it. You know, that's the one thing about being a professional bodybuilder is where other people can hide, you know, athletes, you know, unless they're like real real famous faces, you just can't hide the physique. I mean, and the thing is, like, you know, a lot of bodybuilders changed from on season to off season. Like, I don't change a whole lot. I'm pretty much visible. The hairs the same. The face stays the same, you know. And on my unique look for a lot of the bodybuilders, you know, you know, there's not a lot of huge, you know, big blonde white guys, you know. Oh, look at all those. Yeah. I'm going to pop them after. How about a girl? My God. You're like a chia pet. You know, I never had hair on my back until I started shaving, you know, when I got ready for my first show when I was 18. It's like when I started shaving my back, it's like I turned it to gorilla. Larry told me to do nair. Let's bless this shot. I'm not telling you I should shave my armpits. Yeah. And Larry! I need your help! Larry! Do I need to shave my armpits? Oh, no. You got it. You're good. She's good. You sure? Yeah. Now look at my hair. There's nothing in there. Am I lower back, you did too? You know, when you're my size, you never think you're small. But I like the way I look now. You know, I'm always in decent shape, but I always check myself out. I never look at my face though. I'm always like the physique. You know, it flex the abs and the... Oh. Oh. Ah. It's... Ah. Oh. Ready? Oh. Yeah. As you've seen the progression, you know, almost 50 years of bodybuilding in the Mr. Limpi competition. You know, we saw the days are on over. They weren't so good. So condition or so big. And nowadays, I mean, the guys are so big and so condition. There's so many variables and bodybuilding has become so scientific and trying to tune the body into, you know, show the best conditioning with the most size. Ah. Have I gotten too big? Oh, bodies. I made to be as strong as I guess that Mr. Limpi competitors become. With my shape, I start an operation without special X-ray algorithm, easy 29 times as less like lighting spells. But... Look! We're gonna treat every gun as if it's loaded at all times even if you know it's unloaded. Always keep your trigger finger off the trigger till you're on target and ready to fire. And always keep the gun pointed to save the rest. If it any time, you hear someone call out ceasefire. We stop shooting to take a finger off the trigger, put the gun down on the counter step back away from the pressure body. By the way, forward, it helps you to absorb the recoil. You're a fighting game, you're scared. Who won? Sing a shot? Good luck. You can never teach anyone training advice. It's always the business, because everyone wants to make the money. They want to be a superstar and look like a superstar. The magazine's exposed you as a superstar because you're featured with the muscles in the look, you know. But financially, they want the backup of that. And that's what I have. I have all the tools to create that and a lot of people have come to me for that opportunity. Yeah, we may stumble, but we always land higher and get to where we need to be. Even when I was smaller, I hate to say small, but I look at these guys that still say, I'm still the best and still the greatest and still the biggest name and bodybuilding. Back up the show. Good luck. It's going to take a look. Taken out, suck it out, suck it out, suck it out. Mentally, you have to be able to look crazy. You approach me listening to what's the secret, what's the secret? I don't like eating anything. If you ask me what my favorite food is, I don't have a favorite food. I don't look forward to eating meal at all. You're a living legend. That's what's amazing. What do you do? I'll tell you, Jay Colors, good to talk.

=== FILE: Dead Bug - Abdominal ⧸ Core Exercise Guide [4XLEnwUr1d8].txt ===

Begin lying on your back with your hands extended above you toward the ceiling. Bring your feet, knees, and hips up to 90 degrees. Exhale hard to bring your wrist gage down and flatten your back onto the floor, rotating your pelvis up and squeezing your glutes. Hold this position throughout the movement. This will be your starting position. Initiate the exercise by extending one leg, straightening the knee and hip to bring the leg just above the ground. Maintain the position of your lumbar and pelvis as you perform the movement. Your back is going to want to arch, but don't let it. Stay tight, and return the working leg to the starting position. Repeat on the opposite side, alternating until the set is complete.

=== FILE: Decline Dumbbell Bench Press  - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [Pf1nDoqx_1A].txt ===

Secure your legs on the end of a decime bench and lie down with a dumbbell in each hand. Raise the dumbbells and rotate your wrist so the palms of your hands are facing away from you. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and lower the weights until your elbow forms a right angle. Throughout the motion your forearm should always be perpendicular to the floor. Finally, exhale and raise the dumbbells back to the starting position by pressing them up with your chest.

=== FILE: Decline Reverse Crunch - Ab Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [YcMj0EEadQo].txt ===

Light back on a deep-clined bench and hold the top of the bench with both hands. Hold your legs parallel to the floor using your abs to support them. Keep your knees and feet together. Your legs should be fully extended with a slight bend in your knees. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and bring your legs toward your torso by rolling backwards to raise your hips from the bench. Hold the contracted position for a brief moment, then inhale and slowly return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Define Your Greatness - Show Us Your Beast Body - Motivational Video Finalist [a5k01Yl_S48].txt ===

So, beginning of time, man's main concern was to survive. That being said, we have a natural animal instinct. Evolution has taught us in order to prosper. We must have do our animal instincts. May and hide has learned to harness the beast and use the blood survival techniques of the beast remains within. We've motivated to succeed. We sometimes get a glimpse of the beast inside of all of us. It helps us to push beyond our limits because we know that only limits are those we set ourselves. Those moments are society evolved and feasts us from reaching great ends. But when we realize greatness is only self-defying. We see the world a little more clearly. We continue to find our greatness every day with me to side to reach a little further or run a little faster. Our minds may stop for our bodies too, but if it's running goals, call buttons for the best burden of ourselves. You may not be the next Michael Jordan or Jackie Joyner for Percy, but when I'm first in a chief, they're own personal goals. They have a chief, they're own greatness. Inspiration is my personal greatest. That's what makes me way better than I'm working. That's what fills my workouts in the gym. That's me. Thank you.

=== FILE: Delt Demolition Workout ｜ Calum Von Moger [IfVHQKgNsuc].txt ===

I'm not interested in today's bodybuilders. It's too much. A classic for ZX. I don't know what's in there. Dave Draper, Ranko, Klambo. That's what I want to look like. But maybe just a little bit better. I'm Klambo and Nogor. This is one of my favorite shoulder workouts. I used to go to the Mr. University here. It's a great first hyper-edged feet building muscle. If you want to try something different, try this one. We're going to start with the seated overhead press. I'll apply a dumbbell overhead press. Then we're going to do some upright rows. After that, we're going to do some side-out of raises, some drop sets. We're going to finish off with the red-doubt flies. So with the rest time, today, we're going to keep them short for the warm-ups. About 30 seconds. As we get into the work here, we're going to increase the rest time to about a minute. All right. Let's get into it. So we've got the first exercise here. See the overhead press. I'm going to be doing six sets. The first two are just light, warm-ups sets. Well, I'll do 10, 15 reps. And then, from there, we're going to go a bit heavier. We do a few lower reps. Get up to our 100 kilos or 25 pounds. We do a bit less reps. Get up to like a max weight for about eight six reps. And then we're going to drop down a bit a bit lighter than the shot off. What can do? 15. I realize, oh, you know, I could do another 10. No, I'll do another 10. I won't just go up. I did 15 racket up. It's a bit... sort of instinctive. It's not like either books or a thing. This is set four. So I'll do this one for six, all right? I'll round it up and actually play for the fifth set. So we'll go heavier, it's on the fifth. And then I'll probably drop back to that on the sixth set. Sometimes when I'm going to hit like a heavy set or max something, it's good to get a spotter. Okay, so you can't handle it. I've got an elbow here. So he's going to help me out today. Oh, thank you so much for your help. That's it. Seven reps in the last one. They're pretty exhausted. So now we're going to move on to over hit dumbbell press. All right, so we're doing exercise two here, which is a seated dumbbell press. What I'm going to do, I'm going to do two sets on a drop set. So I'm going to start with these ones here. We'll do like 10 12 reps whatever. After that, we're going to hit these ones here and then finish on the heavy weights of the air. So now that finish that set, I'm going to rest 10 20 seconds and go back to the first ones and rip the file. So you're going to rest about a minute. I'm going to hit these the 70s, rip them out, rest another minute. Two to eighties and then, uh, scissors at there. Wait about half time about, yeah, 20 seconds, tough enough. I don't traditionally wear headphones. Usually get in the zone without a music. So if I'm going to jam it like a home, whatever, and there's a lot of people like that. I want to get distracted or bothered too much. Hit phones in with their music. And so it looks like I'm listening to our focus, but people thought all of you was much when you got headphones on. So we'll go right ahead and intense work out. So that's it, as you saw at the end. When I couldn't do any more full reps, I just did part of it. I'm going to try to help break the process of intense fire you work out. So I'm pretty gas at the moment. I have breath. I'm going to be doing some upright rows, just three sets. Sort of medium weight about 10 reps each. Pretty simple. Good to hit the definition between the shoulders and the shoulders. So let's get it done. I like to go about shoulder width. My thing is that the elbows weighs 20 after ceiling. It's more, I feel a lot more in the shoulders. I'll go about shoulder width because it's feeling better and more. So yeah, try and keep it tight. Try to swing. Try and pause it for a second or two at the top. Just increases the burn. I'm going to hit 10 reps on a weight. I'm going to hit the reps. I can only hit 6 reps. I'm going to keep the reps. That's my way of keeping it in between two and two. Two for the numbers. 26 and 10. Do you tend it's too light for you to 6 to heavy. So every time we go heavier, I can hit 10. Keep going heavier. We have a little next size four here. So I'm going to be similar to the dumbbell press. Except for doing just a single drop set. I'm going to triple drop set. So I'm going to start with the 30 pounds. We've got to the 35 pounds. And then after that I'm going to go back to the 30 pounds. Drop it to the 25 pounds. Drop it to the 20 pounds until I'm gas. There's no particular red number. It's just the file each time. A lot of people think it's not going to stop on the side. You go up from here, which it's harder. But if I'm doing it in sort of lady, my workouts, I'm going to be exhausted. I don't mind just using it in my maintain to get out there. It's still going to get a good palm. You're going to work in. Usually you can go a little bit heavier. You have to strip form just from the side. You just go to drop down with it. So always seem to rest less. When I don't know what time is. So I get excited. I want to do an accept. But let's do it for a while. For 30 seconds. I'll be able to do it a lot more effectively. So I'll always guess it out. That's quick. I didn't make such a drop thing. So the end. I did the triple. I felt like doing another one. I did it with lighter. I just stripped the form from the sides. She doesn't look into anymore. I just fucking raced it off. So you've got a stabbing pain in your arms. You can't lift anymore. That's how you do it. That's done. It's all done, Bill. Go do it. Alright, so it's the final exercise for the shoulder workout. Recapal flies. I'm going to do four sets, ten fifteen reps for each set. And a nice controlled steady movement. Nothing crazy, nothing heavy. Just very consistent. I need to slow myself down because I know I'm going to lift that up. I've got a little bit more rest of my set. I don't like to rest too long. I don't know. I get a good cage. I need to lift something. I need to lift it off. I mean, follow the strict sides of the edit. I think, take your way out just swinging a lot of the time it's all I've ever done. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's good. Yeah. Alright. So that's it for today's shoulder workout. This workout is breaking down on the article on bodybuilding.com. For more videos, articles, content like this, hit that bodybuilding.com and check it out. Do it. Thank you.

=== FILE: Dips   Chest Version - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [4la6BkUBLgo].txt ===

To get in the starting position, hold your body above the bars with your arms nearly locked out. Then while breathing in, lower yourself down more slowly with your torso leaning forward less than 45 degrees. Your elbow should flare out slightly until you feel a slight stretch in your chest. Once you feel the stretch, use your chest to bring your body back up to the starting position while breathing out. Also remember to squeeze the chest at the top of the movement for a moment to get the maximum benefit of the exercise.

=== FILE: Dips - Triceps Version - Tricep Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [WNMqN2O2MSs].txt ===

To get in the starting position, hold your body at arms length with your arms nearly locked above the bars. Now inhale and slowly lower yourself downward. Your torso should remain upright and your elbows should stay close to your body. This helps better focus on tricep involvement. Lower yourself until there's a 90 degree angle form between the upper arm and forearm. The next inhale and push your torso back up using your triceps to bring your body back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Dirty Dash Obstacle Race - Boise, Idaho 2013 - GoPro - Bodybuilding.com [GIy0xyqZZCI].txt ===



=== FILE: Donkey Calf Raises - Calf Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [XEZUIXn5mgc].txt ===

To perform this exercise, you'll need a training partner or a specialized machine. Begin by bending at the hips and holding on to a bench in front of you. Your feet should be at shoulder width apart with your legs slightly bent. Your feet should be directly below your hips. Your partner should carefully position themselves above your hips and hold onto you for support. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your heels by extending your ankles as high as possible while flexing your calves. Then, hold the contracted position for a brief moment, inhale and slowly lower yourself back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Dorian Yates Answers Bodybuilding.com Fans Top 5 Questions [VTU58aTj00g].txt ===

Okay, so what are your thoughts on this supplement industry today? I think it's the way it's progressed since I started training. Even since I retired from the sport, which was in 1997, it's advanced and my reason we've got so many different products on the market now, which is great. And the industry is very competitive, so it forces each company to do that research and try to continually come up with better and more effective products. And what kept you motivated all those years when you're in your competition time? Just having goals, speaking other than the seminar about having goals, everyone's got their own personal goals. Obviously mine was, as I was progressing different things to be national champion, then to be a professional bodybuilder, and then to be Mr. Lempio, and obviously that's a very strong goal. You know, you're the best in the world and you want to maintain there. So I always had long-term goals, which would be usually a competition for myself, because I'm more competitive bodybuilder. But it's important to break those down into small goals. You know, every month you want to have a goal for your weight, for your bodyweight, for your strength and so on. I think that's important, and to be consistent, there's no good training all out and each and probably for a week or two, and then it all go to part for a couple of weeks. So to have goals and to be consistent, I think that's the answer to that. Definitely. And then in your career, if you had to do anything over again with you? I would try not to get severely injured. I said a week before Mr. Lempio twice. What I learned from that is you have to modify a training a little bit, go into a competition. You can't train as heavy and as super intense. So in fact, you don't need to go into a competition. You have to shift your training mentality from training all out and trying to gain muscle to just maintain and hold in that muscle while you're restriction of calories and doing more cardio to get into shape. So if there's anything I could do over that would be it. The last couple months before a competition, it would be more cautious and train a little bit more moderately, a little bit more. Definitely. And then what do you think about bodybuilder today compared to when you first started in the sport? That's the industry changed. It's changed. I tend to think there was a little bit more mistake about the whole thing when I was competing. And maybe that's because now everything is accessible with the internet and everything. When I was when I started and when I was competing, you have to wait for the magazines if you want to information or you have to go to a seminar and everything is available online. So it's changed tremendously because of the internet. Definitely doing the overall shape of the bodybuilder is changed. I think in the previous decade when I was competing in the 90s, I think the actual condition in the shape that the bodybuilder was coming in was a little bit superior to now, whereas now the guy's a little bit bigger and a little bit full. So it's a bit of a different look and I don't want to sound like some old dogs. And it was better in my day, but I do think the condition of the bodybuilder was superior to the guys now, although the guys now are a little bit bigger. Definitely just a totally different look. So now that you're not competing, what are your passions and hobbies outside the gym? Obviously you still work out and stay involved there. I've enjoyed doing some other sports and some martial arts with some friends of mine. Things like that when you're like a competitive athlete, you have to concentrate solely on your sport under discipline. You can't really do anything else because you risk injury, mind, fear, recovery and everything. So I think the thing that I enjoy now is being more flexible, you know, having a bit more freedom with a diet, with a training, and doing different things, spend more time with my children and stuff like that. So do you have any fun like quirky random hobbies like gardening or anything that's different? Not much of a garden, really. I like music and stuff like that. You have to like that when I was younger, but when you weigh 300 pounds, you can't really find much sport to fit you. So I'll do that and spend time with my kids. I've got a son that's 26 and I've got a nine-year-old girl. I could spend a lot more time with her than I could when I was competing in a totally focused, so just a more relaxed lifestyle. Does your son want to take after you? I don't think so. I think his soul went on in thro's. He works out. He works out as well as training with his martial arts, his skills and shapes, so it's kind of the family, I think. That's cool. And the last question, so what would you say to all those people out there? There's always haters and naysayers. How do you stay positive through it all? You know, everything in life you can look at a positive or negative half or half empty. I don't worry about negative people and let them affect me. If you see somebody that's successful, that's doing well. There's two ways you can look at it. You can look at it in a negative way. That person's success makes you feel insecure, makes you feel like a failure. Or you can look at that person and you can say, wow, look what he's doing. Maybe I can do it. Let's use that as an inspiration. Some people just look at it in a negative way and one of attack somebody that's successful because it's making them feel insecure. So I don't worry about negative people that don't get on with it. Good answer. Well, thank you so much. Okay. Thank you all.

=== FILE: Duel： Marc Megna's 6-Week Partner-Based Muscle-Building Plan ｜ Promo [W97HUdTAkAY].txt ===

One, two, three, lock it out! Hold it tight! Try it, try it! Bring it up, drive it up, drive it up, drive it up, drive it up! Where for now let's go! Go, go, go! Nice shot man. Where you go? Those great. Where do you feel? Like a black dot there for a day.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Bench Press - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [Vc63DPUoA40].txt ===

Slide down on a flat bench with a dumbbell and each hand resting on top of your thighs. Then using your thighs to help raise the dumbbells. Lift the dumbbells one at a time so you can hold them in front of you at shoulder width. Once it's shoulder width, rotate your wrist forward so the palms of your hands are facing away from you. The dumbbells should be just to the sides of your chest with your upper arm and forearm creating a 90 degree angle. Be sure to maintain full control of the dumbbells at all times. This will be your starting position. As you breathe out, use your chest to push the dumbbells up. Lock your arms at the top of the lift and squeeze your chest. Hold for a second and then begin to come down slowly. Ideally lowering the weight should take about twice as long as raising it. When finished, don't drop the dumbbells next to you as this can be dangerous. Instead you'll want to return to the seated position and place the dumbbells on top of your thighs. To do this, simultaneously push with your upper body while slightly kicking with your lower to provide the momentum needed to help you return to the seated position. From this position you can safely place the dumbbells on the floor.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Bicep Curl - Bicep Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [3OZ2MT_5r3Q].txt ===

Stand up straight with a dumbbell in each hand at arms length. Keep your elbows close to your torso and hold the dumbbells at your side with a neutral grip. This will be your starting position. Now keeping the upper arm stationary exhale and curl the weights while rotating your hands so the palms are facing up. Continue to raise the weights until your biceps are fully contracted and the dumbbells are at shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a brief pause as you squeeze your biceps. Then inhale and slowly begin to lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Flyes - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [QwuUZ5wgQOk].txt ===

Slide down on a flat bench with a dumbbell and each hand resting on top of your thighs. The palms of your hands will be facing each other. Then using your thighs to help raise the dumbbells lift the dumbbells one at a time so you can hold them in front of you at shoulder width with the palms of your hands facing each other. Raise the dumbbells up like you're pressing them, but stop and hold just before you lock out. This will be your starting position. Now with the slight bending of your elbows, breathe in and lower your arms out of both sides and a wide arc until you feel stretch in your chest. Then return your arms back to the starting position as you squeeze your chest muscles and breathe out. Focus on using the same movement arc when both lowering and raising the weights. Pause for a moment at the top and try to position before repeating.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Shoulder Press - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [tzZMsrzG_zE].txt ===

We're holding a dumbbell in each hand, sit on a military bench press or a utility bench that has a back support. Place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs. Now raise the dumbbells to shoulder height and one at a time using your thighs to help propel them up into the position. Make sure to rotate your wrists so the palms of your hands are facing forward. This is your starting position. Now exhale and push the dumbbells upward until they touch at the top. Then after a brief pause at the top contractive position, slowly lower the weight back down to the starting position while inhaling.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Shrug - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [8lP_eJvClSA].txt ===

Stand direct with the dumbbell in each hand and the palms of your hands facing your torso. Your arms should be extended to the sides. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise the dumbbells as high as possible by elevating the shoulders. Your arms should remain extended at all times and you'll need to refrain from using your biceps to help lift the dumbbells. Only your shoulders should move up and down. Pull the top contracted position, then inhale and slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Side Bend - Core ⧸ Abs - Bodybuilding.com [UUQHeBRE_Wo].txt ===

Stand up straight holding a dumbbell in your hand with the palm of your hand facing your torso. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and bend at your waist to the side as far as possible. Be sure to keep your back straight in your head up. Hold for a second at the bottom contracted position, then exhale and slowly return to the starting position. Now change hands and repeat on the opposite side.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Squat - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [r9gqv3WF90I].txt ===

Stand up straight while holding a dumbbell in each hand. The palms of your hand should face your legs. Position your legs in a shoulder width medium stance with your toes pointed slightly out. Be sure to keep your head up at all times as well as your back straight. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly begin to lower your torso by sitting back with your hips and bending at the knees. Continue down until your thighs are parallel to the floor. Once you've reached the bottom contracted position, exhale and raise your torso back to the starting position. Push the floor with the heels of your feet as you extend your hips and knees.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Step Ups - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [7AtIjR-QqVA].txt ===

Stand straight up, grasp me at dumbbell and each hand at your sides. Stand behind an elevated platform. This will be your starting position. Now place your right foot on the elevated platform. Exhale and step on the platform by extending your hip and knee of your right leg. Use mainly your heel to lift the rest of your body up to the platform, then place your left leg on the platform as well. Then inhale and step down with your left leg by flexing the hip and knee of your right leg. Turn to the starting position by placing your right foot on the floor next to your left foot.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Triceps Extension - Tricep Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [ntBjdnckWgo].txt ===

Your feet should be about shoulder width apart from each other. Use both hands to grab the dumbbell and lift it over your head until both arms are fully extended. The resistance should be resting on the palms of your hands with your thumbs wrapped around it. The palms of your hands should be facing up towards the ceiling. This will be your starting position. Keeping your upper arms close to your head with your elbows in and perpendicular to the floor. Lower the resistance in a semi-circular motion behind your head until your forearms touch your biceps. Breathe in as you perform this step. Now go back to the starting position by using your triceps to raise the dumbbell. Breathe out as you perform this step.

=== FILE: Dumbbell Workout Inspo IG： alexabergfit #upperbody #dumbbells #shoulderworkout #fitness #gym [VB8dE_wv450].txt ===

Nice bodies.하나 Up東西 Weekend

=== FILE: Dymatize Project Mass Promo： Jake Wilson's 14-Week Muscle-Building Trainer - Bodybuilding.com [NIBHT_DBopY].txt ===

You go to the gym. You hit your split. You lift, rest, repeat. You look better than you did last year. But what happens when your progress stops? Project mass. This is how you grow. 14-week program 10 videos. A complete muscle building system for Dr. Jacob Wilson. And demonize athlete Lawrence Ballinger. An advanced training, nutrition and supplement program designed to add maximum size. Classic lifts and cutting edge techniques. Blood flow restriction forced in centric loading, nutrient programming. Everything you need to make continued gains. Even after the program is over. Project mass. Never stop growing.

=== FILE: Dymatize Project Mass： Mesocycle 2 Update - Bodybuilding.com [wNfo8sBWV1M].txt ===

All right, welcome to Project Mass, Mesocycle 2. Essentially, we just got off the taper week, so you're fresh and rested, so you're getting ready to switch it up. We're about to start some new training variables. You got to try some giant sets. It's still be some blood flow restriction, some intercess stretching. So a lot of great things are about to happen, and high-perch if you're really about to start. Yeah, and the key thing, guys, is you're rested. And as you remember, during this week, one of face 2, you're going to start off really heavy and teach your muscles to actually recruit those large muscle fibers so that in week 2, you do traditional hypertrophy. And week 3, we put together a program that's going to essentially disterry you off. And again, you're going to feel like you can't make it, but hey, that's why we got another taper for you.

=== FILE: EP 28 ｜ Craig Bongelli ｜ Meet The Coach [CZPCn0QQgP0].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Daniel Bitz and welcome back to the Bbcom podcast. Today I'm joined by Master Coach Craig Bongelli, Craig, you are no stranger to the Bbcom ecosystem by now. But we want to connect you with our audience, help them get to know you a little bit more and we're going to do that with a series of questions today. You ready to jump in? I am absolutely ready. Tell us what brought you to being a coach and the purpose behind your journey at becoming a coach. So when I started being a coach, I was working, media labor jobs, bouncing, and I was training myself and learning to help myself. And at first I did it for the money. And then the first client transformation I had, I was like, whoa, like this changes who people are and from there. What else was I going to do? I got to having a feeling like that. I was all it. No going back after that. How would you describe your coaching style? Honest. Honest D is my number one policy as a person and as a coach. If somebody's blowing it, I think they deserve the respect of hearing it. If they're crushing it, I think they deserve that. If there are certain things they need to do to achieve their goals. I got not sure if they're quoting it. Here are the steps. Here's what it takes. How do you want people to feel when finishing a workout with you? Whether that's one on one, training with you in the app. What's an emotion that you hope they have once they click finish or once they walk out of the room? I'm not sure what the emotion is. So if you can put a word to this, I would greatly appreciate it. I'd like people to feel like they took a step forward. They didn't just do something. They moved closer to where they ultimately want to be. A accomplished. Yeah, that's a great word. Love that. That word. Why is strength at the core of your teaching principles? Because without strength, you have no meaningful physical qualities in anything or anything. Like strength is the mother of all other capacities. You know, I love that you put it that way because oftentimes, and we talk about this often here in our new slutters and different episodes and whatnot, you know, when somebody's very eager to get started on something, they usually go heads down on just that one single modality. Maybe they want to do a 5k marathon and Iron Man, all you lifting competition, whatever the case may be, and they are very, very gun-ho on just jumping into that single modality. But regardless of whatever fitness or health goal that you're chasing after, I think we can agree that strength needs to be the foundational building blocks to whatever goal that you set. Completely. And my most prevalent mentor, Louis Simmons, the founder of West Side Barbell, repeated endlessly, that a pyramid is only as tall as the width of its base. So the wider the base, the taller the peak, and you can point that at anything you want, like all of the things you mentioned. But strength is so prevalent to having that broad base that if you want to get anywhere high, you want to reach the heights of accomplishments, you need strength to do it. And I think that's applicable for just everyday life and longevity as well. I mean, forget other competitions that I just threw out there a second ago. I mean, if you want to live a longer life, if you want to be able to carry the groceries through your door, to lift up your grandkids over the case, maybe it all starts with building that foundation all straight. Absolutely agree. Craig, what's your favorite movement in why? My absolute favorite movement in the gym. Yep. It's probably a deadlift. I'm not naturally suited to deadlifts with my leverages, but they're so raw. Like there's, they're so fundamental and raw that they have to be my favorite, even though they're also somewhat my nanases. I would expect nothing else from you. What's your advice for someone who's just getting started? My advice for someone starting out is to absorb as much information as possible to read everything, watch everything, find all the experts. Absorors as much as you can, and then stop absorbing new information and go put it into practice. The bodybuilding.com app, check out all the coaches, see everything we have to say, look at all the different approaches we take. Then pick one. You know, I'm going to do this for four, six, eight weeks. Maybe four, six is a reasonable test and go like head down, do that, and perform some self-experimentation from which you can, you can make better decisions in the future, but what you like, don't like works, doesn't work. A lot of information, put it into practice, then reevaluate, put it into practice, repeat. Be a sponge and then execute. Completely. What's your advice to someone who's maybe hit a plateau in their fitness journey? So maybe this is somebody a bit more advanced, right? They're going after more of a niche goal within the gym or the competition setting and they just can't get past a certain threshold or certain PR and kind of can't level up their game for a lack of a better term. So what's your advice for that type of fitness enthusiasts or athlete? In that type of place, so if we extend that out from my advice for someone starting, for someone who's stuck on a plateau, there are, depending on what your goal is, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of people who have crushed the plateau that you can't figure out yet. Go learn from an expert. Find somebody who's walked the path, who's been up the mountain and go, hey, how do I get past the best and go find it from someone who's done it? Because once you're at a point where you have a great base where you've, you've moved past to begin our stages of training. Now you can actually go talk to an expert about your particular situation and get some advice that will be, that will save you years of time and hundreds of hours of frustration. I love that because I think as our fitness journey progresses and the more knowledge that we gain, the more experience we gain, our ego grows with that. And we often forget that we can always benefit from a coach and there's the same great coaches, the great coaches, right? You can really never outgrow having a coach. You can outgrow a coach, but I think there's always opportunity to go out and find somebody who's doing things better than you or maybe who can provide you with the insight in terms of doing a different length to reach your goal. Completely, there are coaches out there who have helped hundreds of people beat your specific plateau. Like, some of those coaches, depending on your goals, are going to be in the app, like you'll have access to us, but regardless, like you'll find somebody who's been like, oh yeah, not only have I done that, I've shown a hundred people how to do that and then get their advice. Absolutely. Craig, as you know, we're relaunching signature, which is our house brand here at BeBeCom, very exciting. We're going to have way protein, creatine, EAA's, hydration. Everything you can imagine in this line, tell us what your current favorite signature product is and why it's a part of your daily stack. This is going to be a morning answer. It's the magnesium. I find I find a high quality magnesium supplement. I recover faster. I sleep better, which also assists in the recovery. Everything about how I feel and how I function works better when I'm using a high quality magnesium. And that's not a cool answer. I'd love to be like, pre-work out this, protein this, BCA's that I don't have it. The magnesium for me, like that is the one where if I had to forgo something that would be last on my list. Don't sleep on magnesium. Magnesium plays a significant role in all the points that you just discussed, it helps to sleep as well. It's key and hydration. So magnesium, I mean. It's massive. It's not a cool answer. That's all right, Craig. You're a cool guy. How do you feel your day? Tell us about your meal prep, tell us about your day-to-day nutrition and what that looks like on a weekly basis for yourself. So right now, I've been experimenting with essentially an animal-based diet with fruit. So milk, eggs, cheese, and obnoxious amount of beef and fruit. I'd have been feeling pretty good. But I'm at a place now where I'm experimenting with my diet for personal interest. I'm not following a really intensive plan the way I have in the past when I was targeting a really specific goal. So I'm doing a lot of self-experimentation, which I wouldn't recommend to somebody who hasn't spent a lot of time doing things more regimented so they can figure out, is this better, is this worse and have a better understanding of their body to know how they are actually responding to something. But that's what I'm doing, presently. That's your recommendation for somebody who's just getting started, right? So the example that you just gave, one could argue that there's some aggressive elimination that goes into that. But somebody who's maybe just trying to shed a couple pounds and gain a few pounds of muscle, what's your advice for them? Okay, my advice for them. Figure out what you're doing right now, honestly. Not the whole, okay, I'm going to keep a food journal, so I'm not eating any more donuts. Like actually look at where you are. And the mistake people make is trying to have a better peak. So they, they're like man, last Monday, I ate 90% perfect. This Monday, I'm eating 100% perfect. Or I only screwed up my diet on Wednesday. Instead of doing that, instead of looking at raising the peak, if you look at raising the floor. So never doing worse or as bad as you did the week previous. So you ate 19 donuts last week. No offense to anyone who likes donuts. I don't know what that's. That's my target today, but I'm going after donuts. You had 19 donuts last week, but on Monday you only had one. So instead of thinking, okay, Monday I'm having zero. Go this week, I'm going to eat less than 19. And if you can continually eliminate your worst habits or making them less bad, you improve significantly faster mathematically. And we can break that down later in a video later. I show you the numbers because it's magic. But it's also easier. If I want to improve my average in high school, on a high school student. And I've got a 90 in English, but I've got a 40 in math. I can get a 10% improvement in English going from 90 to 100. But 90 to 100 is a lot of work. I can get a 10% improvement in math going from 40% to 50. I get that same 10% improvement. It's a lot easier to do. The worst something is the easier it is to improve it. There's a lot more low hanging fruit. That's what people should be focused on. You don't need a perfect diet. You need one that isn't as bad as someone you have right now. And then once you get used to that, a little bit less bad again. And if you creep the floor up, the results are mathematically improved and so much easier. Striving for that gradual evolution over time. Completely. Feel like you just used to Homer Simpson as your client reference with the donuts. That's the day. Last one here before we get into our rapid fire Q&A. Greg, what do you do for recovery? If I'm being intelligent, I do a ton of sled pulling. I did a little video that'll be in the app explaining the benefits of sled pulling and it is dynamite. I'm a huge fan of that. But to be honest, outside of that, if I have time to go walk the dog with my wife, if I'm doing stuff with my daughters, I use a lot of real life stuff to do that. I have a hard time switching between like 10 to 10. It's hard for me to find like a 3 or 4, so I typically need other people involved or sled pulling. We'll call that functional recovery for lack of a better term. But why the sled tells us why the sled helps with recovery? Okay, so the sled apart from being a very natural movement you're walking. There is no lowering portion or eccentric portion to doing something like a sled. Whereas if I was doing a bicep curl, I curl up, I lower down. It's the lowering that beats you up and takes more out of you than the raising. Away. So the idea that if you can do something light with no lowering portion or no eccentric portion and do something for a fairly long duration that pumps blood through your entire body, it can be really beneficial in terms of recovery and restoration. And that's definitely what I found. Awesome, we'll stay tuned for that video on the BB comm app. All right, you ready to get into our rapid fire Q&A? I'm as ready as I'm going to be. All right, here we go. Number one, upper body or lower body. Upper body for looks lower body for function. Number two, push your pull. Pull. Deadlift or squat. Deadlift. Biceps or triceps. Biceps or fun triceps for function. Morning or night workout. Morning for fitness, night for strength. Favorite book. An open society and its enemies by carl popper. Favorite food. Stake. Favorite music. That really depends what I'm doing. Work out music. Nipsy hustler Kevin Gates right now. One word to describe you, Craig. Hopeful. And one word to describe your workouts. Hopeless. No. Cut. We'll just cut it right there. One word to describe the workouts. Legget. Like the workouts are legit. I assume all the other coaches feel the same way. But everything I put in the app is what I would be recommending. If my closest friend in the world is like, how do I achieve this goal? How do I do this? That's what I'm putting in there. Craig, thanks for stopping by for a quick one with us. We're so excited to work out with you in 2025. I can't wait. Stay tuned as we gear up to launch the Bodybuilding.com app where you can work out with all of our coaches in 2025.

=== FILE: EP. 30 ｜ Craig Bongelli ｜ Building Muscle Mass and Finding Your One Rep Max [Jf7bBApGjW4].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners, my name is Daniel Bits and welcome back to the BB Compa podcast. Today I'm joined by Craig Bongelli. No stranger to BB Comwe recently welcomed Craig into the roster of our master coaches who will be guiding you through workouts on our newest fitness app. We've also starred in our original Docu series, The West Side Method, where he travels back to West Side Barbell to put their training methods to the test. You can watch all the episodes on Bodybuilding.com's YouTube. Craig is a former professional strongman and pride himself on being a master of strength. Today we're going to talk through finding your one-rette max, how to train for mass versus how to train for power, and why strength above all is the key you need to unlock the life you're looking for. Craig, welcome back to the pod. It is a pleasure to be back. Thank you. Excited in the jump in with you today. Starting with topic one building foundational strength, you and I talk about this a lot off camera. You know, when people start their journey, they struggle to understand the ratios split between strength and cardio. Now we know the muscle is a heart and it needs to be worked appropriately, but a more so talking about the person who tries to go from sitting on the couch to signing up for their first competition or race as it means to get started. So first Craig, tell us why a slow build of foundational strength work is a great place for most people to start when they're looking to begin their journey. So that is a great question. And I admire all of the excitement people have when they have this new goal, they have the moment of inspiration and like, okay, here I go. I would say though that the best way to understand that is if I decided, I wake up today and I'm like, I'm going to bake a cake. I'm so excited. I'm baking a cake and I do everything I make the cake, I go to put it in the oven. I'm like pardon me an hour. It's going to take an hour to get this cake. I'm doing this in 20 minutes. I'm going to five extra three. Sorry, I'm going to three acts. The temperature and I'm going to cook it for 20 minutes. I'm going to go really hard on that because I'm really excited about getting this cake that I want and I'm going to end up having to do it again because my cake is going to be burnt or terrible or whatever happens to a cake if you cook it at three acts of temperature. Your physical results are very, very similar. If somebody wants a good place to put the excitement and the energy they have about their goals into achieving them, then they should put it into being consistent. They should put it into checking every box and checking every box with full intent with whatever those pieces are towards their goals. But if you just try to do it faster, you're going to end up having to remake your cake. Your cake being when you blow your hamstring off or your back or blow your knees out or whatever. By cake, we're not in fact referencing glutes in the sense. Good. No, that's perfect. I should have got a glute in your effort. I've got people who use glutes and cake interchangeably. So you're going to keep up with the times. Yeah, you're going to bust your cake. One of your cakes is going to get messed up and you're going to be here to be back on the couch waiting to heal. So the excitement is great and people should use that to inspire them to check all of the daily boxes to achieve their goals, not to try to get their faster. I remember when I was fighting, I'd have coaches all the time were like, listen, smooth as fast or slow as smooth and smooth as fast. If you go out there and try to be really fast, it's not going to go well. And that works in almost any realm of achievement. You know, slow and steady really does win the race when it comes to building strength. I think a lot of people don't even know where to start, right? I mean, your first time is going to the gym. They're picking up the dumbbells. They're doing a couple of bicep curls. They're doing the elliptical. They're kind of just all over the place. So when it comes to Craig, just like the most beginner strength split or the beginner program, what would you tell someone? Now listen, this comes with a lot of disclaimers because our answer here is always it depends right. But you know, what in speaking in general terms, you know, what's a good place to start? How do we want to think about it? So depending on the first thing people should start with is a routine they can do. If I'm going to, and I likely will say that four days a week in the gym is a really great starting point for most goals, strength being one of them. But if you can only do two, don't pick a four day program and get two or three days the first week, two or three days the second and feel like a failure. So figure out what you can actually do. But I would say the options for strength. If I had to give two, one would be a full body workout three days a week and the second would be an upper lower upper lower split. So you work your upper body twice a week and your lower body twice a week. If I were to take any contingencies off this, people can do whatever I say. It'd be upper lower upper lower every week, four days a week. Simple movements with the idea in the beginning, not even being that you want to improve your results at each workout as much as you want to practice what you're doing. Like before, before you worry too much, am I stronger? Is my performance better? Am I moving towards this number? Get good at what you're actually doing. Like before I worry about how many words per minute I can type. I'm going to figure out what finger is supposed to touch which keys instead of just trying to check and pick faster. That makes sense. It does. And you know, I mean, it goes back to the fundamental movement patterns, right? And just really understanding, okay, what is the hinge that I'm going to really focus on right now? What is the knee dominant movement, the push vertical push, vertical pull horizontal push, horizontal pull, and then what am I doing to strengthen my core as well? And now we can argue all of those in a way. Do work your core if you're lifting heavy enough to stabilize, right? But finding the consistent program. I think a lot of newbies and a lot of beginners in the gym, they think every workout has to be different every week. What you'll often find if you work with a really great trainer, and you work with them every Monday and Wednesday, the Monday workouts are going to be the same over the four to six period, and the Wednesday workouts are going to be the same, and we're following progressive overload, and we're getting stronger in each of those moves. Completely and credit to the late night infomercials that popularize confusing your muscles, not to a fringe on there. Trade marks that they still have them with that term. Like, good for them in terms of marketing, but bad for people in the sense that we think that's how weightlifting needs to work, especially for beginners. If somebody's going back to the idea of somebody being a fighter, if you decided, I think I'm going to be a competitive fighter, and you went to a boxing coach, and you taught you had a throw a jab, day number one. It was like, okay, jab's done, let's go do something else. I assume people would recognize pretty quickly, like, oh, if I stay with this coach, I'm going to get beat up. Like, I'm not good at this yet. Like, I can't go pressure test my jab. I've thrown it for half an hour one time. Like, you're going to do it a lot. Like a lot a lot until you're good at it. And then some variation starts to make sense. Weightlifting is exactly the same. For somebody just starting out, you need to practice the movements, and ideally, especially when you're in a place where you're neurologically fresh, if you can program them internally, correctly the first time, it'll save you years of heartache if you get to intermediate and realize, oh, I'm actually not squatting very well at all. So if I want to move to advanced, I have to go back to the beginning, and internally rewire how I do this movement. That's a bad deal. So trying to start really hard and really fast can handicap your ultimate potential, which nobody wants. It makes a lot of sense. You're essentially setting yourself up for, like you said, a lot of disappointment, and then potentially injury. Right? How many squats do you have to do in order to start, you know, making your hips not feel that great. You know, if you're not leveraging your glutes in the right way or if you don't understand the basic fundamental of how to activate your glutes, you're going to have some serious problems here in a year or two years, five years down the road, but doing that every single week and continuously increasing the weight on that movement. Completely, completely. And I get that that's often driven by excitement, but it's foolish. I get, and all of us have been there, but getting started on the right foot and programming things right the first time is invaluable. I think it's inherently more important as a beginner, find a coach, invest in a coach, invest in tools to guide you. Craig's going to have a really fantastic foundation and fundamental series on the app. He's going to teach you proper form for the big three lifts, the deadlift, the squat, the bench. So, you know, take a look at those videos, study it. Be a student of the game before you jump into these things. It's going to pay off in the long run. Massive that you'll hand it up yourself otherwise. agree. So, let's, let's move away from the beginner's mindset for a second. Now, we're going to go into talking about finding your one-rette max, but the disclaimer before we dive into this conversation to your point Craig, you know, maybe when we get started it's nice to know kind of what your baseline testing is, right? First of all, step one is my form solid. Great. Form checks out, done. Now, let's understand what your deadlift is, what your squat is, what your bench is, and let's just kind of gauge where you are. So, you know, gym rats, of course, our precious gym rats, they love to go over one-rette max. You and I are probably both guilty of this, when we're feeling good. We sometimes we just want to send it for that particular. So, especially we're coming off of Thanksgiving, right? That's always the best time to do. You know, you've eaten potatoes and cornbread for a couple of days. You're ready to get after it. But Craig talked us about how often we should really be analyzing our PRs and why sticking to your program will garnered to the stronger results. I want to kick this conversation off by defining what is a one-rette max, and what's the benefit of testing it? Great. Question. So, one-rette max is exactly what it sounds like. It is the most amount of weight or the maximum weight you can perform for a single repetition in a movement. So, if you can bench 200 pounds twice, it might be your two-rette max, but it is not your ultimate one-rette max. Now, the caveat on that outside of a professional strongman contest or a power lifting contest, I would cap people's one-rette max at either the most amount of weight they can handle or the most amount of weight they can handle without their form breaking down. So, if you start bench pressing and your form is getting kind of messed up, your shoulders are coming forward, like you're barely squeezing it out and you're like, I think I could do five more pounds as a coach, I would not be permitting that. So, whatever you can you can hit for a single rep with good form. So, that's never going to be picture perfect at a one-rette that would be what that is. Now, in terms of the importance of it, as with everything, the importance of something is going to be relative to what the goal is or what the driving purpose is. But for everyone having an understanding of M, I get stronger or not matters. It doesn't matter of your grandma or grandpa who's saying, like, man, five years from now, I'm going to be able to stand up off the couch, getting stronger will hope and sure that happens. It doesn't matter if you're you're looking for performance, it doesn't matter if you're competitive athlete, if you just like being strong, having a metric till M, I'm moving in the right direction, M, I get stronger. Your one-rette max is the ultimate measure of that. That's what I'm telling you. So, how do we go about testing it and does it differ by the type of left-over testing? So, it doesn't differ based on the left, but in terms of testing it, essentially what you're going to do is whatever you would do to warm up generally. So, you're going to get yourself to the point that you feel good, whether you do a hip warm-up for squats or you're warming up your shoulders, elbows for bench press, whatever happens to be. From there, my advice always is to conserve the number of reps you do. So, let's say, I'm going to work up to a one-rette max on squat. I get squat 135. I don't know 100 times. I'm going to squat it for five reps, maybe. And then maybe I go to 185 and I squat that for three. And then I'm probably doing doubles or singles. So, sets of two sets of one all the way up. I'm trying to conserve as much energy as possible. Well, I'm climatizing myself to more and more weight because you won't be neurologically or physically ready for a one-rette max when you're cold. Or let's say I've warmed up and I've squatted 225 and I think I'm going to squat 500. Jumping straight to 500, I will not physically be ready for. Physically, neurologically, mentally, emotionally. Like, I won't be there. So, very progressive weight jumps that get smaller as you get closer to where you're going and maximizing how much energy you keep in the tank is key to building up and actually testing it. You mentioned concerning energy. I think this is a huge one. This is a mistake that I often see. Sometimes it's at the end of their day. Sometimes they do a very, very elaborate workout. Sometimes they do some cardio just to get a sweat in and now they're doing that progression that you just mentioned working up to it. By then, I mean, they're shot. You're done. Right? So, I mean, let's take it as far out as the couple of days leading up to this. Right? So, say, you're really dialed in. You're dedicated to finding this one-wrap max. You've been working hard. Let's say over the last eight weeks and it's time to retest again whether you're doing it on your owner with your coach. What are the days leading up to a one-wrap max or a testing day look like? And what should that day, you know, leading up to the time of the test even look like? So, leading up to it, five, four to seven days out. I would not be training that lift. Hard at all. And if it was a deadlift, I'd keep it at least a week out, a squat, maybe about a week. A bench press you could probably get away with. A moderate amount of benching four or five days out. And then you're just going to let yourself recover. So, there's this idea in training that you stress your body, your capacity diminishes as you stress your body. So, the weakest you should be on a bench press is at the very end of your bench press workout. From there, your body starts to recover. And essentially, if you picture like a dip and a raise, it'll come back up beyond where you started at before the stress. And that's called super compensation. So, you don't just recover, you recover plus a little bit. So, in the time before you're trying to give yourself that downtime to make sure that you get to the height of the peak of recovery you can get to. And ideally, that's where you're testing. In terms of the day of my advice, if you're at the point where you're seriously testing one Ritmax and planning it into your program, you should be self aware of what makes you feel good. So, if I was going to test my one Ritmax squat, I wouldn't do a three hour hike with my wife in the dog that morning. I want to try to lift heavy heavy, like to feel a little bloated with food. When I go do that. So, if I was going to do a max out squat, I'd probably get all you can eat sushi like two hours before and come in like, oh, feeling like a big balloon. Because that is something I like. Some people when they're lifting heavy prefer to be a little bit hungry or just, like, evenly satiated. But you're going to do the thing that would make you feel good. And for a lot of people, I love gun to the head analogies for almost everything. If there was a gun to your head, somebody said, right now, based on everything you know about yourself, what gets you as prepared is possible to lift. If you get the answer wrong, I'm going to blow your brains out. Whatever pops into your head, do that. Like whatever you'd say right there, test that. And then as you continue moving forward with the coach, with mentors, with questions you, you get answered in something like the bodybuilding.com app or even, well, I don't know, watching a YouTube video with one of your favorite experts. They might say things really, that sounds neat. Maybe I'll try that. And you could try it before regular work. I'm going to be like, oh, that wasn't it. That was a Craig City likes being really bloated. I just grew up in my squat workout. That sucked. Test those things in regular workouts. But the things that you've noticed made you feel the best. Bring those to that day. Let's set some realistic expectations in terms of progressively improving your PRs. Now, I think people severely underestimate what a 10 pound jump or a 15 pound jump or a 20 pound jump. I think there are a lot of people out there who think, well, I just did this program for eight weeks consistently. I'm going to add 30 pounds to my squat, right? So what as a coach, Craig, what type of expectations do you set with your clients? And of course, that can differ. But what kind of mindset do you get them in in terms of how big those jumps are in between programs? So there are two things I do with that. One is I like to talk in terms of percentages. If you bench, I actually know we'll do this backwards. If I bench a hundred pounds, but you bench 400 pounds, a 10 pound jump for me is 10 percent and for you it's what? 2.5. Somebody check that math. You know, let me know in the comments. But it's a significantly higher percentage for me. That's why at gyms you'll get dumbbells that go 5 pounds, 7 and a half, 10, 12 and a half, 15, 17 and a half, 20. But you won't see a dumbbell that goes 80 pounds, 82.5 pounds, 85 pounds because the percentage jump is so much smaller. So looking at your strength relative, relative to that improvement with the percentage, we'll give you a gauge on it. Like, oh man, that was only 10 pounds. 10 pounds is a lot. If you woke up 10 percent taller, or you woke up with 10 percent more net worth, or you drove 10 percent faster everywhere. Your weighed 10 percent lighter. Yeah, it's a massive change. Like, that's really big. 10 pounds doesn't sound like a lot. But 10 percent of your bench press or your swat or your dead, that sounds like a ton. The other thing I do when it comes to setting expectations is I like to start and it's with me a long time to learn this. I've done a lot of things wrong. Like it's a person and it's a coach. So I'm going to... That leads to growth in any realm. Thankfully, I'll tell you, hey, what do you want? Three months from now, what would make you happy? And they'll say, sometimes they'll say things are completely insane. But they'll say, I will always sit there stone-faced. I'm a cool. To do that, we're going to have to do this and this and this and this and this and this and this and we can't do this and this and this and this and this. Can you do that every day for three months and not miss? And if the answer is yes, we give it a go. Usually they're like, whoa, that's kind of, that's a lot. I'm like, yes. But you want world-class results that you've seen on the internet with people who are either enhanced or people who do this full time. Like this is all they do. Like you're a dad with three kids and a job and you play pickleball with your wife every Saturday. I understand you want to add 20 pounds of lean mass to your frame in the next three months. But let's say it's possible. This would be our best chance to get there. Do you want to do all of this? And then negotiation then comes down to not what the goal is. It's very hard to get people to change that. Meal, are you willing to do all of this and not miss for that length of time? And if they're not, like cool, then let's read just our expectations based on what we're willing to pay. If I walk into, is there a Louis Vuitton store? Here there must be near you. And of course. I walk into Louis Vuitton. I want to Louis Vuitton back. They go, cool, here's the price. I go, I don't know if I want. I don't know if I want to Louis Vuitton back anymore. Like I don't know if this is a good idea. That I find much better than I want to Louis Vuitton back. No, you don't. No, I do. You don't know you don't. Way better and you can do this with yourself. Anybody watching this can do this with themselves. But cool, what would it take to get the thing I want? Is can I do that? And am I willing to do that? Are you don't have to be? But then scale down the expectation to the effort you're willing to pay? Love it. Craig, before we move on to the last and final topic, I just want the record to show that we have a document that Daniel Bits Bend presses for in your pounds. So before we move on, rounding out our conversation on finding the one-ret max. You know, water, let's condense everything that we just spoke about into three tips, you know, for somebody who's maybe going for the first one-ret max. You know, what are your three tips for them? Monitor your form as you go. Take your phone. If you don't have somebody you trust, it can watch you. Set your phone up, watch each set back. And you're going to do that. One to make sure your form's not breaking down. And two, sometimes you'll be like, man, that was really hard. And you'll see the video on the bar moves away faster than you think you like. Okay, if I was watching somebody do that, I'd probably tell them they could make a 20 pound jump. So film every set and watch it back, especially for form. Number two, small numbers of reps. You can do as many weight jumps as you want, but take it slow that way. Number three. E-Lots of sushi. Yeah, all you need sushi is a- that's like, that's a pretty good one. That's, I've never gone wrong with that. I've gotten right to the border of regretting it, but I've never regretted it. All you need sushi's tip number three. That's the bonus tip. I love it. Rounding out today, Craig. We're going to move into the topic of training for mass versus training for power. So there's a difference in training styles when we're training to put on muscle, versus training for power or say performance. So I want to, I want to break open a couple of things, reps, schemes, programming styles, splits, all of the fun stuff. So first of all, break down what is the biggest difference between training for muscle versus training for power or performance? So when we're talking about power and performance, there's a pretty broad spectrum, even within power and how people use it or performance. So my, the biggest difference. Training to build muscle, training to grow muscle to body build. Yeah, aesthetics. We're focusing on aesthetics. We want to get the, we want to get, you know, jacked. Yeah, which is awesome. Like, if you're not jacked, if you haven't been jacked, you should try it. It's great. But the biggest difference between training for aesthetics and training for a power or performance model, regardless of the specifics within it. Training for aesthetics is about workload. And there's a million different ways to skin that cat, but it's about workload. Training for power and performance is about velocity. It's about the speed, the bar or the thing you're, you're lifting, is moving. And the velocity you train in is how you zero in on the particular outcome you want. But it becomes one is about total work. One is about speed of the movements. So let's get into the granular details of the difference between those two as well. Give me the examples of the, of the reps schemes in terms of how we're training for hypertrophy, right, versus power. So if we're talking power, we're talking like explosive power output. Let's say for an athlete. If I was looking at aesthetics, I probably give people two options. The first being more suited to a beginner. And the second being a little more advanced. But I'll give you both. And then compare it power. For a beginner, you could do the standard. I'm doing five sets of 10 on my leg press or five set the 10 on squat. I'm looking for a large amount of total work. With somebody more advanced, it might be I'm doing two heavy sets of squats. And then I'm doing a back off set of squats where I cut the weight 25-30 percent and I go to failure. So you're again looking for total work and stress on the particular muscles. If we were to contrast that to something for power, if we were to take, so Westside Barbel has something called the dynamic method, which is about building explosive power. And if you were to squat with the dynamic method, dynamic method, excuse me, you'd be doing 10 to 12 sets of squat with 60 to 80 percent of your one-ret max. But you'd be doing sets of two with very low rest and the focus would be on how fast you're moving the bar on that movement. So one is about practicing a physical quality. That's power. I'm practicing being explosive. I'm practicing being powerful. The other is a total work and steadily increasing that over time. To increase my performance, I don't necessarily have to increase my total work over time if I'm talking explosive output, but I need to increase the quality of that work. I need to get better at being explosive. So I practice being explosive. To build muscle, I need to slowly increase my amount of work over time so that continued stress helps me add the muscle I'm looking for. And with Stumi and you mentioned rest time in here as well and correct me if I'm wrong here, but when we're looking at more performance or power athletes, I'm thinking, let's put into athlete terms like a baseball player or soccer player. These are people who need to have one step explosiveness. So the work that they're doing in the weight room, even things like, you know, I don't know, basketball and some of these things where it's very quick burst of energies that is spent. So I would assume you mentioned it's a lower rest. So we're doing the two reps at a lower rest, how much rest? Like 30 to 40 seconds. Sure. Because we want to train our energy system to be able to handle that load with minimal rest versus if we're training for aesthetics, one could argue, I mean, you have more time. We're almost getting to full recovery. I would absolutely argue that. I would directly argue that actually. I think that's 100% right. Where does, you know, where does a cardiovascular role come into play when we're training these two different goals, you know, more of the hypertrophy? I mean, it can be argued that it is a less of a heart strain for that type of training versus your power and performance. Completely. So if I was training strictly for aesthetics and I was also concerned about general heart health, I'd be doing really low intensity cardio, for anywhere between three and five days a week. Now let's say it was 20 or 30 minutes. I'd be doing that for heart health. I'd be doing it for recovery. Depending on when you're eating and what you're eating, it can aid in digestion, but there are a huge amount of benefits to just regular cardio, even for aesthetic aesthetic goals. If you're like, I don't care if I die in 10 years. I just want to be jacked. Low intensity steady state cardio will help you get more jack too and maybe prevent you from dying in 10 years. When it comes to athletic goals, it needs to be much more specific. What is expected of this athlete? A baseball player and a boxer. Both need explosiveness. They both need to be able to turn that on when they want it, but one of them needs a much bigger gas tank for that. Like a baseball player, what if they hit a home run or they hit a really good ball and have to run the basis. They're only doing that. They get a lot of rest afterwards. For the most part, it's swing the bat, hit the ball sprint a first or sprint from first to second or push off, you know, you're leg to get to backhand that grounder. Yeah, do you know what baseball? I was a demon self-alper. Whoa, hey, I don't know anything about baseball. I want to go to my daughter's team. Well, I needed a parent volunteer. I bought two baseball books on Amazon. I'd never hit a baseball. I don't know if I'd ever thrown what like I had no idea it was going. Which had off-line correct. Yeah, I picked up DIC example. So baseball players need that same explosiveness, but then get a lot of downtime. A boxer needs almost this continual flow of explosiveness with a ton of work over time. Like they're constantly working. Well, they're going to get knocked unconscious. So looking at those helps you manipulate a performance program specifically to the goal. So performance programs need to be much more particular as you get to higher and higher levels. Like when my daughter was playing baseball versus you playing D1, the level of specificity requires much more significant for you obviously. But as you move forward in performance, that specificity needs to be there. And everything in your program should be justified by that. Yeah, now I think we'd be remiss, you know, if we didn't really clarify majority of the people who are listening to this, probably just want to gain a couple pounds of muscle, lose a couple pounds of fat, live a little bit longer and just be all around healthier. Right. I think the split, the ratio split between folks like that and folks who are truly dedicated to a sports specific program at this time is rather small. But I will also make the argument that there are a lot of folks out there, a lot of adults out there who maybe have hobbies that they're very passionate about. And they do want to excel at those. Whether that's the baseball or softball league down in central park or some wreck basketball leagues, right? And they want to increase that performance. I think there's a lot of misinformation and just a lack of education out there. And terms of training for those sports specific movements in the gym. I think what you often see, I'm going to throw out a completely random example. Let's say it's a 45 year old guy here near city and he plays in a wreck basketball league. But he's training for hypertrophy in the gym where he actually, when he's mangled, is he wants to feel a little more explosive, a little more able to play in that league. So I think there's a time in a place for everything. You just have to be really clear in terms of what your goal is and be intentional when you're going about your programming. And that goes back to working with a coach. Completely agree. For those people, if I may, I'm going to make a general suggestion. I'm going to make a couple of general suggestions. There'll be two or three. One is like you said, figure out what the thing is that you actually want or what all the things are. Because there's a variety of areas in training where you can tilt two birds with one stone. So let's say you're saying, hey, I want to be fairly jack, but I want to be able to play in my wreck basketball league. I want to be healthy and functional over the long term. Cool. So we've got some ideas here. You could do a heavy upper and lower day per week and a lighter upper and lower day per week where one you focus on getting strong, which will serve everything. And the other one you focus on getting more fast, more explosive, more powerful, which will serve your sport goals. And then with all the movements you're doing under those. So your main movements can be heavier like or heavier fast, let's say. And your movements after that, a broad variance in movement will help keep you injury free. Because the, when you play D1 softball versus let's say I go play softball in central part, the variance in your movements versus mine when I catch in throwball, mine will be all over the map. I'm not precise with baseball, the way a D1 player would be. So the, the broader variance in my program I have, the more robust I'll be or the more, the more resistant to injury all be because I put myself in a variety of situations. But then we take all that extra work and we okay, we're going to build muscle because we want to look jack. But we also want to be fit to do all this stuff. Cool. Take your get jack training and make it take less time. Do more work in less time. You'll get the cardiovascular benefits. You'll get the aesthetic benefits. It'll help you in your sport. Like you can combine these. Instead of going, ah, do I want to be jacked or do I want to do a sports specific program? You can mix those into a really unique blend just by having a couple essential movements in your program and then really pushing the pace on the others. Yeah, I mean there's something just certainly be learned from training like an athlete. You know, I think oftentimes a lot of us that were high school players or college players maybe we find some sort of passion in the years after. And then you know, we know we know what the steady decline looks like there. But there's something to be said about continuing to train explosive movements to continuing to train speed. It really does equip you in a lot of different ways when you're stepping off that curb quickly on a rainy day and you can catch yourself. We'll guess what that probably just came from some of the cleanser. Some of the box shows some of the things that you're doing inside of the gym. I think too often we get really stuck into a box of linear movement. We're not doing rotational work. We're not doing agility work and athleticism work. And you know, I know Coach Ken has a lot of this upcoming and some of the workouts I'll be doing in the app, right? Just really staying fit for a life is so underrated. And I think, you know, we shouldn't box ourselves to your point, Greg. We shouldn't box ourselves into, well, I'm only training training for high-purchasing and only training for performance or whatever the goal may be. Yeah. And on a personal level, although I feel a lot of people will resonate with this. It's cool to be jacked. But if I'm jacked, so I'm like, hey, can you throw that to me? And I toss it and pop my pick. That's not cool. That's not cool at all. Like you don't want to look like you can do stuff and actually be like, listen, there's a lambo, like I painted a Lamborghini at a cardboard and I just put it on top of my 1993 Civic. You're like, wait, what? Nobody wants to be that guy or girl. So having a mix of those things in your program and less you're like, hey, my performance and bodybuilding or sports or whatever is my career. In which case, do what it takes to to make the most money you can't be successful in your career. If it's not that, I, by, perchopey training has permeated almost all aspects of gym life. To the point that we don't even realize it's our, it's our fundamental first language in the gym and it doesn't need to be Norse should it be if you want a broad spectrum of results and being jacked is awesome. But being jacked at the extent expensive, everything else is the lambo cardboard on top of the old Civic. Like, it's not not cool when you actually have to take it over a spin. Very well put. I love the analogy, Greg. Rounding out here with the next couple, you know, I want to be clear, training for muscle gains and the hypertrophy training is not a male focused goal, right? So oftentimes we think men and women should have totally different plans for the same goals. Can you debunk this a bit for us? Yes. Yes, I can. There are variety of people who have talked about the pink tax, which is like, hey, you take a razor, but you put it in a pink package, it's for women you charge 50% more. I think broadly speaking, people have done that with fitness. Like, hey, this is training science, this is how you get more muscle is how you get leaner of stronger faster, like, but here's our pink version where like women have to come over here and do this special thing and it probably costs war as a way they're getting people to follow them or whatever. Men and women inside, I can tell you having daughters. We are fundamentally so different. It's like insane. But physically, we're not that different. The things that are going to make you jump higher are going to make me jump higher and vice versa. The things that are going to help you build muscle are going to help me build muscle. Provided we're both at the same level of training. But it's it's nonsense that women need some hyper specific program that defies all of the laws of exercise science that matter using. If you'd like your biceps to be more jacked or you want more shoulders so you have more of a V-taper and hourglass, we can do the same things to get those. Like the fundamental differences in terms of the programming are massively overplayed to the point that it's exhausting. And that goes for all goals. It goes for hypertrophy. It goes for performance. It goes for endurance. I mean, you know, now we know that the studies behind female athletes is not nearly at the height of where men is and that goes across the board for a lot of the medical journeys that journals that we look at today. Just women were really not the focus groups that were included in a lot of stuff. Thankfully, we're seeing that start to shift now over the last decade or so. But there's there is no reason to say that women shouldn't be doing the same as I program that a man is doing to train for a specific goal in mind. Completely. And anybody pushing that as an idea. Either has a fundamental misunderstanding of how things work or they're lying to you because they'd like some of your money. Like those are the two options. They either don't understand or they do understand and they're doing something as a sales pitch. And I would argue it's not any different then hey, what am I going to do? My son wants to be a lawyer but so does my daughter. I've got a plan for my son. What should I tell my daughter to do? Probably the same thing. It's probably about the same thing. And women, I'm sorry for all the men listening. Women on average work way harder than men in the gym, way harder. Like the, I don't know if it's a lack of ego. I don't know if it's. I've never been able to figure out what it is. The average woman in the gym, I could who cares about it, is a killer. Like the average woman is probably in the top 15% of men for work ethic in my experience. And the ones who really embrace that and follow a serious program, similar to what a male counter part with the same rules might be following. They crush it. Do you see that in some of the, the past incurring clients that you trained with today? That women were harder? Yeah. Oh, Lord, yes. But, but I'm, but I'm, but I'm always in tells is male clients not to watch this episode. No, any of my male clients watching this like feel free to ask me. Ask me what category you're in. Like, hey, do most of your female clients work harder than me. And I will tell you honestly. And for some of them, it's good to be. Yeah. It's time for a time for a new year, wake up call for Craig's male clients here. Yeah, but truly, I think I think women in, you're going to get slightly political or philosophical. Women who who dedicate themselves or have a goal in something that is traditionally male dominated, always seem, I think they feel like they have something to prove to a degree. And I think that feeling is reasonable. Not that I'm saying they have to prove themselves. But I can see where that would come from. And it works really well. Like, they, they really have to have to push and try and fight for their spot. And I love it. Yeah. I mean, I think, I think to a certain degree, you know, there's a percentage of women who do walk around the chip on their shoulder. But they put that to work once they step into a gym. We see this a lot, right? It goes back to the old, um, gosh, I don't even know what brand it was. But it was anything you can do. I can do better, right? Well, in the 90s, right? So it's very much so that mindset. And I think the, the leaps and bounds that we've seen occur in women's, let's say women's sports specifically just in the last decade alone has been a monumental shift. And the data and science that is coming out now because, you know, I've talked to the, the head strength and conditioning coach over at UT, um, for the women's basketball team. And to hear some of the stuff that they're doing with their women's basketball team, the technology that they're wearing on a daily basis in their practices and the, and the data that's coming out of that. And then that's being shared in the general strength and conditioning world. It's having a moment. It's really exciting to see. And what's most exciting is the point that both you and I have made so far in the last couple of minutes. There, we have officially, I think, as an industry debunked the idea that women cannot train as intense as hard, um, and at the same level as their, as their male counterparts. Completely. And, and for women who are working hard, especially, and I, I would put men who are working really hard in this category as well. Get a chip, get a chip and put it on your shoulder. And then every day prove why it should be there. And that doesn't mean I think you should go be a jerk at the gym and I don't know, push somebody off the bench you want. But get an internal chip, um, as a personal example, my youngest daughter, three or four months ago started going to the, like, wanted to go to the gym with my wife. They started going. She started, like, eating healthier, like, with intent, like, I'm going to be as healthy and energetic as I can be. How old is she? 14 right now. Has completely transformed her body, like, way stronger. She looks amazing. She looks healthy. She looks happy. Like, it's been amazing to see. And if I could give her something, it'd be a little chip on her shoulder, where internally, she's going, hey, like, I've done something that most people can't do or won't do. And I'd like for you to have that. I'd like to have that. I'd like every single person watching this to get a chip and put it on their shoulder and just keep it inside so that when you, when you have that voice inside, that is like your lazy voice that wants you to get a donut or skip that workout or do something because you don't think anyone's going to know where anyone's going to see. And that little chip is like, nah, I'm better than that. I'm better than that. I love that. I'd like everybody to get one of those. I love it. We're going to round out this episode within the same topic of training mass versus training for power. So I want you to give us your biggest piece of advice for being successful in terms of training for mass and I want you to give us your biggest piece of advice for being successful in training for power performance-based schools. My biggest piece of advice training for mass is a lot of what's going to matter is outside the gym recovering like crazy and eating. Probably more than you think you need if you're trying to put on a significant amount of mass and all the right foods. But a lot of it's going to be outside the gym. You can't, you can't will yourself to grow muscle by training more or training more off or training longer or training harder. Once you're doing a good job in the gym, the rest of your job is to recover and let that work take effect. When it comes to performance or power training, imitate someone who is powerful and explosive when you're in the gym. If you imagine, I don't know, I'm not good with any sports, it's not just baseball. Take the most explosive guy you recognize in the NFL. How would this guy squat? What would it look like when he was doing bench press? Imitate him. That is the best thing you could possibly do. Doing that is at least as valuable as a better program. You could have a mediocre program. But if you go in there and you execute it like you're a genetic freak from the NFL or wherever, you'll get results. It will switch things on and we'll have you perform in a way that actually moves you towards that. So, explosive and power, fake it to you make it. Everything else, rest and recover till you make it. It flows. It works. I need a patent. I need a trademark that. Well, we'll get the bumper sticker made. That's what we did. Craig, thanks so much for stopping by. It was great to have you on the pot again. Absolutely my pleasure. Thank you. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: EPIC Reaction - $100k Winners Surprised with $50,000 Cash! [0BFPpBVTTP4].txt ===

What's up everybody? We are on a secret mission. This is the start of the journey. We're super pumped. A little bit nervous. We are here to surprise the 100K women! We are changing lives! Hey, just getting ready for tomorrow's big reveal. We are going to surprise Matt. Manning the 2014 bodybuilding.com transformation challenge winner. He is going to go to the gym like any other day. We are going to sneak up out of him and surprise him with a trophy. And a big old bag of cash. $50,000. We are going to be here at 9. She showed up at 7. We are nervous. But it is not going to be awesome. It is probably going to work out even better. We are going to be even more surprised. Here we go! That is him. He is a green hat. Let's try to stay together and come up from behind. You can come up from behind now. What you guys guys. You can also go. Excuse me Matt. Hey, Robin. Hey, how are you doing? I'm Keith from Bodybuilding.com. You got me kidding me. The other 2014 Bodybuilding.com. $100,000 transformation challenge winner. This is too sweet. This for you too. This will take it up and not to worry up. This is insane. Here is this one. We have a nice $50,000 check for you. What will we have? Then if you are going to go as well, I'm behalf of Bodybuilding.com and Damazaz Congratulations. Thank you so much. I have a damninties. I would like to present you with this trophy. Congratulations. I even saw you guys traveling around. Hey, you won't believe what's going on. I'm at the gym and Bodybuilding.com is here with Damazaz. They give me a bag of money. I mean, who does that? Oh, thank you so much for everything you did. I did it's told them like you got up this morning to do more progress photos. I have a pretty good idea. I love you. Oh my god, it was my wife was here. I stepped on the scale and I was 197. I was scared. I didn't want to hit 200. And then I just knew something had to change. About 14, 16 months ago, I passed out at home. So I'm like, I need to do something different. I saw the email for this and I'm like, yeah. And now's the time. You know, I bought these space really like, surprised me because like going in, I didn't know how much it would be helpful. Just a few days in, I'm like addicted to tracking workouts. Especially once I started Arnold Blueprint, able to track and see how his progress and stuff and it kind of gave me a goal to beat the last workout, shouldn't. I just wanted to lift a little bit more weight than the time before. Hi, my name's Matt Manny. My name's Robin Fulin and I'm the 2014. Bodybuilding.com $100,000. Transformation winner. Somebody want to pinch me? This is just insane.

=== FILE: ESPN ｜ 2010 Bodybuilding.com Commercial [cuScHDrGIlo].txt ===

Let bodybuilding.com help you reach your fitness goals. Get proper supplementation with the bodybuilding.com store. Check out the super site for thousands of updated articles and videos with the information on all the latest training techniques and nutrition advice. And get involved with the bodybuilding.com community will over half a million body space members helped to keep each other motivated to stay on track. That's bodybuilding.com where the information, motivation and supplementation you need to succeed are all in one place.

=== FILE: EZ-Bar Curl - Biceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [S_i3SEVgKWU].txt ===

Stand up straight while holding an easy curl bar at the wide outer handle. The palms of your hand should be facing forward and slightly tilted inward due to the shape of the bar. Keep your elbows close to your torso. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your upper arms stationary curl the weights up while contracting your biceps, focus on only moving your forearms. Continue to raise the weight until your biceps are fully contracted and the bar is at shoulder level. Hold the top contractive position for a moment and squeeze the biceps. Then inhale and slowly lower the bar back to the starting position before repeating.

=== FILE: Elite by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Advanced Testosterone [J80BEJfKNjU].txt ===



=== FILE: Elite by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Energy + BCAA [cDucT7-zq7k].txt ===

Are the 4th grade days ago?

=== FILE: Elite by Bodybuilding.com ｜ New Sports Performance Supplement Line [LSq9Uq80bdA].txt ===

Being elite isn't about to close you where the car you drive or the lifestyle you live. Being elite is about the mindset you possess. It's about your ability to get back up when you get knocked down. It's the undying passion for pushing limits and striving for the next level. It's about running towards your dreams when everyone else stop for air. Being elite isn't in your genes. It's in your heart. Get out there and prove it. Welcome to Elite by bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Elite by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Power + BCAA ｜ Boost Power & Reduce Fatigue [eQAqRAImgCw].txt ===

Definitely faster like a Stay tuned for new videos

=== FILE: Elite by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Thermo + BCAA [kfKjLAUsj5g].txt ===

réalité

=== FILE: Elite by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Ultimate Pre Stim-Free ｜ The Pre Workout Pump Without Caffeine [MYEj523OmSA].txt ===

You You

=== FILE: Elite by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Ultimate Pre-Workout [BvtRMj6kg0w].txt ===

Will this be good for us?

=== FILE: Erin Stern's Figure Olympia Prep [4xZW0Tw63J0].txt ===

Hi, I'm Erin Stern with Team Diamond Type. We're here in Dallas, Texas and have Octagon in the major doing a photo shoot and training film. I've got in the bodybuilding after I missed feeling the call of my standard in the high job by 3 centimeters. I wanted to be at an elite level and I figured I could do it just in the high job. So I entered a bigger competition in the one and the one in the next one and I got my profile. The Arnold's, it was my second time there. It's always a great experience. I train for every show to win, but realistically I wanted to be top five and I can check it, which is great for a pro-gloaner for something here to do. I'm happy that I know what improvement we can make in back to the ground. Protein is so important. I can't stress that enough. A lot of the girls will eat yogurt, maybe they'll do a salad, a handful of almonds. It's not going to cut it. You need protein to stay CCA, so you're not hungry all the time and you need protein before you work out after you work out to help maintain that lean mass. The Olympia is coming up in September. It will be my second one. Training a little bit heavier on legs and you've had some sides from the quads and work on the back a little bit. Those will be better that. So I'm going to do everything that I can possibly do to win and of course it's in the hands of the judges. I don't want to give them a reason to give me seconds.

=== FILE: Erin Stern's Training & Fitness Program [b-SFEeuS2ic].txt ===

Hi, this is Aaron Stern, two-time Miss Figure Olympia, Team Dima Ties athlete and realtor. My left-for-fitness stemmed from when I was younger. I think my dad wanted boys. So my sister and I were tomboyes. We used to race him and just run around and just climb trees and stuff. I got into track junior year of high school. My dad said, look, you're out here running next to the horse. He might as well go run at the track and do something productive. I had my horse dreamy and we used to do shows together, competitive, show jumping. And in practice I would take a halter and lead rope and I would run next to him and I would jump the jumps. So that's what got me into high jump actually. I went to University of Florida and I was a junior Olympic in there. After college actually I was still doing the high jump and I jumped five-nine in college but I ended up jumping five- eleven in 2008 and I missed the Olympic qualifying standard by three centimeters. It was kind of a set back when I missed that qualifying standard and I realized as a high jumper being five-eight and close to 140 pounds that genetically it wasn't really in the cards for me to jump six-eight. Like a lot of the other girls were going to. I've always been athletic and I can always lift it and in college I learned Olympic lifts and you know learned a lot about the body but not so much about aesthetic lifting. So after college I started doing the aesthetic lifts and you know I was looking at the magazines and one of my friends said, hey you should do a figure competition. You're in you know good shape you've got some muscle you might as well step on stage. Actually the Arnold Classic was my pro debut in 2009 and that was my fourth show ever. It happened very, very fast. I am motivated to be better than my previous best and I'm also motivated by the people that I meet along the way. It's just a big fitness family and to be able to inspire and motivate others. That keeps me going. Ultimately I want to be the Oprah of the Fitness World. Teaching people how to work out to know that when you have success in the gym, when you're strong, that that translates to confidence outside of the gym and success outside of the gym. It's a challenge you know it's you versus the weight. It's something tangible and by doing that you're for me anyway if I can conquer that then I feel like I can conquer anything. I like to stick to my trackers so I do a traditional warm up and then I'll do like sprint drills which people stare at me in the gym for doing. And then we do have platforms where I work out so I'll do hand cleans or hang snatch. You know some type of Olympic lift maybe five sets of five and then I'll go into my compound movements and then finish with isolation. I do circuit training and then I'll do supersets especially if I'm trying to drop some muscle going towards a show. I mix it up. Now it's important to not stay in a set routine because your body will get used to it and you'll plateau. I started to bought a training and I really like that and that's of course the total of four minutes and it's the type of interval training. So you go all up for 20 seconds rest for 10 all up for 20 seconds rest for 10 for total four minutes. I never do steady state cardio. I'm always doing sprints or some type of interval training. I count to bought as cardio. I don't think traditional cardio is very effective because or the low intensity cardio anyway because you only burn calories while you're on that treadmill and once you step off the it's done. Eight days a week. Now I'm there. Five to six days a week. You have to rest. Rest is when you recover. It's when the muscles grow and if you don't give your body time to do that then you're not going to advance in your program. You know maybe a good of the beach and relax or through the football around but it's not no working on it and do you off? I usually work out by myself it's just me and my iPod. Right now it's either a dubstep or judicash. I think that the main thing about lifting is to learn the fundamental lifts. You know there's six basic lifts. Learn how to squat. Learn how to deadlift. Learn the bench. And then from that point you can vary your grips very your stance and you can actually develop you know a few hundred exercises from those six basic lifts. I typically do 40, 40, 20 diet so I'm doing proteins, carbs, fats in that order. It's just what works for me and I do a lot of sprint so I need to keep my carbs up a little bit higher. I think we find what works for us. I know a lot of people do the lower carb and higher fat but to me I just can't think straight. I think it's important to try out diets for yourself. We try to look for a week, see how you feel. See how you perform in the gym and maybe try the 40, 40, 20 diet and see if that works. And then also think about cravings. If you're craving something salty and sweet and crunchy and sugary then maybe a higher carb diet is better whereas if you're craving a fatty food then you might want to look at maybe a lower carb diet. It's mostly paleo but not paleo in the sense of the paleo diet. I'm more of if it wasn't around 10,000 years ago I try not to eat it. It's important to me because whatever makes it easier on my body to digest and assimilate and I feel better. I cut out wheat and cut out dairy and I feel good. Proteins. I do a lot of bison, a lot of chicken, fish, eggs and carbs would be quinoa, black rice, red rice and spicy carbs. I love carbs and in fact it would be like avocados, black seed oil and like papitas and pumpkin seeds. I like to really kind of structure my caloric intake around my workouts. If I have a workout that day I'll eat a little bit more before and I'll make sure I get good carbs and protein after the workout. And I'm a fan of mixing it up. I do believe in a little bit of intermittent fasting but as I get closer to a show I do like to five to six small meals because I find it gets me to the leanness that I need to be on stage. I think he needs to keep things creative and I go to the farmer's market and I'm a fan of having a lot of different colors on the plate so a lot of seasonal vegetables trying new things and keeping it fresh and healthy but definitely mix up the way it cooks stuff because nobody wants to look at egg whites and I will open it over and over again. I don't really believe in sheet meals and I have a lot of friends that go out for pizza, blooming onion, ice cream, all in one sitting and that's a real fast way to set yourself back and you know pack on pounds. I do believe in treat meals something that's you know maybe not as clean like sushi or you know frozen yogurt something that still has some kind of nutritional value. It's definitely not a diet because saying diet to me it means deprivation so it's more of a lifestyle change and it's more of making small changes a little bit at a time you know if you're only eating one big meal a day and you're trying to switch to five to six small meals and go to the gym 60s a week it's not going to happen so you know maybe try three small meals and and don't really count calories go for the macronutrients make sure you have a protein a carb and a fat at each meal and set a big long-term goal don't be free to set huge goals but you have to set small ones so you can achieve that quite a goal. Well a supplement is just something that's going to help you recover better it's going to help you train I mean I think it's it's important to try the basics again it's just like lifting you don't want to start with a comprehensive detailed list of supplements that you may or may not need start with you know you're protein get a shake and see how you feel and go from there. I think I do a lot of full foods obviously but I think for performance it's important to to supplement I strongly believe in protein I think it's a building block of muscle so you need that it's really bad but I actually will take like a half a scoop at a time and I just dump it in my mouth because I've seen the creative recipes but I don't know they're just eat food and the protein to me is just helping me recover and it tastes good but I'm not going to make like you know one of those mug muffins in the microwave because it'll explode I tried so when I wake up I do take you know all of my vitamins my CLA I take fish oils and all of that stuff too and I do the protein after my workout obviously with a little bit of carbs and then I take my ZMA and my Gapah about an hour before bed. It's important to know why you take something you know you're not just going to walk into a store and pick things off the shelf you want to know what function it has why you're taking it and doing research and reading and knowledge is power so definitely definitely read up on it. That's it for me that's my training my nutrition and my supplementation and if you want to find me you can find me on body space at Trackvene and I'm on Twitter it's Aaron fast or look for me Aaron Stern on Facebook for more videos and content like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: FST-7 Chest & Biceps Workout ｜ Hany Rambod's Ultimate Guide to FST-7 [pZZzyBKH-GY].txt ===

They call me the pro creator. I've helped 13 Olympians. Last one transformed from impressive to legendary. FST7 is my masterpiece, Vashas Dretch training. Hold it. You can substantially change the shape and size of your muscles. Come on. It won't be easy. It will hurt. That's it. Come with me. Finish your set and stretch your limits. Come on. Now you're working. Let's go. Come on. His honny ram bud. And now I'm in your corner. I'm honny ram bud. I'm here with Jeremy Bondia, 2014 Men's Physical Input Champion. And we're here to train Chess and Biceps, FST7 style. Let's go. Forward, forward, squeeze it, squeeze it, squeeze it, squeeze it, squeeze it. FST7 stands for Fashas Dretch training. The seven is the amount of sets that you do at the end. The expansion of the Fasha is what's going to help trigger the growth. So that when we go in there and we work for that ultimate pump, you're going to end up getting really good round muscle bellies with maximum separation. This workout shall last us about 45 minutes to an hour. And what we're going to do is we're going to focus on the heavier exercises earlier in the workout. And then we're going to do our FST7 set towards the end. Jeremy's going to be going through all the exercises with the proper technique, all the form, all the intensity. What I'm going to bring is the coaching aspect of the workout. So follow the street this. So what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and warm up. These had issues with the shoulders in the past where he'd heard it last year. So what we're going to do this year is we're going to just take our time, warm up, and then go heavier as we see fit. All right. We're going to do two warm upsets. Just take your time. Minimum 12 reps. Good. But what we want to do is we want to warm up the chest. Make sure we get plenty of blood in there. And we also want to warm up the handslary muscle groups like your shoulders so that you don't have hurting your glotator cuff or anything else. Good. That right shoulder is a little tight. How tight? It's the other warm up set. So if you loosen up, you're going to use like three or four sets and make it nice and warm. Why don't you go ahead and grab a ten and just warm up that rotator a little bit too. So what we're doing is we're going to warm up just his rotator cuff to make sure that gets plenty of blood in there. The last thing we want to do is cause an injury. There you go. I'm going to jump 70s. All right. Yeah. As long as your shoulder feels good. Come on. Let's go. I feel it out. Take your time. Good. Good. Good. So what we're trying to do is we're trying to focus on that chest. So what we're doing is we're keeping the range of motion a little bit shorter right now because he's keeping the constant tension on that chest. So we don't want to go so far up the ends up getting me giving out and his triceps before he gets that on his chest. Good job. How'd that feel? Easy. Good. So what we're going to do right now is we're going to do two working sets. We're going to do eight to ten reps. I might throw in some partials depending on how he's feeling and depending on how the weight feels in regards to is it light. Is it heavy? Want to go to 90s? It's quite a lot of it. Come on. Now it's time to work. Oh. Good. Good job. We want one tenzer, one twenty. One twenty. Okay. So next step we're going to do is we're going to do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. Good job. We want one tenzer, one twenty. One twenty. Okay. So next step we're going to do is we're going to go up to one twenty. It's one hundred to we're easy. If he ends up really getting through the next set really easily then what we're going to do is we might even bump up up and do a third working set. As we move up in terms of the amount of weight we're using, we also increase the rest time. If you don't take enough rest what's going to end up happening is you're going to fatigue before you can go to failure. Come on. Check. Go. Go. My way. Go. Come on. Come on. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. All the way. Driving. Go. Drive. Drive. Drive. Drive together together. Slow. Slow. Yeah. Take it. Drive. That's it. Good set. So basically what's happening now is he's feeling out the weights. Hundreds. Easy. 120s. As he got through the groove he went more and more reps. He didn't stop at the eight or ten. He's trying to take that intensity to a whole other level. Now we're going to decide, you know, how do you feel? Do you feel like he wanted to go to one 30s and bring it down to 68 reps? Because if you're going to do that, this is the set to do it. He's okay. Let's do it. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Come on. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Easy. One more. One more. All you. Finish it. Two. There you go. Good set. Good set. Four. Buh. When I come in and have a strong 04 sets like that, hey, those 130s like that, six reps is pretty strong for me. Kind of gets me with a groove to rest the work out, so that's the easy stuff. So the lighters are doing more of the concentration stuff and really focusing on contraction. So we're going to bring it off into that and you should really really the bread and butter of our training. So we're going to move on to exercise too. Exercise too is incline dumbbell fly. Again, we're focusing on that upper chest because that seems to be the weakest point on almost every athlete. So what we want to do here is start off with about 40 pounds, do 10 to 12 reps, and then we'll work our way up. And we want to do warmups and then two working. So three sets all together. Good, good. Turn that pinky. Good. We want to get that maximum contraction. So he's going to turn his wrists as he comes up. There you go. You see those fibers just start to really fire. Good, good. Come on, keep going. Keep going. Good job. Good say. There you go. How that weight feel? It's light. Light? I want to make sure that he really is volumizing, putting in some of the BCA glidamine mix, and then sipping that through the rest of the workout from the middle on. 50s? 55. Come on, Jeremy. Let's go. Test. Control it. Control it. Good. Like you're hugging a giant barrel. There you go. Mmm. That's it. Turn those pinkies. Turn those pinkies on the way up. Good. Keep going. Come on. Two more. One more. Squeeze all the way up. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. Good job. Easy. Hope. Easy. Oh. Hands together, squeeze. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Oh. Good. Right. So what we're going to try to do now is we're trying to get maximum contraction in between the sets. So what we do is we actually pose. So posing the muscle, squeezing your chest, especially doing those most muscular poses, really helps fire those extra fibers to be able to get that growth. It makes a huge difference. I guarantee you'll end up being much more sore and get much more out of your workout by being able to flex in between sets. How's that pump? It's good. Good. Good. Good. All right. We're going to do one more set. Exit 605. No. Five pounds. So they're with 60. All right. Let's go Jeremy. Oh. Oh. OK. Good. Good. Good. Good. Squeeze. Squeeze. Good. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. Good. Keep going. Good. Come on. Keep going. Come on. One more. One more. One more. Hold it right there. There. Keep going. Press this. Press this in. Go. Two. Three. Four. Yes. Good job. Good job. Good job. Come on. Stand up. Squeeze it out. Let's go. Squeeze it out. Forward. Squeeze it. Squeeze it. Squeeze it. Hold it. Go. Right. There you go. That's how you do it. Really just pushing that threshold. Every set I'm doing right now. I'm pushing the failure pretty much. I don't ever leave anything. I'm on table with any set. Every set I'm trying to push towards I can. After we finish the set, flexing afterwards, I just really feel the volume is really forcing that blood into the muscle. I really encourage you guys to try it because you guys will see a big change in your way you feel the next day. And over the course of a few weeks, you'll see a lot more volume in your chest. Well, I think you have to find different types of intensity multipliers. So whether you're doing drop sets or you're doing partials, you have to figure out ways of being able to do things on a whole different level without sacrificing your safety. Increasing your intensity is the key to growth. You want to increase intensity. If you have a workout partner or a trainer, obviously, that's great. If you don't, you've got to find ways whether you're doing partials or you're doing really slow negatives to be able to increase the intensity. And that's what's going to get you through those potatoes. Okay, so what we're going to do now is we're going to go from fly to a third exercise, which is going to be flat, presses, but what we're going to do is we're going to use, was I call a power grip where your palms are facing each other. So we're going to be doing 8 to 10 reps, 3 to 4 sets, 1 to 2 warm ups. Oh, oh. Good, good, there you go. Good, good, good. I just like to put my hands right on the peck so you can be able to get that maximum mind muscle connection. Good, you feel that? Yeah, good, come on. Squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze. Yeah, stretch and dry. There you go. Stretch and drive. Good. Keep going. Come on, Jeremy. Come on, squeeze. Good. Good. I give you partial. Give me five partials. One, two, three, four. Good job. Good job. There you go. Good. Good. Hold it. Hold it. Good. Breathe, breathe, breathe. Relax, relax, relax. Relax. Good. When he's warmed up and he feels good, then what we do is we can, we can sit at a first working set. So we're just do one to two more depending how he's feeling. We got to get pumped right now. Eight to ten reps, five partials. Let's go. Make work. Good. Good. Go. Good. Go. Good. All the way to top. Squeeze. Good. Good. Good. Squeeze. Good. Squeeze. Good. All the way. All the way. Good. Give me partials now. Two partials now. Five. Two. Three. Four. Five. Five. Two. Good set. Come on. Squeeze it out. Squeeze. Archer back. Archer back. Hold it. Hold it. Archer back. Archer back. Just up. Just up. What I see a lot of people doing is they start to go back into a standard press motion. Because it's a little bit easier. What you need to do is make sure that your hands are still parallel. You don't want to drift outward. So as we're pressing, we're keeping it in and what we're doing is we're pushing together. We want to get that really good chess contraction. So if you see yourself going back out, it might be a little too heavy for you. Lighten it up by the ten pounds. Good. How you feeling? I mean, the trash can. Last week we did. Yeah, we got to keep this close by. Sometimes some of these chess workouts can get pretty intense. Last week, he ended up throwing up all over the NPC workout to deal with. Jim and Pitzway might equate it up myself. So what we're going to do now is we just got finished doing that flat press. We're going to go into our FST 7 set. And we're not doing standard FST 7. Standard FST 7 is 45 seconds rest doing a fly machine doing a pec deck doing something along those lines. Today what we're doing is we're doing a super 7 set. And what a super 7 set is basically is you're super setting a fly with an exercise. So we're going to go a fly cable fly to an incline pushup. This is my favorite thing to do. I love it. I love FST 7. Since I've been working with you, you just advanced everything and made me understand it a lot better. So my gym IQ is gone up significantly. And that's huge. It's a big deal being in the gym and understanding what you're doing in there. A lot of people can go in the gym and go through the motions. You're not getting anything out of it. But if you're in the gym and you understand what's going on physically in the body, you're going to get someone's morale of the exercise. By understanding all of these things, it's really brought by physique up maybe a better athlete. You know, more just can't even come the better, you can't get it. Good. Keep those hands open. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Come on. Keep going. You got one more. You got one more. Good. Come on. Keep going. Good. Now press it. Now press it. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Good. Keep going. Keep going. One more. Squeeze. Good. Good. Feed up. Exhale. Good. One. Two. Three. Come on. Five. Come on. Six. Come on. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Two. Two. Two. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. There you good. Good. Good. Awesome. Good. You're on the clock. So we're doing 45 seconds rest in between sets. We're doing seven sets of this. So basically, it almost turns into a triceet. Because we're doing this a fly. Seven to ten reps. Then he's going into a press. Anywhere from five to ten reps. Then he's going into a inclined pushup. And he's going to be doing anywhere from five to ten reps. And then we're doing partials at the very end. And again, this is to be able to maximize breaking through those plateaues. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Hands open. You want to get those hands open. There you go. Five. Five. Six. Control it. Control it. Oh. Hey. Can I press? Oh. Go. Press. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. One more. Good. Good. Good. Let's go. Go. Go. Good. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Nine. Partial. One. Two. Three. Four. There you go. There you go. There you go. There you go. So what we're doing also is you'll notice I'm having him open his hands. So what we're doing is he's trying to do is he's trying to get that really good flexion. It gives that extra inch or two. We'll end up getting you that soreness that you want to get you that growth that you're requiring so that you can end up having that rounder fuller chest. All right, buddy. Let's rock. Let's rock. Let's go. Let's go. Set three. Set three. One. Two. Little higher this time. Little higher this time. Little higher this time. Three. Slow down a bit. So down a bit. Come on. Good. Three. Come on. Five. Come on. Squeeze. Poo. Poo. Poo. Poo. Poo. Keep going. Four. Three. Two. One more. One more. One more. Poo. Good job. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Partial. Five. One. Two. Three. Four. That's it. Good job. Good job. All right. So people ask why you have your athletes wear a belt. The reason why I haven't wear a belt is number one because it really helps with keeping the stability of your core. It also helps you with breathing with all the liquids you're taking in with all the extra food that people take in during contest preparation and trying to grow all those extra calories. So having that belt on and allowing you to keep that tighter waist because you're learning to breathe with shorter breaths and not breathe with your lower out of your body. Breathe with your breath with your updraft. Updraft. So therefore I am I prefer athletes wearing a belt throughout the whole workout. How you feeling? So it's all about right here. So we're three sets in. We got four left. Yep. It don't get any easier. Just get harder. So just suck it up. That's it. You know. Come on. Come on. Come on. I'll try. Control it. Control it. There you go. Use momentum. You don't want to use momentum. All the emphasis on the chest. Use momentum. The shoulders kick in. I want that. It's round. Chest. Good. Open those hands. Come on. Two. One more. One more on the fly. Now go to the press. Go into the press. Higher. Higher into the press. There you go. There you go. Come on. There you go. Now you're working. Now you're working. Let's go. Come on. Good job. Let's go. Come on. Maria. Feed up. Come on. Go. Two. Two. Three. Five. Six. Seven. Three. Nine. Ten. Two. Five. One. Two. Three. Go. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Let's go walk it out. Good. Good. Good. So every person has their own level of intensity that they have to work up to. So what I call all this is controlled chaos. And what that does is it allows you to be able to break through plateau's, push the intensity level higher. Not every person is going to push the same way Jeremy does. Which you might do is do a couple of force reps. You might do a couple of partial reps. But what you don't want to do is go outside your means where you're going to get hurt. It's very, very, very small likelihood that he's going to end up hurting himself with the higher intensity. Because what we're doing is we're controlling the chaos by making sure that if anything happens, his just arms are going to give out on the pushups. If he gets tired, he just puts the weights back. And this is one of the reasons why you select your eyes to quit meant for FST7 sets. Sit. Let's go. There you go. There you go. Good. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Come on. Come on. One more. One more. One more. One more. Now press. Now press. Press high. Press high. Chin up. Press high. There you go. Keep going. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One more. Good. Let's go. Some of the things. Come on. Come on. You're taking the long route because you're trying to get some extra air. Let's do this. Finish your set. Come on. Two. Three. You own this. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Partial. Two. One. Good. That's it. If I have to give one tip to people out there, they always ask me what is the one thing that they should do during a workout. It is to make sure you're drinking water through your whole workout. If you stay hydrated, you'll get a pump. If you're dehydrated, you'll be flat. So make sure you've hydrated through the whole workout. Six. Let's go. Six. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Keep going. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Two. One. Two. Two. One. Two. Press. Go into that press. Two. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. One more. Good job. That's it. Feed up. Let's go. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Two. Five. Four. Three. Three. Three. Two. Two. One. Good job. Good job. Good job. You got a little extra in you. All right. So what I'm doing is I'm actually increasing the weight. We want to bring down the reps a little bit because he's getting a little far out of the range. We're trying to hit that 10, 12 rep range and all together we're hitting closer to the 20 rep range. So what we want to do is we want to increase the weight a little bit to bring the reps down. And what we're going to do is we're going to do our final set with that. Two. Two. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Eight. Come on. Nine. Press. Oh. Go. Press. Press. Press. Press. Press. Press. Press. Press. Press. Five. Four. Three. Two. Good job. Let's go. Come on. Let's go. Don't stop. All the way through. All the way through. One. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven. Nine. Pursals. Pursals. Okay. I think we look so weak. I'm so good. I think that's a good workout. That's a good workout. Come on. Squeeze it out. Let's go. Hold it. Hold it. Good. Shoulders wider. That was wider. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Good job. Fuck. That. Yeah. Yeah. Workout is an over yet. Now we do biceps. Good job. All right. What we're doing is we're going to do three sets. Ten to twelve reps. And he's doing a alternating at the very end of the number of reps that he does. He's going to end up doing it both together. Someone considered that a super set. I don't go. One. Two. Good. Four. Come on. Three more. Good. Up. Up. Up. Up. Good job. Good set. Good set. Good. Still hurt in the chest. Yeah. So what we're going to do is we're going to take about a minute, minute and a half rest. Then go onto the next set. That seems like a pretty good way. How does that feel? Good. Because we don't want to go too heavy. Because if you go too heavy, the shoulders start kicking in. And if the shoulders kick in, you're not going to get any emphasis on that bicep. Let's go. Two. Three. Come on. Three. Good. Good. Four. Four. Keep going. Five. Five. Six. Seven. Not too fast. Five. Five. Five. Five. Six. Six. Seven. Not too fast. Five. Five. Seven. Eight. Five. Eight. One more. One more. One more. One more. Five. Five. Together. Ah. Come on. Good. Go. One. Two. Three. Keep going. Ah. One more. Ah. Huh. Partial spine. Five. Five. Five. One. Two. Three. Four. Good. Good. Good set. The reason why we're combining chest and bicep today is because traditionally in the past, he's always done to chest and tricep. And to be able to break platos, you have to actually go through and change up your workouts. So what we're going to do is focus on biceps for the next two more exercises after this one. When the, ah. That's right. One more set. Let's go. Two. Two. Two. Two. I have him facing parracing forward. So he keeps constant tension on that bicep. Hey. Hey. Good. Good. Hey. Good. Come on. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Together. Together. Together. Good. Three. Two. Partial. Five. Four. Three. Three. Good. Good. Good set. Good set. Good set. Good pain. This parrace was really hit that lower part of my bicep. So the next exercise we're going to do is we're going to do standing double bicep. So we're going to do is we're going to hit 10 to 12 reps and then in between those sets we're going to pose. Do a couple reps. Feel the way to. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. You want to put maximum tension on that pinky and ring finger. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Full range of motion. There you go. Good. Because we have constant tension, we want to go all the way. That's the nice thing about pulleys. It allows you to have constant tension. Good. Keep going. Keep going. Keep going. Good. Good. We're partial now. That much. That much pain. Yeah. That's just a fire. Let's see if front double bicep. Come on. Hold it. Super neat that wrist. Get those peaks to fire. There you go. Boom. Good. Good. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Okay. We're doing two things right now. What we're trying to do is he's posing the muscles to be able to really get the muscles to really flex. But he's also doing is he's opening up his lats so he can really work on opening up. He's going to have to do that when he poses. So it also allows him to create conditioning for that. Good. Can I get trained you? Yeah. Next time. Good. Two. Good. Two. Three. Good. Five. Come on. Three. Three. Three. Four. One more. Watch out. Good. Ha. Keep going. Keep going. Ha. Harsals five. Ha. Two. Three. Four. One more. Watch out. Sit. Perfect. Now hold that. Three. Three. Three. Four. Three. Six. Good. That was okay. Let go of that a little bit. Right there. Let me push. There you go. Like that. There's. What he's doing is he's curling up this way and I'm pushing against it and he's trying to hold it with his bicep. Basically, we're just doing a native. And those negatives are what are going to help you grow in the next 24 to 48 hours because you're creating more muscle damage. All right, the last exercise is going to be a reverse curl. This is a finesse movement. What we're trying to do right now is we're trying to work on that outer bicep. And what we want to do is we don't want to go too heavy because if we do that then again, the shoulders will kick in. So keep the elbows to the sides, bring it up all the way and we want to do a higher rep range. We're going to be up in the 20 rep range. How about we going to thumbs underneath their thumbs over the top? Underneath. Good. Do a couple of them. Let me know how that way this. Put your own 20. Keep those elbows back. Keep your shoulders back. Breathe. Can you partial. Can you partial? Can you partial? Chest up. Two. Three. Four. Five. Good. It's a little heavy. You're starting to get a little too much body English on that. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to drop the weight about 10 pounds to get proper form. Good. If there's ever a movement that you do not want to cheat, it's this one. Your shoulders will kick in your chaps will kick in way before your bicep. Break your alice does. If you don't do it correctly, keep going. Good. Partial. Keep partial. Keep partial. To my hand. Go. Good job. Hawk man. I was having more of those. My fucking form for done. Good. And I just dropped away. My foot. Did you really? Yeah. Oh, Jesus. That was the first workout in the FST7 bodybuilding.com series. The other two workouts are shoulders and triceps and backed by itself. If this is the first time you're using this type of FST7 training, what I recommend is doing it once every two weeks until you can get used to it, then move on to every week. So if you have any questions for me about FST7 or any of my training principles, check me out, Instagram, Facebook, and also Twitter, Honny Ramba. For more FST7 workouts, we're content like this. Come back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Face Pull - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [tkLTR4b6cAk].txt ===

Facing a high pulley with a rope or dual handle detached, pull the weight directly towards your face, separating your hands as you do so. Keep your upper arms parallel to the ground.

=== FILE: Farmer's Walk - Forearm Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [hJW-Xc8TvU8].txt ===

There are various implements that can be used for the farmer's walk. It can be performed with heavy dumbbells or short bars if other implements are not available. Begin by standing between the implements. After gripping the handles, lift the implements up by driving through your heels, keeping your back straight and your head up. Walk taking short quick steps and don't forget to breathe. Do for a given distance, typically 50 to 100 feet as fast as possible.

=== FILE: Fighting Shape - Ryan Bader MMA Workout - Bodybuilding.com [QMAnTmCatVM].txt ===

Hey, bodybuilding.com. I'm UFC Light Heavyweight and Monster Milk Athlete Ryan Bader. It's my coach Aaron Simpson. Today I'm going to take you through a three-part workout. The first one's going to be some dynamic stretching. Seconds going to be a agility ladder. And the third is going to be a strength circuit. You can use this workout as a warm-up. And I like to use it as I'm getting ready for a fight as a workout in itself. So let's dive right into the first section. From the first section, the stretching section we got six basically exercise we're going to do. The first one is knee hug and twist and basically you're going to bring your knee up, grabbing it with your hands, bringing to your chest, letting it down and going to be in a blunt position and then you can twist your body. Basically it's a whole body stretch. Instead of just doing static stretching we're doing active stretching. Next one we're going to go into is backward toe touches. We're doing the backwards lunge is stretching over and kind of pointing to the opposite direction. We're activating the lower back muscles. We're loosening up the muscles at the same time. We're strengthening the muscles also. The next exercise is going to drop lunge. You're going to keep that front foot front of you and you're going to drop that back leg kind of into those squat positions. We're going to go down one direction and back the other direction. The next one is backward toe touches. So basically you're going to kick your back leg out to the back while touching the front toe with your opposite hand and you're going to go back and bring it back doing the same exercise. You got to warm up your muscles, you got to warm up your core and get your body temperature up. The next one we're going to do the world's greatest stretch. One of my favorite ones we're going to do a lunge. We're going to bring our elbow down on the floor inside our leg and get a natural lunge stretch and then we're going to bring it back grab on our toe and get a little hamstring stretch from there and you're all to make legs. You can do these stretches anywhere. You just need a good little not-a-space. Once again I use it more as a warm-up but this can be used as an actual workout. I actually use it when I get closer to fights as a workout. The last one we're going to do do a little shoulder stretch. You can grab a bar, a little PVC pipe, whatever you got and you're going to basically bring it over your head, touch your butt, bring it back, do that 10 times and you pretty much take your whole body and it should be warm already to go. Going into the agility ladder, you can really mix and match what you want to do here. You'll go forward in each box so it's two feet in each box. It's kind of look like you're running. Obviously you start slow and as you work the way up you can get faster and faster. Next one we're going to go laterally so we're going to turn to the side and go two feet in each box, go down and back. That ladder doesn't matter how great a shape I'm going to be in perfect fight shape. That ladder gets my heart rate going and gets breathing a little heavy and as you do it and as you get better at it you're going to go faster so there's never really any end game barrier. You're going to get better. You're going to go faster. Next one we're going to do is hops. We're going to hop with two feet in each box and we're going to go down and back and backwards. We're going to get your body sweating, you're going to get your core warmed up, just to hold fast speed, the motion being able to concentrate and get your feet in there at the same time where they need to be. It just works well for me for being a fighter and it will work obviously on boxing and leetie and even on the ground so it's just good for everybody. The next one we're going to flip and go laterally and hop in and each each box two feet down and back. If you don't have an actual agility ladder you can actually make one out of tape or you can pretend there's one on the floor. It's better to have one because it will make you stay in the box and it kind of think about what you're doing a little bit but if you can do it on the floor, pretend there's one and you're still going to get the activation, you're still going to get the warm up and go about 20 feet or 20 boxes and you'll be good. The last one is called the achy shuffle. It's a little complicated to explain but you're replacing your feet in the box. If you're starting from the side you're going one foot in, one foot out, one foot in and then you're doing that down and backwards. The last one is a lateral achy shuffle so you're starting laterally. Same thing replacing your feet in the box going up and down through each box. The third part of the workout is more kind of getting into an actual workout but it's more body weight. You're activating your glutes, your legs, your hitting those big muscle groups and it's a great way to start anything as far as a workout or if you're training or anything like that. We're going to start with a single leg, blue bridge and you do this on any bench and you're going to lay down on the bench, spread your arms out, you're going to get on your heel, one leg's going to be up in the air, the other is one, one's going to be on the ground on your heel and you're basically dressing your hips up, activating your glute muscles and you're going to do 15 on one side and 15 on the other leg. Then we're going to go into wise and tees and this can be done with blast traps or it can be done with five pound weights on the incline bench. What it kind of sounds like is making a teet with your arms activating those shoulder muscles and then you're going to go into wise and you're going to do 10 of each. It doesn't matter if you're a professional MMA fighter, a bodybuilder or a person trying to get in shape, a good hard dynamic warm up like that. It's going to help your flexibility and it's also going to help your strength. The last exercise we're going to do hanging knee raises, have yourself a bar, hang from it, bring your knees all the way up to your chest as high as you can and do that 10 times and you're going to be doing two rounds of that circuit. Along with this dynamic workout we are going to provide you with my own personal lifting session, exercises and length the reps, everything you'll need to be successful and try this lift. We got it all broken down for you on the page below. For more videos and workouts like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Figure Dynasty： How Nicole Wilkins Won Her Fourth Olympia - Bodybuilding.com [xV6G3-HNfMg].txt ===

Maybe, but I felt holy before I got a candle, right now. I didn't start dreaming in the universe but I thought I would live without a candle. before I woke out, I always think, I'm going to go extra slow. slow. So, more than what feels normal, because then it'll look good for everyone else. It'll know more about everybody else. Zero adrenaline is fired up and if you walk with that adrenaline you're going to go too fast. Winning my first Olympia was amazing, but then losing it and going through a divorce and a lot of other personal things that went on with that to have the motivation to keep going and to win it again, but then to lose it again. I mean, those are very highs and lows, but every one of those steps and every one of those moments have led up to this. I actually very calm the week before. I have moments where I get butterflies and I stomach thinking about being on stage and having the whole world see what you look like and bathing suit. That can be kind of nerve-wracking. There's a little bit of pressure to coming in as a returning champion and I've had that pressure multiple times, but every time I have come back as a returning champion, I've lost. If I win this year, it'll be the first time I won back to back. I'll make history in this sport of figure as the first four time figure in the championship. I feel like I'm where I need to be right now and the hard work is behind me and I would just enjoy the moment and just having fun this weekend. Tonight is my Thea Limpians. That's when we get to meet the fans for the first time and sign autographs, take photos. We each get our own booth and I remember the first year I was here, I don't have any line at all, no one who I was. And I was like, man, it would be really awesome to have a line of people who actually knew who I was. Yes, first of all, what's your name? Maria. This is Mika. I am really nervous to meet me. Don't be nervous. I am your awesome figure. Hi. This is from Torio, from Chico Slovakia. Oh my gosh, awesome. This is for me. Yes, of course. Thank you. I've never seen it before. Hi. I think I've been driven to you. Yeah, I know. I know. I believe I've been driven to you. Oh my gosh. It's exciting to know that you have that bigger name tag to some people, like I said that you never even met before. And when you actually have a line, it kind of makes you feel like you're doing a good job. I know people are inspired by you and to me that's very humbling because I'm just doing what I love. Call us have a girl. What's going on? I'm good. I'm going to see you for my whole life. You know, I hear women who lost a hundred pounds or a guy who lost a hundred pounds or that they quit smoking and you know, they want to tell you about all the positive changes that they've made their life. And it's really exciting. That's when the reality sets in that you actually have a huge impact more than you know and you affect people more than you realize. You know, I'm always hoping that people want to see me still. I'm hoping that people want to talk to me and come up to my booth. I don't think I ever get to a point where I'll expect that. I feel good. I feel where I need to be. So I feel very relaxed. I mean, I need to do this. By the time I got to bed, it was a lot of 1130 and then I got to get up at between five and five. I've got to go to the morning to eat and you're ready to see Nancy for her and make up. So after this, I'll get another quote of tan. Touch up any spots that were messed up from sleeping and then get ready to go to pre-rooting. So we gotta get on the bus at nine. So I'll have a little bit of time before that to just kind of relax. Eat again before I get on the bus and then that's it. All those months of hard work come down to today. I love getting my hair and makeup done. So the beauty page of part of it is a lot of fun. That's how I explain it to people who have no idea what I'm doing. Just a beauty page and for fitness girls. Like I'm getting ready for Halloween. You know, I think that costume makeup. Awesome. Yeah. Awesome. Yeah. My crystal. So now we're going to go get tan and get on the bus. I'll see you guys soon. It's so good. You look so beautiful. I like the New World style crispy and crispy. Good morning. See you guys on the kiosk. You notice so many more. Well everyday makeup is done. So now the scene I'm literally trying to make it into pretty high nutrition. I wanna make my MakingAd bro aime my dream and especially itsOME breakfast mode. I really like this recipe. I was happy to see you. I was happy to see you. I was going to watch out. I think the times that I was more nervous was when I didn't feel confident with the way that I looked. It was a very calming feeling, you know, knowing that. It worked really hard and the rest isn't up to you. Just gonna hope for the judges like what they see. It's a stage. It is kind of a hurry up and wait situation. Hurry up get on the bus. Hurry up get backstage and then wait. So we just got backstage. We're about to start prejudging and about an hour. We should go on around 11.30 because we're third up. So this is where I'll just hang out and keep my feet up. Just relax, I'll eat again. And then about 30 minutes or so before I go out, I'll put my suit on. And then we'll start getting all the glazing process done. And then I'll come out by the freeway area and do a little bit of shoulders to pump up. And then it'll be showtime. Prejudging is really where all the judging takes place. At the end of pre-judging, after the judges have seen everything they need to. Pretty much no. It's gonna be winning at finals. I went into this sport originally because I wanted it to help my career. I was a personal trainer and I thought it would help my business if I could show people that I could get and go cheap too. And I still kind of had that mindset. It's always been a hobby for me. Until I get to the point where I feel like I'm not getting that excitement anymore, that's when I know it'll be time to hang up the heels. But in the meantime, when you're number one, I guess, you know, you want to stay. That the number one spot is long as possible. I am excited if I don't ever really get nervous nervous and talk about to line up before I go out. Then my heart rate so is pumping and I can't stop it. It's nothing I can do to calm it down. While you're on stage, you feel light headed. You need a drink. You need to be popped up a little bit because you're sweating. Four expo diners out there. You're not be shy. Turn around, say hey, you're tall and you're water. They will get it for you. You're not going to have to go out on stage. All right? You also won't lose any points because you could just sit below. They're comparing all the girls from all sides of the body. They're looking at symmetry, the walking and muscle definition. They're looking at skin tone hair, makeup, the walking and presentation. How your suit fits. The sky will open the sky. The cold will open. I just want to keep getting better. So I look back at my best always and try to better that. It's not really a competition for me with anyone else. I can only look like Nicole Wilkins. And I want to make the cool Wilkins of the best that Nicole Wilkins can. If I play second, it's not the end of the world. My life doesn't change. I don't think that I've necessarily reached my full potential yet. I like to think that I still have room for growth and improvement. It went good. They pulled kids and I back out to the fire of the fallout. So it looks like it's person's second between her and I. I felt really good. I felt confident. So hopefully the judge is like the conditioning that I brought. I won't know until tomorrow night. It's now it's like the hard part where you just wait. And now I'm going to go work the booth for a little bit and meet me to a bunch of people walking around the expo. So I felt really good. I feel like I did the best I could. When I first walked back after getting off stage, I tried to eat and then I had to rush the booth. And I really like that. It's a mix of people who look at you like who is at girl with that tan and why she's so dark. And then you get other people who are like, oh my gosh, I can't believe that you're here in person. Just the weird. It's different when you feel good about how you did versus if you felt not so good about how you did. It was almost like a sense of relief because the hard work really was done. I mean, it was like kind of sprayed so that it would stay stayed in one spot. We'll fill up heavier now too. Right. It was shorter. Everything stayed. I'm not sure how to wear my hair. Yeah, it was just long. Yeah. For a stage, I like it a little shorter, but for a real life, I like it longer. Yeah. If I win tonight, it'll be the first time I ever won two times in a row. When you place second, when you lose, it's heartbreaking because you know you're capable of winning. And then when it all seems to be saying you think, okay, you know, obviously second isn't bad at all, but I know what I'm capable of and I don't train for second. I don't think I'll ever get used to it to be honest. The first year or two, I had no idea what to expect. I was just wholly cow. I can even leave up here and I still feel that way. You're good. Perfect. Thank you. Getting prepared now to get out on stage. Making sure that my glaze is all even and my suit is where it needs to be. And at this point, I'm just trying to stay warm and get a little bit of a pump. You're second guessing yourself on and off throughout the entire process because you are trying to chase perfection. And perfection does not exist, but when you put that much effort day after day, you expect to see results. Here we go, lady. Candace Keen, tell your Candace Lewis, Julia, Emma Law, Jennifer, and Susana, Maria, and Nicole, space left over there. At night, it's a show for the audience. That's how I view it. It's a show for the audience. I'm going to go out there and do my absolute best and just enjoy every moment. When I first walk out, I don't hear anything. So when people are cheering and stuff, I really don't hear that at all. Because I'm so focused on walks low, don't trip. Hate your poses the way you need to hold them. Make sure you're twisting enough. Make sure your test is lifted enough. Make sure that you're smiling. But moment, it's just, you and the lights. I think you're so focused on what you're doing in that moment that everything else is kind of silent. Even when they announce your name as the winner. That's all you hear is your name. The first place or each chapter, twenty-eight thousand dollars. The year will come and I'll tell you. Four times a day, it's in the core, no fear. I feel absolutely amazing coming into this. I wanted to make history. I did, so without Joe Weeder, creating the Olympia 50 years ago, I wouldn't have had this opportunity to be part of history. So I want to thank him. I want to thank the IFBB for allowing me to compete and do what I love and inspire others to live a healthier lifestyle. I want to thank the judges in the Olympia committee. And I want to thank Honny Rambad, my trainer. Thank you so much. I also want to thank my boyfriend, Ellen, and my friends and family who are here and who are at home watching. For all your love and support and the fans because you guys are amazing. And keep me doing this every year. You inspire me more than you know. So I plan to, you know, maybe make it five next year. Do my best to make that happen. So thank you very, very, very much. You're a four-time Olympia champion in the core, welcome. I think when you see someone who is in great shape and who looks like they have everything together, it doesn't mean that they don't struggle sometimes too. So I would like people to know that I am real just like they are. When you're preparing for something like this, everything else revolves around that. I think that in life and general, if you want to be really successful at something, there is going to be a lack of balance somewhere. And I'm okay with that. Thank you.

=== FILE: Final Approach To Fitness： Cellucor's Dan Lourenco Interview - Bodybuilding.com [iKvjzHN2bNE].txt ===

I'm not your everyday athlete. I don't skip workouts or let myself get off track because of a late meeting last minute project or long flight. A work hard play hard every damn day. I'm Dan Lorenzo. So the beginning of fitness and really athletics in my life, I was a high school athlete, a played baseball, a play little bit of football, in high school. After high school, like any kid, I went to college. I was my second year, but for most people, it would be a sophomore year of college. I was in flight school. Going A to be A to be all day long, 15 hours, you know, sometimes either in a classroom or then playing, et cetera. You can imagine you're not really eating that healthy. After flight school, looking at the mirror, I wasn't overweight necessarily. I was probably weight wise, almost where I am now, but you know, obviously the percentage is just real hard. And I just started working out hitting the gym. For a few years, then I was an on-call pilot. I started out flight and start acting and then turning his phone, flying small, charter aircraft, turbo prop, small business jets, that kind of stuff. 24-7, you have to be available at any point in time. Your phone can ring and you've got two hours to get to the airport and go fly some place. You can't go out drinking with your buddies. You can't really go to the beach or something for the day with your friends. So really, I fell in love with the gym. That was kind of like my place of relaxation. So to speak, my place can go, kind of turn the world off a little bit. Turn the body, bring my calm to learn what the best workouts were, what the best supplements were to take. And that's really, I think, where I got started. Fitness industry and specifically the sports nutrition dietary supplement industry, it's really changed a lot in the past few years. Few years ago, really, I think what you're seeing are these kind of crazy new ingredients coming to the surface. This brand came out with this extract and this brand has the concentrate of a warrous tusk, only found in Antarctica on sunny days and this is what it's going to do. Well, I don't think that people are buying into that anymore. And I think that that's really what we've seen across the industry where innovation doesn't mean a crazy ingredient that made or may not do anything. Innovation has a lot of different forms and a lot of different names. You know, at Sallequore, the approach that my team and I take is a very mainstream, I think, approach and a very consumer driven approach to how we build products and how we put all this together. You know, I think that there's easy ways to innovate, which is packaging, where I think we're doing a lot of great things there. I think we've really led the charge and love the game. Even on consistent branding, I think you see a lot of brands now. A few years ago, maybe it didn't look so great. You know, I'd like to say starting with us, but I don't need all the credit. But a lot of brands now are really raising the game. It's a lot of great looking products on the shelf. I like a great looking brands and that's just better for everybody. On the flavor side, huge, you know, gains made across the industry. What everyone's doing with flavors, on the formula side of things. You know, I think it's a really interesting kind of combination, hybrid approach, where it's not that crazy extract, no one's heard of. It's a combination of dosing ingredients and an efficacious doses. It's a combination of doing clinicals to show that. It's a combination of, you know, working closely with R&D teams with great ingredient pervite, you know, vendors to say, hey, this is the new stuff coming out of the market and really trying to get there first. But I don't think most customers even know about those things. I think they appreciate them and the customers who are looking for the science, they can definitely appreciate that. But what people are really going to focus on is that hybrid approach that package approach, where the pack and things on point, the flavors are amazing and the results in the science are there. I think you need all three, not just one. I think that's really been the big change and the evolution that I've noticed in the industry. It's a good thing. The customers, the ones that win. I actually root for other companies to kind of come out with a superior practice something we're doing. Why? Because what's that going to make me do? The pressure that that's going to put on me and my team is to then re-innovate, re-engineer to raise the bar again. And they're going to do the same thing. I work and do the same thing. At the end of the day, the customers win. That might core, I'm a huge fan. I think that's the most important thing and what I'd hope any cyclore fan, any just something the fan in general knows that the guys behind the cyclore, you know, we live this, we breathe for this. And I always joke and say, you know, we're selfish. When people ask me, hey, are the products good? Yeah, they're good. We make them for ourselves number one. We're all users. We're all hitting the gym as well. And we want the best for our own selves and our own bodies. And we want the best results for us. And that definitely translates and everything we do. We're able to kind of go out there and set trends. I think that that's a good, it's a really good word for, you know, now the way the industry's gone. I think where the industry's gone from where it's gone. We believe in training to achieve the best performance and thereby you're going to achieve your best body. And really just dictate and deliver the information and the tools to do that. By the way, I want to calm. I view you guys exactly the same way. You guys have done probably better than anyone. Any media, really source or publisher that I can think of at remaining on bias as far as delivering everything from your, here's your crossfit workout. Here's your powerlifting workout. Here's your more old school competitor focused diet plans to. Here's if it fits your macros and you know, great recipes, you know, with protein powders and any name it. And I think hopefully some of our peers in the industry are doing the same where it's, you know, telling a fan or telling a customer, hey, look, here's all the information. Make the best decision for what fits your lifestyle, your training goals, your physiques. I think that's really what we can achieve together. If too short, it's not practice what you preach. I think so many people in this industry are in a lot of industries. They think that they need to be a certain way, look a certain way, a certain way. And I think they miss out. Yeah, I want to look as good as I can look. My goals over the years have changed. Yeah, I tell people all the time I just say, look, I'm not an athlete. You know, I'm not a competitor. If I decide to compete or doing this one day again, I've done one show so far. It's just because I wanted to. I thought it was fun or maybe I had a buddy getting on stage. And I wanted to kind of egg him on or something. Last time I think I filmed with bodybuilding.com with super HCI apps. And I wanted to kind of have the best apps. And this is how you do it. Well, I've had a man's my goals now that I simply want maybe let's say the best apps for a guy who flies 200,000 miles a year. Right? So it's definitely changed a little bit. And I think I want people to kind of see that and see, you know, hey, you can work hard, and play hard, and still look great. You can go out and have fun and still have a great body. You can, you know, work hard and have a lot of fun, frankly. Sure thing, the best way to get me is probably on Twitter and Instagram. It's my last ambulance on CUDAP. Also, my body space, I try to check it as much as possible. I believe I'm still selling you cordan on body space. As far as getting in touch with cellul core, getting more information at workout plans, et cetera. Obviously, of course, bodybuilding.com is a great resource for all the content that we're doing. Myself are other athletes, you know, Craig Caperso, Creen and Jen, Calum World, contributing. Pretty much everything we know from a diet and training standpoint and putting up up on bodybuilding.com is to help people try and get their best results.

=== FILE: Finding Inspiration In Nature! Watch the entire series with @discoverydeadlift here on our channel. [vxTZ6779JUo].txt ===

There are a few feelings as good as hitting a big deadlift. I've hit big deadlifts in the gym and they felt great, but I've hit big deadlifts in the middle of nowhere and they felt even better. I'm a guy that deadlifts in the middle of nowhere to combat his anxiety. All of your failures, all of those things that you think you're not doing good enough at, and trying to create this darkness or the shit. When I'm approaching the bar to pull a deadlift, I'm not thinking about those things. Set your seat, only wait, rip this shit. I think a lot of people are just like, what the hell is this? What does this have to do with anything other than this dude just wants to get a whic on a post or something?

=== FILE: Fit Dreams Come True With Diana Chaloux Series, Episode #1, Introduction - Bodybuilding.com [MUJOFLWUjoQ].txt ===

Okay, so I wanted to talk to you a little bit more about some of the things that I've done, the past How I Got in Fall in the Fitness industry. I started personal training about six years ago now. Ace, Apple, and Fitness Professional is International, certified personal trainer. So that's kind of how I got my start. I can always do that I loved and fitness industry. It was just always a tablet, it's as a kid, make basketball all the way through college. So it was just kind of, I was definitely a gym rat from probably a proper age 14 on. Just really, really loved the gym environment. I actually have my Bachelor's in Business Administration from London, say Call of Fritz's School and Vermont. And as soon as I graduated from college, I was actually working in a office job. And I found that I just was so miserable and I go into work and I'm sitting there and I'm like, oh, this is just, I can't stand being here. And I realized I was actually, I was on an elliptical machine one day, and a gym and Manchester, New Hampshire, that I worked out at. And I had an epiphany, I had an aha moment, and I realized that the one place that I loved to be, the most was in the gym. And that was the one place that I could be all day and be completely happy and satisfied. So from there, I actually moved to Park City, Utah, where I actually burned my first personal trainer, certain occasion, started working in a gym there. And I actually was there for about three years, just personal training and just getting as many, you know, getting as much education in that field as I could. It was somewhat, somewhat fun of living in this city that was just so active and athletic. And I wanted to repeat, I started thinking about competing then. It was just always a dream that I had, and I had pictures of, you know, I had into the magazine, although on my wall, and I had oxygen covers hanging on my wall, because these girls were my motivation, but I just wasn't quite ready, and it wasn't there. I wasn't in the placement when the epiphany could start competing. And then I actually got a job, where we'd been through slimes working, isn't a fitness director on one of their shifts. So for a year, I was traveling, I was in Alaska, I was in Hawaii, I was down in the Caribbean for a while, and I was actually teaching a robotics class all the time. But unfortunately, the food on the cruise ships was also really, really good. Despite the fact that I was teaching all these classes, and I was the fitness director, I was also consuming way too many calories, I was eating a lot, and, you know, there was just lots of time in the Caribbean. But I won't talk about right now, but I got off the cruise ship, and I was a lot heavier, than I am now, I actually didn't know about 20 to 25 pounds of course in that year, even though I was teaching all these robbing classes. So I got off the ship, and that was a little over two years, almost three years to go now. And I really, I didn't know where I wanted to go, or what I wanted to do from there, I was back up there for a month, which is where I'm from originally for a little bit, and my sister Linda said, hey, move to San Antonio! So I said, hey, what the heck, I'll go to San Antonio, moved here, and it really was a very good move for me. I started working in a gym here, and that was when I was like, okay, you know what, I'm ready to compete. I was so sick of carrying all that weight, I have pictures, and actually if you go on bodybuilding.com, you can see some of my before and after pictures, and I was one of the transformation of the weeks. They've got a year ago, so you can definitely check that out and see some more of them, but so like I said, I'm not just San Antonio, I'm starting training for my first figure competition. I decided just to first do some shows here locally in Texas. So I actually, my first show was then BC John Sherman, classic in 2005. And look, I won! So I placed first and figured in, it was my first show. I had lost 40 pounds, I was in training for like 18 weeks for that show. Just blessed it, my butt, and I placed first one, was awesome. It was a great feeling, a great experience, and it really made me realize that you really can go after whatever your goal is, whatever your dream is, and if you believe in yourself and you work hard, you're just putting your dedicated, your determined, you can reach it. So then I again competed in the Ronnie Coleman class in 2006. And look, I got another one! No, anyway, I placed first and right in my class in that one too. So those were my first two shows, and then kind of a lot of things happened over the years of over the last year. I actually took a whole year off from competing. I decided that I wanted to start from here with the WNSL, and also I decided I wanted to start my business, which I mentioned earlier, destined to be fit. And here is my DVD. This is me and my partner Jonathan O'Poffee's. My business partner, he is also my personal trainer. He loves kicking my butt in the gym, and he definitely is one of my biggest motivators, keeps me going even when I'm having tired days. Definitely me and him throughout this series. This is our DVD. It's just a strength training. The amazing and basically what destiny to be fit is this is our way of training people in their homes by working out with us with the DVD, and then I have a whole online support center. So it's a way for people that actually work with me online. I work with people who help them on our nutrition. And a lot of motivational aspects too, because I'm also certified fit in this coach. I'm also certified nutrition manager. So I need to work with people that have fitness and warmth and chat with us on there. So I actually have people from all around the country. They're like, here's what I'm doing. And I can say, okay, we're going to speak in this way. That way, and really working a lot on figuring out what your goals are and setting goals. Staying motivated because I'm finding your ultimate motivation for wanting to achieve whatever it is that you want to achieve for yourself fitness advice is all about discovering what your ultimate motivation is. So that's what I like to help people too. So that's destiny to me fits. I mean, there have gone really well. We've done a lot of stuff here locally in San Antonio. Just we took one company and we were working with them just for a little bit. Then about 75 employees, we went in and everybody got into DVD and everybody was working with a song line and the employees actually lost. Oh, Ketola, to believe about 350 pounds, Ketola to believe over a three month period of time. So then we got featured on the new and there's some really good things happening there. We actually have been in commercial for Ness and a bit coming out in January of 2008. So if you're up at 2M, then you just need me bouncing around on your television screen. So, and that's really exciting. That's a bed and something that kind of stemmed from my competing. Just being able to transform my body to a point where I had the confidence to say, hey, you know what, I want to start my own business. This is what I want to pursue for me and for the rest of my life, for sure. So that's a little bit of what else we've got going on. I'm also a fitness columnist. I've already been as close for a couple different publications. I'm here in San Antonio and then also the place of Vermont. So, and also I'll be writing columns for my own company. I'm curious if you can check those out and get any questions through the main column. Okay, so that is a little bit of a question. A little bit of background. And then the W on a so like I said, just this is my coastist cup. I just placed first in the fitness column of the mission and my coastist classic. And Bethlehem Pennsylvania, which was actually just a couple of weeks ago. And this is just awesome. I mean, I'm just so excited and I'm so thrilled about this. And I'm so excited about this organization and just just showing you a little bit what it's, you know, what it's all about and what it has to offer to you. If you're an athlete interested in competing and again, like I said, just a little bit of a head of a seat. So, none of the other, I've said a lot of stuff. Oh, one more thing I want to show you, just what keeps me motivated, what keeps me going on is just my favorite things. Bethlehem magazine tier, these magazines are full of awesome information. And of course, oxygen, muscle and fitness serves. Those are just a couple of my favorite things that, you know, from having a gal in day, I like to take a little bit of a thousand and then get me pumped up and motivated. So, we're going to be going over a lot of stuff that I'm really excited. And I hope you follow along with a video series. And, you know, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com and check out all the new episodes that we have coming out. I will see you soon.

=== FILE: Fitness 360： Abel Albonetti, Model Behavior - Bodybuilding.com [hkMx7qd_S_E].txt ===

I'm very blessed, I'm very blessed to actually have these opportunities to travel around, meeting all these different people that I've actually helped that they come up to me and say, hey, you know, you're a great motivation. Thank you for this and that, and I'm really blessed to work with so many different companies and be able to actually live my dream and just help people out as much as I can. I was homeschooled my whole life, watching all my friends play sports, I want to do something active, so go into the gym. That's where I'm going to put all my time in. I actually had a gym, a YC, a local YCA that I wouldn't work out at, so I started working out maybe around 17 years old because I was an out-playing footballer, baseball or basketball. When I was around 20 years old, I was working out the YCA and a local agency actually, I came out to me and was like, hey, you know, you look like you could do modeling. So from there, I talked with him, went to his agency and worked with him doing different runway stuff. And from there, I did different clothing lines for different companies. When I did a photo shoot for this one company, it was a clothing line and it was more the teenage clothing line. And when I went there, they were like, oh my gosh, you're way bigger than what we thought. And actually, I really couldn't fit and most of their clothing that they had, I had to actually decide what I want to do, was it going to be fitness modeling, was I going to still build my physique or was I going to go into the modeling aspect as far as doing still clothing lines and doing different runway stuff. When I started looking into the fitness industry, people like Greg Plyett, it's just different people in the fitness industry and I looked at their bodies and like, you know, wow, you know, I would love to look like that someday. And I really wanted to see what I could actually do physically in my own body, see what I could look like and, you know, push those boundaries. Later on, I switched over from agency. It's went from just like clothing line, agencies to more fitness modeling agencies. My ultimate goal is to own my own gym one day. So I can, you know, personal training, continue personal training and really just help people. It took me years to actually build up a slowly build up muscle. It was never a time that I was just, okay, you know, putting on tons of muscle or had a big off season where I gained a lot of muscle. It's always been a big struggle for me to actually put on size. When I first started, I was doing that full body circuit going in the gym and then later on, I did research and found out that doing like a muscle group at a time instead of going there and doing full body circuits, you know, really worked. So the one thing I can say is that I see the biggest results as far as just lifting heavier weights. Really, that's what's really helped me, you know, build size. It's not going to be overnight. You have to understand that a lot of teenagers are like, I'm not seeing results and I'm going, you know, you know, I've been going to the gym for six months. Now you got to keep going, keep going, you got to keep pushing. Even if you don't see the results right then, it will come later. You just have to trust the process. My whole teenage years up until I was about 20 years old, I used to be able to eat whatever I wanted. And I hit about 20 to 25 years old. My metabolism slowed up and now I'm really having to focus on my diet and more to actually lean out. And so diet has played a huge role as far as building muscle and, you know, losing weight and getting ready for competitions and photo shoots. Really, my diet is a carb cycling. I've always done carb cycling. I think it's one of the best ways to actually put on size and actually lose a body fat. So supplements do play a big role in my diet. Of course, it's not going to make or break your nutrition. Your nutrition is number one. It's supplements are there just to help out. The supplements I take would course be protein, creatine, fish oil, and multivitamin, CLA. And I like to actually cycle my supplements. I'll go two months with them and then I'll take a month break just to give my body a little break from like, pre-workouts. My goal into this fitness industry is really just to help as many people as I can either physically, you know, just mentally, physically and health. A lot of people out there overweight and they're looking for answers and you know, I want to be one of those people that actually help them to get healthier and just enjoy life. If anyone has any questions, you can ask me on my body space. You can connect with me through Facebook or Instagram and for more free articles and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Fitness 360： Alex Savva, Fit Freak - Bodybuilding.com [GVQvVRvpOIE].txt ===

I just live by never settling. Regardless of what's in your way, what obstacles come your way. You're really embracing that struggle and just moving through it, I think it's really important. It's not that it's never good enough, but there's always more that we can achieve. I would just hate to leave something out there that I know that I can accomplish. I'm Alex Sabba. I am the founder of Circuit Fit Fitness Studio in Midtown, Toronto. I'm also the co-founder of Farm and Freak and SD Farm and Sudicals, sports nutrition brands. I got my degree at University of Toronto in Physical and Health Education with an emphasis on exercise performance. And today, I'm just going to give you a background on my training philosophy, how I eat, and how I live in my life, and how I got to where I am today. Ever since I was a young kid, I've always been interested in sports, human performance, exercise, bodybuilding, fitness, what have you. The first thing that I really immersed myself in was martial arts. The reason that I started martial arts is because my dad was a huge fan of Bruce Lee. At that point, my dad actually influenced me in the scope of bodybuilding because both of his cousins were bodybuilding champions. They were actually both Mr. Cyprus. So I always had that in my life. And I decided when I was doing martial arts, that I needed more power. I needed more strength. I needed to build up my physique. I was always the smallest guy. So I decided to take up weight training. So I shifted literally from going six days a week doing martial arts, straight into bodybuilding. I started training hard. I started to see changes in my physique right away because I was always very lean. So as soon as I started to add muscle, I started to see that definition. I started to see that growth. I'm started to see the shape, sculpting the physique. For me, it was always like, I want to look a certain way. I want to sculpt my body. But I want to be able to perform. I don't want this body to just be, you know, good for pictures. It has to be able to perform. And I said, okay, I'm going to do circuit style training back to back, no rest. I'm going to keep all my workouts concise to happen hour. I'm just going to make my workouts more effective, more efficient. I'm going to burn more calories. So it was high intensity intervals and it was very intense training sessions with minimal rest. And then I had to make a lifestyle right. So for me, I have to maintain this 24-7. You're not going to meet me and see me fluctuate 20 pounds and say, hey, this guy was ripped. I saw him six months ago. Now he's, you know, he's not as ripped, loaded, looks different. I can't recognize him. This is the physique that I maintain 24-7. I train about six days a week. I take one day off. I'm mixing in my weight training sessions with some cross training or some more functional training. Or I'll just play a pick-up soccer game or whatever. And I'll mix that in. And that's how I maintain my physique. I think the number one downfall for everybody that's not achieving their fitness goals is nutrition. For me, it's eating quality foods, eating foods that I like to eat. So I'm not forcing myself to eat foods that I feel are going to get me ripped or going to help me, you know, shed some pounds. I travel a lot and I love to go out to dinners with my wife and my friends. There's always a way to pick a good option. I don't buy that. You know, when you're out at a restaurant, you can't find something healthy on the menu. You can find salmon and rice. You can find, you know, roasted chicken with salad and vegetables. You can do a sweet ass steak with sweet potato on the side. I mean, there's so many versions we can go on and on. The real secret for me and the formula to my success is to keep it simple. And just maintaining that consistency. This is like my life. This is every week day in, day out. I'm training and I'm eating the same way. I was using a lot of supplements when I was competing as a bodybuilder. I was never truly satisfied with the supplements that were on the market. So I found myself switching quite often trying to find, you know, that perfect formula. A very good friend of mine by the name of Don Govro is one of the top formulators in the industry. Came to me and said, hey, I have this great idea. Let's do our own fat burner. There's no fat burner on the market. That we like, that satisfies our need, that has the importance that we're looking for. So let's do this. Came up with a name, ripped, freak, strong as fat burner that we can develop. We put it out on the market and that's how we started farmer freak. You know, having a gym and two supplement brands to run. Really, as a dream come true for me and I tell everybody, you got to pursue your passion. You know, because if you pursue your passion, you're always going to be not only successful, but you're going to be fulfilled. Me and my wife just had a baby boy. His name is Achilles. He's everything to us. He's amazing. He's 10 and a half months. I want to keep up with my son. You know, when he's 10 years old, he's kicking my ass. I don't want to be that old dude that, you know, I can't hang out with my son. I can't play with my son. You know, I want to be the fittest, freakiest dad. You know, I want him to think, my dad's a champ. I could play anything with my dad. I could do anything with my dad. He can hang with me when he's a teenager. I want to be able to hang with him and his friends. You know, I'm thinking long-term if you want success, you got to think long-term. So there you have it. That's my story. You can follow me at Mr. Ript, freak on body space, Twitter and Instagram, and for more great content like this, check me out right here at bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Fitness 360： Daniel Banks, Swole Patrol - Bodybuilding.com [205TY1nMr1Y].txt ===

I'm going to be a good example for my daughters. So, it's my out. I'll say deal with the day-to-day stress of my job. 14 years of law enforcement. I want to bring pride to the uniform. I want to leave a good example for my daughters. So, it'd be fun. Being physically fit, I feel that I could do my job for now, but I want to make sure I go into my kids at night. Nobody's going to take me away from my family. When I go into a house, I go into a bar, I don't care where it is. My size demands respect. I cycle to gym and fuck shit up. That's what I do. I want to take my kids back. I want to take my kids back. I want to take my kids back. I want to take my kids back. We're all in one's and building a day. Any avenue alive. No matter what you do, our work consistency will take you places. And this is taking me places I've never dreamed of. I was a typical kid growing up. And I was a typical kid growing up. You know, like up to more than eight o'clock, you go out. You play baseball. You play basketball. You play sports, you can. I played mainly basketball and football. I personally thought it was better at basketball. I didn't pick up my first weight until I was summer before my age. I was a senior year in high school. I got 177 pounds. My best friend got me to work in out. I was always jealous. I mean, he was a hell of a strong enemy. He has one weight set. That's why. We're there in a summer right back down to get 20 pounds. I have a very tall friend I'm six with four. So I had a great senior year and I had a full right scholarship. The number of students I was in Iowa. And just continued from there. I went into my freshman year at UNI at 2005 pounds. I'm going to put out about 20 pounds afterwards. I'm just watching my body develop over the four or five years there. And you know, people suggest, hey, you should be bodybuilding. You should do the stat. I'm like whatever. I just enjoyed being in a gym. So I continued after football. Mine is all the cardio and running. I put on another 20 pounds easy. Long story short. I sit here in front of you. 294 pounds. So I had a competition. I had a 2010. I had a place in a fourth out of 60. People across the whole country here. I see the email from optimal. I know that a session is a sponsorship. Okay. Sure, we're not. Any area on today? It's been a crazy, fun ride, you know. I think a law enforcement you had to have, you know, a good intimidation factor. The first thing I want to see it, fellow law enforcement officers, the physical altercation across the world. They basically just can't defend themselves. This is frustrating when I see fellow law enforcement officers that are that in shape. Being physically fit, I feel that I can do my job for now. We don't want to give them physical altercation no bite, but, unfortunately, there will be that one incident that you've got to put hands on and you better be ready. So you find that some of it's under some kind of drug. Alcohol is fighting. It's different if I'm somebody sober. You know, we always have, we get our beer muscles. I can be an if it's all the medication with somebody that's highly intoxicated. They're not going to feel the force that I'm putting on on at the time. The film the next day. Which guy would be ready for that? I just enjoy it. I don't see it as work. So I go on to check you cheese. If anyone knows the check cheese, just go play. You have fun. When I'm in here, it's not work. It's play time. The misconception is to use the form of ants and drugs and steroid. It's frustrating. People think that in order to make it in this industry, you have to take A, B and C drugs in general. I think with hard work and consistency, you can achieve anything. You can achieve anything. I'm going to do it right. Because I know at the end of the day, I've looked myself in the mirror and I can tell my kids. But I earn this. Now, typically I'm on a road. I'm on a road by 730 in the morning. I'm off the road by 430. I'm changing out the door by 5. I'm going to have 35 minutes to gym. I'm going to gym by 530, 535. And then, usually I'm hitting the weight by 6. I'll have to do it by 9. Oh, eat, sleep. Do it all again, groundhog day every day. If I want to work for you, because your body is not like that body. All of our bodies are different. I mean, they adapt to different things. Don't tread it. I mean, if you dread it, you're not going to like it. You're not going to last long. Enjoy the ride. It's a fun ride. I mean, it's you versus you. You know what? As long as you're happy, as bad. Don't try to work out to make everyone else happy. As long as you're happy, you look at me. I mean, I'm like, I earned that. I did that damn I look good. It's all matters that day. I was like, go to gym and in fuck shit up. That's what I do. I put my body through health with three hours and I love it and I walk out. When it becomes a true job, then the fun goes away. I like to mix it up. I like that fun. Is that you making a mix tape, you know? You'll kick him once in a while. You know, he got to make the next squat, rack, squat, heavy? Yeah, I think I'll have you. Who doesn't love that? I do, you're at, but I don't walk around telling people about the interest of my Max, this, I study kicks and I hear how much you weigh. You never see, you never tell person you've had. Because it's never good enough. I get it all the time. Dude, how much you did? I want somebody to come to you. How much you cab raise or something like that? It's always about the bench. You know? How much you try to put, I don't know. I don't know. You're being men on campus if you could bench the most. Which was in high school. But I love reps. I love torture myself. You know, pain is pleasure. I throw the biceps in with the back and I throw the triceps with the chest and some as with the shoulders. I'm not really much of a fan of bice and trice. They're like cardio. I don't like cardio. Birds to make calories. I just work out fast. If that's when the reps come in, you know? Doing a set of 50, that's cardio. You got to make time. Just like, you make time for Netflix. You make time for drinking your beer. So I pour out all these in life. And the gym is a priority for me. I don't even know what a macro is. I mean, I saw I've said that to many people and they've told me, but I don't pay attention because I really don't care. That means I got to think. I don't want to think. I just want to eat. I'm at a crazy dirty. I mean, who doesn't like burger? You only live once. You got to have fun. So it's clock awake up and protein shake. Then I'm back up about 730. Scrambling 14 eggs. Three packets of oatmeal. Back at home by 10 o'clock. Making me another shake. Frozen berries, some ice. I'm a little smoothie out of it. Love it. Hidden subway about noon. Put long enough. I'm a small amount of half. I'll smash a banana. I'm big on the way to the gym. I'll slap that subway again. Grabbing the other foot long. Put long enough. Smash that with some Greek yogurt. Next is just the same thing. Tz that way. I look up with my dad. That's simple. I don't have no. I don't look up to anybody. I'll sp him my dad. Unfortunately, he's longer here with me. But he showed me what hard work dedication consistency could do. And that's what I live by. And that's what I would try to install my kids. And the generation is in generation and soply. It's like, you know, it's building your legacy. How do you want to be remembered? That's a great, great law enforcement officer. I'm going to be remembered as a amazing father. And the person had. It was really dedicated to fitness industry. And, you know, we're tired and I earn my keep. If you have any questions contact me on Friday's base. Disco banks, Instagram, disco banks, and Daniel Banks on Facebook. For more free videos and articles like this, keep coming back to buydibilland.com.

=== FILE: Fitness 360： Kendall Lou Schmidt, Model Instructor - Bodybuilding.com [uMuf5_VNfEI].txt ===

I'm Kendall Lushment, athletic edge sponsored athlete, personal trainer and group fitness instructor. Things with fitness kind of just fell into place with me sort of by chance. I can't really remember ever waking up one day and saying, I want to work in the fitness industry. When I was younger, I never really was made to do sports. I kind of just decided one day when I was 12, that doing typo, VHS tapes in my bedroom would be a lot of fun. So that was where it all started. When I went to high school, my girlfriend and I on a whim decided to join the water pull-out team and that was when I first started weight training and off-season conditioning. I swam around, I played water pull-out, you know hours of your day to being with this team environment and I became kind of conditioned to this group exercise feeling that I enjoyed doing. So when I finished high school sports, I kind of had this hole in my life and doing the step mill or the treadmill wasn't filling it. So I started teaching spin class and then I kind of went with it from there learning to teach more and more classes. Now I do everything from yoga, Pilates, Zumba, Total Body Toning Boot Camp, Silver Snickers, which is a chair-based class for elderly people. It gets me excited. Like even on days I don't want to work out. I still know that as soon as I get there and I see my members, I'm going to be ready to rock and I love it. Being that I do teach a lot of hours of group fitness, it does have an impact on my own training schedule. Sometimes based on maybe something for another instructor or teaching an early morning class, maybe I have to re-adjust my weight training schedule to skip that day or bump it back a day. But on the positive note, it's really helpful to help me get my cardio in a fun way. I usually try to mix up my training schedule really frequently for one because I have a short attention span I get really bored. For two, I think it's just good for your body and general to constantly be doing different things. Generally, I'll do day specific to certain muscle groups like a day for my back and my core or a day for my leg and my shoulders. For me, if I'm going from one muscle group to another, I save a lot of time and it keeps the flow moving. I don't have to waste a lot of time sitting still and kind of watching the clock count down for my rest period to be over. Even though I'd done lots of competitions, I'm a cheater pretty frequently. So I was actually really good and I was going to stay on point and my competition diet was at no deliberate intention of my own gluten free. That being said, every time I ate outside of it, it became very obvious that that's what was making me sick. I was always told I had sensitive skin because I would have hives. I always thought I had IBS because you're either having diarrhea or constipation. For a long time, I thought I was allergic to other things because I would get the sore throat or inflammation. Include in so many things, it's hard to kind of pinpoint that's what it is. So go into the doctor and tell him that we ran the test and I came back positive for silly act disease. Condition where every time you ingest gluten, you get very sick. It actually affects the lining of your small intestine. It makes you deficient in several nutrients and it can also make you more permeable to different infections. There's also studies out that show that gluten intolerance is a real condition. It's hard to diagnose, but there are many people that say, oh, gluten upsets me and it's true. It does. It's not eating gluten, makes somebody feel better, more power to ya, being gluten free is not going to hurt anyone in any way. So if you like it, why not? Well, I have made a lot of really good recipes that are gluten free. I'll be honest in saying that I've also had a lot of flops. Luckily, a lot of manufacturers now are coming out with all purpose flour that is gluten free and it cooks just like normal, run of the mill wheat flour. So in that aspect, you could make pretty much anything you would with flour. I do a lot of recipes with protein powder because I try to keep my protein intake relatively high. When I'm eating things, I try to get protein in every meal and snack. So if I can use my protein powder to create something that I can actually bite and chew and eat, I get a lot more satisfaction out of it versus drinking a protein shake. It's like, where's my meal to go with my drink? For me, every morning, I always take my supplement with my green tea and my green coffee bean extract, sugar free and all natural flavors. So I drink it instead of coffee. Coffee for some reason, the acidity kind of upsets my stomach if I want to go workout. I'm not the type of girl that says, you know, I don't sweat, I sparkle, like I do not sparkle, I sweat. Getting rehydrated and replenishing my electrolytes is really important if I want to feel good after my workout and also be ready for maybe a workout later that day. So I always take an intro workout. The one that I use now, I'm a big fan of because it's a coconut water base which hydrants you faster and that's probably my go-to's. The people that know me really well, like the people that are members at my gym and my clients and my friends, they're always really surprised to see my bikini model like alter ego because at the gym, you know, I have no makeup on, my hair's always up. So they'll see a picture of me maybe by chance posed in a bikini on stage or in a photo shoot that's a little bit, maybe sexier or whatever. They're like, oh my god, and I'm like, I know, it's kind of like my alter ego. Same to me said a lot of the people that see me on social media when they meet me in real life, they're a little bit surprised that I'm sort of a tomboy that I have no shame, I'm kind of a dork. So it's kind of like these two worlds.

=== FILE: Fitness, Bikini And Ms  Olympia Finals Post Show Replay - Bodybuilding.com [FStTQTUZyeg].txt ===

The Friday competition here at Mr. Olympia has come to a close and that means that we've got some big news to discuss about what we saw in the men's pre-judging. We'll do that momentarily with Larry Papi. But first, Oksana's joining us here on stage. Congratulations. You had a tremendous performance. We were all lucky enough to be there in March. At the Arnold, when he did another great routine, and I was actually corrected by Larry Papi backstage when we were doing the commentary. He said, it was not a routine. It's a performance. And every time you go out there, it really seems like that. But tonight, when you were on stage and you were doing that two minute performance, did you really feel like, man, I'm nailing this? Yes, you know, I think first time when I feel like, yes, I did everything what I can. I mean, I really nail it and all elements, I did clean and perfect. So yes, I was really happy with what I did this time. And you come out and you put on a performance like this. And of course, you win first prize again. We're starting to see a bit of a dynasty developing here where it's not uncommon for you to have the metal around your neck. Absolutely. Honestly, I'm so speechless right now. I don't know. I don't feel it because I'm so tired and exhausted and probably I need a little food to refresh myself. I'm all the time. Yes. That's a hammer. Yes. So, but I'm so happy. And proud to become next fitness Olympia, especially after a delegate here who is my inspiration. And it's just, I don't know. I was a little bit empty when she said that she's not going to compete. And yeah, I was always following her and she was a big inspiration for me. Did you see her speech when she went out? I didn't see Bataiher, the one she's on. Pretty emotional. Very emotional. He saw that she was interviewing over there for NPC news and then you came over and sort of like, I guess they sort of described it as sort of passing the torch onto you. Do you feel that sort of responsibility now? Do you feel like she's kind of passing the torch onto you now that you're just kind of this coming up and winning all these shows? You know, she is a part of the one of the middle because I become, I mean, I start to compete as a pro from 2007 and she was the first one who I met and she always support me all the time. And there was a time when I wanted to give up, but she always supported me. Yes. So I was actually talking to someone about that earlier today because you all compete against one another, but you really, at the end of the day, you're all, you know, companions because you all support each other, you push each other outside the gym because or outside the competition in the gym because that's your competition and you're trying to work better to beat them, you know, in a sense. At the end of the day, though, you still have that respect, that companionship and that, you know, respect for one another. Absolutely because fitness is a hard tough sport and this is kind of gymnastics and we always, we know how hard it is so we support each other even back on backstage just to do well, to not get injuries, you know, because yeah. Well, amazing job. Congratulations to you again. I'm getting the way it's a pleasure to be able to talk to you again on a post share with another metal around your neck. Yes. And it's always a pleasure to watch your performance as a team. Thank you for having me. We've got some more winners to talk to you and we're also talking about the men's pre-judging breaking that down momentarily. This is the Bodybuilding.com official stream from the 50th Annual Mr. Olympia live from Las Vegas. It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at Bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds and lives for free. Now it's completely disgusted with the way I look. Not so much so I ain't going out like that. Bodybuilding.com has complete fitness plans from the best experts, athletes and personal trainers to help you accomplish any goal. My health just started to decline and I wasn't happy anymore. Bodybuilding.com changed my life. Answer a few quick questions and Bodybuilding.com will provide your perfect plan. You can definitely change your life. I'm a prime example at it. I can go on to Bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Bodybuilding.com has everything you need to burn fat, build muscle and become your best self. Go to Bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free. We're going to be recreating the workouts from phase one of a breakthrough free acid HMB study done at the University of Tampa. It's the ClearMustle Challenge. Guys ready? Let's do this. Do you want game? Yeah! ClearMustle Challenge. These guys brought her her all week. Can you? The results are clear. ClearMustle is the most powerful supplement and sports nutrition history. Only from Muscle Tech. We are live in Las Vegas. It is the Bodybuilding.com. Potio Stream Friday is wrapped up. Once again, Ashley Colt-Wasser is here on stage with another medal around your neck. This is history that has been made tonight as well. Never have we seen somebody repeat as the bikini champion at Olympia so congratulations on making history tonight. Thank you. Thank you so much. To come off of a win at the Arnold and follow it with a win at the Olympia as well. Things could not be going better for you right now. It's been a good year. The sports been good to me and I love what I do. So happy right now. These girls were talking on the post show about what a rich field that it was this year with the competition here at Mr. Olympia. Then actually one of the judges grabbed the mic and said, I'm, I kid you not this is the best class that we've ever seen. Some really high praise to know that you're at the top of that class. Yeah, oh my gosh, it's an honor. It sounds so cliche just to be at this level where I'm at and competing with all these women. I used to be one of those girls that looked up to a lot of the girls on stage that I compete with. So to be one of those girls now, it's, it's amazing. I can't explain it. It's been good. You girls from your perspective take us through. I mean, because we talked about how just difficult it is to be able to go out on stage and make everything look easy and carry yourself with so much grace and make sure that the show looks exactly like you wanted to without making it look like you're working at it. But I mean, they did a great job of describing in the pre-show just how much effort it takes to make it look like there's not effort in it. Right. Yeah, grace, you got to have poised like it's, you have to practice walking in heels. It's not something I usually do every day, but it's harder than it looks for sure. These heels are like five inches. And you're wearing these tiny bikinis and trust me, you have to like glue yourself in there and really get situated. So it's not an easy thing. No, you're very uncomfortable like the day of the show with everything suit tight and like everything has to be pulled up and glued in and pushed out. So you're not exaggerating. We talked a little bit about it in March at the Arnold, but you actually like glue that thing on to make sure there's no wardrobe malfunction. Right. Yes. And I must say though head to toe like you just had it. You didn't have to try. You didn't have to suck in or push out. You could just walk gracefully because you had it head to toe. It was amazing. Yeah, I told everybody like when the competition gets tough or you have to too. So I had a bring and improved package from last year. Because I think especially when you win, they want to see you improve. They don't want to see the same package each time. And everybody can get better. I don't care who you are. Even if you won five times in a row or whatnot, always refer and prove it, always something to work on. So even for my next show is coming up. I'm going to find little things that I'm going to work on and improve on. So I, you know, it's constantly like I'm trying to grow as an athlete and improve on my life. Well you nailed it and I can't wait to see your future physics. Thank you. Well let's talk about that. I mean we saw Iris hanging up tonight after winning her tenth title here at Olympia 11 if you asked some people because of the split classes. But you know, she really had built herself a dynasty. Is that something that you're thinking about at this point where you're going, okay, I want to start to really rack up these titles and be that person that's always the person to be. I would be awesome. Like I honestly love the sport. It's taking me many places. I'm going to South Korea next weekend. So in that will be my seventh country in a year that I got to travel to all because of competing. And I'm with my supplement company, guest bar and not my, but, you know, I'm sponsored by guest bar. You know, I got to travel with them and all these different places, all these opportunities that came about just from competing. So I would love as long as I can to, you know, be a good ambassador for the sport. And I'm still, you know, kind of young. I'm 25 years old. So hopefully I still have some years left on me. You're 25. You can see the world and you are the best at what you do, which I think is what everyone wants to be. So congratulations. Congratulations. And I follow you on Instagram because I'm like totally active on social media. Yeah. I'm so excited. And she does like, sprints and handstands. She's an athlete and tumbler. Yeah. I love it because you're just like an athlete. Oh, I love. And you keep following. Right. And you just keep your, you know, you just, you're always like dabble in all these little things and fitness. So it's awesome to see that. You know, I, I really want to prove to people out there, you know, bikini girls aren't just genetics and diet and cardio. No. I know first and we're athletes. It's like, I, I worked for this body my whole life. Every sport that I've done played a role in what my body looks like today. You know, I, I ran to visual college hurdles. I ran track, you know, I had a gymnastics background. So all these little things like sculpted me to what I am today. And you know, I tell people, I'm like, I might not be able to lift as much as a body builder. Maybe, but maybe I can run faster than I'm. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, things like that were athletes. Just, you know, in a different, in a way, you know, it's, it's training a little different, obviously genetics have a play into it as well. But we're athletes. And I want people to know that. And it's another story of hard work pays off, you know, you have to hustle for a long time. And here you are with that huge, really heavy looking medal around your neck. Heavy. Well, well, let you go. So you don't tip over. But again, huge congratulations to you making history tonight here at Mr. Olympia. Yeah. I appreciate that. All right. If Iris is around, we're going to try to track her down. She is here. Thanks. It's the bodybuilding.com stream. Live from Las Vegas. We'll be right back. If you're 30 days out of a wedding, and if you're 30 days out of a show, if you just want to bring those abs and tighter because you've never really hit it, this program is going to show you how to get into your goal, physique, and 30 days. I'm going through 30 days of this program with you guys. Thank you for your morning. Hold on your hand. Walk me through it. Showing you emotionally what it's like to go through this program. This one's up, man. Showing you physically what it's like to go through this program. These are hard. I'm going to do TRS jumps. Let it share. Working as heavy. Go. This is 30 days out. Maximizing your intensity and your time, getting you in peak condition through nutrition, supplementation and training. You're 30 days out. Dial it in. Welcome back. Our post show is Live from Las Vegas. The 50th anniversary of Mr. Olympia. Truly a historic event. And then I got Irish College joining us here on stage. A historic night for you too. You're already one ten titles, but this is ten full titles now. Congratulations on winning that. But you're really kind of cap things off tonight by after winning that ten title announcing your retirement. Certainly an emotional moment for you. I'm sure. But take us through the win and also the retirement announcement and just everything that you're feeling right now. I'm still floating. As you can tell, I think every time I step on stage, it's an honor to privilege to be amongst the elite athletes of the world and to actually walk off stage when in ten, eleven plus through other shows under my belt. It's mind blowing. So I'm my number one fan. I'm my number one fan. And I just think it's all in the hands of the Lord. I'm following the pass that he has set forth in me and it's a blessing. My co-commitator Larry Peppy was talking about just all of the accomplishments that you've put together with all the wins here at Olympia and that everything you do to the Arnold as well. And he said that he thinks that you are one of the most accomplished athletes in any sport. And certainly probably the most accomplished athlete in this sport. And he doesn't think that there's ever going to be anyone that catches you. Do you agree with that assessment? I would like to say that, but just like when I was coming up through the rankings in the memory was my icon in my idol. I had it on my refrigerator. That's the body that I want to emulate. And that's the body that I want to compete. And those things transpired, but at the same day, the day is going to always be someone out there wanting to break that record. I would love to keep it for every day that I have left for remaining on this earth. But I know it's going to be accomplished. It's going to be that driven person just like myself. But I'm loving it right now and I'm going to enjoy it for now. Well, it's been amazing to watch competing for Lisha. I know that you've been a big fan of Irish for years. Oh my gosh, this is like, this is my ninth Olympia coming to you. And I've competed in the Olympia six years in a row. So I mean, you've always looked up to you and to be able to get to that level and stay up there and maintain it because they always say when you get to that level and you're at the top. It's harder than if you were to chase it. You know what I mean? You've been able to maintain that and that is very, very impressive. So absolutely. Thank you so much. And you know what? I want to say this to all of us as these out there. No matter what your sport is today, you have to realize those fans are the ones who's giving you that driving force. So it's a honor to privilege that I get all the emails and all of the things that come to tidy into help me be them to be a part of my prep because it's all season and it's also doing prep time. So I love my fans and it is honor. So every time someone wants to take a picture, want to say hi, we'll have a conversation. Regardless, tie, sleep dead, whatever it is. I'm there because this is definitely a privilege. Exactly. What's it like for you to watch Iris compete throughout all of these years and be so successful? And just see a female athlete just win time and time again and like Felicia was just saying, maintain that incredible dominance. Well, this is my sixth Olympia and the one thing I've always remembered is you always come in just an incredible, incredible shape. And so kind back here and just so kind as you're walking off the stage. It's because a lot of people who win, there are, it's a big fluctuate back and forth, but you like on top all the way. Congratulations. In a minute, my earphone is going to fall off my head because she's crying out. Oh, she's crying out. But we need to hear her crying out. Yes, right now. Thank you so very much. You're welcome. Every every, um, like, um, species right now, every, um, I can't talk. I'm so touched. Every compliment that I get, it's another one feeding into my heart, my soul. And it's another part of me that gives me that drive to go. So I appreciate all the things that you say because everything is not always positive. Not all the women want to look like me and that's okay. But when I have something positive come in my way, I totally appreciate it. Yeah. Well, an amazing athlete, even a better person somehow, congratulations on everything you accomplished. Yes. Thank you so very much. All right. We'll break down the men's pre-judging in just a moment. Live from Las Vegas, the bodybuilding.com stream continues in a moment. There's a moment when you must decide. A moment when you know that you've given it everything you have. Pushing your body and mind to the limit of what is possible, becoming what other stuff was in the hospital. And that's the moment you push further. It's a push fueled by the all new Enno at slow. The original free workout igniter. Now, re-engineer for explosive energy enhanced endurance and maximum performance. The new Enno explode. Push your limits. Push. Welcome back. It is the bodybuilding.com post show for Fridays events here in Las Vegas. We are backstage at the Oralines Arena. We just had the ladies at one tonight here on stage. Truly an honor to talk to them. And now I'm joined by Larry Peppy, who is, of course, talking about the men's pre-judging area. We saw really some very interesting things in that initial wave. One of the headlines for you. I think the headline for me first and foremost has to be. Phil Heath wins this fourth. Olympia be very surprised. The field does not come back tomorrow night and get it. He was in great shape. He came out a little bit flat filled up as he started to pose. So for me, Phil Heath wins this contest. Second, I believe we'll go to Kygreen. Now when Kygreen first came out, he really did not look as conditioned as he did later in the pre-judging. There were demonstrable differences that you could see on the screen, particularly way down in his legs. You could see Vascularity coming through his legs that you did not see early on, which suggested he was holding fluid. It also suggests that we could see a much tighter Kygreen tomorrow. But Phil Heath has dialed in. I expect him to win. I expect Kyde to be second. Third place for me is a battle between Sean Rodin and Dennis Wolf. I like Sean Rodin's looks. Sean Rodin and another guy who as the pre-judging went on. And this is really I think becoming a pattern which Sean Rodin's physique. Because we saw the same thing happen to him at the Arnold. Longer the contest went on, the harder Sean Rodin got. So I was just talking to Sean and told him that and he's going to start posing in his room. Before tomorrow night, which quite frankly may not be a bad idea. Because the posing clearly starts to define and dry out his physique in a way that whatever else he's doing isn't quite accomplishing. So as it went on, I thought Sean Rodin may have taken that third spot. I thought Dennis Wolf looked conditioned, but a bit flat, which also suggests that tomorrow we may see a much further condition Dennis Wolf. Because if he eats more between tonight and tomorrow night and eats up, we may see his body fill out more and see that trademark size that we're used to through his chest and shoulder region. So I think those are going to be our top four. That's the order I have them in right now. Of course tomorrow night, they will get judged again and we will see what happens. But those four really I think separate from the rest of the lineup. One other story line that I really took away from what we saw in the pre-judging is the fact that. Fill and Kai almost got into a physical arts like altercation on states. We knew the things were going to be heated going into this competition, even in the pre-judging. Yesterday at the press conference, very verbal, seemed like things got to the point where they were so heated. It almost may become physical at the press conference. But then tonight on stage, the judges actually were yelling on the microphone for them to separate because it was getting to the point where you thought this could get out of hand really quickly. With that a doubt, and I've never seen on a pro stage that level of interaction between athletes and what I could tell you for sure is I have never heard a judge that adamant yelling. That's the considers to separate and yelling to give each other space. I've never seen that level of intensity either between the athletes or from the judges yelling at the athletes. Look, it's not a great look. They clearly do not like each other. I think Kai really has a thing for fill, more than fill for Kai, but now it's become mutual. I think that I spoke to fill for a little bit backstage afterwards to ask him about it. And he said that there was a moment where Kai kind of flipped his hair if you remember any. And it hit fill, fill kind of laughed that off. But then when they were trading side tricep shots when the judge is called for it, their feet touched. And when their feet touched, he said that's when it got animated between the two of them. So look, we know that they don't like each other. The only issue I have is that at the end of the day to have a rivalry, we got to have a really close competition between the people involved in the rivalry. And so far, the past couple of years have been unanimous wins for fill Heath. Will that be the case tomorrow? I don't know, but judging from what we saw tonight, it certainly looks like a tethered in that direction. Well, $250,000 is up for grabs. Tomorrow night is going to be a big night here in Las Vegas. We will once again be alive right here on bodybuilding.com for Larry Peppey. I am Dave Fair. Thanks so much for watching. We'll see you tomorrow. Time to put before behind you and make after the reality.

=== FILE: Fittest at 40 ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 27 ｜ Kenneth Yu [5hq9e2ggig4].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Bodybuilding.com. Listeners, my name is Daniel Bits and welcome back to the B-Becom podcast. Today I'm joined by Ken New. Ken has been a certified personal trainer for over 10 years and joins us as a Bodybuilding.com master coach. Using strength movements to increase the ability to complete everyday tasks for the long game is of the utmost priority to Ken and the guidance he provides. Before fitness, Ken worked in the corporate world as an attorney and he's a natural athlete who enjoys playing sports, joining functional fitness gyms, and falling in love with the overall process. Now, finding himself fitis at 40, Ken encourages mental resilience through training in his sessions, encouraging you to step out of your comfort zone and push yourself to new limits, no matter how old you are. Ken, welcome to the pod, and welcome to Bodybuilding.com. Thank you so much for the amazing intro. We're gonna jump in and have everybody learn a little bit about our master coaches here in the coming weeks and in the coming episodes. So stay tuned as we announce our roster. Stay tuned as we release more content to help you connect with them a bit better to understand who you want to work out with here in 2025. So Ken, we're jumping in. Tell us what brought you to becoming a coach and the purpose behind your journey. Yeah, so I was in the corporate world. I was a little attorney for litigation, both in tax, criminal defense, and civil litigation. And when you're in that environment, it's just like a dogfight day in and day out. You know, you're going against opponents. You're fighting motions. You are just fighting these people. And I needed to get away from that. And so I joined across with Jim. And the community there was just so amazing. You're, you're bored out together. You're lifting together. You're learning how to snatch. And clean and jerk and muscle ups. And that really inspired me to be better about myself. I spent some time spending more time at the gym. And I was like, oh man, I kind of like this. And so I got my CrossFit certification. I started being a part-time coach. And then one day I was like, I should try this. So I applied to a big box gym. I applied on a Thursday. And then on Friday they gave me an interphone interview. Saturday I went in for an in-person interview. And then a Monday morning after court, I went in for a group interview in my suit. And they made me like squat and do pushups. And they're like, who's this corporate guy? And then I was, you know, and they gave me that job the next day. So you're doing the squats, the pushups, and your suit. Yes. That's epic. Yeah, I was sitting there. And they were like, the guy in the suit, you're the one they need to squat. It's, well, analyze you. And I squat it perfectly. And they're like, oh, you can actually squat. Yeah, they thought you were coming in with the technique. And the round is shoulders. And you probably had a better squat form than everybody in the room. Coming from an environment like a courtroom. I mean, tell us, tell us the vast differences of your day to day. And you know, just how your life changed, you know, switching careers like this. Yeah. So I'd sit at court from the beginning of the day. And it's at their all day long. I get up and talk for five minutes. And then it's sit back down and just sit there all day long. And then when I wasn't doing that, I go home. And I'd write briefs and just sit and run my computer the entire day. And now I get to walk around. I get a stretch of my clients. I get to, you know, really move my body and just feel so much better. I mean, my posture has changed so much. The last 10 years of doing this. Tell us how your fitness journey has evolved over time. You started as an athlete yourself. You got into more functional fitness and crossfit. But tell us how you have really evolved to become the coach that you are today. Yeah. So I think it all started with the running. I was like a cross country kid. I was soccer player. Didn't really went to the gym at all. And remember, we were in high school. And they're like, OK, this time you work out. Everyone get on machine. We're going to go for one minute. And then you're going to rotate the next person on the next machine. So you be doing a leg press and then do a neck bend. And then you do a bicep curl. And I was like, this is not for me. I don't want to ever work out. And so all I did was run. And then from there, I played rugby in college. And I think these guys were massive and huge and strong. And I was like, oh, I think I need to work out. And so after that, I was like, OK, I'm going to start doing the gym. I started my older brother actually helped me start talking to me to do like bench press and squats. And I had really no idea what it was doing. But I started doing that. And then once I started getting good at it, I was like, oh, man, I'm pretty decently strong. Like, I can do this. And that's what really got me into like, and I'm like, OK, maybe I can body built. And I was like, OK, I did some body building. And I'm like, I found a body building coach. And he's like, this side really do it. I'm like, oh, OK, this feels really good. He made me more sore than I've ever did in my entire life. Like, I couldn't walk. I had to trick that guy down in a cage, just to get off the couch. And that was like the first part of it. I was like, OK. And then I was like, now that I'm kind of like bigger. And I was like, I don't really move mirror. Well, you know, I can only do these five lips. And that's all I can do. And so I moved on from there. And I was like, maybe I should move better. So I would go to a cross-it gym. And then they taught me how to do handstands, how to do muscle ups, how to do all these things. And I was like, oh, wow, now I can really move. I feel like this is the exact evolution that you hear all the best coaches talk about. They started as an athlete in some sort of specific sport that grew into, well, it eventually always has to transition into getting stronger and faster. So you're in the weight room. You start to develop that love. That sport may end. Maybe college is over. And injuries happen, et cetera. You fall in love with more of the weight room process. You get strong. You get fast. But now you're missing that competition aspects. And now you go hunting for the cross that the Oli lifting. Maybe you join a soccer, et cetera. So when you talk to coaches, especially those who have been doing this for a decade plus, you hear about the many lives in fitness and movement that they live. But all of that to say, I think it really transfers over well into having a diverse roster of clients and how they can speak to those clients. Sure, you can help somebody become a bit less sedative to get into a daily movement routine. But you can also speak to those who do want to go after their first marathon. Do want to start performing in a little bit weightlifting for whatever reason, do I cross with, et cetera. So I always find that parallel between the coaches that come in here. How would you specifically describe your coaching style? It's actually really relaxed. I've taken those group in this classes. We have that real sergeant that Terry Crew is looking at. I just screamed at you. I got decent results doing that. But I knew that wasn't for me. I'm not going to scream at you. I'm not going to yell at you. I'm not going to scream 321 and high five in this pump you. I'm just not that hip person. But instead, I want to give you a lot of knowledge. I want to motivate you, self-motivate you. So when I'm not there, you're like, OK, can remember to pull back my shoulder blades up for the activate my chest. And I want that knowledge to be there. And so they hear myself, they hear their my voice in their head, whether lifting, while they're doing these things. Oh, yeah, I remember that. The coach of wisdom and still in the everyday cues that they can take into their work has because that's the point, right? I mean, you don't let me speak for you. But as a coach, at least from my perspective, when I've worked with clients, it's, I want to provide you with the tools so that you can be successful in the times that you're not with me. We don't want our clients to be hyper dependent on, you know, just be having us by their side, right? So you get them what? One to two times a week if you're lucky for in-person clients, but you really want to set them up for success outside of your sessions. Exactly right. I mean, that's the key to that. For me, if you get one session and you get one tip that makes your lift a better, then you've succeeded. I think these people will want to come into a session and be like, I'm going to fix my deadlift today and you're like, no way, you can't fix everything. Like, they just focus on one thing, like engage your core. And once we can do that, then we move on the next thing. And taking a step back, it's pretty hard for some people to understand how to engage your core. Like, that's, that's usually step one. And it's like, what do you mean? My core is engaged, it's like, no, we're going to turn on some of these muscles, it's turning on that core, it's going to lead to an unlock and so many other realms. A question for you, how do you want people to feel when finishing a workout with you? So we have, we have workouts coming out with you in 2025 in bodybuilding.com's new fitness app and new experience. How do you want users to feel once they press, end workout or finish workout in that app? Yeah, totally. I want people to feel good, but slightly sore the next day. I want you to be able to come back day in day out and do this, build that consistency in working out. I think a lot of times you go in there, you blast through this 90 minute workout, your strength and sweat, you're hurt. And then the next day you can't even move. And then like, you're not going to want to workout again. You're not going to want to see me again. And you're like, oh, I don't want to do that. That's, that's two intents. Instead, you want to have this really nice, you want to feel like you worked out, your muscles feel kind of sore, but you're like, I'm right for that again. I want to put another five pounds on for that workout. And the next week, I'm going to have five more pounds. In the app and with Ken specifically, we're going to have a ton of strength workout. Strength really was the core of everything that you programmed for individuals within the app. Tell us why strength is at the core of your coaching principles. Yeah, I mean, strength is the building block is the foundation of your physical ability in everyday life. If you can't walk up the stairs at the subway station, you can't carry your groceries home, then there's a problem. And this is why you need to learn to delif. This is why you need to farm a carry. This is why you need to strength train. So you can just be healthier and live longer. A great example is my mom had knee surgery. And she was barely able to walk and had a blood-chapane. And she wasn't to her PT exercise, something like Mom, you have to do your PT exercises. And she started doing them slowly by surely. And now, last week, she hiked at a Patagonia. And so she's feeling so much better. She didn't eat her cane. So I actually walk. And that is what your fitness is about. Yeah, transferring what you're learning in the four walls of a gym to go out there and actually see parts of the world that maybe you quite literally were not fit for. But at one time, right? So I think gifting people with that ability is pretty commensible. What's your favorite movement, Ken, and why? I'm not. I'm just at the deadlift because I was awful at the deadlift. I remember there was like, I went on leg day and I was like, oh my god, my back hurts. I'm like, okay, maybe I just put it back day and I'm like, oh my god, my back hurts. And when you're really bad at something, there's so much room improvement. And I kind of avoided it. And I was like, I can't figure this out. I just hurt my back every single time. And I'm like, it wasn't like that. Good back feeling. But oh my god, I think I snapped something. And then I slowly was like, okay, let me activate things. Let me get my grip right and begin my lats activated. And then once I started doing it, I was like, oh no, this feels really good. It's sort of activate everything and you can lift the most weight you possibly can. And basically, you can teach anyone to deadlift. It's like, oh, okay, I'm never going to hurt my back again. I can actually pick up something off the ground. I can pick up my kid. Yeah, pick up that Amazon package that's coming after this black Friday. But I think the deadlift for me, I've always really, well, this, I would say, when I unlocked deadlifting and I started to feel how it's supposed to feel, it was a game changer for me and not just in the sense that I can move more weight on the bar in the sense of, wow, like I can build my entire posterior chain with this one movement. How incredible is that? And deadlifting for me, I mean, if I'm in a long car ride, if I'm coming off of a travel day, I just want to get into the gym the next day and do some deadlifts. And then it's not crazy. We're not loaning of the bar with crazy weight. But if I can find myself a decently heavy kettlebell, 80 pound kettlebell and just sit there and just do some conservative reps to activate my glutes, my hamstrings, my back. It just alleviates all of the pain points that I typically find when I'm seated for a long period of time. Absolutely. What's your advice for someone who's just getting started? I mean, someone who has never picked up a way or maybe they have and they immediately put it back down, they're a bit too intimidated to get into the gym, they start running, they're out of air within two minutes and they stop. They just can't break through that beginner's plateau, right? So what's your advice for somebody like that? I was selling the hardest step is giving out the front door, but every step counts after that. If you go for a five minute walk, you get credit for that. And if you, your people get discarded and you're like, oh, I can only walk five minutes. You may know you did five minutes and if you do five minutes tomorrow and five minutes the next day, you're going to add up every rep counts. So the more that you can just lift and do things, and it doesn't matter if you have an hour or five minutes, if you just keep going at it and building consistency, you will get there. So that's how we all started. I've been in Van Stimgore, somebody who has progressed throughout their fitness journey for a number of years now, they can lift a good amount of way. I'm talking the folks who are over the 200 pound deadlift, over 300 pound, or excuse me, over 200 pound squad, over 200 pound deadlift, etc. They've exceeded the 250 club and all of it, right? They can't get another five, 10, 15 pounds added to their one-ret max. What's your advice for somebody like that? Yeah, I would say it's equal parts, mindset, and physical capacity. So first I would look at the physical capacity if they're overdoing it, right? So I'm taking a D-load a week. You can take down the weight and really build a wider base so you can get that higher plateau. So maybe, you know, I would say, like, let's do 50 percent of it and build up from there again. I think we always like hunting for these things and if you're just constantly trying to PR, you're never going to make it. So we're saying what overtraining has a lot to do with that. Let's look at how much you're training, the training frequency. Let's look at the load. Let's understand if you're fueling correctly, recovering correctly, which is probably a larger conversation that we could sit here and talk hours upon hours about, right? You know, are we chasing a five pound PR when we're on three hours asleep? That's probably going to make a big difference, right? Definitely. Tell us about your favorite signature product and why it's a part of your daily stacking. You know, for us in signature, we're really excited. This is a super exciting time at BBCOM. We are re-releasing signature in a new and improved way in early 2025. We've removed all artificial dyes and coloring and replaced those with natural ingredients. And we are releasing a number of brand new products within the signature line. But Ken, what's your specific signature go to? Always, creatine model hydrate. You cannot go wrong with this. You know, it's like I've been taking it for almost 20 years now and it's always part of my stack. If I'm loading up my blender bottle, the first thing that goes in is always creatine. Why creatine? Most studied. Well, very well tolerated. I feel the difference in my own lifting and it will make you stronger. It will make you be at more energy. You can just, and you'll just grow more muscle. What's interesting about creatine? Well, first of all, it's now considered the most researched supplement on the market. We have tons and tons of great data behind it. Bodybuilding.com has been talking about it as early as 2002, humble bragher everybody. And signature creatine is creatine. Monahydrate. Creatine Monahydrate is very closely being associated with cognitive improvement as well over time. There are some studies out there associated with potential decrease risk in diseases such as Alzheimer's, dementia, etc. Overall, very great for muscle health. Very great for strength, but also very great for brain health and cognitive health long term. Can tell us about how you fuel your day. What's your nutrition plan, look like? So I'm a meal preper. I've been meal preping for 15 years. Yeah, that's a prerequisite for being a baby com coach. You have to meal prep. Definitely. I'm kind of like a reducer teri and when it comes to animal products, I still eat some meat. We'll do some dairy, but I try to just be plant forward as much as possible. You know, I try to eat 30 different plants and that is made me feel so much better. When I started this, my blood pressure went down 15 points immediately as soon as I ate more plants and I was like, oh, wow, this feels really good. And what do you do for recovery? I saw it three times a week. I always have a dedicated rest day. So like Saturday is, you know, like my holy day of rest, I will not work out. I will not go do something because that's how I am always just trying to do more. I'm like, how much can I run today? Can I lift today? Can I do a yoga class? I'm like, I need to take a full day off. Always optimizing. And that's probably hard as a coach to remove yourself from something that's quite literally your profession. Mm-hmm. All right, everybody. We are going to round it out with a fast rapid fire 10 for 10 here. So can I'm going to give you an option A option B and you're going to pick the former or the latter. Are you ready? Okay. All right. Here we go. This is the BB competition. Upper body or lower body? Lower body. Pusher pull. Dead lift or squat? Squat. Biceps or triceps? Triceps. Morning or night workout. Morning. Favorite book? Peak by Andrews Erksson. Good one. Favorite food. I've been New York for 10 years, so I want to say pizza. On brand. Favorite music? Hard rock? One word to describe you. Wow. Pressure's on. Uh-huh. I'm going to go with. Hopefully intellectual. One word to describe your workouts. Effective. Awesome. Ken, thanks for joining us today. The first of many, I'm sure as we unroll and unravel the BB competition this app and our roster of coaches here at BodyBilling.com. Thanks so much for joining us today and we're looking forward to working out with you in 2025. Thank you so much.

=== FILE: Formulating Signature™ Supplements ｜ Ep. 29： ｜ Steve Marada [3md0-SZfO2Y].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Daniel Bitz and welcome back to the BB Compa Cast. Today I'm joined by Steve Marata. Steve has over two decades of experience in the Nutraceutical and Sports Nutrition Industries, specializing in brand development, product innovation, and N-to-N business solutions. He has a proven track record of driving growth and disruptive product development. He's currently serving as the head of product development and merchandise in at bodybuilding.com. He oversees the strategy and innovation for third-party and private-label products, leveraging deep insights into consumer trends and category dynamics to deliver cutting-edge solutions. Previously, as divisional vice president of private brands at the vitamin shop, he managed a $350 million portfolio of nine brands, launching over 450 new skews. Steve is the co-owner and founder of Gen-Suitic Naturals and co-owner of Inner Armour Sports Nutrition. He founded Insight Nutrition, guiding global Nutraceutical brands and achieving market leadership through innovative strategies and operational enhancements. Holding a Bachelor of Science in Dietetics, food and nutrition from Montclair State University he continues to influence the supplement industry through a commitment to quality innovation and consumer centric solutions. Steve, welcome to the pod. Thanks Daniel. Pleasure to be here. Excited to have you on a fellow colleague. We work very closely on the day-to-day here at BBcom. And really the mastermind and the formulator behind all the products that we're going to talk through today, everybody. So Steve, topic number one today, building and breaking down the role of a formulator, tell us what it means to be a formulator and really the how behind the job. It's interesting. I've never heard anybody ask me the question that way. Like what it means to be a formulator. A lot of people always ask like, how do you formulate, what do you do, how do you go about it? But what it means is really interesting to me because it's just it brings on a whole different topic of conversation for me. So it always starts bottom lines as it always starts with a customer. So you always put your customer lens on, who's the customer, why do they shop in the space? What are they looking for? But at the end of the day, it goes beyond that you have to really get into the consumer and understand the fabric of them. What makes up that consumer? What makes them tick? Who are they? What are they interested in? And when you think of this space, forced nutrition space, and you think of a bodybuilding.com consumer, this is like a rare group. This is their cut from a different cloth. And the way to think about it is like these people basically have made a very deliberate decision. I would say they'd get up in the morning and work out. Like they want to walk around this world in shape. And that is a very important thing to dig into this consumer because it's a mindset, it's a culture. They look at themselves in the mirror. They want to be super proud of who they are and what they represent because at the end of the day, when you're someone that chooses to get up and train and to be in shape and take care of yourself, that's your brand. So like, this group of people that I've always known and been around, like they take so much pride in how they look and shaping their body and just trying to get a little bit better in shape. Right? They want to build a little bit more muscle. They want to burn a little bit more fat. And they just want to be proud of the way they look when they go out there in the world, whether it's going to the gym, whether it's how they dress at work, whether it's going out at night. Like there's an immense amount of pride there. And that's super powerful, you know, because I believe a lot of confidence stems from that also. So this group really dedicated so then when you ask a question like what does it mean like the responsibility, the purpose of innovating and building brands, you know, I look at bodybuilding.com, I look at the logo, I look at the B and it really has to resonate with that consumer. So what we do here really has to be the same DNA. So our logo has to be the same DNA as the customer. It's not just a logo, it's not just a B. Every single thing we do here internally has to really be exactly what that consumer is looking for. And they may not even know what they're looking for. They just they just know who they are and what motivates them, what gets them up every day. So we have to be aware of who they are. And it's all of us like we're all cut from that cloth and internally. So we understand the consumer. But then at the same time, I believe there's an immense responsibility to the B and two bodybuilding.com to push those boundaries at the same time. It's not just a matter of like what we think they want. But they expect, look, they wake up and push themselves. So it's on us to push the formulas, the products, the standards, to always bring them something that's beyond what they expect or what they even know. And that's really what it means. It's a big responsibility to make sure that we're doing that. And the way that I look at it is like iron sharp and zine. Right? So like you've got you know consumers that are training hard and pushing brands to be better brands. And then the same thing happens on our side as a brand, pushing better products and pushing the consumers. Yeah, I mean to your point, waking up in the morning that they're ready to train and we have to meet them where they are and then we have a responsibility and a duty to help them reach those new heights, right? On a daily monthly annual basis. Now there's a science behind being a formulator and you have a deep, deep past and an experience in the nutrition space. So let's talk about the science behind this and really kind of the formulation 101 there. Yeah, sure. So like, well, a lot of formulas tend to gravitate towards the science, right? And you know, you fall in love with it. If you love this business, you love the industry, you're interested in taking products that work. So you sink into the science, right? So I think that's one of the most important things you do is a formulator. There's a lot of science. There's a lot of science fiction. And look, I'll be the first one to admit, I'm an early adopter. I see new stuff come out. I get super excited. I'm like a kid in a candy store. And at the same time you have to kind of reset yourself and just say, where is the science? Where is it today? What's an efficacious dose? How do we go about this? Making sure that we deliver a product that, you know, over-deliver at the customer level because we'll take these products. You know, we want the products to do exactly what they're intended to do. So for me, it's always sinking into the science, being transparent with the label, and making sure that the right doses are there for the customer. I think there, you have to delicate the fine line between innovation and chasing trends because you and I both know a lot of brands out there are just in the game of chasing trends, you know, and being that viral brand. You know, for you, how important is it to really kind of promote the steady and the secureness? You know, that's been around for decades at this point to kind of, you know, guide people towards, you know, this is what's been working for 20 years and it's probably going to work for another 20 years. While giving them, you know, you know, throwing a bone and getting them in the flavors and giving them the collabs and kind of mixing the two. Yeah, we're not going to chase, right? So we're going to get excited. We're going to do the research. We're going to look at it, but we're not going to chase the trend, as you say. And sometimes that's painful because you see products out there, super successful, lots of sales, lots of hype. We're always going to stay true to what we believe in and that's, you know, making sure that we're there with science, back formulas and ingredients that make sense, clinical doses that make sense. And of course, look, there's a lot of, there's enough new always coming out. Okay, you just have to be on top of it. There's a lot of new science, there's a lot of new interesting ingredients, there's a lot of things on the horizon in this industry that are coming, that a lot of people aren't even aware of. So I'm of the mindset that there is always new emerging science. You just have to kind of sort through the ones that you want to sink into that have the real data behind it, versus science fiction. Well, put, see, before we move on, you know, to topic two for today, kind of walk me through the product life cycle of you have an idea. You want to start from scratch and create a new line or create a single new skew. Let's leave it at that, right? Bring us through step one all the way through getting it in a customer's hand. It's a long process. So what I would say is there's a lot of upfront research, right? You're looking at the space, you're looking at the category, you're looking at how can we improve it, right? We're not going to do something if we can't make it better, if we can't improve it, doesn't make any sense. So we start that role-bust consumer research data driven. We're understanding on the pulse, the new ingredients, the trends, all that stuff, we take it on to a count and then we take a look at what we can do to make it even better, right? So that's just part of the process. But what I would say is everything starts with people, okay? And that sounds like a little bit of a strange answer, but like for me, it's like you're building a professional sports team, you're building a business. It always starts with the right people and the right internal culture to want to make sure that they deliver a best in class product, right? So what I would say is step one for us as a business and as a company, is to make sure the right people are here internally. That just demand the best, demand that be represents the DNA of this, of this consumer and what we want it to be. So we start there with the people and then what we do is is find the right manufacturers, which is also part of having the right people, right? Being in this for a couple of decades, I've been fortunate enough to know a ton of manufacturers, a ton of raw material suppliers, there are literally hundreds of manufacturers in the country. There are thousands of raw material suppliers. So like, you know, your reputation matters, right? You've been in this business, people, manufacturers, and business a long time. You know who the best of the are. You know where to go to get things made. So like when we're talking about creating a product and bringing it to life, it starts with that culture internally to do the right thing, okay? And then it's really expertise in knowing who the manufacturers aren't, who the raw material suppliers are, right? And my approach through that whole process is, you know, trust but verify. So like, I trust people because I know them for years and I know they have a great reputation in the industry and they do manufacturing for other big companies and brands. But at the same time we verify. So like, what does that mean? So like, let's say we're ordering a product or we get some raw material in the building and it's creating a model hydrate. Well, that goes through testing, right? It goes into a laboratory. And the first thing that they test for is the identity. So they say, okay, is this what we ordered is it creating? So they test for identity right away every time. They test for purity. Is it pure? Is it clean? Is it potent? Is it everything we wanted it to be? So this, so the ingredients come in. So your hand pick, the best manufacturers, the best suppliers, you trust them, but everything still gets tested, right? To verify. So what happens is you get this purity potency and identity testing complete goes into production and then post production. There's also additional testing and then beyond that there's systematic additional testing that goes on way beyond post production process. And then where do we go from there? We wrap up the product. It's approved. Check all the boxes, right? And in your head and then we're shipping it off to the warehouse and we're getting in the customer's hands. Yeah, that's exactly right. So Steve, thanks for running us through that. I think that's a really important foundational conversation for us to have before we dive into the NIDG or the details. We're going to slide into topic number two, which is building signature. So for those of you who don't know, signature has been bodybuilding.com's house brand since 2018. Over the years, formulations have changed and evolved given the demand required by consumers with an industry. Now, what Steve at the helm of B.B.C. and our product innovation and development signature is getting its biggest facelift today. I think it's safe to say that, right? So removing artificial dyes and coloring, sourcing from U.S. based farms and ensuring ingredients are a top of the line value and are just you know, a few of the changes that are being implemented for this upcoming line Steve. So we're going to start to break it open here. But first, we're going to set the stage for signature. And we're going to talk about the core values, what are consumer centric approaches, and any R&D insights. But number one, let's start with those core values. You know, we look at quality, transparency, and effectiveness. What does that mean? It's really a lot of what I was mentioning earlier. You know, about the quality, the transparency aspect of it. It's that entire process, that entire manufacturing process, it's vetting the best of the best manufacturers. It's vetting the best, vetting the best of the best raw material suppliers. And then making sure that we trust but verifying, go through that entire quality process of vetting everything that comes into the building to be manufactured, testing everything post manufacturing, and then even testing further out from them six months later, a year later, we're constantly testing product for quality standards. And when we look at our consumer centric approach, you know, why these products were created for all levels of fitness enthusiasts, right? So why do we consider signature really applicable to any fitness level or any health enthusiasts out there? Yeah, I mean because it really is to be honest, like the nutrition doesn't change, right? So like no matter where you are, right? There's always somebody out there, there's a young kid, we all started somewhere, we all came to bodybuilding.com for advice and information, and the nutrition for them really doesn't change. So if you're a kid and you're getting started and you're just trying to get one plate on each side of the bar, the nutrition's the same as someone trying to get two plates or someone trying to get three plates on the bar. There's somebody at every level, the nutrition really doesn't change for the most part how much you need of something could certainly change, like from nutritional profiles standpoint, but in terms of products being applicable for a lot of people, 18 years and older, it really remains the same. Touch on some of those points that I brought up earlier about the entire signature line and some of the key differences from the old to the noon. By the way, everybody, this is yours at the end of December going into January of 2025, the full new line is going to be available with skews that are going to be upcoming even later in 2025. But Steve share some of the before and afters that are key to signature, like you said, removing some of the artificial dies, what are we replacing with those? Just give us the high level changes. Yeah, I mean, I think you're touching upon them, right? So if anything's not needed in, it's like get rid of it, right? So there was always a few steps in the thought process. Was one the quality, so the sourcing changed, right? Manufacturers changed. So we've improved by just going to the best manufacturers out there. Great supply chain. You mentioned US farms, right? So as an example to play off that topic, like way protein coming from US farms, like it doesn't have to, you can get it overseas, you can get protein sources from overseas. So we're changing supply chain of ingredients to improve the quality. We've changed manufacturing facilities on some items, right, to improve the quality and process there. And then we made sure that all the formulas they did get revamped to make sure that we have efficacious doses, right? So we had what I would call some formulas that were just outdated, not, you know, not like bad or anything, just outdated, right? They needed science emerges over years and things change and you need X amount of this ingredient. So we up things. So things got stronger, unlabeled, products got stronger for the most part, and then we removed unwanted unnecessary items you're mentioning. So like, you know, if products had gluten in it and it wasn't necessary, you know, we got rid of it. If products had, you know, soy in it, we didn't want it, we got rid of it. So really just to clean up and artificial dies was one of those. The Celiac sitting across from you, thanks to the gluten removal. You know, it's great Steve. Thanks for listing those. I think you and I have had this conversation many times. We really saw a large pivot in the industry since COVID, right? And Jen Pop became a lot more acutely aware of really what they're putting in their bodies. So we're seeing this massive way of the higher demand for cleaner products all around and it's great that bodybuilding.com is a definitely. Yeah, no doubt. So let's get into the fun stuff. Let's break down the new products of signature. So we're going to get to the to the the solids and the studies of signature at once. We wrapped this piece up, but people want to hear about the new products. And we're going to kick that off with the signature EAA is now. This is a product that's going to come in grape and watermelon. It's packed with the central amino acids and it has an electrolyte matrix in there, which is huge. I want you to break that open a little bit. But tell us about the benefits of this formula, this product and why you added it to the signature line. Yeah, no doubt. Well, it's it's a critical component for our customers, right? It goes back to that customer DNA, what they're looking to do and making sure that the product support their needs and then some. Right? So look, one of the major focuses we know of our customers is building lean muscle tissue, right? So EAA was missing from the line, right? So this, the way we engineered this is to do precisely that. So what we've done is we've hand-picked ingredients, right? That do a few different things. One is literally trigger the muscle building switch, right? So we have we have ingredients in the product that will flip on the muscle building switch in the body, okay? And that's just part of it, right? You have to you need a few things to do that. You know, one of the things you need is is stimulus from training. Carmelons also play a big role. Amino is play a big role. And then what you also need is the essential role materials to help you build muscle. So what we did with this formula was make sure that all those raw materials that your body is dependent on to build muscle tissue and increase lean muscle mass is in the product. Tell us about EAA's in general, when's the best time to take these? Do we want to stack them with something? What's the best way to consume this product? Yeah, listen, I've seen a lot of different ways. I don't want to say there's a wrong way or you know, anything. I could tell you personally what I like to do. And how I do things may differ depending on the day and what I'm telling training and all that type of stuff. But by and large for me, personally, let's say it's a strength day where you know you're going to go in and you're going to lift weights. I like to make sure I've got a good meal, two and a half to three hours before. That's just kind of where I start. And the reason why is I feel better, right, when I train, when I've had something a few hours before, I just feel stronger, period. But the other thing is it's alluding to what you're asking is, I like the fact that knowing that there's probably going to be a amino acid circulating in the blood from that meal, right? There's a chance to depending on the meal, the size of the meal. It was at a liquid meal versus solid meal, you know, old delays, gastric emptying, and the timing of those of me knows to muscle. But what I'm really getting at is I want to make sure there's a meadows around muscle tissue during the workout, right? And there are some things that say maybe maybe not. But what I would say is I want to be sure, right? So for me, it's all insurance making sure that I have the best environment possible for recovery and for muscle building. So I get that pre-meal, that helps. But then I'm really taking those EAAs, sipping them during the workout, right? I just want to make sure I'm feeling the muscle. I'm not risking anything. I make sure I've got a meadows floating in the blood if the body needs them. And, you know, I'd rather make sure that they're pulling them from a meadows in the blood and say muscle tissue anywhere else in the body. So for me, it's an intro workout, you know, within the workout type of type of deal. Moving on to signature hydration. So this ski will be available in lemonade and raspberry. It contains multiple forms of sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium, chloride, the replenish essential mineral is lost through sweat. So we know hydration is having a moment, right? Everybody's out there getting their salt sticks. What sets the signature hydration product apart? Well, I think again, it starts with, you know, the why? Like, why are customers taking it? Why hydration is important? What are our athletes looking for? And this is a great product because you could take it during your workout, you could sip it, you could take it before, you could take it after, you can sip it during the day, like I drank electrolytes during the day, just to drink them and mix it up instead of taking straight water. So for me, electrolytes are just like they sound, they're the electrical impulse of the muscle tissue. So it is super important to be properly hydrated and have the proper amount of electrolytes in the body because of that nerve transmission, the electrical pulse transmission of muscles and muscle contract contractions. So super critical. I'm also a huge believer in it because, you know, hydration just in and of itself plays a critical role in muscle growth and muscle development, right? You water plant, it grows. If a plant is dehydrated, it travels up and dies. The same thing happens with the cells in your body, same thing happens with muscle cells. If they are shriveling up, you know, apoptosis occurs, there's cell death that occurs in the body. So hydration alone can really put your body in the right primed environment, just for lean body mass and lean muscle mass. And in terms of what we've done with the formula, you mentioned the electrolytes, of course, it's electrolyt loaded, but it goes beyond that. You know, the forms of the product and the forms of ingredients that we've put in here also help with pH in the body. Right? There are also helping, you know, buffer that acidity in the body. So the things are chosen and crafted very specifically to make sure that you, we don't just have electrolytes, but we have things that are clearing out that acid. As you know, acid builds up in the body during training, it can be very debilitating. So we hand-picked forms of ingredients to help that process. And then we also do something really unique in the product is, is we make sure you're getting all the minerals, as well, in addition to electrolytes. So electrolytes are just part of the story. So we've had sources of minerals of over 72 trace minerals in the product, right? And these can be taken from things like sea water, can be taken from mind minerals like salt, pink, and Elaine salt. So these aspects are super critical because because electrolytes are dependent upon many different minerals in order in their enzymatic reactions that they trigger for electrolytes to work. And to your point, I mean, this is something you can sip all day long. I mean, this is not just to replenish after a workout or a sauna session. You know, you may not even, you may be a rest day for you, and this is still crucial to get in. I think we're starting to see the tide turn, like I said, hydration has having a moment, right? People are getting up in the morning, and they're looking for the hydration formulation to to hydrate after a night of sleep. We lose so much as our body goes through those processes when we're sleeping at night. And we go, what eight hours? Hopefully you're going eight hours on an inter-up did, right? That's the goal or the hope, rather. But I love to see it. And now you did put some electrolytes into that EAA, not to go back. But you put in the EAA, what was the purpose there? Again, just to ensure that hydration throughout the workout? Yeah, you want to make sure it's there. You know, I mean, look, you're, you're consoled like, you know, it doesn't hurt to put electrolytes in a lot of different products, right? You want to make sure consumers you're getting them, right? We want to make sure they're getting the full benefits. Not everybody's going to buy multiple products, right? So you keep that in mind, and you say, look, I want to be the best products for the consumer, no matter what, whether they buy one product or their, or they're fill in the basket, as we say, with multiple products. So it's a very important, you know, component of training and the formula. So we make sure it's in there and other products as well. I mean, yeah, we can take care of two things in one powder. I mean, why not? 100%. Moving on to our third newest product in the signature line, I'm personally excited about this one. It's our signature plant protein. It's the long awaited signature plant protein and delivers 25 grams of protein per serving. And it blends P, rice, and fava bean proteins to create a complete amount. I mean, I'll ask it. A lot of haters out there, right? And it comes to this. I want to talk about why you chose the blend between the P, the rice, and the fava bean, you know, oftentimes sometimes you just see that complete P protein. But tell me about this product all in all and tell me about why you chose the formulation that you did. Yeah, I mean, look, I mean, there's a consumer for plant based, right? Like you said yourself, you're excited for it. So look, we sell a lot of way, way proteins are biggest cellar. It's the biggest cellar in the protein space. And I think really people have to understand where a lot of this came from, you know, way back once upon a time, you know, they started really analyzing protein sources, right? And they would analyze them for what they're made up of, like the constituents within each different protein, right? So you can then take a look at dairy protein, egg protein, they'll look at fish, they'll look at steak, they'll look at plant sources, beans, you know, they'll go through the process. And they'll start basically really giving scores to a lot of these things. Like, okay, what's in it? How nutritious? How many of these essential amino acids are in these products? And then they take it to step further. How old is your body digested and assimilate it, right? So when they did this originally, egg actually was kind of like the holy girl, they kind of started with egg and said, like, egg is a perfect score of 100. And then they started measuring everything off of that. And then when they started measuring way protein, it bumped up above egg and it became known as like, okay, as a premier source. So plant-based proteins were always seen as not quite as biologically available to the body, right? So you take it in, and you can take in great sources and mix sources to make sure you have old-a-proper amino acids there. But maybe you're body-to-neutralism as much. Well, things have changed, things have come a long way, biological value of a lot of these suppliers on plant proteins has gone through the roof. They contain all these essential amino acids. You're asking, why do you blend certain things? Look, there are a couple of amino acids that plants can be a little bit lower in, like a lysine or methionine, things like that. So what we do is we engineer the product so that you're getting everything you need to build that lean muscle tissue with those essential amino acids being supercritical. So the product delivers, it gives you everything that you need to build muscle tissue. And if there's anybody out there with any doubts, what I would say is just look at the research, look at the EAAs, you can build muscle with many different types of protein sources. And look, if you feel like you need a little bit more plant in the blender than do so, but tremendous product and yeah, we're excited for the launch because consumers do demand it. And what I would say is to ways not for everybody, right? Even though we know it's 90% of the sales here, what I would say is use your brain like everyone's a little bit different. So if it doesn't agree with you or way protein bothers you or it's causing mucus, which some people do get from way protein, that may be a sign that maybe you don't your body doesn't assimilate it and use it quite as as well as it may a plant protein. So what I would say is it's something because there's, you know, for people that really want an alternative to dairy or just want to reduce animal consumption products because that is obviously happening. Looking forward to it, we're going to move on to our next newest addition to signature, which is signature shred, love it Steve. It's a very on brand, designed to serve as a thermogenic fat burner. This has some tried intrude ingredients in it that have been used for years now, so what makes this unique to others? Yep, not a good question. So great product is a powder, by the way, so like, you know, there are thermogenic capsules and we do have stuff like that, but this is a this is a shred powder in particular and you really need, we really needed an a powder to get the clinical doses, we wanted to get of everything in there. And what I would say is the best way to think about this product is it's multiprox. So for me, it's always starts with how do you free up fat fatty acid cells, okay, from fat tissue, right? So it's kind of like that's always like the beginning. That's why like people, you know, we'll train a certain way. The goals to really free up these fat cells and get the moving and get the mobilized into the body, right? So how do you do that with a supplement? People do it with training, you could do slow walk cardio, you could do, you know, high intensity training, there's different things that can really help stimulate the release of fat from fats, fat cells from fat. So we do that by starting with ingredients that help your body release fat from fat, okay, fat cells from fat. That's step one, get it moving in the body, number one, most critical. What are those ingredients? Well, certain things like, um, basics like, so like caffeine, I'll use as an example, has been shown to do that. Just caffeine alone, believe it or not, can increase the mobilization of fat from fat cells as one example. Then what we do is we hand-pick really the only ingredient in the human body that transports fat. So it's like one thing to get it moving, but then you really need to get fat, transport, you're like, well, why are we want to transport? Well, you're transporting it to go get burned, right? You want to bring it to the furnace, you want to, you want to burn that fat essentially. So then we do that, we hone in, and we pick that ingredient. There are some other ingredients that help, there's lipatrophics that help, but really we hone in on that one ingredient in your body that picks up fat like a bus, transports it over to get burned, and then we're using thermogenics, things that increase the heat and calorie burning calorie expenditure in the body. And that's really where it gets interesting because increasing that thermogenesis, we're sinking into things that have been shown to increase calorie burning fivefold. So that's 500% increase in calorie expenditure. So these are, so the product is thought out from that perspective, and then the final part I will say is we'll see you things that have been shown to help preserve lean body mass. So anybody going through fat burning efforts and stages is always very cognizant about maintaining lean muscle mass the same time. So we craft the product in engineer it that way so that we're addressing all of these things for the consumer. I love the bus driving to the furnace and the good one. What's our recommended intake for this type of product? How often are we taking this? Look, I mean, it can vary. You know, so I mean, we're always going to be conservative, you know, one label. So, you know, for me it's going to be a scoop, you know, but it can be done a couple times a day for sure. You can scoop once or twice a day, no problem. You can take a daily, you know, you can take it pre-work out. So there's a lot of different ways people will take it, but it's a daily use for sure. Great. Yeah. We're going to go into our second to last new product for signature, which is our appetite control. So with the craze around GLP1, we are coming out with an appetite control. It will help curb cravings and help you feel more full. Let's, let's spend a little bit of time on this one, right? Because appetite control supplements have definitely had their highs and lows over the years. Let's talk about the why behind this. Yeah. And look, I mean, the funny thing is, and you know, I love the science on GLP. I love it brings awareness to it, but the truth of the matter is is like, you know, a lot of these products and ingredients have existed in nature. You know, I mean, when I look at things, it never ceases to amaze me. It's like, whatever, there's a need in the world or for something or a goal. There's a plant for it. Like, there's literally a plant like nature has a plant for it. And that's where a lot of these farmer drugs, you know, get their inspiration from and stem from. But in terms of like appetite control, we're going to do it regardless of the GLP craze, right? Because it's always been a tried and true category. There's always been a customer that's really, you know, looking to curb appetite. I think we all are right. We all could walk around needle day. So, you know, this is something we're going to do anyway. So, you know, keeping the GLP theme and again, some of these things are not new, but just that you have to understand what ingredients to hand pick and what you're looking for. The product is engineered to do a few things and research shows like what we're including in this product. Research shows that certain ingredients, certain herbs, can just stimulate your body's own natural GLP production, okay, which is, which is unbelievable. So, just, again, they've been out there. They've been in the, in the nutraceutical world for a long time. There's just the attention hasn't been brought on them because it hasn't been become, you know, mainstream conversation. So, we hand pick and ingredient that basically helps your body produce and trigger, at least some science shows that that triggers natural production of it. But then there's also other things that, you know, acts like a GLP one agonist is what I would say. So, like a mimetic, like it'll work as it, right? So, then there's also ingredients in nature, gaining a lot of popularity. They gain popularity for GLP implications, they gain popularity for anti-aging applications. But there's also the ability to put ingredients in here, which we did, that'll also act in a very similar fashion to a GLP agonist, which you're seeing out there. And then there's things that are in ingredients that help the entire process, the whole process of this, how this happens with GLP and the pancreas and insulin and then getting to the cell. So, then we adding ingredients that kind of enhance or amplify the entire process as well. Incredible. Now, is this something, I'm on day one? Is this going to work on day one or is there some ramp up time? Everything works the minute you consume it, right? I mean, like it starts working, right? So, people ask that all the time, but I mean, theoretically, like everything starts working, right? No matter what you take, whether it's hydration or you're taking your EAAs for muscle protein synthesis, everything starts working the minute you consume it. But of course, like every place is the same thing you go to the gym, you work out, it worked day one, right? You're doing something like that. My biceps 10x bigger, everyone. Not necessarily, but they start working. Everything starts working, but of course, consistency is the key to all this stuff. Yeah, yeah, thanks for breaking that one down. We're going to around it out here with our signature diuretic. So, last but not least, it's our weight management product and a new addition to the line. And this is really aimed to help with float reduction water loss. So tell us a bit about this. Yeah, another very popular category in the diet arena, right? Like people always looking to shed a little bit extra water, some people carry extra water, very popular during the summertime, diuretic sales always ramp up dramatically then, but you can take it obviously, you're around or any time, but you know, same thing. We're engineering it with mainly a blend of herbs, right? That have been shown to help get rid of excess water in the body and really help that process. But what I like what we did on this one is we also added something that's going to make you sweat. Okay, so you get a little bit of that thermogenic activity here with this product. It's not just your traditional blend of product, blend of herbs that are going to help from a diuretic standpoint, but you will sweat from this product. You will know that you're shedding water and you're going to get that diuretic component. And yeah, you're going to feel this one for sure. I would say not to not to overdo it and really take it slow because it's going to create that sweating effect. As you're going to create that's when, in fact, even if I'm just sitting here. Yeah, yeah, 100%. Yeah, that's what you want, right? I mean, it's a diuretic. It's going to get all the water. Love it. Steve, thanks for walking us through all the new additions to signature. We're so excited to see those in 2025. We're going to move on to what we consider the studies of signature. So we'd be remiss not to mention the heavy hitters of the line that have been at the core for, I mean, the inception of signature really. So we're going to break those down similar to what we just did for the new addition. And we're going to start that combo with our number one, our signature 100% way protein. So we love a way protein at BB calm, our customers love a way protein. Talk about all the things that we've kind of touched on the sourcing the benefits the use cases, et cetera. Yeah, I mean, number one seller by far is protein and rightfully sell right because it's food, right? And that's when people ask me what to take where to start with. It's like I always sink into into food first, right? So that's why you know, protein is so one of the reasons it's so popular, right? It helps people straight out their diets, right? They're can take it instead of a meal. They can take it in between meals. It's quick. It's easy. It's a good snack. They take it tastes great. And really, you're getting that full nutritional profile, right? You're getting 25 grams of protein. You're getting all of your EAA's, right? You're getting almost 12 grams of EAA's in a scoop of protein. You're getting huge amounts of BCA's in there. All things that basically muscles depend on for muscle energy or muscle protein synthesis in the body. So yeah, great taste. Great nutritional profile, low calories, right? Low fat, low carb. It really checks all the boxes. It's a nice, easy, clean, source of protein. And you did mention, we talked about a little bit, but you know, US farms, right? I mean, let's let's not understand that. Like, I mean, it's here. It's local, it's transparent. We know exactly what's happening and you can visit the farms. You can go see them. There's sustainability. A factor there. Also, we're not flying stuff all over the globe for cheaper prices. We're just, we're sinking into local US family farms and manufacturers for our way protein. Love that. Tell everyone about some of the unique flavors that will be coming out for at the 100% way. Sure, chocolate and vanilla dominate, but you know, we go beyond that as well. Like, 30 cereals, really popular one. So you're going to get that 30 cereal. You're going to get a cinnamon cereal, which is just unbelievable. So those are just, you know, great tasting flavors. They'll be strawberry in there, which is a fan favorite. And then, of course, we're going to be adding to that as we go. They'll be flavor drops on going for the entire series. Awesome. Excited for that one. We're going to move over to our signature 100% way isolate. Okay. Let's go 101 for a second. Let's just, let's talk about the difference between a way protein and a way isolate. Like, just 101. Okay. Yeah, sure. So some similarities, of course, right? And some small nuances, but there are different customers for each believer or not. So the way that I would say to think about it is a way blend. So our way blend does have some isolate and it has what's called way concentrate in it. Okay. As well. So I say a couple things. It's less processed. Okay. A way concentrate is typically less processed than a way isolate. So what does that mean? It's in its more natural state. Okay. So when it comes when when when when you get away concentrate, the way things naturally occur in there. You'll have a little bit more fat in there, a little bit more sugar, carbohydrate in there. And then it'll also have some of the immune benefits in a lot of cases that just come along with way protein with mothers milk, right? None of that gets stripped out. There's a lot of things in immunoglobulins that things that are needed for an infant or for a calf or a baby that are basically delivered through the mother to that to that infant. They're more likely to still exist in a constituency. Get some immune benefits to it. Does carry slight a little bit more a little bit of fat in a little bit more carbs? And it can also be generally a little bit cheaper. So you know if people don't care an extra gram of fat or an extra gram of carbs and it saves them five bucks on a container. That's who really is going to pick up that way blend. What are we looking at flavors there similar to the way protein? Yep. No doubt about yes, similar flavors. As a start and where we are today with the base flavors, but certainly good expand there. Awesome. Our favorite Steve, Creatine, Monahydrate, Creatine is King. So let's talk about, you know, Creatine, Monahydrate. It is an absolute staple right there with the way protein for us. Just break it down for us. Let's just talk about why we hold Creatine on the pedestal that we do. It is hands down the most popular supplement of all time, right? Outside of protein being food and like we just discussed, these single most popular ingredients ever is creating. So your questions are good one like why? How did it get here? Why is Creatine King as you just said? And what I would say is, you know, understanding again the consumer, what their goals are, right? This is the holy grail for strength and lean muscle building, right? So I think that says a lot about the consumer base, right? And who they are and they're waking up, they want to get stronger, want to go to the gym, they want to look better, they want to edge strength, they want to add lean muscle tissue. So how does Creatine do that? I think is your question or why it does that? So so think of it this way. Easy way to explain it is this. You wake up, you get to the gym, you start training, even as we're talking here, you know, your body is using things for fuel, right? Just a function. So let's say you start, you mentioned bicep curl. You start doing a bicep curl and you start that exercise. Your body's gasoline is ATP. So it's really relying on ATP to do that a lot of that function, right? So you start that bicep curl. You're using ATP for energy, that's your body's gasoline. The problem is the gas tank runs out quick. Like ATP, this is like crazy, since your whole body relies on ATP for everything. You only have enough ATP to last. I've seen anywhere between 3 and 8 seconds. It's probably between 3 and 5 most people say you just have a very small amount of ATP in muscle cells that allow you to do that exercise and do that lift, right? So what happens? Like you burn it, you're 3 to 4 seconds in, you start depleting ATP, your body's in a med scrambled mode to make more ATP. And it does this from a lot of different fuel sources, it can pull a lot of different things in the body to do so. But really what's sitting there waiting to be converted into ATP is creating. So now your body is turning to creating to make more fuel, to make more energy, to allow your muscle to keep firing during that exercise. So that's why this has become the Holy Girl. Because we know you only have so much ATP sitting there in the muscle cell, we know it's only going to last you three to five seconds. Now imagine if you had more bits back up energy, so we're sitting there right next to it in the muscle cell, if you can get more creatine into that muscle cell. So it's readily available. Well that's a lift or dream. That's why they always said it's like it's a football player's dream, the short burst activity dream for these athletes because it gets you stronger. It gets you an extra rep or two on the bench. It makes you fire faster and run a little bit longer in terms of a sprint speed. So creatine's become the Holy Girl because of that. It also has some other side effects to it that I like in my opinion is, again, it helps the muscle hold water. In the cell, that's very different than extra cellular fluid. This puts intercellular fluid inside the muscle cell, right? And we talked earlier about the benefits of hydration being able to have better performance, you know, you get more endurance out of hydration. But just adding water to that muscle cell helps you put it in an environment where it's primed for growth. Now creatine does not discriminate. So creatine, you know, I've put my 65 year old parents on creatine which is awesome. They take a protein pattern and they take a creatine pattern every day because creatine, we've now kind of uncovered more recently, not only the benefits that you spoke to Steve but a lot of cognitive benefits as well. They're starting to be some research around all-time research, et cetera, really brain-impacted diseases and how creatine can play a positive role in the possible prevention or lower risk associated with some of those diseases. So all around, you know, our model here is creatine does not discriminate. You know, all walks can really be taking the fantastic supplement. Now, I think something that a lot of people ask about for creatine is the loading phase is the loading phase, you know, try and intrude, do I need to start out with a smaller dose to start? Am I ramping it up? What are we doing here? Personal preference, right? And I've done both. I've done both. I've talked to a ton of people in the lab. The model at this podcast is it always it depends. It always it depends. Yeah, and that's just everything in life, right? Or, you know, so what I would say is for me, I do believe personally that you will load, see the goal of the reason you're asking that and why that became popular is because people are like, well, how much can actually saturate muscle and how long does it take to be fully saturated? Like really top the gas tank off completely a hundred percent. So that there was a lot of research and people saying, like, okay, if you took a scoop a day, five grams of creatine a day, you're going to slowly build up levels, right? You're going to start filling the gas tank, but it may take you a month to do so, right? That was a lot of traditional thought. So then people said, hey, if you want a fast track, I could take the take the speed pass, right? Take this multiple times a day, right? You might take five grams scoop four times a day for a week, and that would get you their quicker. So what I would say is it's really personal preference for people. I don't load anymore, but I did load and I did find that it did fast track things for sure, no doubt about it. So but again, personal preference on that. And the other thing I'd say to just on your comments about it's for everybody type of thing. The other important thing here to notice is like you mentioned your parents, right? Or people that are in their 60s and like creatines can be super beneficial. You mentioned potentially for cognitive and there is ongoing research on the cognitive front, right? But really what's interesting to me is just the muscle strength aspect of it because there's a lot of research that says muscle strength being strong when you're older decreases all cause mortality as they say, right? So like if you're strong when you're older, you live longer. Right? You know, they do a lot of measurements like the measurement of grip strength. They like determines these things. So just as the research evolves to see what exactly how it's working in brain is people aren't really 100% sure how they're saying it may even be physiological. It may even have to do with the fact that your muscles are stronger that's impacting the brain. So there's still researching that, but the fact that it can help people be stronger is super important for elderly. I love that point. I mean maintaining the autonomy physically is so crucial to avoid the risk of injury as you get older. But to your point, we have proven now the higher muscle mass, the decrease in the all cause mortality. You know, at here all the time we're going to be the jack generation. We're going to be the grandparents that are walking around with the tattoos and the big biceps, because we're going to continue lifting. It's great to see the generations who maybe didn't grow up in the same gym culture really started to adopt this type of lifestyle, open to taking some supplements, open to strength training. We say it all the time here, just like creatine and hydration are having a moment strain training as having the moment. But you and I often say this, you know, baby comms have been doing that since day one. I mean, baby comms have been talking about creatine's 2002. We'll pull up the whole website for you here. And you know, obviously strain training has always been at the core of our business. So all in all, that's a bit of a bragging point, but it's great to see, you know, the masses really start to adopt some of the stuff for sure. Big impact on bone density as well. As you're talking about, while we're on the topic of elderly and aging, and it may be weight bearing exercise and strength may be the most important thing for bone density as you age as well. So, you know, I think, you know, let's say people in their 60s are above, you know, back to my point before maybe they were really coming up in a time where a robotic exercise was the key in the king, right? It was let me get on the treadmill and let them again on the elliptical. Okay, not a lot of a strength training in comparison to what we're seeing today, but muscle production actually starts to slow as early as 30 years old, and that's pretty crazy. So the earlier you can start adopting this routine and getting muscle on your body and maintaining that through your through the older ages, the better. No doubt. Signature pre work out. So you have added an electrolyte mix and lines main into the new signature pre. Tell me about those choices. Yeah, again, you know, so we tweak the formula, you know, we had a pre work out, so we enhanced it, made it better, and a couple of things that you do mention are new additions to it. So the electrolytes we covered pretty much in depth and why that needs to be in there, and you know, and like I had said earlier, we're just trying to put it in whatever products we can from a hydration standpoint. It's that important, right? So I just want to whether you're taking a pre, you're taking a EAA, or if you're buying electrolytes separately, just want to make sure you're getting those electrolytes and in everything you do, it's that super critical. And then we did add a cognitive components to reable component there for lines main. Lines main, you know, even goes beyond that, in my opinion. So it's known as the brain as the brain mushroom, right? But what I would say is there are a dathogenic properties in there as well from a physiological standpoint. So it just makes sense. I'm a big mushroom believer. Take a lot of different mushrooms. So that that just was a natural choice to be added to that product. Cognitive is critical. You know, when you take a step back and you look at all the products and the stores, all the products that you can buy, we're so focused on the body and the organs and the muscle, and we neglect the brain, right? The thing that's controlling everything is often overlooked. So I think it's important that, you know, that finds its way. It's nice to see that that's finding its way in sports nutrition, finally. I love that throughout this dialogue and not covering all of these products. You continue to just kind of give people really more bang for their buck. Like, let's just call it that, right? You're injecting everything that they really need into a single skew. So if prework out your thing, well, guess what? You're also going to get hydration and you're going to get some of that clarity in that cognitive benefit. And we're seeing, you know, that show up in some of the formulas that we've discussed today. So just so impressive to see and it's the right thing to do, like you said for the customer. So we're going to round it out with signature BCA's now Steve. We have some nasirs out there. Our BCA's still relevant today. You added an EIA. Do we still need BCA? So differentiate the two for us. So we definitely need both from a consumer standpoint. There's no doubt about it, right? So the history and why the evolution, you know, you really have to have been in it for quite some time to see it. So like, you know, BCA's got a lot of notoriety in the beginning, like years and years and years ago. And BCA's are branched chain amino acids, branched EIA's are essential amino acids. Exactly. Yeah. You know, so branch chains are just that. You look out of under a microscope. They look like a tree branch. They got their name that way. You know, other scientific meaning other than they look like tree branches. But why did people hone in on these? They hone in on because they made up roughly 30 to 35 percent of muscle tissue. Okay. So anytime you have ingredients that are concentrated to muscle, people start looking at it from a from a sports nutrition standpoint, like, well, why? Why is this 35 percent of your muscle tissue? What do they do? They are involved in some some muscle energy while you train. They're there. One of them can't be oxidized for, you know, for energy. It's there for muscle building itself. So you know, people start selling BCA's and consumer started buying BCA's and BCA's with a rage as well as glutamine, which is, you know, 60 plus percent of muscle tissue as well. So these amino's really got a ton of hype right? And rightfully so, they're in muscle tissue. I drank BCA's forever. And then what happens is, you know, science continues to evolve. Right? And that's why I love the business and the industries. Like, you're always pushing the envelope on what's next and what's better. And that kind of goes back to our early conversation about the consumer. Like, sometimes you know who they are. They know what they want. They know what their goal is. But sometimes it don't really always know what they want. Like, they want BCA's. But now science is saying you want EA's. Right? So, so what's the difference basically easy way to say it is you know, the EA's are nine essential amino's. You need all to build muscle. Okay? So it's like building a house. You out there you say, hey, we're going to build a house. Let's do it. Let's go. You need the raw materials to do it to construct that house. The BCA's are three of them. Okay. You need nine essentials. What does that? What does a central mean? It means you can't get it. Or you can't make it yourself. You need to get it and die it. Right? So your body's not going to make it itself. So therefore it becomes essential to the human body to consume it. Okay? You need all nine of these essential amino acids in order to build muscle, construct muscle. So the BCA's valuable. Yes, drink them. Yes. People still buy them like crazy. It's a super beneficial. If you're asking me if I had to choose one of the other, it's EA's all day long. Awesome. So, topping number five for today's Steve. We went through the signature new. We went through the studies of signature what's next because we don't stop here. We know with signature it has a road ahead of it and we're going to talk about signature series and beyond. So what kind of sneak peeks can you provide us for upcoming products, flavors, potentially our own development? I'm not going to tell you that. Come on, Steve. What I will say is what we have today, you know, we have a lot of new products coming in. It's really the core is what I would call it. Right? Your way protein's your pre-use, your electrolytes, your amino's, your creatine, your test booster, you know, we have the whole gamut dioretics, the shred you name it. Next generation is stuff that's really emerging science around leveling up things that will, you know, cost money be more expensive. Be it be maybe even different series in the line. But those are things that we're working on in the background. There's some really exciting science happening and what we're doing is we're going to sink into a lot of those things. You mentioned flavors. Yes, there will be flavor drops. There'll be fun flavors. We're working on insane flavors right now for some of these products that we're definitely going to continue to launch in terms of new formulas and exciting formulas. There'll be boundary pushing formulas that come next from us. How important is it for you to hear back from customers on some of this stuff in terms of the feedback in terms of how you're taking into account, you know, potentially future decisions around, you know, what you're thinking. How important is it to hear from the customers who are consuming from the products that you're formulating? It's the most important thing ever, like period. You know, the customer, you know, the transaction doesn't happen in an office or behind a computer or, you know, that this happens real life customers making decisions, doing research. You have to understand what's going on the market and what their questions are and how they think and what their goals are. So like we think we have a really good idea of things are always evolving. You have to listen to customers. It's number one. And I take it beyond that. It's like this isn't like, hey, let's you and I come up with concepts and ideas and just go to market with them. It's a combination of everything. It's a combination of, you know, what's research say, what's the customer say most importantly, what's internal team feel like what do you feel as a customer? You're a customer. Like I want to know what your thoughts and feelings are around product and why did do it and why don't want to. So innovation comes from everywhere, every facet of our building, comes from our customer service team, but customers are obviously at the forefront of all that. Love that. If you're a customer who's listening and you've tried signature old and new, we invite you to share your thoughts and feedback here in the comments of this episode. Hit us up in our DMs. Our team is always ready to take those on and chat with you and hey, escalate to steamerada, our area. So we're going to round out the conversation today, Steve. It's been such an insightful sit down with you, but we want to know about Steve's stack. So you've been doing this a long time and you practice what you preach. Why don't you break down your daily stack and you know, why are those your personal supplement go to? There's too much there to go through. What I would say is this. Let's get, let me think. Let's do the, what are your top three? Well, depends. It always depends. Always depends. So what I would say is if it's sports nutrition minded, okay? Let's just say where it's sports nutrition minded. Because there's also an anti-aging component going on on my brain every day. So what I would say is from a sports nutrition, it's always start with the core. Start with the basics. Make sure you get your protein right daily. So for me, it's protein every day. Okay, it's a shake every day and maybe it's one, maybe it's two, but it's at least one. So I would say that is tried and true the core. For me, the second thing is EAA's, right? So a lot of people will be amped up on a lot of pre-workouts and that'll be their next go-to. And that's really our next best sellers. A pre-workout rightfully. So my issue is is that I consume a lot of caffeine and a lot of coffee in the morning. So that's kind of my pre-workouts. Like I kind of do like a lot of caffeine and then I do my EAA's with it so that I'm making sure so for me, it's protein one, EAA's two and then number three would be creatine just because you have to for strength. Awesome. See, thanks so much for stopping by. You didn't ask it that ageing stuff. And so it will, hey, I mean, I think I'm looking at our producer, Carly, I think that's going to be a part two. Yeah, yeah, sure. Stay tuned, everybody. Steve, thanks for stopping by. Today, we're excited to see Signature back and better than ever and can't thank you enough for stopping by. We're excited to see it all come to life. Awesome. Thanks for having me appreciate your time. Thanks for tuning in to the BB Com podcast. You can shop our Signature line series on bodybuilding.com. Build your body. Build your mind. Build your life.

=== FILE: Freehand Jump Squat - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [dtJ6kOV5dUc].txt ===

Cross your arms over your chest. With your head up and your back straight position your feet as shoulder width. While keeping your back straight and chest up, squat down as you inhale until your upper thighs are parallel or lower to the floor. Now jump straight up in the air as high as possible. Exhale during this portion of the movement. As your feet return to the floor, allow your hips, knees and ankles to flex to absorb the impact of your jump. Then immediately squat down and jump again.

=== FILE: From Rebuilding Homes to Rebuilding Bodies ｜ EP 26 ｜ Yaya Vargas [ZJekznxTR_I].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com. Listeners, my name is Daniel Bits, and welcome back to the BB Compaqcast. Today we're continuing with our meet the coach series where we introduce our newest roster of coaches debuting in the bodybuilding.com app in 2025. Yadira Iya Vargas is a certified personal trainer and bodybuilding.com, Master Coach. Iya believes that fitness should feel good, not serve as a punishment. Her non-linear journey into fitness started with a humanitarian career, traveling to disaster-stricken areas to offer aid, Iya found herself helping others while enjoying the physical requirements of the gig. Returning home during the global pandemic, she knew something was missing, movement. Today, the missing piece is now her day-to-day as a functional fitness coach here in New York City. Iya, welcome to the BB Compaqcast. Thank you, thank you, excited to be here. Excited to jump in with you today, excited for all of you at home to learn about another one of our Master Coach's here at BB Com where you can work out with them. Come 2025 on the bodybuilding.com app, stay tuned as we release that in the coming weeks and months. But today is all about Iya. So Iya, tell us what brought you to be coming to Coach and tell us the purpose behind the journey that brought you here today. It's definitely been a non-linear journey. I originally wanted to go to school for travel towards a hospitality. Got into a lot of humanitarian work after where I was just traveling abroad, doing work. That was very physical rebuilding homes that were stricken by different natural disasters. And then upon returning home, COVID happened shortly after, and I think it changed the lives of many people including myself. At that time, fitness and movement was a constant in my life. And when COVID happened, it was no longer there. So when the life resumed after, I was seeking that. And through that hobby, through having fitness as a constant, is where that seed was planted. I started working at a gym because at the time, due to COVID had lost the job. So I knew that I wanted to be in the space and I figured that just getting my foot through the door by starting at the bottom of the ladder, working as a receptionist was a great way to start. And being in that environment was where that seed was planted at becoming a coach. Travel tourism, break that open a little bit. What sparked that interest initially? So travel tourism is a hobby of mine. So I do it for leisure, I do it for pleasure. And because fitness wasn't necessarily in the scene as a career at that time, just lack of not knowing other options. I figured that that would be kind of like my safety not, but there wasn't real enjoyment there in terms of having an impact or waking up and looking forward to the day. I think that's where fitness came along and really changed the game for me. Do you have a favorite location that you visited? Puerto Rico. Puerto Rico reminds me of home, which is Dominican Republic. And I've been visiting there almost every other summer and it's just, it reminds me of back home. Amazing, amazing. So tell us a little bit about your coaching style. I want what do you lean on, whether you're working with somebody one-on-one, or you're instructing one of your fantastic group classes here in New York. Tell us a little bit about your style. I want to say it's versatile. When I started fitness, it was through a lot of group fitness classes and I was doing a lot at the time. And I feel like after doing it for a year or so, I started to really learn the importance of quality of movement and not necessarily always working at a 100% intensity. So as a coach, I take on what I learned the hard way over time and I try to instill those same principles into my clients or the members who take my class. And I just try to make them keep in mind that fitness is challenging and it's going to be difficult. And it's going to be peaks and values, but you also want to enjoy your journey. You still want to keep it fine. You still want to do things that's going to get you in the gym and help you stay there and remain consistent throughout the whole time. Yeah, I think, and I'll speak to this firsthand walking into the gym where I, on structure classes, I mean, a master motivator is the best way that I can describe her and really seeing her in action. And so excited for you all to get to experience this well. Yeah, how do you want people to feel? You touch on this a second ago, but how do you really want people to feel when finishing a workout with you? I want people to feel empowered. I want people to feel capable. I want people to feel strong. That looks different for everyone. That feels different for everyone. But I'm most importantly, I want people to finish their workout and have a reason to return. Have a reason to come back and do it again and again and again. While enjoying themselves and while feeling proud of themselves. Yeah, we want the people addicted to fitness. We want the people addicted to fitness. Why is strength at the core of your teaching principles? Now, this is going to be a repetitive note here for all of our coaches. Because strength is at the core of not only their teaching principles, but our teaching principles here at B.B. Common. There's a reason for that. But what's that reason for you? I think strength for someone who learned strength training later on. I think that's when everything changed. For me, before that, it was a lot of cardio, it was a lot of hit workouts. And there's definitely a place for that. And there's definitely benefits. But it wasn't until I started string training that I actually started seeing progress in my journey. Not only fitness-wise, but I started seeing how doing hard things in the gym, little lifting, made me feel, and how that applied to everything I was doing outside of the gym. It just made me feel so much more empowered to tackle all my days and to tackle everything else that I had set for myself. So string training, especially when you've never done it before, it just feels like the coolest thing ever. It's empowering. Yeah, it's empowering. I think, listen, cardio and hit, and it's all important stuff. The heart isn't muscle. We've got to incorporate that. But strength really is the foundation of a healthier and longer life. And my background of shared on this podcast before, I started lifting it. Well, I attempted to start lifting in high school, but I really started on just in the foundations when I got into the college weight room. And I got into that weight room. I couldn't lift the 45 pound bar. I mean, I couldn't wrap that out, right? And to just see that evolution, not only for how much stronger I've gotten since that time, but just how much better I feel on a daily basis, how much less pain I have then as an 18 year old versus now today. I just think that the moment that strength is having, having, we applaud it, we welcome it, and we hope it continues. Yeah, 100% in grading. I have a similar story before I started strengthening or realize that I was strengthening. I also dealt with back pain and pain here injuries there. And through strengthening was when I started to become a lot more strong. And that wasn't having those aches and aches that I was constantly seeing throughout my day. Absolutely. I think we need to start moving away from the narrative of something hurts. Just the immediate recommendations will stop moving. No, we've got to get blood flow. We've got to strengthen the area around it. If there's pain, we've got to look at the joints above and below it to understand what the root cause is. So I think we're starting to catch onto it. I think the movement has started, and hopefully it just goes up from here. Yeah. What's your favorite movement and why? I'd love a good sled push variation or a sled. Anything variation pull or a push. The sled is such a versatile tool in the gym. You can attach it to your X there. You can maybe just push or pull without it. You can stack it up. You can use it as a strength tool. You can use it as a cardio tool. So I think it's just, you get into the sled and no matter how much weight there's on there, it's very empowering to see how much you can really push. I love that. It's very functional too. It's something that requires full body output head to toe. Yeah. What's your advice for somebody just getting started? My advice for someone who's just getting started. I will probably go with the answer that probably is expected. Leases ask for help. I feel like when I just started God started with fitness, I thought I had to figure it all by myself. I thought I had to figure out what's the best program program for myself, kind of go with these insane diet diets that I will Google and just figure it out along the way. And I think if I had reached out to people who had probably some kind of experience, whether a trainer or somebody who's been just in the fitness world working out on their own. In the beginning, it would have saved me a lot of time or saved me maybe some injuries or just taking a lot of doubts out of the equation. And it would have made the process a little bit more easier, a little bit more functional, a little bit more effective. So asking for help. I love that. Ask a friend, ask a family. Ask someone that you know who's in the industry. Yeah, find a mentor, right? I don't think that's set enough for life inside the gym. Find a mentor and have them coach you up. Absolutely. Now that you've got your own reps under your belt, what you're advice for somebody a bit more advanced? Who maybe is hitting a plateau right now? This is somebody who they're always tired. They don't have the energy. They can't get that increase in the PR that they're looking for. What are a couple of pieces of advice that you have for them? Anytime the conversation surrounds the topic of plateauing, I always like to look outside of the gym and I like to look into how your nutrition is, how your recoveries, how your sleep is, how your stress levels are. For someone who had plateau for quite some time, I know for me personally, the intensity was always there, but the quality was very low. So for anyone who's in that position, I would look into, okay, what are those things looking outside of the gym? Are you getting enough recovery enough to come into the gym and give your 100%. Are you getting enough sleep, how's your nutrition? A lot of people we want to come into the gym, we want to lift weights, we want to give it our all, but we're not being fueled properly. So we'll look into those things that are sometimes often overlooked when we think about plateauing. Yeah, a degree goes back to the core four pillars of fitness that we look at here and really has to do with, of course, your movement and your nutrition, but then you're sleeping your stress, right? Those two have certainly gained tremendous exposure over the last let's say four or five years, but they are also the last places we tend to look when we can't figure out an issue in the gym, so I couldn't agree more. Tell us about your favorite signature product and why it's a part of your daily stack. And again, signature for us at B.B.C. It's our house brand. This is our very own brand and it's getting quite the facelift as we come into 2025. So what's your favorite part of signature? I love the way protein. For me, I'm such a huge milkshake girl for, so to me, having a supplement that is still nutritionally rich that's gonna help me reach my protein goal at the end of the day while not making it boring. I love it when the look cream, so it still gives me that milkshake feeling. Sometimes I have it postwork out, sometimes I have it a dessert, and I think having those options that makes it enjoyable, just works for me. Does that protein creamys or all the rage right now? Yeah. How do you feel your day? Give us an inside look into your nutrition plan. Oh man, I love spending time in the kitchen. I will sometimes prioritize spending time in the kitchen if I am really on crunch time, then spending time in the gym. I think nutrition is super important and it goes hand in hand with fitness. So I'm a huge meal proper. I buy all my groceries, I cook home, I make it an absolute priority to have my breakfast, to have my lunch, to have my dinner, to have my snacks. So yeah, I come from a Spanish household, so you can already have an idea of how I throw it down in the kitchen, but yeah, meal prep. I love that. You mentioned you love to cook for the house, too, which you're very dish to cook for the family. So Dominican dishes for sure. I grew up in the Dominican Republic, so a lot of the plates are just inspired from what I grew up eating as a child during my childhood. So beef stew, a lot of white rice, avocado salads, beans, and all that's such. All right, we're gonna need to break for a quick snack. And yeah, yeah, it has got to throw it down out back. Last question here before we go into our rapid fire Q&A. What do you do for recovery? What do I do for our recovery? I sleep. I must say, number one recovery tool, everybody, reminder. I take a nap almost every day, at least an hour, just because I have early morning's late nights. So sleeping, definitely a recovery. If I'm in the gym, if I'm feeling sore, definitely spend some time following 10 to 15 minutes on there. I'll do the sauna if it's really like an emergency. But other than that, making sure I get proper sleep, proper nutrition, eating all of that stuff. Make sure all those boxes are checked. Awesome. All right, you ready for your rapid fire Q&A? All right. Number one, upper body or lower body. Lower body. Push your pull. Push deadlift or squat. Squat. Buy steps or try steps. Buy steps. Yes. Morning or night workout. Mornings for sure. Favorite book. Tuesdays with the morning. Favorite food. Spanish food's a minigan. Favorite music. Depends on the day, the mood, the hour. Gotta hit us with something. Let's go with Salsa. One word to describe you. Go get her. One word to describe your workouts. Athletic. Yeah, yeah. That wraps it up for today. One of many I have no doubt. Thank you so much for stopping by. Thanks for introducing yourself to our audience. Everybody stay on the lookout to work out with Coach Jaya in 2025 here on the bodybuilding.com app. Thanks for joining us today. Thanks for having me. Stay tuned as we continue to introduce you to our roster of coaches who you can work out with in 2025 here on Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Front Barbell Squat - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [9Hi_sgKPNEo].txt ===

To begin, first set the bar in a rack slightly below shoulder level. Rest the bar on the top of the deltoids, pushing into the clavicles and cross your arms while grasping the bar for control. Lift the bar off the rack by first pushing with your legs and at the same time, straightening your torso. Step away from the rack and position your legs using a shoulder width medium stance with your toes pointed slightly out. Keep your head and elbows up at all times. This will be your starting position. Now bend at the knees and set your hips as though you are sitting in a chair. Continue down until the angle between the upper leg and the calves becomes slightly less than 90 degrees. Keep your knees aligned with your feet by consciously using your abductors to push your knees out as you squat. Continue to raise the bar as you exhale by pushing the floor mainly with the heel or middle of your foot. As you straighten the legs again and return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Front-To-Back Squat With Belt - Bodybuilding.com [qtMYE-szszM].txt ===

This variation is a one to one ratio of a front squat right into a back squat with a belt. As soon as you're done performing the front squat, you're going to immediately rack the weight and then perform the back squat. Once again, you're going to be wearing your heel shoes. You're going to add your belt, pull it through, get it nice and tight. You're going to obviously be pushing in the belt with that thoracic pressure. When you set up for your front squat, pinkies on the rings, thumbs off to the smooth. Put that bar up on that shelf so you're creating with your lats, take it out, perform the front squat with some speed. You're going to do that. Rack it, immediately set up again, pinkies in the same spot, get up under the bar, squeeze shoulder blades, walk it back, air in, push out in the belt. Then rack it.

=== FILE: Full-Body Squat Rack Workout ｜ Ashley Horner [ThnXE3Lo2V4].txt ===

There was a moment that changed me from a girl to a woman. I found beauty in my strength, and I was forged by iron. I began to live for my strength. I found passion, and I found confidence. I'm Ashley Horner. The workout we're doing today is completely in one spot. So if the gym is too crowded, find the squat rack, get your weights ready, and get ready to crush it. Today's workout is a different exercise. We're hitting full body, and it's going to be a rep range of anywhere from eight to ten reps and you're doing three sets of everything. The rest time is completely up to you. If you're going heavier and more intense, I recommend that you take anywhere from 60 to 90 seconds of rest. If you're watching this, thinking that you don't have a lot of time to workout, no more excuses, because I'm going to show you how to get it done in a very short amount of time. Anytime before I start my workout, I make sure that I get a really good stretch through my IT band, my hip flexors, especially, and even my upper body. The full stretching routine that you're watching right now can be found on the page below. You can get anything from a towel to a band, and not only does this work with your stretching, but it really enhances your flexibility. For the back squat, I have set the safety racks to the depth of your squat. So before you even load the bar, you should take the empty bar, squat down, and find the depth of your squat, and then place the safety bars right underneath that point. After you squat down, nice, slow, and controlled, you're going to completely release the weight count for one second, and then you're going to explode up as fast as you can to the starting position. Making your body recruit more muscle fibers. What you're going to do is you're going to take a weight belt, tie it around your waist, it could be anything from chains. If you can find a weight belt in your gym and attach a weight to it, you're going to get to a jumping position to where you can get your chin above the bar, and you're going to release down as slow as you can anywhere from a 5 to 8 count rep down. If you are not to the point where you can add weight to your negative pull-up, these can be done just with your body weight. With the negative pull-ups, this is going to be a smaller rep range. You're going to do anywhere from 3 to 5 reps, depending on how strong your negative pull-up is. One of the biggest complaints, especially for women, is they cannot do a pull-up, and they want to do a pull-up so bad. By incorporating negative pull-ups into your training, you will actually strengthen those back muscles, the lats and your shoulders, so you can get that one pull-up in that's been your goal for so long. Our next exercise that we will be doing is power cleans. You can choose to do either power cleans or hand cleans. The purpose of this is a full body of movement, and it really elevates your heart rate, and I would shoot from anywhere from 8 to 10 reps, doing 3 sets. Power cleans is definitely a technical move, and it can be pretty intimidating, so we are providing for you a breakdown of the complete movement so you can make yourself more familiar with your technique before attempting this. So check that out on the page below. Next exercise we are doing is push-pressed. We are going to be doing 3 sets, 8 to 10 reps. I want you to load your bar pretty heavy, and really drive that bar upwards. We are going to be working heavy on our shoulders, and you are going to get that extra momentum with the push-pressed to be able to get up and under the weight whenever you explode upwards. The purpose of this exercise is also engages your full body. It is a heavy upper body lift for your shoulders. It also engages your core. At this point of the workout, I want to reiterate that you need to move as quickly as you can, but it is also very important depending on your level of fitness that you take breaks and rest in between. Like I said, anywhere from 30 to 45 seconds for more intermediate to advanced, and if you need a little bit longer, 60 to 90 seconds is going to be fine for recovery. Next exercise we are going to do is a little bit different than the traditional style of bench press. We are going to be laying flat on the floor, so there is no need for a bench. You are going to only allow your elbows to go 90 degrees, and again you are going to explode upward, locking out your arms at the top, and then a slow release down. If you do not have a proper place in your gym allowing you to actually get under the bar before the lift, I recommend either setting up the safety racks right underneath you, or these guys, which is what you would do your traditional backs squat on, to be able to get up and under the bar for the lift. From the bench press on the floor, we are going straight into skull crushers. You are going to press the bar straight up over your head with a closed grip, and then only by moving your elbows in towards your skull to where it is barely touching your forehead, and you are going to press it straight up towards the sky. Welcome to the old school training exercise of Good Mornings. Today again we are going to be doing three sets anywhere from 8 to 10 reps, and if you are a beginner at this, I would recommend that you start out with a very lightweight, even just the bar and you will feel these. Good mornings are awesome because they work your entire posterior chain. Your posterior chain includes everything from your hamstrings, your glutes, and your erector Spignet, which is your lower back. Last but not least we had to hit our core and we had to hit it hard. This training you are going to be doing ab roll outs, and you are going to place your feet close together in the kneeling position, and roll out with your arms extended as far as you can, keeping your stomach in your chest right above the ground, everything should be completely contracted, and you are going to roll it back into the starting position. I chose this exercise because it doesn't only work your core, but it is a definite burnout for your upper body as well. Your training will never get easier, you just keep getting better. I am sure that this workout has kicked your ass, and I know that you hate me, but you love me too. If you have any questions for me or if you are interested in my nutrition and supplementation, please visit my body space, Ashley Horner. Alright, bitches, be a leader and go get your thumb.

=== FILE: Funny entrance at BodySpace Spokesmodel Search - Vinny Russo [XHAeXcIC-vY].txt ===

Let's go to the ball coach. Because I've seen him times the sparse, like breathing books and embossed disparities, he likes to sleep, he likes overeating after both positions, he likes more sleep. I had an interendial degree, very ghostly me that causes him to sleep with a TV arm. So, he might come out and you're sleepwalking on that chair. But anybody who has a bachelor's degree in biology, he's a spark, he can't have my school biology teacher, he also left his own gym, and is starting his own training business. Let's have him come to the state. Let's have him come to the state. Let's have him come to the state.

=== FILE: Get Mile Wide - Brandan Fokken's Mile-Wide-Shoulder Workout - Bodybuilding.com [2cHDWsrBTns].txt ===

The human body isn't stubborn, it's obedient. It does what you tell it to. It changes when you want it to. But the right tools you can build the body you want. I'm Brandon Foken. I can help you change. Growing up, I wanted to be big and strong, so my weight training reflected that. As I got older, I developed a lot of injuries. I torn my capsules and my shoulders, I degenerated my clavicle, among other things. Someone's instead of training harder, I train smarter. I changed up my rep variations, I changed up my weights, and I started to train a lot of different angles, and I started to find that I got a lot better results and I became less and less injury prone. So for today's shoulder workout, I'm going to do seven exercises. I'm going to be doing between four and five sets, 15 to 25 reps, and rest periods between 20 and 40 seconds between sets. All right, so let's get started. So I start every shoulder workout with a variation, I guess you'd say, as a warm-up, I do a front side raise, so I start the weights in the front. I'll start between 15 to 20 pounds, and I'll work my way up. I start about 15 reps, all the way to 25 reps, just depending on how I'm feeling, and I use that as a warm-up to do four to five sets, and I do a strict form. I take my time with it, make sure I get some blood flowing, warm-up really well before I move on. On first working exercises, the seated dumbbell press. I'm going to do between four and five sets, 15 to 25 reps, strict form, and instead of pressing up and touching the weights, I usually go straight up, get a good squeeze, go back down. And that's where I start. The next exercise I do is the standing straight bar side raise. I'm going to do between four and five sets each time, 15 to 20 reps, so what I like to do is I grab right in the middle of the bar, and I kind of angle the weight up, and instead of taking it directly to the side, I take it to the side and back. I feel it in my side and my rear delt, and you're going to get a great pump from this. The next exercise I do today is a dumbbell front raise. I'm going to do four to five sets on that, and usually about 15 to 20 reps, when I'm doing the front raise, I usually go straight up in front. I don't go too high above my head, get a nice squeeze, come back down. I do different variations. Sometimes I go one arm, I go slow and alternate, or I'll throw in both arms at the same time. I'll do a hammer front raise, or I'll go alternating at a fast pace. So the next exercise I do is the standing straight bar press. With this press, I'll do between four and five sets, 15 to 20 reps, and I'll either press to the front, and sometimes I'll press to the back, just depends on how I feel. Just because I lift higher reps, it doesn't mean I still don't lift heavier. You want to challenge your body, don't always do the same thing. The next exercise I do is a seated dumbbell rear lateral. With this exercise, I'll do between three and four sets, 15 to 20 reps. Your rear delts are a smaller muscle, so I don't hit them as hard. I really make sure that I have proper form. I usually go slower with it. A lot of people actually neglect their rear delts, so you want to make sure that you do hit them weekly, otherwise you're going to have a deficiency in your shoulder. The next exercise I do is an angled dumbbell side raise. I'm going to do between four and five sets, 15 to 20 reps on these, and I'm going to increase the weight as I go. When you're doing these raises, you want to make sure that you take the heads of the dumbbells, touch them in front, and when you're raising them, you want to try to keep the dumbbells facing each other to best that you can as you take them up. This is one that's really worked well for me. Take your time with it and have fun with it. So, that's my shoulder workout. I recommend doing this workout at least once a week. Like I said, don't be afraid to change variations of exercises. You know, one week do dumbbells, try a machine, try cables, but always change it up and keep your body guessing. So if you have any questions for me, you can find me on Body Space. The name is WANASGORE WNA SKOR on Facebook at teambodybuilding.com, athlete-brand and spoken, or Instagram at brand and spoken. And for more videos and workouts like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Get Swole ｜ Cory Gregory's 16-Week Muscle-Building Training Program [LmqWx6gLf6Y].txt ===

I'm not home on magazine covers and body building stages. I train the research labs and weight loops. I won't settle, won't stop, won't quit. I'm more than a cover model, more than a power lifter, more than a body builder, more than all those things. I am Swole. Swole is an attitude. It's no holds bar, never give up, works mark, one more rep, two more minutes, get big, Swole is more than size. Swole goes beyond that swagger. Swole is the pursuit of your biggest and best self. Stop guessing, start growing, get Swole. I'm Corey Gregory, co-founder of Muscle Farm, Jim owner, natural competitive body builder and power lifter in cover model. GetSWole is a product of my life pursuit to create a muscle building program that maximizes lean mass gains and minimize spack gain. I want to make it perfectly clear, this is a clean muscle building program designed to work for anybody type. For all you hard gainers out there, you're going to pack on the pounds because of all the constant changes of the routines. With heavy weight, high volume workouts, and the correct recovery supplements and quality food. For all you dirty bulkers out there, now I've tried it. You're mowing down on hand burgers and fries, just trying to put on as much size as you can and push heavy weight. I get it, but I'm telling you, you're not going to hold on to any of that bloated mass that you put on. So this program might be like a cutting program for you, but you're still going to be putting on quality mass while you lose some inches on your waist. For all you advanced lifters, you already have a pretty good physique. You already know what you're doing on your nutrition and you already know what you're doing on the gym. But everyone likes a program change. So come on over here, train, eat and supplement with some new variables. GetSchool is a 16 week 4 phase plan. Each phase of this program is 4 weeks long and you only change your program every 4 weeks. The first phase is the foundation phase. This is we're going to shock your body to hell and lay the true groundwork for the following 12 weeks. The workouts consist of high volume supersets with minimal rest. Next is the pyramid phase. You're going to get introduced to the training technique of pyramid sets. This is where you're going to pack on some serious size and strength. Then you begin the second half of the program with the pump phase, boosting the volume. To increase your muscle fullness and overall endurance. Inspired by gold narrow bodybuilding, I've pulled work out templates from Arnold and Adam my own twist. And finally, we're going to wrap it up with the detail phase. Everything you've done for the first three phases is leading up to this. Here, your cardio vascular endurance will shoot through the roof. But without sacrificing that size. We're going to give you an end up video that covers everything you need to know from training, supplementation and nutrition. Including a scientific breakdown of your nutrition plan from most of the form executive director of medicine, Dr. Mike Kim. Plus you'll have a daily training meal and supplement guide for each day of the plan. Every sample meal and workout will be broke down in detail right here on bodybuilding.com. You're even going to be able to link this whole program to body space and sync it right to your smartphone so you never miss a beat. Build muscle, add precise size, and get swollen. Scroll down and start phase one video for full details.

=== FILE: Get your heart rate working with your goals 💪 [-RIRhk6ViFM].txt ===

Five trainings owns five heart rate train zones, right? It's only one two three four five zone one is like 50 to 60% of your heart rate and zone two 60 to 70 70 80 90 greater than 90 right? And then I'll show us what your exact zones are. So for you, you let's say your zone one you want to work on fat burn. That would be your zone one. So it's tell you the exact goal standard numbers of you need to be between this heart rate and this so X and lot, right? Zone two same thing. It gives you that nice, you know, breakdown of whether it's 110 to 120 heart rate, BPMs. It's showing you where you need to be for your endurance. So zone two would be in some endurance or in increase in cardio output. Zone three would be kind of that middle feature so that middle man that would just have that Viotimax increase zone four, which is higher intensity is more aerobic. So if you're from ProVian aerobic and then zone five is max. So for zone five, not a lot of people get to. It's more for power output in max and a lot of leave at level athletes get there because you're heart rate so high. So you're using that Viotimax. You're seeing how you consume action, how you use it efficiently and then giving you gold standard data of what heart rate zones you need to be in to start working those different systems. So it's a great way for endurance athletes. Air day athlete just to work on what they need to work on.

=== FILE: Getting Ripped And Cover Ready - Part 1 - Bodybuilding.com [SAz4Nywtejc].txt ===

What's up everybody? My name is Whitney Reed and over the past year I've been featured on the cover of just about every fitness magazine in the nation, such as Iron Man magazine, Fitness Rx, reps, men's health and so on. I'm here today with Bodybuilding.com to discuss my experiences in the fitness world and to help you become a successful fitness model. Okay, first off, being in shape is definitely important, but it's not the most important thing when it comes to cover modeling. If this is your dream, if this is your passion to be a cover model, then go for it. If you don't do it, if you don't take charge of your career, nobody else will do it for years. You have to get out and network, promote yourself whether it's going to shows, go into the X-Bos, using different social networking avenues such as BodySpace, whatever means that you need to get in touch with other people in the business. Feel free to contact me on BodySpace, Facebook, all these different avenues to get in touch with other people that are in the profession and have gone through these experiences and they can help you along. Another very important aspect of cover modeling is to choose to correct photographer. There are many photographers out there, so when you go to the shows, you go to the X-Bos, introduce yourself to these guys, make sure they're legit. That's very important. There are some photographers out there that will use your photographs for other purposes or have other engineers at hand, so make sure that there are professional. They work for legit companies, a major magazine publication. Make sure your humble, make sure your polite and you talk to them, don't have an ego or an attitude. You must humble yourself. You can't go into a situation thinking it's just as fast-looking guy out there. You're the best shape. There are plenty of guys in the industry that I know that are better shaped for me, that look better than me, but a lot of photographers like to work with me because I am humble. I enjoy what I do. This is my passion. I'm easy to work with. Getting front of these guys, talk to them about shooting you. Why you're different from what you're self, why they should put you on a cover, why they should feature you. You get that relationship with the photographer. They enjoy shooting you. That actually comes up well when you actually see the picture from the magazine. I know personally that I've had some experiences where I felt that as a thousand of the best shape of my life, but because I didn't have a good relationship with the photographer, I didn't feel comfortable when shooting with them, that the pictures didn't, they came out less than desired. Being a cover model is about appearance, so take care of yourself. You have to go to these shows you have to dress well, you have to look good, you have to be presentable. Take care of your skin, take care of your hair, take care of your body, not only training, but make sure that you're moisturizing your face daily. You don't want wrinkles. For me, I'm moisturized my face five times a day. I want longevity in this thing. I don't want to have two-year run at Cover Modeling and my face being wrinkled from tanning over and over. I rarely tan only when I'm getting ready for a shoot. I'll tan a couple weeks prior to the shoot, but I use this spray tan for that because I don't want to ruin my skin. Make sure you take care of your body. Building your portfolio is extremely important. You get in the absolute best shape of your life, shoot with as many photographers as you feel comfortable with. And don't worry if you don't feel like your first couple of photos shoots go as well as you expect it. It takes a lot of feel comfortable doing this. I know with personally with my first experience as a photo shoot, I was extremely nervous, I didn't know what to expect. And I didn't think that the photos were going to come out well, but I worked with one of the absolute best photographers in the business and he made me look good on point. So don't worry about it if you don't feel comfortable with first. It takes many, many tries to get to be comfortable on screen on camera whatever you're doing. And since that first photo shoot, I felt more comfortable in front of camera and I've gone from there. Thanks for watching. I'm Whitney Reed, find me on BodySpace and check back on BodyBuilding.com for updates.

=== FILE: Getting Ripped and Cover Ready - Part 2 - Bodybuilding.com [cEXL9rXpvaE].txt ===

So here we are at Gold Gym and I'm going to talk a little bit about my training techniques. I like to train heavy all year long. I focus my training schedule around the bench, the squats and the deadlift. All compound exercises to help keep that dense full muscle while you're training for a cover shoot. In past experiences I'd actually gone to more of a comfort team while training for photoshoot and I lost that dense full muscle that I wanted to achieve like I had for this previous shoot. I noticed that when I went to my photo shoots that I wasn't as hard and as full as I was previously when I was training with the heavier stellar training, I've gone back to that, like I said, I focused all of my workouts around the bench, the squat and the deadlift and dropped my rep range to four to six in the off season and then four weeks out from my shoot would raise the raise the rep range from eight to ten reps to really focus on sculpting and really getting that extra detail in the muscle. Two weeks ago with my last photo shoot I noticed that I brought back that full dense muscle that I wanted to achieve for previous shoots. So that's what I recommend is to train heavy but be consistent with that in train smart as well. It's easy to injure yourself in your training heavy so just be careful with the bench and squatting the deadlift, be smart about it, train hard, train heavy. As for training frequency, I like to train intense with weight six days per week. Also with cardio, it's seven days a week and I like to split that workout up from the two 45 minute sections. I do this first thing in the morning on an empty stomach, low intensity, that way you don't go into burning muscle mass for fuel and then once again in the evening another 45 minute of low intensity cardio. Who's my favorite body part to train or chest and triceps? These are also two of the body parts that photographers like the focus on most of my photos shoots. And listed below is the sample chest and tricep workout for you. I want to talk a little bit more about rep range. Before we go from a photo shoot, I like to decrease the weight up the rep range to 10 to 12. And this can be for anything, whether you have a photo shoot you're training for a special event which you want to look really good for really dialed in. Decrease the weight up the range to 10 to 12 and get that extra detail and definition before you. As for nutrition, I like to keep my meal playing consistent all year long. Excessive meals per day, 250 carbohydrates per day and 300 grams of protein. The protein sources I like to use lean, white meats such as turkey, chicken, and fish. With carbohydrates I stick to oatmeal and sweet potatoes. I like to clean all your long that allows me to stay in shape where I never get within 5 to 10 pounds of photo shoot shapes. I'm always ready. I know that within 4 weeks I can be ready to shoot. Starting 4 weeks out from my photo shoot I like to come on carbohydrates in half. And taking that down allows me to use a store body fat for fuel and helps me get down in a full-time photo shoot. Then 10 days before the shoot I completely eliminate all carbohydrates and that really helps burn that extra fat right before the shoot. Listed on the page below you can find samples of my off-season meal plan as well as my free photo shoot meal plan. Thanks for watching, I'm Whitney Reed, family on body space and check back on bodybuilding.com for updates.

=== FILE: Getting Ripped and Cover Ready - Part 3 - Bodybuilding.com [zefsYbIDLao].txt ===

Number one, have a goal. Make sure you know what your goal is and have a written plan. For me, I knew that my goal was to be involved in a fitness industry in every aspect. And know why that goal is important to you. Don't just say that you want to be a fitness model or you want to cover one of the a cover model, that's just like saying that you want a million dollars. Who doesn't want that? For me, fitness is a passion and I wanted to be involved in every aspect of the fitness world. Whether it's cover modeling, owning my own gym, personal training, or now my refurbished gym equipment business, I wanted to be involved in the fitness industry and I had a passion for that. Know why that goal is good for you and go after it. Make sure that you take charge of your career and pursue your goals. Be motivated. So head your goal and also know why that is your goal. So it gives you motivation to train harder for what it is that you're doing. Also with fitness modeling, you must be flexible. Track your progress. Use tools such as body space to track your progress, take pictures and determine whether you're going in the right direction or not. And if you're not, be flexible to change the approach that you're using, whether it's diet or training and get back on the right track. It's also important to kind of mentor in the business. For me, Michael Hurn has been a big inspiration. He's become very good for friends over the past couple of years and he's helped me reach my goals and help me with progress in different ways that that I wouldn't have done it personally. Somebody that's been in the business for the years and can look from the outside saying, hey, what does what you need to work on? You need to go. It's very important to find somebody in the business to help mentor you. And there are plenty of guys out there like that. So make sure that you find somebody in the industry that you want to work with and don't be glad to help and help you along in your career. Thanks for watching. I'm Whitney Reed, family and body space and check back on buddyblom.com for updates.

=== FILE: Give Yourself One Good Year! Louis Sheppard Testimonial - Bodybuilding.com [uEOuLEMkR_M].txt ===

You're looking at a man today who's lost about 105 within a year. And the reason why I'm here is because of bodybuilder.com. The reason why I'm breathing today is because of bodybuilding.com. Well, it all started looking at yourself in the mirror. And I went to a friend of mine because he's a fitness guy and say, Lou, you're getting too big, you're just going out of control. And the only thing that I was thinking about was putting a roof over my head, keep making the bills of pay. Do I got food on my table for my kids and my wife? That's what's important. That's what all men think about. So do we actually look at ourselves and say, wow, I'm getting out of control. I just turned 40 in March. So if you look in the black community, there's a lot of individuals that's dying. And the only reason why I say the black community is because this is what I know. I watched heavy-died that 40. A couple of comedians died just a past 40 years old heavy guys. I was next. I got a wife. I got a six year old son in a one-year-old daughter. I couldn't let that happen to me. There was no way I was going to let that happen to me. I decided to look on you guys website, I found your website, and looking at the transformation page. There was a gentleman there. He was about my age, 39, 360. He was 360, about the same height, 510. And in one year he lost about 100 pounds. He said, okay, this is me. That didn't move me as much. But reading the story really did because as I was reading the story, why he did it. He was on a couch. What is wife? What is daughter? Eat and chips. And as I'm reading the story, I'm on a couch with my wife, with my son and my daughter eating chips. And that kind of put everything in perspective for me right there saying, wow, this can't be right, this can't be life. I shouldn't be doing that. I promise myself, I said, I'm going to give myself one good year, to eat and clean and working out. After the year, I couldn't kill us. I just wanted to get through one year. If I could get through one year, yeah, I could get through two years. I could get through three years. But I just said one year, if I could make it through one year, things will completely be changed. I went into it just saying, I'm going to be a completely stupid to this. I don't know the first thing about working out. Let me get help. You guys got a plan. The seven day beginning to plan. That plan itself was a perfect plan for my wife and I to start. But in that process, I'd dare friend of mine that I grew up with. He passed away of a heart attack three weeks into my program and he was 37. And now at 37, having a heart attack, that's just not normal. I was looking at his casket and he was probably about 350, 360. He was a big boy, just like I was. I didn't see him. I saw me. His death kept me alive. And the reason why I do what I do now is because of him. Every workout, every meal plan is because of my friend Dennis Sheen. And we call him Tiz. I put a Facebook page up and it's called the Tiz effect. Because his effect changed my life. I hit my 100 pound mark and I was in tears. Reason why I was in tears for two reasons. One I shouldn't have gotten to that size. And the reason why I was crying because I just know I lost a hundred pounds in ten months. There's a million ways to lose weight. But if you don't do the fool correctly, I don't care how hard you are going to out. You're not going to lose weight. I'm going to just be straight up on the switch. And this is a guy who just did it. And that's when the weight started coming off like hardware. And I started my transformation. The one thing that I did is tell everybody. I told everybody, even if you didn't know me, I told you I was losing weight. Because now I got accountability partners. You might not see me in two six months down a row. But I didn't want you to see me six months down a row and say, hey, you still look the same six months ago. Then you tell me you will start to know a weight loss plan. That's how the page helped me because now I just didn't get local individuals from body space and from the community. I got California Detroit New York. I got people all over the place saying, good job. Keep it up. Keep going. And I'm somebody watching stroke my ego through your four times. I'm down. The bus driver's downtown in gentlemen's stop me. Hey, can I talk to you? You look great. My wife and I try to lose weight. What did you do? What is your secret? And that's the big question. That's the question. What's the big secret? There's no secret. There is no secret of losing weight. It's make one commitment to yourself and stay consistent. It's funny who you inspire. I'm trying to be like some of these guys and girls who's working out and doing shows. I'm trying to be like you guys. But they all tell me, no, you are inspiring us to work out harder because you're in the gym every day. You had a hard-earned working person that we have met. I had no clue. Even when I started the first three months and I only lost five to ten pounds. Individuals, hey, you keep coming here. Whoa, you must of a guy. Why are you talking to me? I'm feeling all big and out of shape. But I'm inspiring other individuals and not even know it. It shouldn't take someone passing away for you to say I'm a change in my life. Unfortunately, that's how it worked for me. But I don't want that for someone else. Bodybuilder.com. Save my life.

=== FILE: Gladiator Circuit Workout ｜ Spartacus： Gods of the Arena [OJVs7pCBPYc].txt ===

You will later the sands with the Blarden bone of all who present challenge. Begin! Okay, so here I am. My name is George Mietro Petrol, so true Greek and I got my main man, Nick Taurabai, who is on the badass show. Sparticus, God's of the Arena, as you can see, the guy is the shit. He loves to train hard core. So what we're going to do today is a little combination of a circuit training which incorporates a lot of core, a lot of stability, a lot of balance to get those abdominals. Everything is about the abdominals. This is everything. We're going to give it a little taste of the day, with Nick. Are you ready, Nick? Yep! It's like, so here we go, ladies and gentlemen, the party is about to begin. So here we are. We're going to warm up today with about three to five sets of jumping jacks, running in place and some squats. So it's not going to take too long, maybe about 10 minutes. We're going to start off with a warm up. It's about five sets. To be the five sets depending on the energy level, we're going to use later on. It's going to consist of jumping jacks, running in place and squats and some pushups. We're looking at about 10 to 12 reps. We're going to get into the workout. The first exercise we're going to do is box-challs. You always want to squat a little lower, so you get maximum explosiveness. So when you land, you want to land correctly. Well, let's see. You want to get as much effort as possible. Turn around and come back the other way. Now what this does, ladies and gentlemen, is kind of built explosive strength. So if you are a basketball player, a football player, you want to jump. If your dream is to jump and grab a rim, it's not just squats. It's this. Okay, we just finished exercise one, which was box-challs. I'm giving you Nick 45 seconds to a minute rest. The whole key today is to keep the intensity. The exercise too, there is no amount of time and there is no amount of sets or reps. You just go all the way until you can't take it no more. So what we're doing here now is adding a little bit more difficulty. You don't have to raise the leg up. But since this is going to be a lot of bands for the advanced guys out there that want the challenge, you want to keep your body straight as much as possible. So this is pretty unique. It actually works your core. Your stabilizer muscles, your shoulders and your lower back. You want to do as many reps as possible until you get to a point where you can't hold yourself anymore. This is what we call a Spartacus workout. No pain, no gain. Okay, exercise three. There's actually arc wheels. Again, it's sort of like the iron cross and the gymnastics. You're actually working your chest, your inner chest, your shoulders, your triceps. Again, note amount of reps, no amount of sets. There is no set number here. You go by how many you can do with perfect form. You can do it. All right. We're starting cold. Static cold is trying to hold it as much as you can before you fell before you fell and you suck it up to the end. To the end, keep going. Keep going. It really bad. There we go. So in between exercises, you're going to get 45 seconds to a minute rest. The next exercise we're doing now is I'm hitting it already. You probably got you probably seeing smaller versions of this drill, but this is the bigger version of the drill. So we're going to demonstrate today another way to get your core into play. So it's sort of like an abwheel crawl. You do five push-ups. Three pikes. And we'll back to the starting position. Three times. You can do three or four different exercises all at the same time where you're keeping the in a plain position. You're going to do maybe two or three sets. Two or three rounds or two or three cycles. We're trying to maximize effort here. We're trying to get all his reserve muscles and recruit as many muscle fibers as possible. We did about three cycles. We rolled up to about 20 feet. We did five push-ups. We did five pikes. Pikes work your lower abs. You want to contract your abs as hard as you can. All never sacrifice form and do it three times. You want to do at least three rounds as many reps as possible. Take about 45 seconds to a minute rest in between each side. We're using the pull-up bar. So if you guys have access to any pull-up bar, we're going to get up on top of the pull-up bar. It's an out of twist. I'm going to stand here. He's going to do leg raises and work his obliques. Two failure once again. There is no set number or reps. You want to go to fell. Here we go, Nick. If you touch me, you can do it all over again. Excellent. Wow. Wow. My hands. Two more. You're actually working your bleaks or intercostals. Everything on your side. Abs are three-dimensional. So it's not just your typical crunches and leg raises. You always want to add a twist to everything. We're moving on to exercise seven. This is our little version of a Spartan flip. We're going to do three cycles. As many reps as possible with 45 seconds to a minute rest in between. We're going to do that two more times. Exercise now. Here is a Spartan flip. We're going to do that two more times. Exercise now. Here is a Spartan slam. It's about it's a 50 pound bag. We're going to lift it up and the ground with maximum force. Slimate to the ground from the left and right as many reps as possible. We're going to do two or three cycles of that. And here we go. Everything we got. All these two. We're going to do it. That's the whole thing. That's the whole thing. We're going to run it. We're going to do it all over again. It's nice to batto slam some bun. That's what happens. You've seen it. It doesn't take that much. You're going to look like a gladiator. I'm going to love it. I don't forget to watch Spartacus. It's going to blow your mind. I also had it spin. Nothing but a pleasure sitting here explaining all these exercises. A little new. A little variation. Always have variation. Always eat clean and always believe it yourself. You can be the best you can be on Mark's thing. Buddybuilding.com. Thank you so much. Check those guys out. They will ease that best. Thanks. Thank you.

=== FILE: Glute Ham Raise - Legs ⧸ Glutes Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [TDdV0dCsqKs].txt ===

Begin by adjusting the equipment to fit your body. Place your feet against the foot plate in between the rollers as you lie face down. Your knees should be just behind the pad. Start from the bottom of the movement. Keep your back arched as you begin the movement by flexing your knees. Drive your toes into the foot plate as you do so. Keep your upper body straight and continue until your body is upright. Turn to the starting position, keeping your descent under control.

=== FILE: Glutes Training Guide ｜ IFBB Bikini Pro Amanda Latona [tuTmfGpBbPQ].txt ===

Hey everyone at BaudyDuring.com. My name is Amanda Latona. I am the 2009 Flex bikini model search championships winner. I am a team BSN sponsor athlete and an IFB bikini pro as well as I must have fit this hers cover model. I am here today going to show you a pro bikini loop training workout so you too can have sculpted bikini go on like a pro. If you're a beginner at exercise, don't worry don't be freaked out. I'm going to walk you right through everything. Start life. No you don't have to do the heavy rep range or the heavy weights like I do or don't start with all the exercises say two three instead of five. Although I train every body part once a week. I actually train glutes twice a week. I do it once on a Monday when I'm strong. I'm fresh and then I do it again on the Friday. I mean you just don't want to great but right? Yeah yeah. But you're back. Okay guys here we are on the lay press. Today I'm choosing to do my fever positioning which is feet together. It allows me to lift heavier. Get a little more strength behind me and also shapes the outer sweeps which is a very nice look to have. We're going to start heavy on this so choose a weight that it can allow you to do 10 to 12 reps if you need a spot or get one. Stay few as far as guys gotta keep it safe. So what you want to do is you don't want to start down here because you never want to have your knees going over your toes. I like to do right in the middle. Remember the higher you go up more emphasis you get on the glutes which is why we're here. Okay here we go. Also when you're doing this remember to press through your heels whenever you press through your heels basically I like to be able to lift my toes up because that's how I know that I'm definitely getting hit in the glutes. So through the heels through the heels. A way I like to finish this exercise is when say I can do 10 reps in 10 reps and then I want to do five more. I go to the bottom and I just do a very short rep range. One, two, three, four, five. I like to do that. It's a called partial reps and it just really helps burn the glutes out. Okay we're here at my stay bread exercise this time this one. I like to do lunges honestly the press has a pose to dumbbell lunges, walking lunges. I just like to be able to go heavier and I have to worry about a lower back hurting or a splatter usually training by myself and keep it at like 10 to 12 and three seconds. Foot position on this I kind of vary it but my favorite is far forward and I really like to emphasize on this the top part of my butt and that's what kind of gets it sitting out like a shelf. Like so we're hitting this second hour workout so we're still lifting heavy. What's up guys we're back on our next exercise in this is the ever popular at least to meet blood clasters. I love it if you blasts but not said we're gonna keep this at three seconds. Heavyweight I'd like to take my rep rate between 10 and 15 is supposed to be 12. I like to do a technique on this called drop test so what you do is on your lap test. You stay your weight that you start out. You do as many reps as you can. You drop the weight you do more reps and you drop the weight again and continue to do as many reps until you just can't do anymore. It gives a really good burn. It's a great finishing weight so your last step. What I like to do is I switch it up. Some days I'll do all three sets in a row on my right leg and other times I'll do right leg. Last leg right leg. Last leg is just a way to if you want to keep your heart rate up then do your right leg left leg back back. Another advanced technique to keep the heart rate elevated. Start with your right leg. All right what I like to do here check it out. Please please please please please please I don't just really shoot these reps out. I just push hold down. Push please down. Get the seat. You're back at the cuff. There it is folks. Love it when I walk in a gym and see a cuff. I like to do rep range is in this between 12 and 15 sometimes up to 18 just because you're getting a little better squeeze. You can do more with you know wider weight. You're going to do drop sets. The main thing about this is actually I can do this two ways. I always stabilize myself. So you can do the first way to do it is with the standing upright. And I do a little less weight when I do that. I'm going to come back a little bit. Make sure your knee isn't locked out on the opposite leg. Hold on and then basically just straight up. Not a thing I like to do when I go heavier. Which was up now. Main forward a little more and go out further. Really important tip. I don't go down. Never touch the bottom. You want the great thing about cables is constant tension. So this way we're leaving constant tension on my weight. This way just really squeezing that butt. Once again we talked about partials. So say if they're last set, they're third set and say we just did 10 reps. This will be our 10th row. 10. Go here. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Yes. Okay guys we're here with our last exercise and this is called the hit abduction. Or the abductor exercise. What I call it. The thing we're going to do about this is we're going to go heavier and the weight of go heavier. I like to sit more far forward instead of doing the traditional exercise where you're back up against the floor. You're holding on your squeezing out. I like to sit really far forward. It just allows me to increase the weight as you will see. We're doing this attack baby and you take it all the way out. Another thing I like to do is same thing at the end of the last set on the third set. You know just do a squeeze, squeeze, squeeze and then just do partial reps of like say five. So there you have it. That is my Goloot Robakini workout. I'm Amanda Latona. Thanks for checking me out on bodybuilding.com and make sure to come back for more content like this. Doing a rep range for that.

=== FILE: Golden Ticket Giveaway - Bodybuilding.com [368YhcNMl-U].txt ===

Let's go on it. You've got the golden ticket. Look! He's gone! What do you want it? He's gone! He's gone! He's gone! Run, draw, fly!

=== FILE: Gymtimidation & Building Community ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast [pbst9pnjUQE].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and welcome back to the BB Compaqcast and welcome to 2024. I hope you're all having a fantastic start to the year. Today, I'm joined by Kenny San Tucci. Kenny transformed his life at 15 years old, dubbing himself as a quote-unquote former faculty in a sense made of his mission to transform the lives around him. He's a former collegiate wrestler has completed eight marathons, three iron man's and believes in practicing what he preaches. He's trained in multitude of different modalities from CrossFit, bodybuilding, endurance performance, mojtai, and is currently a blue belt working on his purple belt in jujitsu. Kenny has trained some of Hollywood's biggest stars, including John Bond-Jovie, Leavescriber, and Freik Ocean, establishing himself as a force within the space. He's been featured in Top Health and Wellness Publications such as Shape Magazine, Mental Health Magazine, Men's Journal, Runners World, WillPlusGoodnessMen.com, Rebock.com, and Women's Health Magazine. He's collaborated with Top Brands such as Rebock, Under Armour, Adidas, A6, Rhone, Vidade, Bodybuilding.com, and CrossFit, Nazam, TechnoGim, and many, many more. Kenny is a creator and founder of Strong New York. The city's only health and fitness expo. Strong New York is an immersive day of panel discussions, workouts and conversations with best and class while in this professionals, industry leaders, and change makers who are sharing their expertise. You can find Kenny at the Strength Club, his private training and group strength facility in the Heart of Manhattan, located on 28th and 5th Ave in New York City. You can follow along on Instagram at Strong New York or at the Strength Club NYC. Kenny's and 2G, welcome to the podcast. That's one hell of an introduction. You're telling me, man. Wow. You know, when I think back on how long I've been doing this and how many people I've gotten to work with individuals and brands, it's actually pretty cool. It kind of gave me a little bit of goosebumps. And then having the lovely lady across from me, where are my hoodies? There we are. I'm wrapping the New York City Athletic Department. So this one on the Strong New York website has got to grab that one. No, that's awesome. I think you're so much. I mean, yeah, it's crazy because I still, you know, I'm reading this book right now. It's called Psycho Cyberonetics and talks about how, you know, it's, this plastic surgeon talks about how people, or he wrote the book and he talks about how some people could completely transform their face, but still look at them the same way, they look at themselves the same way they saw themselves before. And I think I suffer from a little bit of that myself because I still see myself as like this little fat kid from a jersey and it's hard to even with everything that I've done, you're like, I still see myself that way. But I guess it keeps me hungry in a way. Like that's why I'm always trying to push to do more. Yeah. Well, you know, those who aren't familiar with Kenny Santucci, you would have to live outside of New York City for that to be possible because I feel like you're everywhere, Kenny. So I'll across this Tri-State area. I remember you back from my solid days, but doing CrossFit at Solis and my C back before the pandemic and you hosting the fitting morning show at the CrossFit Games when I were a student there. So, you know, you're bio that we just went over and just those, you know, having you in my recent memory as well. You seem to be everywhere on the scene and community seems to follow you wherever you go. And, you know, we have a great topic cut up for you guys today. It's January. It's the biggest uptick in gym memberships that we see all year long, right? Everybody has new goals that they want to work towards. Maybe this is the year for their transformation whether that be physically mentally both. And we want to number one today define an overcome gym timidation. So number one, what is gym timidation? Well, it's another word for gym anxiety. And we see it a lot. Yes, it's a largest uptick in gym memberships of the year. But there are a lot of people out there who maybe still haven't started because they're scared to even go into that type of environment. So let's talk about gym timidation, what that entails and what you see in terms of, you know, people have anxiety going to the gym. Yeah, I think there's a couple of different levels of that fear or that anxiety of going into the gym. I was sitting with a buddy of my last night having dinner and he's a bit on the heavier side. He comes to the gym. He had rather do private training than going to a group class. And even for him to come in and do private training, he trains with one of the trans at my gym. He was talking about, he's like, well, I didn't want to go to a certain gym at a certain point in my life because everybody there was in great shape. And there's all these beautiful people. And I just felt like I'm not one of them. So I can't go. So that's one level anxiety. There's also the level anxiety where people go to a gym, like a Barry's boot camp or a soul cycle or, you know, some of those, the class form at gyms. Where people won't go into the class unless they have a spot in the back where they could be in the dark, where nobody sees them. So it's a level of anxiety there too, right? Like they don't want the teacher to call them out or whatever. I think deep down there is probably a little bit of them that wants that. But yeah, then there's going into a big box gym, right? And staying off to the side and not wanting to be seen. Now, I'm not saying you have to go to a gym to be seen, but you shouldn't have that uncomfortable feeling that like, oh my god, somebody watching, what am I doing wrong? Bubble button. So, you know, through the years, I mean, I started my first gym I joined when I was 13, 14 years old and I was just so excited to be there when you're a kid. You know, you don't know what you're doing. And at that time, a lot of people didn't know what they were doing. And there's still things that people point out, even that I do. You know, the other day I was, I put up this maestro that I was doing. So I had the club and I was swinging around. And I had a guy comment. He's like, well, you should get your handle a little bit lower on the back of your neck. And I don't take offense that. But there are people like that'll start wars and arguments over social media. And I tell them, so I think there's a bit of anxiety in everybody's mind. But I think you need to just go in there with the idea that, hey, this is whatever I do. If I'm doing it right, if I'm doing it wrong, if I'm sitting in the back, if I'm sitting up front, doesn't matter. I'm still bettering my life. You're better there than somewhere else, right? I tell people, it's your better off at the gym doing half-ass work than sitting at a bar and ripping back shots. So. Yeah, what would you say, you know, you said around 13, 14 is when you started to really put yourself in that environment. That's junk for a lot of people. Yeah. And we have 40 year olds out here who still haven't taken that step, right? What do you think, you know, mentally the biggest thing that you had overcome and putting yourself in an uncomfortable environment was? I think I was so uncomfortable in my own skin that everything else would be so much easier. Right? I was so unhappy with myself. You know, to realize that that young of an age that no one's going to help me do this other than myself. And, you know, it's a large portion of my story and my friends who have heard it are like, I know you used to be a vacuid and blah, blah, blah. I'm like, yeah, but that's where the mental scarring hurts the most. Right? Think about it. The trauma and anxiety that most people have that go they go see a therapist for. Aren't things that happened to them at 25 or 35? It's the things that happened to them when they were young. You know, we're near the most impressionable when it bothers you the most. As I've gotten older, I give a f*** about everything less. You know, I do what I do because I enjoy it. When I was in high school and I was in college, you do things to impress everybody around you. So for me, it's it's a very impressionable time in your life and I didn't like the way people treated me. I didn't like the way I felt. I didn't like what I saw in the mirror. So I was like, I need to get out of this uncomfortable state. And I realized pretty early on, you know, I started playing football. I had access to a gym in my high school and then when I wasn't in school, right? Because I grew up in North New Jersey and I went to high school in New Jersey City. I wanted to join a gym close to my house so that I could go on the weekends. And at the time you can't drive. So I'm like, I need to go somewhere close that my parents could drop me off. You know, then my older brother would, you know, come with me and we'd go to the gym. But I wanted to be somewhere where I'm like, I could continue to get better. And I started to notice differences really quick. And I think that's what people need to do is stick to it. Right? The most important thing and the one thing that nugget of information, I give it to everybody and sounds very trivial. But it's just the consistency. Right? I was just on it. I was, I was like, all right, I know that this is going to help me. Right? And I might not see today and might not see tomorrow, but eventually it's going to help me. I think a lot of people, especially today, with how many apps there are, how many programs there are online, they're really dead. So okay, I have to have this plan. But if you're just getting started, it's more so about getting up, getting in the car, getting on the subway, going to the gym and moving. And you could, anything, there's everything works, right? I tell people a time, you know, people ask me, oh, should I go do Tracey Anderson? Should I go do Pilates? Should I go run? If you're not doing anything right now, anything's better than nothing. But it depends on what your goals are, right? If I want to look better aesthetically, well, then bodybuilding is going to be at the top of my list. If I want to get stronger, well, then power lifting will probably be at the top of my list. You know, there's certain things that if I want to be a runner, well, then I should start running more, right? So all those things, it's like, you need to find your tribe and your outlet. And one of the, I just did a video the other night that we shot my gym, and I was talking about, from the outside looking in, there are still people who are like we're talking about, trying to find where they want to start their journey, or where they want to continue their journey. And you look at a big box gym, like lifetime or equinox, or one of these, and you're like, oh, they have all these amenities, and they have all this room, and they have all this but they might not need, they might not have the one thing that you need to continue to keep you going there, right? And most of the time, it's a community, or it's a tribe leader that you're like, wow, I really like that girl, I really like that guy. I need him to her, to guide me through this, because I really don't know what they're like, I'm doing. And then there are people who know what they're doing, who just need the accountability. I have a buddy of mine who's 48 years old, 49 years old. He doesn't work out unless he comes to my gym. He's like, if you're not around, I don't work out. So I need to come work out. So there's a lot of people like that. I'm the same way. I'm in the gym. If one of my clients says in show up, like, of course, I'll do like my own shit, I'll mess around. But I'll work out twice as hard. I had these young guys who I do, due to the kids who came in the other day, they're unsunday. And they were like, hey, show us some stuff that we can, that's more like sports specific to GG2. We work out for two and a half hours. I haven't worked out that hard in a long time. My hamstrings are still killing me. But I was so excited to be working out with like these younger guys, and I'm trying to keep up with them and you know, share what I know with them that I worked out, you know, it was probably the best work out I've had in like two weeks, three weeks. So I tell people, it's like, it's not the equipment. It's not the gym. It's not all the extra stuff. It might be someone or a group of people that really get you fired up. And that's what I think people should look for more, not necessarily the building or the equipment or any of that. It's like, it's the people that you who are, you know, keep you accountable for a long time. Yeah. So I think there's a couple of different scenarios, right? One, if you're not doing anything, just adding in any sort of move, go for a freaking walk, right? Just people, I think people, and I love that we're starting to see it more and more in conversations, just walk. Yeah. Right? We've over-complicated just moving our bodies at a very simple right now. You need to, you know, that can't be the only thing that you do. But again, if you're going from sitting on the couch to now walking to your errands and picking up a couple of weights, you're going to see change and you're going to see it fast. If you're someone who's been trained for years, and you're like, hey, I really, you know, I want to run my first marathon. I want to do my first, okay, well, that's a different story. Let's get a solid plan in place. But at the end of the day, I think if we're talking about defining our overcoming rather gym intimidation, I think to your point, finding a community and finding people, you can learn to have fun with because if you're not having fun moving, what's going to motivate you to get there the next day? Yeah, and I tell people, like, oh, I love, I'm like, all right, where do you like going? Because if you look at it from like an aerial view, it's like, okay, you get up, you're at home, you go to work, right, or you go, you're home, you go to the gym, you go to work, you go back home, right? That's what most people's days are. I said, if you were to fill in the gym with a bar or some, are you going alone or you go by yourself? Who else is there? Why do you go there? What else is there that draws you there? Because eventually the aesthetics of a place, don't really do anything for you. You know, you're better off going where there's a tribe of people or there's community or group or one individual where you're like, all right, this is why I'm going, this is what helps me out, this would drives me there. And I encourage people all the time, you know, there's nothing wrong with using apps and all the ****. And you know, staying at home, but get out. Like it's crazy to me that you're going to work out, eat, live, sleep in your apartment. Like go out and meet people and I think that's what people suffer from the most too is they get, somebody who's been to the gym a lot or goes to the gym or has it's been part of the routine for well, kind of get stagnant. So they're looking for something else, join a run club or whatever it may be. And the people who, you know, don't want to engage in that, well, there's a reason why you're almost like stuck in a way and you need to go and find someone else or some group of people that could help you continue to move on. And that's new people, that's old, you know, new people to the gym that's people have been to go into the gym for a while. It affects all of us. And I think to, you know, with the rise of apps, with the rise of some of these companies who are often more and more online programming, it's great for convenience. It's great when you're in a bind, it's great for traveling. It's a good filler, but it shouldn't be the end all beyond to your point. I would challenge anybody who's kind of found themselves stuck in the app realm for the last couple of years, especially given the nature of where we've been, right? But where we're coming out of now, go take a class, go to a yoga class, go to a hit class, go to a strength class, go do something where you're in a room with 10, 12, 15, 20 other people and see how you feel after that workout and comparison to how you felt after doing, you know, your spin class at home, right? Because when I even a yoga class for me, I go to a yoga class and you're just breathing with other people and you're moving in sync with other people. And that class ends, I don't feel dialed in more than I do in that moment. I watched his documentary on there was a young man that they had locked up here in New York and he got lost in the system and they were talking about the effects of being in solitary confinement and being locked up and what it does to the human brain. And after 24 to 48 hours, your brain starts to atrophy. It starts to, you know, physically reform because you're not around other people. Like we need to be around other people. We realize it's a society thousands of years ago that the worst thing you could do to one of us is leave us in isolation. And then when you're in isolation, the worst thing you could do to you then is put you in further isolation, right? Because death that you'll welcome death at that point. So if you're choosing to be alone all the time because our brains don't really understand the screen, right? It's not the same chemical exchange if we're in front of someone, right? Like I could feel that you're here. If you were on the screen, it's like, you know, my mind's drifting on the earth, but we're engaged in a conversation. You're engaged in whatever activity you're doing when there's other people doing it. Sure, your mind could drift a little bit, but you're in a room full of other people who are trying to do the same thing. And I think with anything, with a company, right? But the fact that you guys are at strong, right? Just legitimize it, right? We're now a part of something bigger than us, right? And what I want to do with strong have more people feel that it's like something that we could all move forward together. This is the vehicle that we're all on. It's not about one person. It's about everybody. So move in your self-forward with a group of people just feels better. Right? And I think, you know, I think all of us who are chasing, you know, that quote unquote optimal health. We hear that word optimal, optimized, right? That's big lately. Part of optimal health is building relationships and having and maintaining relationships, meeting new people, having engaging new conversation and challenging your brain in new ways. We love to focus on things like moving and nutrition. And now, thankfully, we're focusing more on sleep and stress. Those are equally as part of the first two. But relationships I feel like it's still that trail, that trailing, you know, key piece along Jebady that we're now starting to really play some emphasis on. I think coming off of something like a pandemic again, yet we're in your four of this now. But I think now more than ever we're seeing more experiential events. We're seeing brands put on intimate, you know, weekend events with their community. It's not go to this trade show. Those are helpful. Sure. You meet some great contacts there. But you're seeing it done on a more intimate, smaller level. And something that you're doing at strong too, it's smaller core groups that really allow for that intimate exchange. Yeah. I mean, you're I definitely believe that there's so many more people doing that. And I really, I read an article not too long ago about how, you know, so many people are obsessed with meeting a significant other, right? Like they're like, I need to meet a significant other. And we've been, that's been drilled in our heads since we are kids. Go, you should meet somebody. You should meet somebody, but what about all the relationships up to that point? Where I believe, and this what the article says, and it just reinforced what I thought that you could live without a significant other, right? My mom's 73 years old. My dad passed away five years ago now. She's living alone. She's without him and the latter years of her life. She's with him for 42 years. When I look at that, and I think of that scenario, she's devoted her life to this guy. And now he's not around anymore. But what's got her through the last five years and what's helped her so much is all her friends. All the people that she's been friends with. My parents were always with other people. They were always with their friends. We always had like family friends, like all their friends kids, right? That's who we grew up with. Very like Italian thing and jersey. And they, you know, it's good to see my mom has like this life after it. Don't downplay the relationships that you have with friends with co-workers or whatever, look to build those more like a Jim buddy, whoever it is. I think it's so important, especially as you get older because you meet less and less people. So going to these events, going to these retreats, going to different things. Where there are other people who are like, oh, you like that same thing. I mean, you go to Comic Con. I haven't missed a Comic Con years. I don't really have a lot in common with the most of the people that go to Comic Con. But there are guys that I've seen there year after year after year, friends of mine that I've become friendly with that I see there that we have this common bond. We both like the same thing. And so it's feels good to reconnect with them at even at least once a year. So I want that same thing with strong. I want people to be like, hey, haven't seen these people in New Year because we all work in the same industry. We're all doing the same thing. But this is an opportunity for us to meet up and be friends and work together or whatever it may be. So don't downplay the other relationships in your life. Yes, go and meet somebody and get married and do all the ****. But don't don't sacrifice all those other relationships in your life for that one thing. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. It's just having a very similar conversation with a former college team and a mind like, hey, we're in our 30s now. It gets harder and harder doesn't it? Yeah, it does. But you have to, you say you have to insert yourself. It's not just going to come naturally. It's the hardest part. Like you said, it gets harder the older that you get. So you really have to insert yourself in situations where the likelihood of finding someone with the same interest, the same hobbies, the same way of thinking. I mean, you go to a gym and you just walk into a gym. Not everybody there is going to have the same mindset. You find more of what you're doing at strong. More of these niche selects group of people. Like if you're looking for people who want to prioritize your strength training, maybe go to a CrossFit class or these lifting classes right. There are areas that you can start yourself into fine people that can turn to life long friends. And that's what, you know, my biggest example too. I mean, I found friends at my physical therapy studio. I found friends at yoga classes. I found friends through Iron Man training. I would say the newest friends of mine in the last five years of my life have come through those three outlets through modes of movement because those are things that they prioritize in their life. Yeah. And you can't hang out with somebody or even be in a relationship with somebody who doesn't get your lifestyle, right? You're living this lifestyle. If I can never date someone who's like, all Friday night, I'm going to get banged up and you know, party all weekend and you know, and then I'm going to do the same thing on Saturday night. I'm like, I don't do that. You know, and so it's going to, I like a rather go to bed earlier. I want to get up on Saturday and go work out. Like, we're on two different pages here. So it's like, if you're looking for friends or relationships, you should go to the places that you think you're like, all right, I want to live that lifestyle. Who else is living that lifestyle? Because then I should go hang out with those people. Right. Exactly. It's like I put yourself in the environment that you want to continue to be in. You mentioned training with the body, which lends us well to topic to the benefit of body training, right? Everything's better with the body, you know, for me, I first learned weight lifting in my in my collegiate weight room. So in a way, I feel that was handed to me. Right. I was very grateful in the sense that somebody was like, here's how you do it. Here's what you do. Here's how often you do it. Oh, also you have 18 other girls that you're going to be in the weight room doing this with every single morning at 6 a.m. that set me up for a very successful trajectory in terms of loving the weight room. I became obsessed more with that than I did even the sport I was there to play. You know, for someone who perhaps had little to no experience in the gym setting, picking up a bar, dumbbell, etc. You know, how can they, how can one have an experience fit friend, help them, you know, get to where they want to be a bit sooner. But then even to, how can two people who have done none of the things that I just listed help each other on a journey just finding that one person? Yeah, I think this and if I want to become better at business this Sunday, I'm going down to Florida for this business conference. And it's understanding not just gym business, every type of business. How do I become better at that? How do I understand finances more and planning and all this things? All these things? Well, then I'm going to hire this guy who's a coach who's going to show me how to do it, who's really good at it, who's done it before himself. So I encourage people with, I mean, I don't know too many trainers out there are going to turn away business and if they do, they're probably idiots anyway. You and a friend or by yourself hire somebody. I go and do private to my digital gym two to three times a week. I was like, I walked in the gym. I was already going there for other stuff. But I go, who's the best guy here? Like who is the best and instruction? Who competes the most? Who does? Because I didn't want to just go and work out and learn the skill. I want to go and compete as well. They were like, oh well, off is the best. He's the guy to go to. He competes. He's super into this. So I go, all right, I'm hiring him. And don't haggle with your trainer. It's like anything else. I don't go to a whole food to be like, hey, can I have half off this? No, pay them what they're worth, pay them their price. And you become, you know, I'm friends with him now. Like we chat, you know, I help him. He helps me. But like I love going and learning from him. And I spend two to three hours a week developing the skill, but also working on this relationship with him. And, you know, to me, that's super important. And I think people, if you're looking to become better at something, you want to learn how to use a barbell, it's not something that happens overnight. There are still like cues and points of a dead lift or a bench press that I'm still learning. And I've been doing it for 20 years. So I tell people all the time, go see somebody who's really accomplished. And you're, as you grow, right, in any sport or any type of skill, there's going to be somebody who might explain it to you a little bit different. As you develop, you're going to learn a new skill. You're going to get to a higher level in any sport, weightlifting, powerlifting. Everybody's doing the same thing. But the guys who do it at the top level and the girls who do it at the top level are doing it with mastery because they've done it so many times. The first time you pick it up, you can't be like, I don't get this. Well, of course you don't get it. You've done it once. So mastering a skill takes a long time and you should work with different, I encourage people, I tell my clients all the time, go and do other. Don't just do this because it's a lifetime journey. It's going to take some time and you're going to get frustrated if you're just doing this and you don't get it. So do this because yoga will compliment what we're doing here. Pilates will compliment what we're doing here, running will compliment what we're doing here. If you increase your VO2 Max or cardiovascular system, it's going to make you a better lifter. It's going to make you, you'll be able to do more because your cardiovascular system is stronger. So do other stuff, everything like movement, compliments, movement, you know, keeps it going. So I tell people a time, find a trainer, find somebody in that sport or that realm that you really like. There's so many run clubs, I think the city's overrun with run clubs. And I've been wanting to join a run club but it seems to me that they all start between six and nine a.m. And I'm like, I'm already at work for two hours, but I can't. But I want to go, I could go run on my own but it's going to be so much more fun to go run with 50 people on the west side highway. So go join a group, pay whatever feed it is, you know, because now you're putting your money and your effort in investing in yourself. You're becoming better. If I go and rip 10 drinks at a bar, it's going to cost me probably $500. And it's not doing anything for me. You take 500 bucks and join a really nice gym or go join a run club or something. Well, that's going to pay dividends long after those drinks are gone. Yep, you took the example right up right on my own brain because I happened a couple of years ago. Somebody we're having a conversation, we live in different states, right? They, they, we were talking about how much we spend on gym membership. I said mine and they're jaw dropped. I'm like, oh, I can't even imagine spending. I'm like, well, I go every single day. Yeah. And I'm there for hours, right? And I'm also working now. I mean, I can't think of a better investment than in your health because at the end of the day, what else matters? I mean, 100%. And this person to your point spending a couple hundred dollars every weekend at the bar. I'm like, so, you know, it's about priorities. I think it's about understanding to your exact point. It's the long game. And I think too many people get, you know, they get discouraged too quickly. Well, one of the things that, and I want to, this is going to be the sole movement forward for me is helping people understand that paying a premium for your health and wellness is so much more important than anything else. People pay a premium for like a shitty steak at a restaurant or jeans or a coat or whatever it is. Eventually that coach never going to, you know, you're going to be like, I'm over it. It doesn't look as nice. It was last season's Bible. But, you know, the steak you're like, ah, it was kind of overdone. You know, I wasn't great. I wasn't happy about it. So, you're never going to go and get a workout in and be like, I shouldn't have done that. That was so bad. I can't believe, if you put you effort into it, if I go and take the worst class in the city, I don't know what it is. I'm sure it's out there. And they're like, are you going to do pushups and running? Okay. Some people will be like, well, that class is boring. They instruct you to play a fucking good music. I'm looking for all the **** that has nothing to do with the workout. If I go and bust my ass and do pushups and run, I'll get a **** and workout at that. That's an amazing workout. If you'd like to do it, right? So, people need to start putting their money into investing in themselves and investing in their health around us and stop prioritizing all this other ****. Because, perfect example. Christmas. I'm at my mom's house. I'm sitting there with my brother, this girl is talking to. And I go, you guys live close to this new gym. It's called iron culture. It's an jersey. I go, you guys should go check it out. A buddy of my nose. It's a great spot. They have all this nice equipment. It's a good environment. There's great people there. As they go, you should go check it out. And they're like, oh, it's $100. I go, the ****, I go, my gyms $400. I go, and I have half the space that these people have. I go $100 in a lot for gym membership. My brother is a perfect example. He has season tickets to the jets. Season tickets to Yankees. Season tickets to Rangers. I go, you spend $20,000 a year on **** tickets. I go, what's $100 on a gym membership? I go, it's you go all the time. You go every day. If you really were to break it down, it's almost, what is it? $23 a day that you're spending, could you go to gym? And you're there. And you could stay there all day if you want it. You go work from a laptop there. I mean, it's definitely worth the investment. So stop looking at gym memberships like they're less than all this other stuff. Because you could go out to dinner, the hottest ticket in town is to go to Toree. I went to Toree. I went to Brunch there with a couple of friends. I didn't even like it. And it cost me $400. I go, I could have easily taken that $400 in that's two training sessions with a trainer or whatever it is. We'll prioritize the dumb **** life. And I think people need to prioritize the gym and definitely invest in themselves because that'll work its way long after all this other **** life. And even those two training sessions with a trainer, I mean think of how if you're setting yourself with a quality coach that's going to probably give you takeaways that you can then implement into your own routine because I get it. Not every, you know, having the gym membership is one thing. Not everybody can do the gym membership and then have the trainer feet on top of it. Like, you know, sometimes you can figure out sometimes you can only do that gym membership. But if you can just get those one or two sessions, maybe you do want a month, one checking a month. And just say, hey, I really want you to look at my squat form. I need a second pair of eyes. Have someone you can send videos to, record yourself at the gym and have that person of expertise that you can send. How does my dead look? I want to, I want to get feedback on that before I start loading the bar more, right? So I think that's huge. You mentioned something too a couple minutes ago. Don't box yourself into one specific modality. I think, you know, my, my, my pattern from college has been, I was, I was a sports specific athlete. I missed weightlifting. So I got into all the lifting. That turned to CrossFit. That then turned into just running and marathon running. Now it's Iron Man. But I trained for these Iron Man races, but I still weightlift three times a week. I go to yoga two, you know, one to two times a week. I do my mobility sessions with my, you know, physical therapist. I have more of a quote on quote CrossTraining program than I ever had. And I'm in the best shape of my life. And I think people minimize that too much. I think they say I have to be a power lifter. I have to be a runner. Everybody should be a hybrid, you know, hybrids the big word right now. But like, hybrid is the best way to be. I mean, you're just going to give you the most bang for your boss. Well, because you should be doing something every day. So if I said to you, hey, we're only going to eat chicken rice every day. You're big. That sounds like the worst diet in the world. But if I was like, all right, we'll do chicken and eggs today. We'll do state tomorrow. And then we'll do this. And you know, it's all healthy stuff. It's all good for you. But it's constantly varied. And when people tell me, like, oh, I'm a hybrid athlete. I might go through your CrossFiter. Yeah. Pretty much. They're like, no, I'm a hybrid athlete. I go, that's what CrossFit is. I go, you take any Cross high level CrossFit athlete. And they could probably run a five minute mile and have a pretty good deadlift. I go, that's, you know, that's exactly what it is. So I think more of those hybrid athletes should give a little bit more credit to CrossFit. And I don't even really do CrossFit anymore. I don't own any more CrossFit gyms. But I still think it's a, it changed the way we look at health and wellness. And it made people, oh, I like all you left in our life. Now I could do it all at the same place. Or I could do it in all these other places. You know, in your perfect example of that, you're, you know, you just took us through your journey of like how you developed. And you're like, well, I'm really good at this. So now I could go do this. And now I want to do this and I accomplish this. And then I could go back. Right? Because everybody thinks, oh, well, now I made it to this point. And I could only go forward. It's like, no, go back, get better at all those other things. Because you can never get too good at them. And is it, you're, as you become a better endurance athlete doing Iron Man stuff, well, then you're probably going to lose a little bit of strength. So it's good to go back, build a little bit more strength, which when you go back to endurance training, that'll make you a better endurance athlete. Because now you could produce more force through the ground and run a little bit faster. Right. And I also think, I mean, you're going to have different, I've said this before on this podcast. You're going to have different seasons of life. And the winter time, if you're not working out as hard as you were in this, that's okay. Yeah. Work on some of your weaknesses. Okay. I'm doing more mobility. I'm doing more, you know, strength work, maybe, and then with everybody loves you're coming out. We're in bulk in these traditional, in true bodybuilding.com for our all-booking right now, right? But it's true, you know? And you shouldn't be too hard on yourself. I mean, if you, like, going back to our conversation at the start of the episode, as long as you keep moving, that's going to look different year over year, decade, over decade, but you just have to keep moving. And there's a lot of people who are like, oh, I don't feel like going today. Okay. What are you love doing? What's your favorite exercise? There's got to be something you like doing. Like, even last night, I was like, I don't feel like working out. And I'm like, oh, there's always good time to bench press. So I bench press. And then like, oh, it all fails. Bench press. And my heart rate was up and I'm like, all right, I could squat now. I feel like squat, and I hate squatting. So it's like doing the one thing that you like, going to the gym just to get your blood flown, and it could be anything, could be hopping on a bike. Like a traditional warm-up doesn't have to be what you would think it should. All I'm going to go on the treadmill for five minutes or the bike for five minutes. It's like, no, it could be doing tricep press downs. Do three sets of 25 tricep press downs. You're like, all right, my my blood's flowing. My arms feel good. Okay, now I could go do whatever the hell else I want. Right. And mode, you know, motivation is fleeting. It's about having discipline. If you can just get yourself there, you can even have your rolling around the floor a little bit doing some like animal flow. Like, you'll five minutes into it. You'll be like, okay, I'm ready to go. The other day, I saw I train the lady who owns dance body and I hate dancing. I'm one of the people who's notorious for going to a wedding, and I will not leave my seat because I don't want to be on the dance floor. I'm as awkward as it comes. It comes dancing. And for me, I went over there. I went out of my comfort zone. And when she was teaching me the movements, which I didn't do well, but I'm like, the way she's explaining to me, I go, this is the same way I teach somebody how to move. Shift your hips. You know, load more weight into this foot. You know, extend this arm this way. It's it's all the same human movements to same. And if anybody tells you, they come up with a new human movement. Congratulations because you broke the code. You know, we're hinging, we're squatting. We're doing all the same things that everybody's doing in every gym. Anytime somebody's like, I got this new concept for a gym. I go, let me guess you're going to do these seven movements in the same way everyone else is doing it. So, you know, just move, just get your body, get your body moving as much as you possibly can. Yeah, I know somebody, I know somebody used to say, it's I wash, right? A lot of it's just I wash at the end of the dance. Like we we love to just create these super compound movements. And then we're doing seven things. Like it all comes down to like your squat. You're doing up your push or press. You're going to pull the bell off the ground and put it over your head. Right. I've seen it a couple times before. Right. We've touched on it a couple times Kenny in this episode, you know, building community through fitness and how important it is not only to, you know, help you, you know, reach your goal. It's not only help you have fun, but I mean, it can create dividends that just last a lifetime. So, one of your top tips because you have experience in this, one of your top tips for starting a community. You've done it many times here in New York today. Where do you start? Extending the olive branch, right? And it starts with one person. When I, during the pandemic, when everything fell apart and we weren't doing it, I took and I was one of the first people. I think I was the first person. I went over to the park on 28th and 10th Avenue, which is right here. And I walked over there, in my backpack, I had a TORX. And this whole thing that I just had lying around my house. A couple bands, I had a kettlebell and I had a couple of these other types of bands. Anyway, like short bands along bands, whatever. I go over the park and I just started working out and I fill myself and three of my clients were like, I was just with them on Friday. This is like Monday when they shut down New York. And I go, yeah, I'm over here. They were like, could we come join you? So I was like, yeah, yeah, come by. And I just put so much effort into these three people. Three became six, six became 12, 12 became but there are times when even with my business and I've been doing this a long time in New York, there's abs and flows, right? There's sometimes where I'm like, God, I don't have enough hours in the day to take care of all these clients. And then there's other times where I'm like, where is everyone? You just need to continuously focus on delivering up as much effort and as much value into each person as you can. And when you're trying to bring other people in, always extend the all of branch, right? Give a free session or go and volunteer your time or do whatever it takes to kind of draw people in. You know, you always want to be the person who was the first to initiate that good feeling. Like, hey, I'm doing this because I want to be a part of your tribe where I want to support you or continue to. A lot of things that I've done and the relationships I've gotten were through, hey, listen, I really, and I respect what you're doing. I enjoy what you're doing. I want to support you. And I'll invest in you, right? If you put, if you start putting your money where your mouth is and start supporting what other people are doing, then they're going to reciprocate and they want to be around you. And that's how you build community relationships. Not by, well, I like what they're doing. So I'm going to go and do my own thing. No, join them. They're already doing it. You know, somebody's asking me the other day. They're like, oh, you should do boxing this. I'm like, yes, I've done that before. I've done it, you know, years of boxing and movie titles. Why would I go start my own gym though? I'm not that good at it. I rather bring in somebody and pay them to do it really well. Because then now I'm putting all this effort into something. I'm really not that good at it. And it's taking away from what I am good at. So support other people extend the olive branch and invest in what other people are doing. That's a great point. I think we're seeing more and more specialty gyms. But in a way, if you have a gym where you have a day of the week, they have the boxing class and then they have the hybrid class and they have the, the barbell class, right? You're going to, I feel like you're going to build a stronger community at a place like that. Then you are a solely a boxing gym, solely a strength gym. So it's a great point. But how do you maintain the buy-in over time? Like we're talking years, right? How do we keep them coming back? That, I mean, that's the hardest thing, right? Getting people in the doors might be a little bit easier than retention. And I think retention comes from truly loving what you do and building those relationships. I have clients that I've got to be 10 years now. I can name three people off the top. I had that I have for like 10 plus years. Now in New York City, it's a lot more transient than if you're in Westchester or you know, Oklahoma where people live there and they never move. So for me, it's, you know, people come and go. So I always say my best clients always leave. You know, the hype, you know, my richest clients, my poorest clients, whoever they are, they have runs the gamut of like people are like, I'm fed up with New York, I'm leaving. But the people who have stayed, you know, kind of buy into it and they feel like your family, you know, during the pandemic, there was a group of us that we would go eat at somebody's apartment every night, you know, because we had nobody else. Everybody else's family lives somewhere else or, you know, people were afraid to go anywhere else, but we were all together. So we would eat together. And I always say none of us got sick, none of us got COVID during that time. Obviously, like a year later, when everybody got the Omnacron and whatever the f***s call, you know, everybody got it then. But when we were together in the thick of it, everybody was fine. And it was great. And we created this community and now there's this longevity that we have in this friendship that we have. That a lot of my clients look at me, you know, more as a friend than their coach or their trainer. Right. Let's let that formality existing between the two of you, right? But back to what we said before, it's like building a real relationship with these people, you know, you want to be, you and you'll hear a hundred people don't get too close to your clients. It has to be professional, but eventually you start to build a real relationship with these people where you look at them differently, you know, and if they care about your business, like they should as a friend, if I'm going to go and buy, let's say you sell shampoo. Well, why when I go buy your shampoo, you're my friend, I know you. Like, I'm going to spend money on shampoo, why when I buy my friend stuff. And that's the way I've always let even went strong. It's I'm going to pay somebody to do the lighting and all this or have a DJ there. I'm going to go pay a guy I know rather than somebody I don't know because that's my way of showing support to my friend and that builds our relationship. Now it, it, it, it'll text me and be like, hey, when strong, so I could save the date because they know I'm going to hire them. I'm going to spend the money and I'm not like nickel and diamond. Could I get it for a cheaper price? Somebody's going to charge me this price. I rather give it to you. Right. You know, so they're going to go and train somewhere. They know they have to pay for it. They rather pay you because now you're their friend. Right. You know, and I feel like there's something so pure starting a relationship based off of just someone trying to help you. Like, remove the transactional aspect of it, right? Because I really do believe if you're in these professions, you're a coach, you're a trainer, you're a physical therapist. I mean, there's a reason you're in that field. And if you're in it long enough, you know that they're serious about it. They really do care at the end of the day about helping someone live a longer and better life. And I feel like there's not a more pure way to start a relationship than that one. And I feel like that's why you get so close to your coaches, to your trainers, to your physical therapist. Not only have they helped you either overcome something, reach a goal, and just helped you, you know, do something that at one point was unattainable in your mind. But you develop a trust that I feel like is so uniquely different than someone you just met on the street, right? Yeah. Absolutely. No, I think there's personality types that gravitate towards certain jobs. You know, I think most trainers have a similar person. Most of your ego-tistical, most of them are, you know, want to do things on their own. They want to build their own brand or build their own business. It's not by coincidence that everybody wants the same thing. That's that's that archetype. That's that type of personality and they drift towards that job. Do I believe that, you know, most trainers, good trainers want to help other people 100%. And the one thing that I'm going to say, if you want to call me a selfish asshole for, I am 100% selfish because I get so much joy out of watching somebody change, out of watching somebody get better because it makes me feel good. So I'm getting joy out of their joy. So I need that. And it makes me feel better every day because now I feel like I have a purpose. I had a job when I was out of high school. My uncle got me a job down at Port Norse. Right? It's a shipping yard. Everybody who I ever got hired with back then still works at job 25 years later, 30 years later, whatever. And they're like, I can't believe you left. I go, that place was miserable to me. I felt I had no purpose there. I'm sitting there, sit on a computer. I could sleep if I wanted to. I wasn't getting anything done. I'm around a bunch of other miserable assholes who will make way too much money. Like there are guys I'm friends with. Make $3,500,000 a year working down there, doing absolutely nothing. Working two, three hours a day. I hated it. They loved it. I'm like, I got to get the **** out of here. This is miserable to me. I go and get my first training job at Equinox years later, making absolutely no money, cleaning up weights. But the one or two clients that I had, I was like, oh my god, I'm really helping this person. Like, I'm doing what I love every day. I'm going to a place. I love to be in this environment. This call me selfish. Yeah, I'm going to selfish. Comes that. I want to see these people get better because I know if I could get you better and he feels better, and he feels better. Well, then there's less animosity. Then you want to be my friend. Then you want to be around me. And I crave that. So, it's crazy to think that people don't want to see other people when because I think we do. And when you when you truly believe that, then you'll start to see people change. Yeah. And you know, I don't think what you're saying is a bad thing. It's so funny. I just was speaking to someone. I was like, why did becoming, you know, selfish to a degree become such a bad thing? Because I mean, if you're putting, you know, at the forefront of your life, what makes you feel the best, then aren't you going to be kind of for a lack of a better term, exporting those same feel good chemicals? Like, if what you're doing on a daily basis, light you up, then you're going to light the rest of the people on your life up. So, I've never understood, you know, when someone somebody called somebody selfish because ultimately they're just choosing to do what makes them the happiest. Well, that's what I feel like the purpose we should all be chasing. You know, we all sent it. When somebody walks in the room in their angry and pissed off miserable, which I used to feel when I worked at my old job, I'm like, everybody here hates being there. They're making money, but that's the only driving force to either here. I love walking into my gym because there was a guy there. Like, that makes me feel good, that they're feel that they feel good. When I walk in, it's 5 a.m. 5 30 a.m. and people are sitting there. I'm like, oh, what's going on? Because I'm excited to be there. Now that brightens their day, they're excited to be there. So, it changes when you're doing something you love and you're around people who are like, might not even be excited about it, but you have this energy. Well, you're going to, that becomes very infectious. I don't know if you've ever been to like a Tony Robbins or something, but you can walk in there and everybody's fired up. So, even if you're not, you're like, I got to pretend they're fired up now. I want to be the guy who would have pushed him. Yeah, I'm like, oh, these are really into this. You know? Yeah. Yeah, tell us a little bit about what you're doing at Strong New York. Tell us the tone that you're setting there and you just gave us a little bit of it, right? What, the feeling that you're hoping to evoke on people who are walking through the doors, what are you doing over there? The original idea was because I was working with so many brands that I fell in love with the owners who treated me like that, who, you know, mentors. You know, I can never forget working with Fiddade. Fiddade was the best. You know, the guys who owned that company, Aaron, and all Ryan are just guys I love to be in around. You know, I met these guys early on. They were sling in cans out of the back, the trunk of their car at Waterpalooza. And this is like 2012, 2013. And they just wanted to have a good time and they wanted to sell their product and they really believed in it. And I was like, I'm in. It was infectious. I'm like, I'm on board. What do you guys need? How could I help? I'll sell it in my gym. I'll do whatever. So for me, it was like, how do I get more cans? How could I help these guys sell more cans? With a brand that I love. And then another friend of mine had a supplement brand. Right? He had this protein powder. And he was like, well, I just want to get this in more the hands and more people. And I'm like, I, well, I have people. I have 700 people in my gym. So back in 2015, 2016, I was like, I'm going to just do this event. And I'm going to have a ton of people coming. I'll bring all these brands and all these experts that I had access to for all these years. I was working with Reebok at the time. And I pitched it to them. I was like, why don't we do like this health and wellness expo? Because I just went to perform better. The LA fit expo, the Arnold Olympia. I went to all these shows. And I'm like, they're all over the country. There's nothing here in New York. We should do something here in New York. You know, and there's so many brands here. And there's so many trainers here. And there's so many people. There's 8 million people just in the city. So that's where I all started. I wanted to help my friends out. And I wanted to help my clients and stuff. Meet all these cool brands and, you know, work with these people and get excited about fitness. It was just my way of sharing everything that I had. You know, growing up, nothing I had was just mine. I grew up with two brothers and a sister. And, you know, we shared everything. I never had my own bedroom until I moved into the city by myself. So everything I had, I had to share. So I wanted to share all this stuff that I've gotten over the collected over the years. And now it's a perfect example. I was down in the seaport. And there's this woman. She's like, she had this granola. It was actually at strong. Right? And she's this lady and her family, started this granola company. I had a nutleneerturzy. And she's pushing. I was like, oh, what's your goal with this? She's like, I just want to get in the hands more people I go. Well, you ran into the right guy today. You know, and now she sold out of everything she had. It's strong. And I go, that's where I want that makes me so excited that this woman's now launching her business from my event. And now she's like, well, I'm doing what I love to do. And it's, I'm doing all the advertising. I'm doing all the marketing. I'm making sure people come through the door. All you got to do is show up and give people the product that you want to give them. And then these people are in turn like, oh, this is a better form of granola that I should be eating than the **** that I've been buying off the shelves. Well, I'll just buy this one. To me, it just makes perfect sense. Right? And then with the speakers and stuff, you know, Don and Gunner, guys, I've been friends with for years now. And I really appreciate what they do. And I idolize them and look up to them. And they're, you know, the reason why I continue on because here's guys who are 10 years older than me, 15 years older than me. And they're still doing it. They're still doing the thing, right? Everybody's like, I want to be a trainer, but I don't want to do it when I'm 40. 50. But they're still doing it. And these are the best guys in the game. And they have way more money than most trainers. I know if not all trainers. I go, so if they're still doing it, why when I still do it? So I put them at the forefront because I'm like, well, they're leading the charge. And that's why I look up to them. That's why I respect and with them a part of this, they lend so much credibility of what I'm doing. But and I give them the opportunity to now be in front of people and teach what they know. And only they know because they've been doing it longer than anybody else. So they have wisdom that you can't buy. I want to keep it intimate. And the goal is to eventually get it to a point where it's like 4500, 5000 people, maybe in 6000 people where it's still intimate enough that people can hang out meet people. And it's not so crazy. Like in a couple of weeks, I'm going to go to the Arnold. And there's like 300,000 people there. And it's just like too much. You get kind of get lost in it. I want it to be like a premium experience. And I don't want you to be an expert. I want it to be an experience where people could come and you could come and work out and bring your kids and it's a fun environment. And there's, you know, people are launching books from there and launching products and things like that. I just want it to be a New York version of what I've seen everywhere else. Yeah. And, you know, for listeners out there, if you did catch our social, we did attend this event event in 2023. We're excited for the 2024. You released the 2024 date, right? What is it? Over for. I have to toprify the New York City, Mark your calendars. It really to your point. It's an intimate event. And I think that's what makes it so special. You are able to absorb and learn so much information that you really don't see at a lot of these larger events, not taking anything away from them. You know, they're beast in their own respect. But you meet so many people. Kenny brings in really quality talent to speak at these events. So it's an awesome day to be a part of. So definitely keep your eyes peeled for strong New York coming in 2024. And then you have the club too. So I mean, you guys are doing this every day in New York City with the community that you've built there. Tell us a little bit about what you guys are doing on the club. So the strength club is, you know, I didn't want it to be just a gym, right? I like the communal aspect. That's what I push. I enjoy having people there. I love showing up to a place that I want to be every day. If I had to go and sit in an office every day, I'd blow my brains up. I know. I love being in the gym environment. I love when people show up. I love having a ton of people there. And I love having the ability to share the space. And I sit to myself, I'm going to be in a gym. One word, if I'm in Guam or New York City, it doesn't matter. I'm going to be in a gym and might as well be mine. So love it. Tell people a little bit about what they can expect in terms of work out to be able to there. What kind of classes you have going on, open gym, things of that nature, what's on the docket. Yeah. So it's called a strength club. So on Mondays and Tuesdays, we do pure strength days. We do an upper body day on Monday, Tuesday, we do a lower body. And it's strictly strength work. You know, you're not going to come. I mean, if you're pushing it hard, you're going to sweat. But the goal is to make you sweat and be like, I can't even laugh. It was great work. When says we'll do more of like a cardio kind of cross-fit thing. Thursdays will do another upper body day, but it's more shoulders, arms, and dynamic stuff. Like ball throws and things like that. On Friday, we do a plyometric day, but with some strength stuff. So it's more like athletic performance, lower body day. And then on Saturdays and Sundays, we do some conditioning. And then I have a young ladies who have been working with me for years, who does a handstand class on Sundays as well. So she does like mobility handstand. So we get four days worth of strength training in. We get two days of cardiovascular work. If you want to do three, you do three. But it's that split that now everybody's talking about on social media that I've been doing forever. It's like, well, you're a primary focus in my opinion in what we do there is strength training. I want to get you stronger because it takes so much longer to get you stronger. I could get you fast in a couple months. So it takes years to really get strong, especially someone who has no physical strength. But the idea of strength is not only strength in what we're doing, but strength in what you're absorbing from other people. Love it. Can you thanks for stopping by today? Thank you for having me. Leave us with one piece of advice. Like we said, gym intimidation, January, the time of year, this is coming out. Somebody hasn't gotten to the gym yet. Leave us at one piece of advice to help them make that first step towards their journey. One of the shirts that we sell on strongnewywork.com. Shut up, shut up. She says take care of the little things and the big things take care of themselves. I had a high school football coach tell me that when I was a freshman in high school and I was like, what is he talking about? And the more I started to take care of the choices I need. What am I having for breakfast? Should I have that extra piece of cake? Should I go to the gym? Should I not? It's those little choices that you make every day that will eventually add up to who you become. You are what you do. And if we start to make better choices and take care of those things that we don't think are that important, well then they become the big things. And in either direction, good or bad. Love it. And if you're in New York, stop by the Shrine Club. What can he send to you? Again, it's good to get a good lift in. Can he thanks again for stopping by to help us kick off 2024 looking forward to seeing and being a part of the continued growth of strongnewy New York. Thanks again. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at Bodybuilding.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: Hack Squat - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [plv5ur26Q7A].txt ===

Place the back of your torso against the back pad of the machine and hook your shoulders under the shoulder pads provided. Position your legs on the platform using a shoulder width medium stance with your toes slightly pointed out. Keep your head up and back on the pad at all times. Place your hands on the side handles of the machine and disengage the safety bars. Then straighten your legs without locking the knees. This will be your starting position. Inhale and begin to slowly lower the weight down by bending at the knees. Maintain a straight posture with your head up and back on the pad at all times. Continue down until the angle between the upper leg and calves is slightly less than 90 degrees. Now exhale and slowly raise the weight by pushing the floor with the heels of your feet as you straighten your legs and return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Halid Shokunbi Fitness 360： Taking Charge - Bodybuilding.com [uGHwKj7xfUA].txt ===

My name is Haileach Chicombi. I'm from Chicago, Illinois. I have a doctorate of physical therapy, I'm a physical therapist. Now, in 2012, I've opened on nutrition's $100,000 transformation contest grand prize winner. When I set out to do the contest, there was no stopping me. I knew I was going to make the transformation. I went to be the one guy who pulls his pants out like that. I went to show other people that it can be done. You don't have to do anything crazy. Me going, lifting weights, it goes back to remember, like, seventh grade. I had a pair of 10 pound dumbbells. I just lifted. I didn't know what I was doing. I actually worked. I got a little baby muscle in everything. I always show that off, you know, go to school, things like that. I played basketball and football from, you know, throughout grade school and high school. I was like, you know, I'm always usually in decent shape. Then in 2012, I'm in 2011. I had a lot of injuries. I mean, just from working out from playing sports. The injuries about themselves weren't that bad, you know, combined them together. That's what made it, you know, pretty hard on my body. I couldn't do the same workouts I used to. I was just frustrated. I didn't really know how to deal with them, you know, mentally and so I just like gave up. I was like, I'm like, I'm left. I don't care. And I just got away from even trying to eat right. I just kind of let myself go. And it happened pretty quickly. And I didn't even realize how bad it got. But then it's like, you get to a point where, you know, you just, just to this disappointed, what you see. Just kind of depressing then, you know, instead of, you know, crying about it and, you know, feeling sorry for myself, I, you know, I decide I'm going to make a change. I can't live like this. So I need to work around these injuries, you know, just work out, you know, smarter and go hard at it. Then I saw them. There was a contest, so that was even more motivation. So Dave, I'll put you in a train. Let's party, peace. And you wanna see you, let's keep it together. Live on me, I'm tired. Then you will start a G, make your way to go. My overall approach in philosophy of training is, you know, just the general guidelines for body building and weight training. I start most of them days with, you know, like, the heavy lifts, the more they use more compound movements, like, you know, the bench press or squat things like that. Usually go three sets for each exercise. I try and do 10 reps and then, you know, maybe increase the weight and then, if I increase the weight, then I can, you know, go lower and reps. But I try and do usually as most weight, as I can do four 10 reps. Next set, most weight I can do for eight reps and so on and so forth. The main thing is for me that I found was being consistent, you know, like, when I was in my younger days, I would, I would, would work out, but I just wasn't as consistent. I didn't get the results as quick, but once I started going consistently, you know, three to five times a week, then I started seeing results. So I've also started doing a little lighter weight with higher repetitions, just, you know, working different rep ranges. But I usually do that towards the end of, you know, a regular workout, which would be a heavy workout. You know, I would have, like, a split, like, you know, Mondays would be a chest and biceps, sort of, say. And then the next day would be, like, some of the lower body quads and calves, or, you know, things like that. But what I really do now to avoid injuries, I kind of listen to my body. So if I go into the gym and normally I would do, like, you know, hamstrings, but let's say, you know, my hamstring tendon is been irritated me, you know, just even when I was doing regular things throughout the day. Then I might lay off hamstrings, maybe push that with, like, a back workout or something or just push it off for a whole week. So my splits really kind of get jumbled up, but, you know, you got to listen to your body, so you know, you can't just keep working through the pain and I got to be smart about it. I definitely like to train my back. That's my favorite body part. I used to not even train my back at all, then I just, you know, started doing it. I kept getting stronger. You know, it was one of those muscles where you can't see it while you're working out. We're pumping up the lads, things like that. I love all the exercises for the back. Oh, cardio. Not a big fan of cardio, but, you know, it does its job. So for cardio, I usually, for the contest, I was definitely doing cardio four to five times a week. Towards like the last half of the contest. But initially, you know, I started ramping up the cardio, like the frequency of which I did it. So I would start like maybe twice a week and then next week, bump it up to three. You know, and also increasing the duration I was doing the cardio. I was what aim to not necessarily do 45 minutes of cardio at aim to like burn at least like 400 calories. And, or, you know, 400 to 450. And usually I would get to the calorie goal before I got to the goal of 45 minutes. And high intensity training, I kind of did that like if I was like short on time. And then I needed to burn some calories, then I would do it. Rest is those were great to solid it was wrestling. I didn't work out or anything. I just keep myself motivated in the gym on the days when I priori don't feel like going and in days when I'm tired. And after a long day of work, I use music. I have some nice headphones to have deep bass. I put on my, you know, my jams and it gets me pumped. And I mean, I'm like one of those guys was like, Bob and his head, you know, a curse word might come out here and there, you know, as I'm singing this song. So, you know, the music gets me going. So, as long as I got my headphones and my MP3 player while good. Well, my take on nutrition was that I didn't want to do anything that was crazy. Anything that I couldn't keep up with, you know, so another number is guy, I don't count. For each meal, I kind of be like, all right, wait, I mean, this is how many grams I can't do that. I go crazy. So, what I did was I just kind of guess. So, I have like a high protein, you know, food like chicken or something like that. And then I would like try to keep the carbs for minimums. And then also for carbs, I would try and eat carbs that, you know, wouldn't, you know, spike my blood sugar. That was pretty much what I stuck with in terms like the numbers. Now the actual foods that I ate. I think I ate a lot of like normal people, food, I'll say. You know, I can't just eat chicken and vegetables. I can do that every once in a while, but I can do that for, you know, every meal. So, you know, like I would try and eat regular people food like spaghetti. You know, I ate a lot of Mexican food, but you know, I just make it healthier. So, you know, I would like swap out, you know, the high glycemic type of foods, you know, for something that was a little bit lower. And then, you know, a whole lot of protein with it, you know, so. And I think that really made it a lot easier for me to keep it up, keep up with it. And it is very possible to like, to eat healthy and eat foods that I good for you, but still eat the foods that you enjoy. You know, you just may have to get a little creative, you may have to, you know, do a little research, you know, I'm by the building I come. There's plenty of recipes on there, all over the internet. You know, you can find like your favorite dish to swap out some ingredients and bone. You have the same dish. Pretty good taste, but, you know, much better nutrition. The hardest part was like that I had to prepare, you know, my food on my own. You know, so I didn't go out and buy like pre, you know, cooked foods or rest to go out the restaurants to often. Well, I like breakfast food and breakfast is pretty easy because, you know, it's like, you know, you got the eggs. So, I would do egg whites, but I was really missing pancakes, you know, like going out and getting pancakes and things like that. So, now I would like try to eat a protein pancakes, I try to sweep potato pancakes and actually taste it pretty good, you know, I'm a big fan of cheat meals. You work hard throughout the week, you know, with the end of the gym and outside the gym, meaning, you know, eating clean and, you know, eating the right foods. So, allowing yourself a cheat meal, whether it's two or three cheat meals a week, do it. I mean, you deserve it, you know, it's not going to, like, kill yourself at where you're going to start gaining weight. You know, and just don't go overboard, don't eat like 2,000 calories on one cheat meal. My cravings were a cheat meal really changed from week to week. I mean, there are some weeks where I look, you know, I just wanted, like, a, a sub or something or a Philly cheese steak. But I usually crave this like, hearty meals that, you know, the heartburn type of meals, you know. So, when you're dealing with cravings, what you got to do is, you have to think about why you're doing this. Think about what you're doing to for it. Think about the end goal that you want, picture it, you know, talk to other people, other people who have the same goals in mind, and that helps you, you know, save off those cravings. I know what supplements, you know, I used to think that supplements were the key. And like, I need to figure out what this person is taking. So, I don't know how he got so ripped. It's unbelievable. It's not even possible, you know, it had to be taking some type of magic pill or something like that. But it's not supplements or just supplements. If you, you know, the key to changing your physique in achieving your goal is 70% of it's going to be your diet. And then the other part is going to be, you know, the exercise supplements will help you achieve those goals, but they won't do all the work for you. The other thing with, you know, supplements just don't take it, just cause Joe Schmol said he's taking it. No, how that supplements will still work, you know, know what that supplements will still do because just because this person's taking it doesn't mean that supplements good for you for your goals. You know, you just got to be smart about it. I would always use a supplement for a reason. I definitely would recommend way protein. You got to have the way protein. It's going to, no matter what your goal is or at least for bodybuilding if you're trying to, you know, cut the fat or build muscle. You got to have the way protein to achieve, you know, a good physique. You know, when you're cutting, you're in the presence of a calorie deficit, the way protein is going to help you keep the muscle that you have while you're, you know, cutting the fat away. And if you're building muscle, obviously, you got to have the brain building blocks to build the muscle and then that's where protein's going to come in. So from the contest, I initially started with a creatine for, you know, like the first maybe four to six weeks, you know, just to help with the energy because, you know, I've been out the gym for so long, you know, I want to be able to, you know, have a good amount of energy to actually, you know, complete a workout. So I'll use the creatine for that throughout the whole thing. I always use weight that that's a given. And then I started using, you know, a pre workout here and there on days, you know, I was like, you know, tired and maybe it was dragging myself to the gym. You know, just to, you know, get a little bit more of helping my stuff is in my time. And then I also used, like a slow digesting protein, casing at night, you know, just since you know, I was not eating for a couple hours. Oh, I also started using a branch hand amino acids. I love those because, I mean, they do so much for you to give you energy and for your muscles. And they also, you know, help prevent muscle breakdown, especially when you're exercising. So, especially when I was doing cardio, I would, you know, sip that throughout the cardio session and also when I was weightlifting. But, you know, I usually worked out late at night. So, you know, I didn't like to have too much, like, you know, supplements with caffeine. So, that's why I really like the branch chain amino acids. I was able to get a good, you know, supplement for energy without, you know, keeping me up at night. Honestly, I learned a lot about supplements through my ability to kind of over the years. You know, they have a lot of articles. I mean, it's really no excuse to not to know what supplements will be doing for you. So, that's a good resource for people to use. So, that's it. That's my story. That's all the information about my training nutrition and supplementation. If you want more information, you can find me on Body Space. My username is H. Shikong. Alright, if you're looking for a goal to work towards and you need more motivation, check out BodyBuilding.com for the latest content. So, I mean, even when some prize money are different prizes, so it helped me and it should help you. For more videos, articles and content like this, keep coming here at BodyBuilding.com.

=== FILE: Hammer Curl - Biceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [0IAM2YtviQY].txt ===

Stand up with the dumbbell in each hand held at arms length. The elbow should be close to your torso with a palms of your hands facing your torso. This will be your starting position. Now what holding your upper arm stationary exhale and curl the weight forward while contracting the biceps. Continue to raise the weight into the biceps or fully contracted in the dumbbell as a shoulder level. Hold the contracted position for a brief moment as you squeeze the biceps. Focus on keeping the elbow stationary and only moving your forearm. After a brief pause, inhale and slowly begin to lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Hang Clean - Shoulders ⧸ Legs ⧸ Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [sPrFKddxxZo].txt ===

Begin with a shoulder width, double overhand grip with the bar hanging at the mid thigh position. Your back should be straight and inclined slightly forward. Begin by aggressively extending through the hips, knees and ankles, driving the weight upward. As you do so, shrug your shoulders toward your ears. As full extension is achieved, transition into the third pole by aggressively shrugging and flexing the arms with your elbows up and out. At peak extension, aggressively pull yourself down, rotating your elbows under the bar as you do so. Receive the bar in a front squat position, the depth of which is dependent upon the height of the bar at the end of the third pole. The bar should be racked onto the protracted shoulders lightly touching the throat with the hands relaxed. Continue to descend to the bottom squat position, which will help in the recovery. Immediately recover by driving through the heels, keeping the torso upright and elbows up, continue until you're up risen to a standing position.

=== FILE: Hanging Leg Raise - Ab Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [Nw0LOKe3_l8].txt ===

Hanging from a chin up bar with both arms fully extended above you and either a wide or medium grip. Your legs should be straight down and your pelvis rolled slightly backwards. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your legs until they form a 90 degree angle with your torso bending your knees as you do so. Hold this top contracted position for a brief moment, then inhale and slowly return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Hanging Leg Raise - Core ⧸ Abs - Bodybuilding.com [uaxEVt2z4CE].txt ===

Hanging from a chin up bar with both arms fully extended above you with either a wide or medium grip. Your legs should be straight down and your pelvis rolled slightly backwards. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your legs until they're at least perpendicular with your torso, bend your knees as you do so. Hold this top contracted position for a brief moment, then inhale and slowly return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Harlem Shake at Arnold Sports Festival - Bodybuilding.com [MgXm05_Ha-A].txt ===

Con lo terrorista En un guajal de Rusia Con lo terrorista En un guajal de Rusia

=== FILE: Hellcentric Training Will Kick Your Ass ｜ Mike Van Wyck Testimonial [rCd64GrmoG0].txt ===

When his bike-baby lick him, I FBP Pro, Anne Waffley, and Health Central's Coach on Bodybuilding.com. I got the email from a guy's an animal, asked me to be a part of this thing, and I had no idea what a health Central was or he taught me as a loser. I signed up for it of course as I go. When we got to the gym where we felt me and Tom were both like, what's going on in this dungeon, we were going to be trapped in for a few days. And he actually, the first exercise he did, I think was shoulder press, and he took me to a prison as I go and ran for a ride. But this one, but not one really well, I mean it was a lot tougher than I thought it was. I just looking at the videos that he showed me on YouTube and giving me good ideas, I got a lot of big deal. Once I stepped into it and doing it myself, I was like, this is a real deal. I mean it wasn't that big of a thing for me to check me, go at the door, because I kind of, people look at me and they're like, oh, you're a big guy, you must lift a lot of weight. I have lifted a lot of weight in my life, and I've had a heavy bench, and I've had to get squat, and I've always lifted pretty heavy, like growing up, but as I've gotten older, and I've gotten more into bodybuilding, I've kind of lowered my weights, and I've been focused on more of, isolating the muscle and not so many. The shock of the ego didn't come in with me because I was already used to really learning, and I have to lower the weight of everything when I feel the contraction of the muscle. So it's just a blow to the ego in terms of the amount of effort to move that weight. Whereas before it was like, you're kind of making it look heavy by squeezing the ropes, and now you've got someone pushing on you and it's even worse. Come on, man. Yeah, I'm a big fan of it on. I mean, I do, I train a little differently than HRT most of the time, but I do incorporate it into different body parts. Like, I'm a big fan of it for biceps, I'm a big fan of it for legs. If I can get someone to help me, I usually train alone. I also train people back home for shows, and I have different clients, and I use them on them a lot, and they just die, and it might be just one exercise that I use with them. So beginners can use it, and kind of get introduced to really what it takes to put on some muscle, and for guys who are maybe cruising along, feel a little stagnant in the routine, and aren't seeing the gains they want to see, and kind of just coasting in the gym, might be something you can use to spice up your routine, and maybe re-energize yourself to get motivated to go back to the gym, because it's going to kick your ass, it's not going to be a walk in the park. It's going to be very different from going in and doing a few sets and going home with a little pump. In terms of nutrition, I think with this program, with any program you follow, nutrition and supplementation are going to be two of the most important things you can do. The training obviously has to be there, but if the diet and nutrition and supplements aren't there, you're not going to go anywhere. So it's like having a sports car and not putting high-octane fuel in it, you're not going to blow up your engine, right? If you're not following a certain plan or you're not sticking to your diet, you're not getting enough protein, you're not getting enough rest, you're not replenishing your carbs, and replenishing glycogen and be ready for the next workout. You're pretty much spending your meals and sitting in place. Focus on what it takes to follow the program and stay true to it, to sprint at Samarathon. So I mean, focus on what you need to do and stick with it, and keep your head down and keep going and just see how the results go. I'm pretty sure they'll be happy in the end. If you guys do have any questions as you're going along the program with health centers, always refer back to the videos on bodybuilding.com. And if you have any specific questions from your Tom, you know you can always find us on the form. Thank you.

=== FILE: Hellraiser Training Program ｜ Trailer [BaRLb-DKviw].txt ===

The extreme force wraps welcome to our razor-drake push. Let me build muscle. The objective here is to inflict a lot of pain. So let's do it and get to work.

=== FILE: High-Volume Leg Workout： 12-Week Hardcore Daily Video Trainer With Kris Gethin ｜ Day 1 ｜ [zUTMVQcu2yM].txt ===

Today is day one of this 12-week transformation. So I hope you really motivated and inspired by the transformation that I'm going to go through as well. Remember I'm going to be doing this with you. It's going to be hardcore, but you're going to have to grab the ball by the horns on this because only a limited amount of time took for you to transform your body. You've only got 12 to 40 chess workouts, 12 to 14 leg workouts. The reason I say 12 to 14 is because sometimes you're going to be training two days on, one day off, other times you'll be training three days on or one day off if you feel really good. So hence the 12 to 14, oh this 12 weeks. So every single one should be at its best. So today you should have done your cardio already. If you haven't do it right now, you've got to do that after your breakfast. So you have your breakfast. Take your pre-workout supplements, your alkalinity, your green tea, and your in-be. Do 20 minutes of cardio. I did 20 minutes up and down the stairs at home. I got to do legs tonight. I'm going to take a kidney. I forget I have asthma until I do something like this. I'm going to do my legs. But it's good. You'll get used to it. But today we are actually going to be training the legs as well. So it'll be a good warm-up. It's going to be a killer workout. Legs is normally the hardest body part to train and it's a great exercise to start off on. So make sure that you take your creatinine, your cleatamin, stay hydrated and I'll see you at the gym. Music So the first exercise that we're doing today is the leg press. I did about four or five warm-ups sets here. I like to do a lot of warm-ups that's when I'm going heavy. So I will pyramid in weight while sun doing is warm-ups sets and I'll work up to around 70% of my maximum weight before going into those working sets. Music So on these working sets I make sure that I go to absolute failure on each one. So that means I'm pushing myself until I can't do one more rep even if I wanted to, which enables the muscles to keep progressing and changing as you go through these 12 weeks. The twin sets are rest for around a minute but sometimes if I'm going very heavy I can go as far as two minutes. So you're just going to have to gauge yourself and how easy you can recover between these sets. I ate two clothes for the workout. It feels sick. It's all your kids at home, don't eat before you do legs. Second exercise that we have is seated hamstring curls. So I did two warm-ups set, up around 15 repetitions. And I'm making sure as I bring my legs down towards a body, I breathe out and then as I bring them back up I inhale. In between sets I always make sure that I stretch out the hamstrings are getting injured very easily. The third exercise is lying hamstring curls. There's no hamstring, lying hamstring, full machine here so this is what we do. I'll do three sets of this exercise. Making sure that I go to absolute failure on each set. On this exercise as you can see I'm using a workout partner. They'll help me with the weights putting it in between my feet and then releasing it. So that's always a good idea. I just eye cramped. I have to hold it in there. On this first set I got cramped. This is probably because I took creatin before the workout and I didn't hydrate myself enough. So make sure that you drink plenty of water just to make sure your muscles cells are hydrated. If you do cramped just rest a little bit stretch out, don't give up. I'm starting with 150 now to warm up with. So the first exercise for quad is going to be leg extensions. We're going to do two warm upsets. Of around 15-20 repetitions just get the blood flowing into the muscles but also to warm up the joints. So if you were second warm up now we're two-thirty. I'm going to get my head into this one. Come on now. There's two working sets. Remember we're going to absolute failure. Meaning we cannot do one more rat even if we wanted to. I'll grab my knee rats. We're on our last exercise. That last exercise is hack squat. Warm up the old knees. Make sure that you're free to at the top of the platform and you're pushing through your heels to take pressure off your knees. I'm not tired. I just can't get enough oxygen in. All my oxygen's in my legs as well. So again we're doing one more warm-up set here. I make sure that my heels are about fist distance apart with my toes slightly pointing out to make sure that we hit the sweep the outer portion of the quads to give the initial but nice and narrow waist. My back's so absolutely nuts should say that. My back's kind of hurting. So I'm going to go high-rads today. Then I got sore knees like a bad knees so they're not so bad these days. I'll use it at smaller preventative measure than earthen. Just to keep the knees aligned with the toes. You know keep them straight up nice and tight. Even though I'm a hack squat in very heavy at the moment I just have three plates of size sometimes we'll do six. So these days I don't train with my ego as I used to. Especially when it's nice looking women in the gym. And I find that you can get great results on legs because you have two different types of muscle fibers there. They hit in high reps with heavy weight. Legs does require a lot of energy. It does push your body to the absolute max it requires a lot of oxygen as well. So it is quite normal for you to feel light head in. Feel a little bit sick but you've just got to go through that. I'm out of breath I'm in a sick. I don't think it was a food too close to the work I'm I think it's just the work out. So we did what did we do? We did leg press. It's a one compound exercise then we did two isolation for the hamstring. Seated hamstring curl. Then a lion with a dumbbell. Just a really isolate the muscle of the hamstrings. And then we've done two isolation for the quads now. Leg extensions. And now the hacks what's an atit for legs legs are done. And then two more meals before bed and the day is done. Everyone's staring at me in here. So you go and lead by example and put the weights back. Stop staring at me. So sick as I feel I always get my shake down immediately after the workout. Because you have a window of opportunity where your body will absorb a lot more protein and carbohydrates straight after your workout than any other time. Now that window of opportunity can close after say 10 or so minutes. So you go try and get it down immediately. So many of I've got about 50 grams of protein. I've got 100 grams of a potato in here. Five grams of creatine. 10 grams of glutamin. Have that straight after my workout. Your home 20 minutes. And then probably about 20 minutes after getting home. I'll have my first meal and then one more meal before bed. So even though it sounds like a lot of carbohydrates you can see the workout that we just went through. It's quite intense. You like your general levels. It's a really depleted. See your body's just going to suck it up. It's not going to store it as fast. So this is the way home. 20 minutes of cardio in the darkness. I hope no one jumps out from the bush isn't a tax man. It's my legs are too tired to run. Shoot tomorrow. Come back tomorrow and find out why I'm not walking home and it's not because of today's leg workouts.

=== FILE: Highlight Reel Olympia 2011 - Bodybuilding.com [7Ho5VwL2m8I].txt ===

I want to welcome everyone to the Mr. Libya and the figure Libya finally. The applause for the man who founded the fitness industry created this for the body building. Launch Mr. Libya. The master blast himself. Mr. Joe Weader. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. The master blast himself. There it is, the final two. It is Dayjavu, 2010, 2011, and here we are, Jay Keller and Phil Heath for once again stand side by side. He first placed award in the Olivia Gold Medal. The check for $200,000 to our winner tonight. Phil Heath! Well, there it is at just 31 years old. The Sand Outro fee is on its way back to Denver, Colorado. It's a 47-Mr Olympia's crown, just a 13th man to win the contest. Bring one of these guys, it's going up to congratulate him because they know he is the champion. And now you are the king. Just love all you guys for coming out and staying here and just really rep in the sport of bodybuilding. I just want to say thank you because there's a million other places you guys could be right now. And you guys are here supporting guys like me and the rest of these amazing athletes. So with that, I just want to say God bless you all. Thank you so much for showing up. And hopefully this is one of many I really hope so. Thank you. This is awesome. I mean, it's going to take me a while to be called Mr. O'er, or I don't even hear what's going to happen. I think I'm going to say thank you to Mr. O'er, and I hope you should change your voice now. I don't know if this is Mr. O'er, I'm like, I kind of like the gift, but I tell you what, what I'm going to like more, most of all is to know that I gave my very, very best and I kick some butt. You want to thank the folks who are most of that representing this year's Bodybuilding dot com fans, choice or to feel heath of course not only did the judges feel like you were the other title, but even better than that, the tens or hundreds of thousands around the world agreed that you are in fact Mr. Olympia. It's going to be an incredible historic weekend here in Las Vegas and we're going to go ahead and wrap it up for coverage of Joe Weears 2011 Olympia Week and get everyone.

=== FILE: Hitting New PRs + Realistic Marathon Training Week ｜ 26.2 THE ROAD TO BERLIN EP 4 [vdU4EYhz_Dg].txt ===

September the 29th. Both of us we're going through a five-o-fast. That's the goal. So let's talk about the week ahead. Monday I am testing out my one mile PR. On my run program it really is a light run so I do a mile PR about every six eight weeks. Just see where I am and just see how much I've grown. So we're going to do that on Monday. Tuesday is just non-stop work for light sport. I've got a ton of video deliverables that I got to get in by the end of this week. And with running and editing and doing all the sort of things it definitely feels like there's not enough hours in the day. So that is my sole focus on Tuesday. Wednesday is just meeting central focus. I am in back to back to back meetings with still I run pure sport. A couple other brands that I've been talking to at the moment just about future activations but also what they're doing in the space and how we could potentially work together and or just help them amplify what they're already doing and excelling at. Friday and or Saturday transparently I have my 13.1 run which is my final big run before the marathon. I know last week was my last long run but this is going to be more playing with some tempo speeds that I really want to explore in Berlin, pre-Birland to see where I sit inside my body. And then this weekend we just got our community run. So a lot of really good stuff happening this week. I'm excited to bring you guys in. Like I said it's a ton of editing but it's also a week full of connection which is what I always look forward most of my weeks. And last but not least we're going to be finalizing the designs for the Berlin drop. So I'm working with her Flessy apparel to build a small clothing collection for Berlin and the most folks who are going to go towards the L.I.R. and the Berlin Marathon. We are 20 days out from Berlin. Nothing on the program tonight besides the easy run but I'm going to try to test my myel so you can break for 51. That just don't have the beans to get up here shoes apply for the the mental health rubber program. Oh I love that that's amazing. All of you have been working with me. She's done teen charity endurance events for a long time. She did it for the foundation and she did it for team and training. My follow-ups will just be the prompts that I'll send over to you and then I'll send you the links once we have it for the midnight mile and we'll get everything cruising. And then I'll tell you about the kind of tour of the question was that my life. Do you not four hours? These are going to be cooked. Not so. So today was very big and important for us. We're running on 911 so with more of the miles we decided to do today was 9100 meters sprints with a 300 meter active recovery in honor of all those who lost their lives in 911. So see. Fun different right? You know, you see where like once 20 towards the last two miles. What do we think if we can push a little how do you feel it? Let's take a minute about minute. May we cook all the way to five five 30s. What five 50 at the end you fast man. Let's do it. No we go have firm roll of clay. His heels this is my roller coaster. What we call beautiful sceneries under the George Washington to the right we are always going to have the view to know you're in the city and then coming back the city to our left boys gonna be shady. A lot of trees. So he's gonna be running the jungle. 13.1 654 tempo. My former PR in the half was 139 today we got 130. Oh good. So I shaved almost 10 minutes off my last half which is huge just to make the announcement. Wilson's going to be coaching me in 2025. Talk about the man who's the motivation behind everything. I'm excited to learn from him. Grow with him. More importantly just continue to be better than yesterday. He said a lot of good stuff on this run and he talked about the gratitude you have to have for the ability to be able to move your feet. And I think that's something that we take for granted a lot of the time. So I'm excited to work with a coach who takes every day of the fullest and to many more half marathon. Is there a little in the restaurant right? 135. Amazing. Amazing. What about some 34? Amazing. So 133. Amazing. What was your task before the run? The hills honestly man. The hills were really intimidating and I think growing up the first one you set up best. Momentum you have to attack the hills or the hills are going to attack you and if you don't attack the hills you're going to just wait and drag it on as opposed to getting after in the momentum. That's why I learned today. Everything is momentum based. Also one of the best things you've said today was treating the course with the lines. So you've got to fall in love with it. You've got to dance with the course because if you don't you're going to do more than the miles that are on the course. So really taking into the what did you call them? The tangents. We've got to follow the tangents inside each one. So that was when I got shot to us. So let's go back to the fight. So that was awesome. So there was two moments during the acupuncture when you stepped away that I like immediately felt. Probably like five to seven minutes in. I felt like I could feel the blood or like something pulling down on my body. Can you explain that? I mean I was discussing a little bit earlier when I did the put the needle in your head. We have so much stuff going on in our mind. Just stimulus stimulus everywhere. Hard to slow down. Stress the anxious. So my intention is to take energy for lack of a better term out of the head and bring it down to the feet. That's why we feel so good during exercise. It's because we get out of our head and we get the blood flowing and we get our awareness more in the body and not too much trapped in the mind. So that's really my whole intention. Take take energy away from the head, bring it down into the rest of the body, relax the muscles and people end up feeling great. If we have really tight muscles it's like there's a dam in the river. There's stuff blocking the flow of circulation. So what I'm just doing is taking out stuff from the dam and allowing things to flow. The body wants to do that but sometimes because of tight muscles, other issues. We aren't able to feel that good flow. And so that's what you're feeling. You know what you felt like before the treatment and then when I kind of had those muscles jump a little bit and relax then it could it's like the dam was opened up. There was a point when we were doing cupping and you were moving the cups and I've been I'm used to cup goes on and then like a little bit of massage and it kind of just sits there. Talk to me about what you were doing today. Static cupping you know is when you just keep the cups there, 10 to 12 minutes. I do sliding cupping as well as static cupping. It just depends on what I see. If I feel like there's really tight musculature I'm going to put oil down and I have it slide back and forth because that's like a massage. If you imagine this massage technique where they're kind of like putting pressure on the muscle and relaxing it. It's the same idea with cupping. You know it just felt I do it on a individual basis. If I see that someone might be benefit from like sliding cupping I'll do that. If it's static cupping maybe I'll do that on someone maybe the muscles aren't too tight maybe they're a little bit older maybe their constitution isn't as strong. The things that need to improve to improve performance. So that's kind of how I look at it. In the back of your thighs your hamstrings had some really ropey muscles. The calves for sure. The ankles didn't have an adequate range of motion which makes sense given what you said. In your forearms and in your shoulders there was a lot of tight ropey muscles as well. Pretty much all over out there. Joe you are the best. I'm not even kidding thank you so much brother seriously. Oh yeah. Did 20 yesterday? Whoa it was great. It's a big drop baby just by step shoulders that's legs with a whole convolution of muscles. I've got a crew super muta and I want the sexy legs contact. How does it look? What does it call? Mr. sexy like my mom was the judge once. 10 seven six teeth eight Johnsix

=== FILE: How I Became Jamie Eason's Cart Boy -- Bodybuilding.com [Qut4OHhS_Qc].txt ===

What I guess I got my recipes which never come to the store without your recipes because you will always forget something. So we managed to find our healthy section first world that we're getting stuff a little bit of odd things aren't. So we've got this whole line of bins here with all sorts of goodies so I think that's where I'm going to start. I'm making it to stir one of those time coming in bars and it's going to walnuts. So I'm going to get some walnuts. Now some people are afraid to use a lot of nuts and stuff in their recipe but that's really good. They're really filling. They're really healthy for you. They have lots of omegas and a lot of creamy ones. I'm going to go with them. The team you've got is brown walnuts. These look like they're actually the same thing. You can actually use walnuts, you can use almonds. The peanuts I would shy away from a little bit because they're not as nutritious and a little bit higher in fat so let's go ahead and get some more. It's like pretty good. You're going to half a pound there. Pretty good. Let's see now the bins have all sorts of great things for you. One of the things you notice is that if you're not familiar with an ingredient like say second knot or something like that that's a little odd. It's a little bit not by the way. It can be a good substitute for brown sugar. It's a little more granular so you go to get used to cooking with these things but that's why these are so great because you can get this in tiny bit and kind of practice with it. It doesn't matter. You didn't invest $8 in some weird things but they also list nutrition. They list what it all contains. So that all these bins have a load of all sorts of different flowers and then you've got your price. You have all these little pre mixes. Be careful with some of the pre mixes because they've got dried fruits and you always want to go for the fruits that are actually whole fruits and not the dried because the dried have a lot of sugar. Gotcha. And they're not as dense. You're really not getting as whole on this sorts of things. It's very easy to overdo it need too much. And sugar in fat combo even when it's healthy fat is not always the best combination that will actually come on some weeks. We try to gain load up. But yeah, here is a product called silent. Oh, some. I usually like ideal that's another brand. It's a Zyla tall product. This is a natural screener. And on this natural screener pretty much everything is zero except for we've got some carbs in there. And it does have some sugar after all in Zyla tall but it's a natural um both. Sometimes sugar alcohols will upset people stomach. I like to cook with it but I don't and they put it um but I just don't overdo it. So I'm going to get this and put it in my bag. And another smeter that I like that I think actually is on another aisle. We'll have to check it out later as Steveita because I know I get a lot of questions about Steveia and there's different brands. Evidently one side of the leaf tastes a little bit more bitter than the other side of the leaf. So depending on what's brand you grab it might be a little um little more pungent um and more expensive if they actually refined the tasteier side of the leaf. So Steveia's an acquired taste but it's really really great for baking as well. So okay we've got all the organic beans and soups. A lot of soups are really good but you gotta be careful like if you grab something because they still have quite a bit of sodium in it you're still far better off making your own and so one of the things you can do is look over here to your left where you have all of these awesome rocks and it's look for just low sodium and I like organic because that usually means cure ingredients and credit in it. But you can make the base pretty much any soup here and to make it creamy you can have things like organic Greek yogurt you can have almond milk right smoke things like that. So let's grab these look pretty good. This is no salt added which I like. So that makes it only 30 milligrams of salt and I need some black beans for a truly that I'm gonna make so I'm gonna get this next I need oat flour. I use oat flour and a lot of my recipes and I think a lot of here are familiar with it. There's lots of people making my bars thank you for doing that. So we're gonna make some more I'm gonna make my pumpkin protein bars and I'm also making my cinnamon swirl protein bread so oat flour which right here is an awesome choice for that. I don't see here that they have one that is marked gluten free but typically oat flour is gluten free. The difference is when it's marked you can be guaranteed that in the processing that it was never contaminated or cross contaminated so really most oat flour is gluten free but if you want to be sure look for the one that's marked gluten free. So um but for this one if you look here it's just whole-brain oats. But you can make this yourself too you can use a coffee grinder is really convenient if you just want to do a little bit of time. My mom and she likes to take a whole canister of the oats right in the blender and then put a right back in the container and just scoop out of there because this is pretty much like eating a bowl of oatmeal is you know you use a couple cuts in a whole recipe and you're really not getting a whole whole lot of carbs. One thing to keep in mind that is this great this is really fine you won't necessarily be able to get it as time on your own so you might get a tiny bit more for the recipe um than what it's a complete possible for. So but we're going to get this and I actually get to oh I will mention this this is just finally ground almonds um this is this can work in some of them for substitute but it it really does change the texture it's more merely it's more granular um so sometimes combining things works a little bit better plus if you notice it's definitely more expensive so you really gotta know your recipe to use this or you can end up wasting it but I know a lot of people will combine this with here like almond butters nut butters um peanut butter even um to make cookie consistency so it'll be a little crumbly though so you always find beginners but this is definitely a good option for you know carb it's kind of people. I love the grocery store I can hang out forever here we just came across this. Don't eat this. It was a trend I think for a while and it and it looks like it's you know decent it's not too bad and on the nutrition panel but the problem with the gov is it will spike your blood sugar. So it's not your best option as far as sweeteners. I make a coconut macaron that I absolutely love and I do put it in there because the coconut is really um it's a really small batter it's a batch of stuff I guess it only yields about 10 cookies so if I want to be a little naughty um this is still the lesser of eagles as far as like real sugar and stuff like that but um just be aware that this one actually will spike your blood sugar so if I was gonna choose because this is more watery I probably just go for the real organic honey which is my big student. If I were making something we would have had to sweeten in that way or make it thicker definitely the honey is the good problem with some of these cereals is that their sugar content is still a little high um sometimes the what's in them though are fortified foods which means that it vitamins and minerals um but usually they have to add vitamins and minerals because they stripped down the nutrition value so I'm still you want to go for the more whole natural type foods but you know in a pinch especially for kids these are really good options this one looks like it's got five grams of sugar but it's got a considerable amount of fiber not too bad and then you've got all of these and if you look at it you can see whole oat flour yellow corn flour unsulfurred molasses that's probably your sweetener there and then it's got vitamins that were added so this is actually a pretty good option for kids for adults you're gonna make a trail mix on at home you can use something like this agronauts and maybe coconut flakes and same coconut or um again stay away from a lot of the dry fruits but you can make it sweeten with vanilla cinnamon things like that so anyway the lots of different choices here just keep your grams of sugar under five and look for a few additives to the process so now we've come to all the options of milk so we've got soy milk so we've got rice milk this one's for me everything's pretty much in milk I'm gonna look for unsweetened almond because that's what I like okay super pot um that one and then I don't typically do a lot of soy um that's a question that I get soy is a great alternative for vegans and soy is definitely really healthy but as far as a protein go it's not one of your stronger protein sources I usually shy away from it I've had breast cancer before and I I'm not sure there's always contradictory like sort of information on it whether or not it promotes so my doctors actually recommended that stay away so we did instead I opt for the almond and even the rice milk tech stuff's a little bit better but you're not getting as much nutrition from the rice milk as you are from almond milk actually let's see we'll look at the nutrition halon here for just it's only 40 calories per whole cup and your sugars you're looking at here is zero now if you were to look at actual milk you're still looking at fewer calories but your sugars get to like 8 to 12 grams sugar for less milk so we don't want that lactose we don't want that dairy dairy again can be estrogen promoting there's lots of hormones and stuff and certain things you can you can look for organic um and you can you can you can use that potentially but um typically dairy for some reason is just something that not very many people digest well that's why a lot of our way products and stuff for lactose free I don't eat this stuff instead I like to make my own chips organic keta or is he cute makes a lot of really great products they have a corn tortilla and so I'll just fake that in the oven and break it up I think that works better than a lot of this stuff because even though it's healthier um a lot of it's still highly processed it's a great fish option and actually um a fish might be something that we can look at at the menu so I might actually get some to lobby it let me look at everything I like the frozen place because they're usually class frozen so they're still really healthy and clean um you've got all sorts of options but this is not a lean white fish so it's always a good option for dying so I'm sure some of them now we are going to class the produce section I could hang out there all day there's so many great options um I might need to go back there and get some stuff for our fish but um so far I just got zucchini because we're going to make a trip burger using some zucchini I think with our fish maybe something like a spary guess I know a lot of you guys would be diet um you opt for sweet potatoes and fish or lots of greens and fish um so to accommodate you guys I think we will soon buy a ending of that over by the produce all right well I think for my turkey burgers I'm actually going to change that to a brown chicken burger you can do turkey or chicken but it looks like I'm in hot here they have brown chicken breasts make sure it's breast because we want the white meat the dark meat definitely more fatty but nutrition wise uh this one looks like four ounces 180 calories and eight grams of bad 24 grams protein um that's that's still a little bit higher in fact but it's not saturated it's got two four five grams of saturated it's not two beds only 70 milligrams of sodium to so then this one we've got lean or meats um it's 160 calories and eight grams of bad again this one's got 80 milligrams of sodium so I'm actually higher sodium and we've got 22 grams of protein this one was 24 grams of protein so um they're both a four ounce portion um so this is lean I actually want to actually maybe we hopefully we can out here four ounces 120 calories 1.5 grams of bad and nothing saturated 65 milligrams of sodium a little bit less than the chicken in 28 grams of protein and that weird how entire what it is so this is more natural less added it's so we're going to get this for our chili I'm going to get a couple of them one of the reasons I like choosing this is it's really not too high in fats and um it's a great source of protein in it's taste better that's one of my deals is it's actually a lot more uh it absorbs flavors the spices everything so you're entertaining especially when it cooks something really lean this has minimal fat in it it'll taste 10 times better than the turkey days so just for the second recipe I'll stick the ball to keep this time because this is harder to find although I'm really tempted

=== FILE: How Jay Cutler Trains Chest And Calves ｜ Bodybuilding Workout [zf5GJrwYGc8].txt ===

Music It takes more than time in the gym to become a four-time Mr. Lemmy. I've dedicated my life to building a legacy that reaches beyond the competition stage. I want the next generation to be better than me. I'm four-time Mr. Lemmy. J.Coffer. This is how you train. So I'm here at BodyWind.com headquarters. Ready to shoot day one of the Living Large Mass Trainer. Today we're going to do chess, but the difference is I'm not going to be doing that training. I'm actually going to take one of BodyWind.com's athletes. I'm going to take them through how to build a champion chess. Okay, so our first exercise is going to be the incline barbell bench press. In this exercise we're going to do a couple of warm upsets and then we're going to work into building some mass in the chest and getting those reps out there with some heavier weights. Ready to go? Oh yeah. The lighter sets I usually try to do around 12 to 15. Just to get a little blood going in there. And then the whole work into the heavier sets. We're going to shoot for about 10 reps. Okay, that sounds good. What's important with chess, obviously people focus on weights and repetitions. Your elbow positioning is really important because you really want to push not with the tri-sips in the shoulders. You really want to push with the chest. Sometimes the elbows have to be a little inward. They can't really be out because if they're out or you're going to put the crescent over the shoulders. Try to do that a lot. So you're better off, you have to create that arch which your chest should be the highest point of your body. And then you press upwards so you really can actually feel the chest contracting. You're not just pressing the weight just to press it. And I see so many people going to gym and they press over and over it with you can see that the shoulders are doing the work to try to set up. And that's why the chest ends up under the balance most of the time. So I'm going to warm up set. Let's see where I'm going. Gotta be safe and make any mistakes thinking you're ready to go over full-bore into the heavy weights. Dude, my name is Sherter Ready. People's misconception is that, you know, I'm going to do incline just only going to hit my upper chest or I'm going to decline just going to hit the lower. It's really just, I mean, overall chest development is from basic pressing movement. That's where you're going to develop the best chest. You feel that barbell is usually better for your chest than dumbbells. I'll switch, I go alternate. So if you barbell one week and then do dumbbells the fall and week. This is our first working set here, okay. Three sets of 10 repetitions is what we're going to do. 45 seconds still. And this is what I'm just left for. You feel see how you fit the peak and you're going to try to roll you through this thing, man. If you roll it. Good. You ready? Okay. Remember that the key is, is not a weight competition. Good, it's my up, up, good. You know, just the hands are there. I'm not doing anything really, just keeping his mind that I'm there, if he needs me. Pick my one more, one more. Up, good. Perfect. You know, it's always good to have, you know, a partner when you're bench pressing depending on how heavy you go. All right. Come on. Come on. Up, good. Yeah. Up. Watch. Good. Okay. Lock it up. Yeah. As we'll brush up in after this. Yeah. Sometimes I just suppose a lot between sets or whatever. It's good to stare at yourself and flex a little bit. Yeah. Even the smallest guys do it. I see the guys and then jamming out, flexing themselves. You catch you, admire and you a lot, huh? I don't know if they're mire and me or you. Okay. This is the last one. Yeah, that's okay. Okay. When we're done, this is the last workout for the day, right? Up. Good. Good. One more, one more. Up. Good. Good. Good. Perfect. I mean, this is like the meat and potatoes exercise for chest. This is what you see on Mondays. Every gym is loaded with everyone. They call it chest day on Mondays. Yeah. Intense of chest day. So do you know better than me? I usually don't have it on a Monday, by the way. We're going to shoot for 10 repetitions. It's going to be the goal. We can go right into the weights since we're already warmed up from the inclines and it's knock it out. Now, remember, you know, no bouncing off the chest. No cheat reps. We're going to work on contractions as well a focused on. You tell me when, let's go. Okay, come on now. Good. That's it. Good. So as you can see, the bar is not coming down. It's keeping the contraction on the chest, which is very, very important. Up. Good. Perfect. You see so many people in the gym. Most of the time, it's people that can't handle the weights that they press. Right? I mean, they get on a bench and what they do is they come down with the bar and they bounce or whatever or they round the chest. Yeah. You tend to round over the shoulders and they press, you know, especially you get those last reps. You don't want to be able to keep the chest up. So you can feel it really in contract. You can see. If you want to stay there and let me spot you. Yeah. You sure. I want you to get your set because we're your 60 seconds. 60 seconds. Got it. I'm not going to let you cheat, man. I came all the way up here to give you a little ass blip. So, okay. Ready? All right. I'm standing back letting you rep it out. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. One more. One more. One more. Oh. Good. I like when you struggle over. You know, ideally, I mean, for chest, you just want that burn. Right? How about for certain people have problems breaking through like weight plateau. It's kind of a monod question because, you know, as a bodybuilder, we're not really focused on my weight. Okay. But ideally, if you train lighter for a couple weeks, then normal. And then you go to max out again. You will be able to move more weight. Okay. You've got to lighten up the load because what's happening is a lot of times, you're just doing too much and it's just exhausting. You've lost your weight. Okay. All right. Big lift. Ready? Yeah. Okay. Ready? Come on. Okay. Come on. Good. Good. Come on. That's it. Powerful. Powerful. Good. Oh, come on. One more. One more. Go ahead. Good. Good. Good. Good. Got it. Perfect. Perfect. Good. Yeah. It's burning. It's a good burn. Not those bad burns. Yeah. All right. So third exercise in the chest mass program is going to be flat dumbbell fly. Okay. This is one of my favorites actually because I can put a little more resistance on this. Okay. So as you know, the chest gets in-gorge with muscle from the pressing movements. Now we're going to stretch it out. Allow the fibers to open up and allow more blood flow to the tissue and of course nutrients and everything else that's going to help you build and Olympia chest. Okay. Okay. Ready? One. Two. Okay. As you see, I'm giving them a little resistance on the way down. I'm trying to pull them apart a little bit. That's going to help tear those inner chest fibers. You guys looking to build that inner chest. This is a great partner movement. So what the resistance allows everyone seems to ask. They want that line in their chest. Obviously that comes with the mass on the chest, but it's also going to help hold those fibers out. Okay. And a lot of the chest to get more blood. Okay. So ideally with this exercise is everyone's minds always stuck on how much weight they pull up. Okay. Remember it's all about the workout and really getting blood into the muscle. It's really just getting that full contraction. You can't do that when you have too much weight. It too focused on holding the weight. The elbows can't be too far. They got to be back and just really allow contraction on the chest. A little secret of 20 years of training. This is enough to really get the job done. So just trying to keep all of your workout exercise is simple. It's very capable of getting people to communicate training much, much more than they need to. All right. Ten more reps. Last set. Okay. Good. Good. Good. Can really feel that contraction when you come up there. So chest is working. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Starting to burn isn't it? Oh yeah. Okay. Good. I guess a key. I mean once you start feeling that burn, you can only push so far. Don't matter if you're part in as young, you do floor more. Yeah. I never believed in that. You don't want to get to the point where you're just dying and he's doing the weight or whatever. She's doing the weight. It really doesn't matter. So it's pretty much, and I leave that ego at the door. I see a lot. Yes. They get the superhero complex where they're watching some guy with heavy weight. They immediately want to go through and that's it. I'm sure these guys are over here saying, Oh, I can do more weight than you guys guy and whatever else. But you hear for yourself, you know, let them go over there and do what they're doing. Yeah. Now over to the fourth exercise. We're going to do some dips. Okay. This is kind of unique exercise. I mean, this was kind of the staple of the J-Color training program for a lot of the Olympias. With this exercise, really, the key is keeping the legs back. Okay. If you're going to do a dips for the triceps, usually the legs stay underneath the body. But with this, the legs are going to be back. So you actually get a lean kind of going into the movement. And you get that nice stretch on the chest. And this is really going to help on the outside of the chest development. Okay. Everyone wants to get that nice rounded look when they stand on stage or just, you know, looking good and, you know, and tank top or whatever else. You want to get that nice round look to the chest. Okay. This is a great exercise for that. Okay. So, so legs back. Legs back. Okay. Little lean into it. And, you know, you're going to go down as deep as you feel it comfortable. Okay. You know, I usually only did body weight because I weighed 300 pounds. Okay. You see these guys in the gym. They might strap on weights. It's okay to do that. I mean, obviously for me, my legs weight, you know, a lot more than half my body weight. Most of my, my biggest. So for me, I was able to just use my body weight. I'm going to focus on 10 repetitions. That's really what we're going to focus on. Yeah. And, uh, and really just try to get that contraction. This chest is really contracting at the top of the moment right there. Okay. You want to see it? Next time. I mean, you really think of dip and you think of the guys like that work on the Olympic rings. They try so it's really developed right because they're locking it continually. Let's do this. Knock this thing out. Now, with this exercise, you're not really locking the triceps. You're actually trying to lock the chest. And not to try steps. Okay. And that's why the lean in is very, very important. Because if you're a more upright, you're going to end up locking the triceps more than you would. And in this position, it's really hard to lock your triceps because the chest actually locks first. Okay. So that's the idea with this movement. It's really getting that chest locked out and not the triceps. All right. Last set of 10 reps here we go, man. His body is forward. The legs are back. So it's really, you see his triceps aren't locking out. They're not getting to that point because we're lean in. That's very, very important. Good. So it's nice to actually turn in with someone and actually see, okay, how the techniques I used or use in my training is very, very important. And I can see how they actually work. You know, it's kind of like an athlete watching training footage, our game footage of like how they played or what other teams did. Yeah. Now, how do you feel about people who, first time came to the gym and they're waiting for all the information to start. What do you think about that? Well, I mean, it's much easier when I started, what you didn't have internet. I learned to train from watching people in the gym. So I've been sitting here watching these guys work out and saying, oh, that's like a cool movement. Yeah, that's a cool movement of this machine here that. And that's how I learned. And I knew that guy. Well, now it's like, now you can go on the internet and see, okay, do watch the day cover. Yeah. You know, watching train someone else or having structural pieces. I mean, body would not come. They have so much info out there that's live. Yeah. And I mean, I put out content consistently and I'm always, you know, socially acting with the fans out there all over the place. And it's just, it's a new, it's a new technology. I mean, everyone today is very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very fortunate to have that. No, no, cool. Okay, we've already completed four exercises. It's not fifth one. The only thing really left to do is not necessarily pump it up anymore, but stretch it out. So it allows possibly more blood to get in there. We're going to hold the dumbbell. Okay. Like a triangle. Okay. So really, you know, you're really getting that stretch all the way through here. So it's stretch, contract, stretch, contract. I mean, it's pretty much kind of like the fly movement. And this will really, and it'll also help open up the rib cage, which is really important on those side chest shots. Good. It's good. Okay. So I don't really see as many people in the gyms nowadays doing it. I mean, I train in Vegas. You know, I see a lot of the young kids, and it seems like an exercise that they don't display as much online or in the magazines. But it's something that I try to promote because it's really good, especially as you younger. It's really good to really help build up open up that rib cage and really build as much width as you possibly can. Okay. Come on. That's a good. Keep the butt down. Good. Good. You're looking at the Living Large Trainer being an eight week program. Okay. I know it seems like a lot of workouts, but when you really break it down, you really only have eight quality chest workout. So you can actually say, okay, everyone has to be productive. Yeah. But down when you come back good. There you go. Good. Yeah. Good. I was leaving the gym the day before after finishing my trainer. I'd already be thinking about the next day's workout. I already knew walking in the gym the next day. I could basically walk to each station and say, okay, this was already done in my head. Yeah. That makes it easy for you to test when you're towards your job. So you can mentally prepare yourself. And that's the thing is you get progressively better and more active in what you're trying to do. I mean, I could pick up a weight and say, okay, I'm going to do this eight times. And I always did it eight times. It's like Michael Jordan. It's like Michael Jordan when he used to shoot his, his free throws and he closes eyes. You know, just he knows the memory takes over. It's just my exact connection. You have with your mind. Yeah. But I come with consistent training over all. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this is the end of the chest training for the mass living large trainer. But now we're going to go over and do the next movements, which is going to be standing Catholic as an exercise. Let's go check it out. Like a lot of the gyms out there, there's not a standing calf machine available in this gym. So we're going to kind of make our own. So let's let's, uh, we're going to put these these quarters down. Okay. This is going to create up our platform where all right. This would normally be like a calf machine, okay. And I put these so your heels can kind of drop off because remember the contracts and very, very important. Okay. The most common question that people ask me is how do I get my calves big? And I try to tell everyone, you've got to train them like every other body part. So I really, when I was having my biggest calves in my career, I trained them once a week without every other body part. Okay. So I would pick a day, you know, usually it was on chest day that I would do the calves. And I would do a couple different movements maybe three sometimes. But mainly I would stick to you know, standing calf, raise and the CD calf, raise most of the times. I try to stay with heavy weights on this. I know people say I'll hire reps low reps. My common theory is you walk around in your calves all day. If I'm doing higher repetitions when I walk, why would I do that in a stretch? Yeah. So I try to do heavier weights and just focus on the action. Okay. So you're going to see nice stretch up contract, okay. Okay. Okay. I don't train my calves as much anymore. I do very little, but you don't need to. I don't want them to get too big, that's how it'll be. So you post twice one, two. I do it that way, that's just my, I mean, you do it the way that you, I'm going to do your way. Okay, try my way. I'm not going to fight you. Get that nice stretch good. Yeah, I really get that contraction as you can see. Through his, a de-to-sauce. So sometimes you've got to, you've got to just make shift your own machines. Yeah. This is just as good as doing a regular calf raise. So same thing. That out actually felt kind of good. But as you see in my momentum, you know, I don't really take too much, too much pause. You know, little slight bend to the knees is important with this exercise. Okay. Get this. Uh-oh. We got to stiff it up. It's like a wind ball ball, it turns this hat around. It turns this hat around. It's about to go down. Now the socks come down. It's about to come down. Every guy, no one's to walk around with big calves. And in the beginning, I didn't have the best calf. So I usually wore more long pants than I did shorts. Then in Vegas, you don't have much choice to wear anything but shorts nowadays. So I get tired of hearing about people with genetic excuses. I just don't have this at that. And yes, it's true. I mean, to get to a certain level. Listen, I'd like the guy to me. I don't have any abs. Everyone has abs. I mean, it's one of those things where you should still train. It's still in. Just keep the routine. Just keep. Because he doesn't grow like the other body parts. Don't just skip it. You know, we have to do different movements. Some people are going to respond to different movements. It's very simple. Like I said, it's, you know, people try to complicate it too much. We like to guy say, and all, there's no standing calf machine. Some of us can't do it. Yeah. Okay. So what watch fellas, we will show you how you can do your calves over here. Work those toothpicks. Yeah. Good. Very soft. Caves are here. We're going to knock out some seeding calf raises, which is a seven exercise. And of course, the final exercise of our routine. So sometimes just good to hold it at the top a little bit. Really get that squeeze. I mean, count a one. I don't really like holding it much longer than that. Okay. Good. And what's nice about this, okay, is it good? Okay. Good. And what's nice about this, okay, is that you can give a little resistance here to unaway down, okay? Kind of like I did with the fly movement, which allows it to feel a little heavier than it actually is. I used to have my partner's do that. I mean, I used to load this thing up with three plates or four plates sometimes. And I'd have a, even a resistant hand in there. That's good. Okay. Lock that. My stretch that I like to do the most was this stretch. Okay. Okay. So keep the heels flat in the floor. Really just try to get this stretch from the balls of your feet and back, okay, on your calves. You can feel it pulling it. Yeah. You can feel it pull mainly on the outside. It's the same thing in rest times. It's the same 45 seconds. I'm not letting you get away with that. Oh. Oh. Disk it. And it's on work to use on the last set. So couldn't pull this guy. Yeah. You actually get some pretty decent calves under those socks, man. I appreciate it. I've been walking my whole life. Yeah. That's it. Month. Some people like the train in the gym and a little more covered up. I used to wear tights on leg there. I'm kind of embarrassed to say that sometimes I used to wear the tights. But try to make them pop out of it. Yeah. Well, I can see I see that I was popping it on the stuff. It actually made me train harder. Yeah. I think a lot of people have that. I just say that that superstitious thing. That superstitious ways where it's like, okay, I had a great work out. And that sure last week I'm going to train it again. I mean, it sounds kind of odd. But I know a lot of people probably are sitting back watching this. And I think the same thing. All right. Last set now. Month. Another 10 reps, ready? Got it. One. Two. One. One. One. One. Let's say, come on. One more. One more. One more. Good. So how do you feel? I'm going to get a second. All right. I'm good. So sometimes what I would like to do too, I'm just to give a little mix in there. I'm going to put a little bit better. So you've got to kind of go through the reps, okay? So if I'm going to do. Yeah. Okay. So what I might do is I might do a rest pause. So I stop. Maybe five or ten seconds. And then jump right back into the right back and do another six reps. And listen, you know, you're going to push to a certain rep range. And then it's going to get to a point where it's like, okay, I'm only going backwards here. Let your mind rethink and then just try to push out as many reps as you can do. But I appreciate you listening and learning to what I had to say to that. You're doing a lot. There's a lot that I can preach even, you know, being a competitive body book as someone that's not necessarily looking to get on stage. And bodybuilding in this kind of work, I was just isn't just for the competitor. It's not for just the company. Yeah, that's the main thing is it's for that average person. And it's just fine what benefits you and that the lifestyle that you live. Okay. So thanks man. I appreciate it. I'm in fun. Until next time. Definitely feel next time. Up. All right. I just completed day one workout one of the living large eight week trainer. If you guys haven't checked it out, make sure you check it out at bodybuilding.com. I'm active on there. I'm on the forums. You guys can check me out. Of course, my Twitter at Mr. O. J. Cutler, my Instagram at Mr. J. Cutler official. For more content and more information on J. Cutler, and of course, this workout program. Check out bodybuilding.com. Stay on it. You never know where it's going to take you. You never know where it's going to take you.

=== FILE: How To Bench Press： Layne Norton's Complete Guide [esQi683XR44].txt ===

Research is my passion. Muscle and strength are my pursuits. I'm the power lifter, bodybuilder, scientist and coach. I'm Lane Norton. I am a physique architect. I'm the power lifter. I'm the power lifter. Binge press is one of the most important upper body exercises. This makes it crucial for overall development and strength. A lot of people think about it as just a chess movement. But it incorporates the pectorals, the triceps, the shoulders, even the back when done correctly. When it's done wrong, the results can be disastrous. Seven years ago, I told my right pectoral, bench pressing incorrectly. But over time, I learned to incorporate more muscle groups and focus on the movement itself. Not only did it become more safe, but my results were better. In this video, I'm going to teach you things I learned from top technique experts like Ben Eskro, Dr. Mike Zordos and Matt Gary to make my bench press more effective, safe and fun. Before we actually get into talking about the nuts and bolts, I want to talk about something a lot of people don't really think about. That's equipment. Now you don't need any equipment other than yourself to bench press. But there are certain things that can make your bench press more effective and safe. Not many people give much thought to footwear on a bench press. But your feet are what connect you to the ground and form your base. Now footwear is a little bit of personal preference, but you want something with a lot of grip. Personally, I like to use squat shoes. They have an elevated heel, which helps me get my foot flat and the floor and connect with it better. They also have really good grip on the bottom, and that helps keep my feet from sliding. But many people also use wrestling shoes and shoes like Chuck Taylor's. Another piece that really isn't equipment, but I find to be very useful is Chuck. By putting Chuck on my back, it helps me stick to the bench better and form a more stable base to press from. The easiest way to apply Chuck is to use a partner or lifting buddy. Have them chalk your back where you're back contacts the bench. The most important piece of equipment I use on bench press is wrist wraps. If you're going to create the maximum amount of force, you want to be able to keep your wrist in a straight line. Briss traps give joint support helping you keep your wrist in a straight line. I recommend a good pair of powerlifting wrist straps anywhere from 12 to 36 inches, depending on what you prefer. Many people make the mistake of wrapping their wrists too low. You want the wrap to actually cover the joint. In fact, you want to wrap a little bit above and a little bit below the joint. This is why I prefer a bit longer wrist wrap of 18 to 24 inches. This ensures I can get enough revolutions to cover both above and below the wrist joint. Tightness is a little bit of a matter of personal preference. I say get them as tight as you can while not causing pain. Now that we've covered equipment, let's talk about what actually makes the components of a good bench press. The first thing I want to talk about is foot placement. While not as crucial as on squat or deadlift, it's still as important on bench press. It forms your connection to the ground and your base. I prefer to keep a flat foot on the ground. This ensures I get the best connection possible. I also like to keep my back tight and arched. To do that, I like to keep my feet back as far as I can while still keeping them flat. For everyone, this is going to be a different position. But you want to put them back, but not so far back that you can't keep them flat on the floor. The next thing I want to talk about is back position. As you lie down on the bench, you want to position your back in the appropriate position. For everyone, this may be a little bit different, but essentially what you want is to have your back in a position where you're not so far away from the bar that it becomes difficult to un-raq, but you're not so far under it that you're likely to hit the pegs when you're pressing. I prefer to put the bar right around forehead height, and this will put my back connection with the bench just below where the bar sits on the rack. So now that we're in the proper position, I want to talk about back arch. Now this tends to be a little bit of a controversial topic, especially among bodybuilders. Many bodybuilders don't think they should arch. They think that an arch is just a powerlifting move, but arching your lower back will help keep your spine neutral and protect it while you're pressing. But we'll also ensure your overall back can stay tighter. Now, if you're not concerned about powerlifting, maybe you don't need to arch as much as power lifters, but you should still keep a slight arch in your lower back. If you're a power lifter, then you want to arch as much as you possibly can to minimize the distance the bar has to travel. The next day I want to talk about is gripping the bar. You want to grab it tightly and with authority. This is going to activate your central nervous system and get you ready and cue you to stay tight. You want to put the bar as far down in your hand as you possibly can. If you hold the bar out in your fingers, it is more likely to cause your wrists to roll back. This means you are no longer pressing with optimal force. A straight wrist will be the most optimal way to press. So you want to hold the bar as low in your hands as you can. Grip width is going to be very individual depending on your arm length. People with longer arms will probably need to grip wider. People with shorter arms can grip more narrow. But I don't like exaggerated grips in either direction. Most people are going to be around the rings or just a few inches inside the rings. I also don't recommend a false or thumbless grip. While they may feel better, they are simply more dangerous. I've heard numerous stories of people dropping bars on their chest because they used a thumbless grip. Wrap your thumb around the bar and bench press more safely. The next day I want to talk about is squeezing your shoulder blades together. Squeezing your shoulder blades together will allow you to stay tighter. It also protects the shoulders. What I mean by squeezing your shoulder blades together is think about if you had a great shape in between your shoulder blades. You want to squeeze so tight that you crush that grip. Just like on squat, we want to breathe to create the maximum amount of interparison ill pressure, so we can brace more effectively and move more weight. Before you begin the movement, you want to take in a deep breath, unwrapped the bar, blow that breath out and take in another new deep breath before you start your first rep. Then you want to hold it and blow out forcefully as you lock out the weight. This will enable you to use more weight more effectively. One step that gets overlooked is unwrapping the bar. Just like on squat, we want to do this as efficiently as possible and not waste energy. The way I like to think about unwrapping the bar is not to lift the bar off the uprights, but I want to think about driving my back against the bench so hard that the bar just comes off. You want to take a deep breath, brace, drive your shoulder blades against the bench, and then slowly and in a controlled fashion pull the bar off the uprights. Now that we've gone through a proper setup on bench press, let's talk execution. After you've unwrapped the bar and you're ready to start your first rep, you want to take in a big breath and brace your abdominal wall just like you would on squat or deadlift. Once you're braised, initiate lowering the bar, think about trying to bend the bar into a u. This will enable the bar to lower naturally in a good position with your elbows tucked. By thinking about bending the bar, you're going to naturally engage your lats and tuck your elbows. We don't want to flare our elbows excessively on bench press. Tucking your elbows ensures that you'll engage your lats and press in a more safe and efficient manner. Another cue that may work is to protect your arm pits. Where you touch the bar on your body is very important and is going to be very different depending on how long your arms are and where you grip. One of the most important things for an efficient bench press is to keep your forearm at 90 degrees to the ground. If it moves in either direction, you're going to be losing energy transfer as you press up with the bar. Somebody who has long arms and grips narrow is going to have to touch very low on their body. If somebody has very short arms and very wide, they could touch very high and still keep their foremen at 90 degrees to the ground. But as we discussed, I don't recommend extreme grips in either direction. For most people, they're going to hit anywhere from their top ab to their nipple one. Once you've touched the bar to your chest, you want to initiate the upward movement by tightening your glutes and driving your legs in the ground. This may seem like a strange cue, but just like on squatting deadlift, using leg drive is going to enable you to use more weight and stay tighter. Now on bench press, because our feet are not directly under the bar, it's not as important as it is on squats and deadlift, but we're still trying to get every little bit of efficiency that we can out of our movement. As you start to press up, you want to think about throwing the bar back as you start the lock out process. Remember, we're pressing the bar in an upside down J path. Ideally, we'd have a completely straight bar path, but with most people on bench press, that's not going to be possible. If they do, the bar ends up too far away from you as you lock out and creates extra torque on your shoulders. Now that we've talked about how to do a proper bench press, let's talk about some of the most common mistakes I see when people do the movement. Probably the most common mistake I see is people bouncing the bar off their chest. Not only is this dangerous because the force you create on your sternum, but it's almost impossible to stay tight and controlled when you're bouncing the bar off your chest. And if you're bouncing it, are you really moving the weight? Another mistake is people don't breathe properly and brace properly. If you're not taking a big breath before you start and brace your abdominal wall correctly, it's going to be less safe and you're not going to be able to stay as tight and use as much weight. Another one of the most common mistakes I see is people flaring their elbows. Many people flare their elbows out because they believe this will lead to more chest recruitment. And even if it does, it's still not worth the danger. This was how I tore my pec seven years ago by using two out of a grip and flaring my elbows out. It also means you're not going to be able to keep your lats tight and it's going to lead to less efficiency in the movement. Another big mistake I see is rolling your shoulders forward. This tends to go hand in hand with flaring elbows out too wide. Many people tend to roll their shoulders forward as they finish the movement. But this is going to make you stay less tight and has a greater chance of leading to some sort of shoulder injury over the course of your lifting career. Another mistake that coincides with flaring elbows and rolling shoulders is unlocking your shoulder blades. Many people will unlock their shoulder blades as they finish a bench press because they feel it will enable them to lock out more weight. But that's not the case. It will cause you to lose tightness and increase the possibility of injury. Another mistake I see is people not keeping their feet planted. They have what I call floppy feet. It usually coincides with all the other cues we've talked about of not staying tight. Keep your feet planted to the floor. This will enable you to stay tighter and press more effectively. Now you have the tools to bench press effectively and safely. Remember lifting weights is a skill just like any other sport. And the more times you do it the better you will get at that skill. Start out with lightweight work on your form. Build it up over time. Now I know it's a lot to remember. There's a lot of cues when it comes to bench press. So go back and watch this video over and over until it makes more sense. You may pick up more things every time you watch. Also, I broken everything down in detail in this article at Bodybuilding.com. For more articles and videos from me and other great contributors, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: How To Deadlift： Layne Norton's Complete Guide [d5eGGZXb0Is].txt ===

Research is my passion. Muscle and strength are my pursuits. I'm the power lifter, bodybuilder, scientist, and coach. I'm Lane Norton. I am a physique architect. Just like with squats for the first half of my lifting career, I avoided deadlifts. It was hard, and I didn't really want to do it. But once I finally decided that I needed to catch my back up to the rest of my body, I consistently started incorporating deadlifts, and it made all the difference. When I did my first series of natural pro shows in 2010, the judges couldn't believe the difference I had made in back size and density. Now five years later, my back's gotten even bigger, and my deadlifts got even better. When I decided to consistently start deadliftsing, I did a ton of research on proper form and how to execute the lift. But I also learned from some of the best people I know, including Ben Eskro, Dr. Mike Zortos, and Matt Gary. Compiling all that information has led me to where I am today, and I'm going to use it to teach you how to deadlift or safely and efficiently. There are essentially two ways to deadlift. Either conventional or sumo. In this video, I'm going to break down both. Before we get into breaking down the deadlift, I want to talk about useful pieces of equipment I recommend for deadlift. Footwear is very important for deadlifts. You're looking for three things. One, you want something with a lot of grip, two, you want something with a flat hole, and three you want something that's loaded to the ground. Lower to the ground, you are the less distance you have to pull the bar. If you're using something with a raised heel, you have to pull the bar further. Thus, I don't recommend squat shoes for deadlifting. Also, I don't recommend sneakers. They're probably the worst things you can wear. You want something with a hard sole. Sneaker sole is very soft, and you'll be losing energy transfer when you deadlift. I recommend things like deadlift slippers, wrestling shoes, or even shock tailors. As with squat, a belt can be very helpful on deadlift. A belt gives you something to brace your abdominal wall against, and keep you more upright as you complete the movement. I recommend a good 10 to 13mm powerlifting belt. Most people wear their belt too though. I recommend wearing your belt just under your ribs, right where your abdominal wall pushes out when you brace during a lift. Belk tightness is a little bit up to the individual, but I don't prefer something so tight that you can't brace effectively, but you also don't want it so loose that it doesn't provide support. I recommend keeping it one notch off the absolute tightest setting that you can possibly go. As well as gusts later, a straight bar path is very important during deadlifts. It is also important to keep the bar as close as possible to your body. This means that if you're not wearing long socks or tights, you're going to scrape your shins. In fact, it may leave you bruised and bloodied. Thus, I recommend wearing either knee-high socks, tights, or long pants during your deadlifts. Another piece of equipment that you can use for is straps. Now, if grip is a problem for you on deadlift in your competitive powerlifter, I recommend training without straps. But if grip isn't a problem, or you're just a bodybuilder who's looking to maximize muscle mass and doesn't want to worry about your grip, then straps can be very helpful. If you're not going to use straps on a deadlift, I recommend using chalk. It will enable you to get a better grip on the bar, making it easier to complete the lift. So now that we've discussed equipment, let's talk about the components that make up a good deadlift. First, I'm going to teach you how to set up for a conventional deadlift. Foot position is a little bit up to the individual. But in general, I would stand in the position where you can generate the most power. And that is typically where you'd be able to jump the highest in a standing vertical leap. Your hand position should be just outside of your shins. If you grip too wide, you're actually going to have to pull the bar a further distance. So you want it as close to your shins as you can. After most starting position, we'll be with your shins at 90 degrees to the ground and your scapula over the bar. This ensures that you pull the bar in a straight line and generate maximum force. Just like on squat, before you begin the movement, you want to take in a deep breath and brace your abdominal wall. This is going to protect your spine and enable you to generate more force. Before you start the movement, you also want to pull the slack out of the bar by engaging your lats. Many people just jerk the bar off the ground, but this is incorrect. Jerking the bar off the ground is more likely to put whip into the bar and cause your lower back to round and prevent you from keeping a straight bar path. Now I'm going to show you how to set up for a sumo deadlift. Foot positioning on sumo deadlift is going to be more variable than on conventional, but you want to set up so that your shins end up at 90 degrees when you begin to pull. An easy way to find out where your foot position should be on sumo is to look into a mirror, get into your starting position and then play around with different foot widths. Find the one where your shin is at 90 degrees to start the movement. On a sumo deadlift, you're also going to need to point your toes out. If you point your toes forward, your knees are going to be in the way and it's going to be much harder to complete the movement. Your hand position should be a straight line down the bar. The rest of the setup points for sumo are very similar to conventional. You want your shins at 90 degrees to the ground, you want your scapula over the bar. You want to breathe and brace. You want to engage your lats and pull slack out of the bar. Now that we've talked about deadlift set up, let's get into the execution at the conventional and sumo deadlift. Many of the cues for the execution of the sumo and conventional deadlift are very similar, but we're going to start with conventional. As we discussed in setup, you want to breathe in deep, brace your abdominal wall, and pull the slack out of the bar by engaging your lats. Initiate the movement by thinking about trying to bend the bar. You want to breathe in deep, brace your abdominal wall, and pull the slack out of the bar by engaging your lats. Initiate the movement by thinking about trying to bend the bar. That will engage your lats automatically, and then pushing the floor away from you. Think about a leg press. It's similar to your setup on a conventional deadlift. You've got your thighs, close to your abdominal wall, and you're pressing the leg press away from you. So instead of the leg press, think about that being the ground. You're pressing the ground away from you. As soon as the bar leaves the floor, you want to think about squeezing your glutes and driving your hips forward. This is going to enable you to keep a straight bar path and lock out more effectively. You want to initiate the movement by thinking about spreading the floor apart. You want to initiate the movement by pushing the floor away from you. And as soon as you're deadlift, you want to initiate the movement by thinking about spreading the floor apart. Once the bar has left the ground, you want to think about squeezing your glutes and driving your hips forward, just like you would unconventional. As you lock out, stand erect, but do not hyper extend your lower back. Just stand straight up and lock out your lower back. Once you're locked out, you don't want to just drop the weight, but you don't want to lower it too slowly either. Many people I've seen injured their lower backs have done so trying to lower the bar too slowly. This creates a lot of torque on your lower back. The easiest way to initiate lowering the bar is to unlock your glutes and let your hips drive back. And the bar should be lowered in a straight bar path, almost identical to the one that came up in. One major point to note is that conventional and sumo deadlifts are not going to feel the same in terms of speed. A conventional deadlift is typically going to be very fast off the floor and slower to lock out. Now that we've talked about how to properly execute conventional and sumo deadlifts, let's talk about some of the most common mistakes we see in the gym. The biggest and most dangerous mistake I see on deadlifts is rounding of the lower back, spinal flexion. This creates uneven pressure on the disc and is more likely to lead to a back injury. Another big mistake I see is the bar separating from the shin. The further away from your body the bar gets, the longer the moment arm and the greater the torque on your lower back. Keeping the bar as close to your shin as possible ensures that you can apply the maximum amount of force and move the bar more effectively and safely. Another mistake I see people making is not engaging their lats and pulling the slack out of the bar. This increases the whip that goes into the bar, the likelihood that the bar will separate from your shin and increases the difficulty to lock out. Another mistake I see is people who lock their knees too early. While locking your knees earlier will help you get the bar off the ground faster, it will make it much more difficult to lock out because the bar will separate it from your shin, increasing the torque. Another really critical mistake I see people make is people who over-dip their hips trying to squat the right off the ground. The deadlift is not a squat. People who have long legs are not going to be able to get a lot of progress into the movement, especially on a conventional deadlift. Remember that in order to exert the maximum amount of force, the shin has to be perpendicular and the shoulder blades have to be over the bar. If you over-dip your hips and lean too far back, your shoulder blades will be behind the bar. To initiate the movement and for the bar to come off the ground, the shoulder blades will now have to get back over the bar. This means you will have to come forward as you start in the movement. Coming forward as you start in the movement is one of the worst things that can happen. If you're coming forward as you start the movement, you are much more likely to have the bar separate from your shin, lock your knees too early and round your lower back. While many people like to touch and go deadlifts, I do not. I see many people bouncing the bar off the floor, and with each rep they get less and less tight and get an awards and awards position. I recommend taking a split second to let the bar settle, make sure in a good position and restart the movement. As with any movement, the more you do it, the better you're going to get out of. I recommend starting light, focusing on bar path and the cues we discussed, and getting comfortable with the movement before you really start getting heavy. Remember, DevLift is a high reward movement, but it's also high risk if not done properly. Now I realize that's a lot of information across us at one time. That's why I recommend watching this video several times to pick up more and more tips. Along with this video, I recommend reading the detailed article here on bodybuilding.com. For more great articles and videos from me and other great contributors, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: How To Make Progress in The Gym #gymtips [BtGbHP989KE].txt ===

Good day guys, sick off to my last post on how to make progress in the gym. We discussed 4 key points out of 8 which are 1, No Your Body, 2, improve your nutrition. 3, your eyes lifting weights, 4, choose more effective exercises, 5, increase your workout density. You could increase your reps and set for instance. If you squat, 1.35 pounds for 5 and it's felt so easy, next time try to aim for 8 reps or more. That way, you'd be checking up your workout density. 6, don't prioritize in your lifting. In your lifting is a phase that we all want to experience. When we get to a certain point of lifting personally, I feel like it's not impacting to want to test your strength or feel strong and confident. Or try to impress any only cause. Who would happen to be around you in the gym? But don't make it a priority. 7, because it's not in a life-compagrass without consistency. 10, both to the gym, because I thought not to be consistent with the grind. 8, the patience. This is the part where most people are missing it. You want to get resulting in one month, which is not realistic. 4, in strength. Do you know how long it took you to idle so much weight? It's probably months or years. So how do you expect to lose it in weeks? You just gotta put in the word, I'll be patient. If you find this helpful, kindly share with your friend and family and don't forget to follow. Thank you.

=== FILE: How To Squat： Layne Norton's Squat Tutorial [t2b8UdqmlFs].txt ===

Research is my passion. Muscle and strength are my pursuits. I'm a power lifter, bodybuilder, scientist, and coach. I'm Lane Norton. I am a physique architect. Swoy! I used to be that guy going to the gym with chicken legs. Why? Because I wouldn't squat. I made up every excuse you could think of as to why I shouldn't squat. They're bad for the knees, they're bad for the back, they're hard. Why didn't say that out loud, but I certainly thought it. So I used to every other exercise I could think of, and my legs were still tiny. One day I had to piffy me. I'm going to squat over 500 pounds for reps, and I will sue my will get big legs from that. After years and years of work, learning proper technique and programming, I did squat over 500 pounds for reps. With a top squat ever of 655 for a single, and my legs are no longer twigs I'm happy to say. Guys, if you want big legs, there's one rule. We got squat. In this video, I'm going to show you tips and techniques I've learned over the years from working with top coaches in the squat. To teach you how to squat, or safely, and effectively using big weights. Let's get into it. Before I actually get into teaching the squat, there's one aspect of squatting I'd like to talk about that often gets overlooked. And that's equipment. Now I'm about talking about a bar or a rack. I'm talking about things that you actually put on yourself. Now I would never tell you that you need equipment to squat. All you need is yourself. But I'm a big fan of things that I can put on, and immediately be better. Things that will make you squat more safely and efficiently. The first one is footwear. Most people wear tennis shoes, but unfortunately tennis shoes are one of the worst things you can use. The purpose of a tennis shoe is to distribute the load over your entire foot. And it's also the cushion you against impact. In a squat, you're pressing down against the earth, and physics dictate that the earth presses back up against you. If you have on a cushion shoe, you're going to lose some of that energy transfer. It's also going to make you on-stab. Many of you who squat sneakers probably notice that you feel like your knees cave in and you're wobbly. So at minimum, you want a hard-sold shoe. Now I am a huge fan of Olympic lifting squat shoes. The great thing about squat shoes is not only do they have a hard-sold, but they also have a slightly elevated heel. That puts you in a more ergonomic position for squatting and allows you to push off your heel and mid foot better. The next piece of equipment I like to talk about is a weight belt. I'm not talking about your weight belts that are flimsy and velcro. I'm talking about a buckled belt that's made of stiff leather. A good belt will give something for your abdominal cord of brace against. This will protect your lower back and keep you more upright during a squat. Now many people ask me, Lane, but if I wear a belt, my core will get less activation, and it will weaken my core. That's actually not true. The research shows that wearing a belt, if anything, increases core activation for two reasons. One, wearing a belt gives you something to actively push out against. And so your abdominal wall pushes against the harder. Two, you can use more weight and thus get more core activation. One other thing about wearing a belt is most people don't wear it properly. They wear it too low. It is not meant to go around your waist. It is meant to go around where your abdominal wall is going to push out during a squat. So I prefer to wear it a little bit higher than most people wear it. As for what kind of belt, I just recommend buying a belt from a reputable company that in either 10 or 13 millimeter that's 4 inches thick. Another piece of equipment we should talk about is knee sleeves and knee wraps. I personally prefer knee sleeves for a multitude of reasons. The biggest of which is that knee wraps simply take too long to get on and off. They'll slow you down during your workout and further. There is some evidence that placing that kind of pressure on the patella may not be optimal. Also, when I'm using weights, I like to know that I'm moving the weight. And I'm not getting a PR, just simply because I wrap my knees tighter. With knees sleeves, you get a consistent pressure each time that's repeatable and they're easy to get on and off. They still warm the knee joint and provide some level of protection. The next piece of equipment I recommend isn't really equipment, but it's still important nonetheless. Good shock. Now people might say, what the heck do you need chalk for? As we'll discuss coming up, bar position can make a huge difference. And in a low bar squat, chalk can help keep the bar on your back and keep it from rolling. So I recommend getting a good block of chalk and using that to help keep the bar in position on your back while you squat. The last piece of equipment I want to talk about is wrist wraps. For those of you who do high bar squats, wrist straps may not be necessary. But for those that prefer a lower bar position, wrist straps are extremely helpful. The wrist straps will help keep your wrist straighter and prevent elbow and wrist pain from squatting in a low bar position. One mistake people make with wrist straps is they use the wrap too low. They wrap below the wrist joint. You want to wrap above and below the wrist joint. This will provide more support for the wrist and keep it in a better position. One of the most overlooked aspects of a squat is the setup. I see so many people get into the bar and rush right into it. You should have a consistent pre-plan plan that you repeat every time you go to do a squat. You want to get yourself underneath the bar and in the proper bar position, whether it be low bar or high bar. You want your feet completely under the bar. Remember, your mid foot is your center of gravity. When you're ready to squat, take a large breath in, brace your abdominal wall and unwrap the bar. The easiest way to do this is to squeeze your glutes forward, and this will simply pop the bar right off the rack. I recommend against squatting the bar out of the rack. That is simply where you bend your knees and try to use your quads to take all the weight. Use your biggest and strongest muscle groups. Your hips, your lower back, your hamstrings, and your quads to unwrap the weight. Most of you out there are probably used to a high bar position. A high bar position with a bar sits on top of the trapezius muscles. A low bar position is where the bar sits about two inches lower on top of your rear delts. So what are the advantages and disadvantages to each? The squat usually makes it easier to stay in a little bit more upright stance for some people. It also is a more comfortable position. A low bar position is a bit more uncomfortable because your shoulders are budged up. But one advantage to the low bar position is that around 95% of people are going to be more powerful in this position, and able to use more weight. Now they will start out with a little bit more forward lean, but when they get to the lower part of the squat, they'll be able to keep more spine neutrality than people who use a high bar position. So why is it easier to keep better spine neutrality with a low bar position? Because the bar is further away from your pivot point, your hips. There is more torque on your lower back when you hit the bottom of a squat. By using a low bar position, this reduces the amount of torque on your lower back. So how do you know which one is better for you? I recommend trying both. But in general, people with shorter legs and longer torso are going to be more able to use a high bar squat position. Whereas people who have longer legs and shorter torso are probably better off with a low bar position. As this will reduce the amount of torque on the lower back when they lean forward. So how do you find where to put the bar during a low bar squat? Grab the bar relatively narrow, as narrow as you comfortably can. Put it on top of your traps where you usually keep it. Then simply slide it to the next shelf down. You'll feel the bar catch and that is your low bar position. Now that you're on rack the bar, you're ready to walk out. I like the three step walk out. It's efficient, simple and repeatable. Once you've unwrapped the weight, let it settle. Don't immediately start trying to walk backwards. But when you're ready, take a small step with one of your feet backwards. Once that foot is set and settled, then take another small step backwards with your other foot. That second step actually plants your first foot. Then with your other foot that you took the first step with. Take a small step back to line it up with your second step. Once your feet are in position, you can adjust your stance with slightly. Again, I don't recommend a super wide or super narrow stance. I recommend a stance that you would be in if you were going to do a standing jump. The last thing I want to talk about is toe point position. You don't want to exaggerate it of a toe point. If you're anywhere near 45 degrees, it's too much. But an easy way to find out where you probably should be. Once you're in your squat stance, squeeze your glutes and your feet will rotate naturally. Wherever they wind up, that's probably your optimal position for your toe point. Now you're ready to squat. The first and possibly the most important aspect of squatting is simply breathing. Most people don't take in near enough air. To the first thing you want to do, watch your in position is taking a deep breath as much air as you can get. If you do not breathe deep enough, you cannot brace as hard. And thus makes it more difficult to maintain spine neutrality during a heavy squat. Now many of you have been told. Breathe in on the way down on an exercise and breathe out on the way up. It's completely wrong. You can generate your most force when you're holding your breath. Now what do I mean by bracing? I'm not talking about flexing your abs. I'm talking about once you pull your air in, push out your abdominal wall as much as you possibly can. If I was going to throw a punch and hit you in the stomach, what would you do to prepare for that? You would brace. You want to do the same thing when you squat. Many people just say, just arch your lower back. But that's the wrong cue when you squat. Your abdominal wall is what stabilizes your lower back. Yes, you want your lower back neutral. But just simply arching will not be sufficient to keep it neutral. You want to make sure you're bracing. Taking in a deep breath and pushing out your abdominal wall as hard as you can. But not only protect your lower back, but it will also help keep you more upright in the squat. Most people think about the squat simply an up and down movement. But it's not. It's also back and forth. You want to start the squat with your hips. You want to start by driving your hips back and sitting down between your legs. This is the best cue I can give you. By using your hips and glutes, you're recruiting your biggest, most powerful muscle groups and joints. Once you've achieved depth, if you're braced correctly, you should start to come up on your own without even having to think about pressing. But as you start coming up, don't think about simply just pushing up. Think about also driving your hips forward and squeezing your glutes as you walk out. Even if you're halfway up in the squat, you can lock it out simply by driving your hips forward and not even having to think about driving up anymore. Now let me talk about what's in the hips and glutes. What do we do with our knees? As we begin to sit down between our legs and drive our hips back, we also want to drive our knees out slightly. You want to make sure that you're driving your knees out over where your toes point. So as your feet are pointed forward, your knees should mostly track in that same line. If they're pointed out, you should push your knees out slightly, tracking them in the same line as your feet. One of the things you don't want to do is have your knees shoot forward however. One of two things typically happens when you lead with your knees in the squat. One, because you're pushing your knees out further, your calves tighten and it causes you to have to fold forward in order to achieve depth. This increases the likelihood of spine flexion much more. The second thing that happens is because their calves get tight, people sense this, and they stop well short of parallel. In order to maximize gains and strengthen hypertrophy, you want to take yourself through a good range of motion. By keeping a more upright shin angle, this is going to help save your knees and put less torque on them. We talked about squeezing our glutes forward. One benefit of this is this pull your glutes into alignment with your spine, and also pulls the bar completely into alignment with your body. Now your lower back isn't just supporting the bar. Your entire skeletal structure is. As you finish the movement, lock your glutes out so that pulls the bar back into alignment again. The last part of the squat execution is talking about back angles. As I alluded to earlier, back angles are going to be very individual. One of the things I hear a lot is people telling other people that they should squat more upright. And while it's true, you should squat as upright as you reasonably can. That is going to be different for every person depending upon their structure. For somebody who has long femurs and a short torso, they're going to need significantly more forward lean to achieve depth and keep the bar over their mid foot. For somebody who has shorter femurs, they may be able to squat very upright with very minimal forward lean. The most important part, regardless of how much you lean forward, is making sure you maintain spine neutrality. I've talked a lot about this term. But let's discuss it briefly. Spine neutrality essentially means that your back is straight. Even if you're leaning forward slightly, your back is straight. What you don't want to have happen is go into flexion. Flexion is where you lose the neutrality in your spine and you cave forward. That is dangerous because it places uneven pressure on the discs in your back. Now we're going to get into actually what makes a good squat. The number one thing is making sure you get deep enough. Proper depth means your hip joint will go slightly below your knee joint. I think you should squat as deep as you safely can. For some people with longer limbs, they're not going to be able to go all the way down without losing neutrality in their spine. In that case, they should stop before they get to that point. But almost everybody can learn to do a good parallel or below squat. The next thing we're going to talk about is bar path. The bar path is the path the bar takes as you travel down and up during the squat. The proper bar path is going to start with the bar directly above your mid foot. And it should stay as close to the center of your mid foot as possible throughout the entire movement. That way the bar is directly over your center of gravity and you get the maximum force transmission from your feet to the bar. Now even with a really good squat, you may not have a completely straight line. But the fewer deviations from straight you have, the more efficient the squat is going to be and the easier it's going to be. This brings me to another point. I hear a lot of people say never lean forward on a squat. And while it's true, you should keep your back angle as upright as possible. This is going to be different for every person. If you have long legs, in order to keep the bar over your center of gravity and achieve proper depth, you must lean forward. Now you want to minimize that amount of forward lean, but you're going to have to have some. Leaning forward and of itself is not inherently dangerous. The key is to make sure you always maintain spine neutrality. In this video, I've given you the tools you need to squat heavy, safely and efficiently. But don't be surprised if you're not perfect the first time. In fact, I promise you you won't be. I'm learning and re-learning every single time. Remember practice makes perfect. Many of us don't think about lifting as a skill, but it's a skill. And the more frequently you practice it, the better you will get. So even if you're not training heavy, it can still be useful to go in, put lightweight on the bar, and just do the movement. Don't neglect your warm-upsets. It's not just for you getting warm, it's also practice. The more times you do it, the better it will be ingrained in your motor pattern. Remember, if you treat lightweight like a heavy one day, you will treat heavyweight like it's light. If you have any questions about this video or anything I've discussed, please feel free to find me on body space and on my website. For more great videos and articles like this from me and other experts, make sure to keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: How To Test Your One-Rep Max ｜ Ph3： Layne Norton's Power and Hypertrophy Trainer [HhRDUYmIALU].txt ===

My name is Lane Norton, I have a BS and biochemistry and a Ph.D. in nutritional sciences. I'm a competitive pro-natural bodybuilder and powerlifter. In this video I'm going to teach you about the One Rep Max. Why it's important for you? Why it's useful to know it and how to actually test it. So what is the One Rep Max? The One Rep Max is defined as the amount of weight that you can lift for one rep on any given lift. Many people think that the One Rep Max is only useful for powerlifters. And while it's much more important for them, it's still useful to know your ultimate strength as a bodybuilder from time to time. The One Rep Max is important to know because not only is it the ultimate measure of strength, but it can also help you properly build out your training block. For example, if I'm going to do hypertrophy specific work, staying at about three sets of 10 reps, I know that I should be training about 75% of my One Rep Max. This will allow me to complete the reps in sets and set up an appropriate amount of specific weight for that exercise. If I didn't know my One Rep Max, I might have to go by feel and perhaps I set the weight too high and fail or too low and it's too easy. By knowing your One Rep Max, you can objectively set up these training programs. Now technically, you can test your One Rep Max on any movement. But I think it's most useful for compound movements. So now that you understand why it's useful to know your One Rep Max, we're going to talk about how to actually test for it based on your experience level. Here's the protocol I recommend for people who have less experience testing their One Rep Max. What I want you to do is use the Bodybuilding.com One Rep Max calculator on this page. For whatever exercise you want to find out your One Rep Max, take a weight and a number of reps that you know you can do. Plug that into the calculator and that will give you an estimated One Rep Max. It will also provide you with various percentages of that One Rep Max so you can use it in the future to build out programs. Once you've entered that end, take 90% of that estimated One Rep Max and we're going to use this to test. So I want you to go into the gym, do the One Up that we're going to discuss later in this video, and then take 90% of that One Rep Max and do it for as many reps as you can. Now take that number of reps you get, go back to the Bodybuilding.com calculator and re-figure your One Rep Max. Using the 90% for reps is going to give you a much more accurate representation of your estimated One Rep Max. So now I'm going to break down how to test for lifters who have more experience with One Rep Max. Once you're stretching the mobility worker done, I recommend warming up on a lift in the following way. To actually test, you're going to be doing 6 One Up sets and then 3 attempts. On the first set, you're going to do 30% of your calculated One Rep Max for 8 reps. Then 40% for 6 reps, 50% for 4 reps, 60% for 2 reps, 70% for a single and 80% for a single. Once you've done your 80% for a single, you're ready to begin your attempts. I recommend resting between each One Up set as long as you need to be mentally and physically prepared for the next set. If you're feeling still following up and thinking you need an extra One Up set or 2, that's fine. But don't go overboard. You don't want to wear yourself out by the time you actually get to testing. On the flip side, you don't want to do 2 few Warmups. If you do the appropriate amount of sets, it's not going to wear you out. It's just going to ready your body for your Ultimate One Rep Max. For One Rep Max testing, I recommend your first attempt to be approximately 90% to 94% of your current or estimated One Rep Max. If you last warm up felt really easy, I would go to the higher side of that range. If you last warm up felt heavier, then I would go to the lower side of that range. For your second attempt, I recommend anywhere from 96% to 100% of your current or estimated One Rep Max. If you're first attempt felt really heavy, I would go more towards the lower end of that range. If it felt really light, I would go towards the higher end of that range. For your final attempt, I recommend 100% to 104% of your current or estimated One Rep Max. If you're second attempt felt really heavy, go towards the lower end. If it felt really light, go towards the higher end. Because you're using as heavy away as possible, testing your One Rep Max can be dangerous, so I recommend using a good spotter. I also recommend using as good a form as you possibly can. If you squat high, you bounce the bar for your chest on bench press so you hit your dead lifts. You're going to get a higher number than you should. Thus, the weights are going to be too heavy when you go into your program and you're going to miss weights and it's not going to be effective. How often you retest is really going to depend on your goals. If you're a power lifter and somebody who's strengths specific, you're probably going to test it a little bit more often than you would if you're a bodybuilder. If you're a bodybuilder, maybe you're looking at every 3-6 to even 12 months because it's not specific to your goals. But it's useful to have to build out your training blocks. If you're looking to bring you a training to the next level and utilize your One Rep Max, I recommend checking out my PH3 trainer here on Bodybuilding.com. In 13 weeks, you'll increase strength and muscle mass significantly. For more free videos and articles from me and other great contributors, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: How To： Lat Pull Down #latpulldown #workouttips [nYy_p9CaACI].txt ===

So the reason we're going shoulder with a part is if we go too wide we won't be able to pull down low. So I want you to stay exact how you're not, but lift your chest up and keep your elbows tucked in. And I don't want you to move it all. How I want you to drive your elbows directly lower in front of you, focus on contracting right here. And lean a little bit forward as you stretch, stretch, stretch, stretch, now pull back down, drive elbows to low. Because we want to try to focus on contracting here because even if you're moving up, you're already hitting upper lat. So we want to try to drive as much fucking blood right here keeping those elbows tucked close to your body. Stick it for one second, chest up the sky at the bottom of the squeeze, good, come on.

=== FILE: How To： Single Arm Row [JJgi7oseb6E].txt ===

So this stretching the lat, it's emphasizing it so I'm getting a full length in position. I'll both tuck in. See how my lat activates right here? I'm going to drive it directly to my waist. So this stretching the lat, it's emphasizing it so I'm getting a full length in position and driving it directly to my lower lat. So I'm activating that motherfucker from head to toe. Instead of doing this, pull it low.

=== FILE: How to Eat for Mass ｜ Jay Cutler, 4x Mr. Olympia Bodybuilder [QVBign_5JxM].txt ===

Music It meets... We have salad stuff right? Okay. I'm gonna have salad with my next meal, I think. The hardest part about me training for competition and trying to be like the J-Cutler people know is a bodybuilder. Not as like just a fitness guy as a competitive bodybuilder is that my calories I need to eat. The consumption of food is consistent. And I still can't get enough like I'm in a deficit now. I'm daily basis trying to eat enough food. I went to bed at 280 last night and I woke up at 271. But that's how much I lose. I mean, on its stairs, I'll lose 7 pounds, 7 pounds every morning on the stairs, 7 pounds of water. The way I balance everything is what I wake up to and what I go to bed at a lot. When I get to a point where I wake up at the same weight I go to bed at, that's when I know my body is in a good holding pattern. Right now it's out of control. He has a pretty, very breakfast actually. But today and for the last few weeks he's been drinking his egg whites. So two cups of egg whites with the one scoop of protein. Then he has three whole eggs, three packets of scripts, two pieces of azigotost and coffee. That will probably end soon though. No one understands how strict it is. Being on a meal time schedule where you can only eat two and a half three hours. At the average person should eat at least five meals. I think if you're eating every three hours you have to be able to eat consistently. I can't fall asleep until he eats his meal because then he'll forget about it. He'll wake up like four or five o'clock in the morning and then eat it but that's too late. So I got to stay up and make sure he eats it. And it's not easy waking him up if he falls asleep. You are one off what six, seven times before I get up to eat it. I've got up and ate about three. I'm scared to break the world. I think I ate 12 of her eggs for three hours. He wants a two-top of two-top of two-top of two-top of two. I got that. I want the cottage cheese. Yeah, I do. I'm feeling back. You don't even get in the couple months to get in shape. Get in with your dog. I don't know what to eat with. When I worked construction in my family business I was forced to eat very quickly. So now I actually take my time and enjoy my food a lot more because I'm not rushed. But I would only eat like three major meals a day. I would now was in the pitfalls of what everyone else did. But Dice, you know, and Dani did enough sufficient amount of calories on a continuous basis. So for me, the amount of calories I can eat is just... It's off the textbook. It's hard because you fall like, okay, I've to eat on a diet and you can't eat, you know, everyone cuts processed foods and you know, no food and they can't eat certain things. But with me, if I cut that stuff, I shrink. I can't eat oatmeal and egg whites and fish and you know, plain potatoes and that kind of stuff. I can't do it. I need to have like simple, a lot of simple stuff in there. Like the grits and like sugars, after I train and some fruits in there and something fast. If I eat high carbohydrates that are fiber, it's like high fiber. It burns. It doesn't do anything for me. It doesn't hit my body hard enough. Blime what's up. Yep. And then on both the eastern west side, you have, you know, obviously teriyaki boy, which has the Jay-Color Ball, it's famous for that. I'm always a big fan of nine steak host at the Poms. STK is also great at the cause of our politics and I go there and put on. What's the name of that pizza place next to Kaizen? Joe's pizza? Joe's pizza. Of course, yes, it's the best in the Northlander. It just came off the end and I'll burglars last week, no more in and out for 12 weeks. Well, most bodyboys love to eat. They crave all I got to eat this. Good to eat that. I have zero cravings. I have zero anticipation for any meal that I eat. I don't look forward to you to anything. If you ask me what my favorite food is, I don't have a favorite food. I don't like to eat anything. There's nothing specific that I like. I don't like to eat anything. I don't look forward to any meal at all. I'm an eating today, I eat heavy. We did it to go. Well, I've eaten it. Well, I've eaten it. It's hard getting back to eating anyway, you know? Right. I mean, I didn't want to come back to this show. That was the worst part of my job, dude. He was eating, you know? Are you trying to run? I know gasoline when you don't eat. You know how you're going to have productive workouts. I try to tell people like you could have put as much effort in it as a diet as he do into your way training. Everyone goes to gym. You know, four or five days a week, that's into it. But they don't eat sufficiently enough to fuel that. I wish you could take a pill and be able to just avoid cooking or anything like that. Cooking and eating is five or six hours of my day for no question. You know, and you see that live in my life if you follow me for a day or two or three, you'll see that a lot of my day is the meals. Are you on your 16-time a day meal plan? I'm 37. I'm 18 and a quarter. I can say 54. We work harder to make his clothes. I got to charge him all extra. Number one, you're going to focus on your food. That's no question. So, you know, you have to make sure you get, you know, you're protein. You know, you call a hydra as you fats. You know, you look fat, whatever. I mean, for products alone, I mean, most people going to buy a protein powder, you know, multi-vitamin. They might, you know, then they might launch into pre-workouts and, you know, branch chain of, you know, and then, of course, number one fat burn, or if you try to lean out. But, you know, I don't suggest using a fat burn a year round pre-workouts and protein, you have course. You know, you can use those year, you know, you're talking three or four products. I mean, the necessity is something that, you know, I think it's an advantage. You know, if you want to do things right, you have to eat the advantage right. So, you have to try to find a ways to budget and be able to, you know, fit that extra stuff in there. There's nothing better than chicken on the grill. Ten hours of chicken. Now, I grew up on a farm, so I mean, I, I knew food values kind of early. We were never allowed to eat very poorly, and I was in Massachusetts. So, the meat was, that I was getting was very good quality. I mean, I attribute a lot of that to what my success was because I was buying, like, you know, cows and, like, chicken breasts from like a, like a real farm. I eat, you know, 100 grand worth of food probably between eating out and eating on a diet. I mean, I'm in Vegas, I go out, I eat out a lot too, you know, when I'm not training. So, I mean, that might not just be for myself, but just saying in general on food, it's my biggest expense, probably. You know, I kind of do my thing. I like to stay at home and prep my food. I like to weigh everything. Like, I weigh everything. This is 10 ounces of meat, 12 ounce of potato. I mean, obviously now is a crucial time, some in training. So, I, I take it much more serious when I train. I don't like to eat out that much unless it's catered to what I, what I, my diet is. This place, they, right? I can tell the difference. Oh, it cooks. One of that other stuff is filet or not. It looks more like flank steak, huh? Diswaters, good idea. Thanks. I think I try to tell for you. I can get a fusion. How bad is it, girl? No, no. There you go. Dad? You know, I never had hair on my back until I started shaving, you know, that. That was a zip. Oh, I went over the zip. Yes, that's not there. Yeah, huge. Everyone makes it. How does it do you? I mean, he's talking to me. I used to have bad secrets to you know, when I, when I, you've been taking chips, I got sips, you know, that. Did you try something? Did you tell them? Try something potato chips because they were local where I lived. Did you tell them about what you used to eat at your mom's house when you would go visit? Yeah, he used to get sips to you when I was like 12. Who's he? Try somebody that chips with very pretty. How old are you? Tell me what you asked her mom to make you every time you went to her house. Tips and debt. Tips and debt. But it'll hold a whole family. Sour treatment on you. I used to eat them for breakfast. Sour crepe. Sour crepe. Yeah, there you go. Yeah. Ask mom about the pizza she ate to the lunch. Yeah. Good for you. See. Someone has this. Listen, it's tough man because you, it's like, Ed. At some point, you want to go eat junk food when you think to yourself, like, what would you say? Kind of old. What would you be like? He would say, I would eat that. You really need to eat that? If I'm on a diet. If I'm on a diet, I'm like, they're important. No, of course. I'm not a man. I'm not a saint. I've eaten a lot of plenty of junk food. I mean, there's no question. You know what I mean? Cheesecake and desserts and all that stuff. I like burgers. You know, that's something I you do eat. But like having a turkey sandwich and some potato chips is great for me. That's this like a turkey sandwich with some cheese on there. You know, I like cheese. So, I mean, for me, it's like, I don't, I don't really sit there and crave. Okay, why the leg does. Sugar this and sugar that. I mean, I don't, I don't get a craving for any of these Snickers bars once a while. You know, there was a time when my mac grows in my nutrition with normal where I ate on a specific diet. They end down. And now, you know, I'm just a not a control leader where I just eat everything different on a daily basis. So, the consistency has to be important as a training. I think I had the best advisors from the day I started pretty much from you know, six months in. I started working with Chris Hasido. It was a major player in fitness. Trains a lot of top top guys, but made a lot of guys professionals in a broad media, Olympia, one my first to let me with him. So, I think it's good to hire someone that has some knowledge of nutrition. I'm also doing right because of the nutrition is almost more important than the weight training is. I'm going to take a look. Talk it out, suck it out, suck it out, suck it out. Mentally, you have to be in a little crazy. People approach me and they say, what's the secret? What's the secret? I don't like eating anything. If you ask me what my favorite food is, I don't have a favorite food. I'm just forward dating you know it all. You're a living legend that's what's amazing about what I do. I'm not telling you, Jay Colis, great to all time.

=== FILE: How to Get Better Sleep ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 12 ｜ Todd Anderson ｜ [JDTBEoAkae4].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Daniel Bitz, and welcome back to the BB Com podcast. Today I'm joined by Todd Anderson. Todd is the co-founder of Dream Recovery, a company dedicated to helping athletes and high achievers sleep and recover at the highest level. He's worked with Fortune 500 companies, professional athletes and celebrities on optimizing their performance. Todd holds over a dozen certification since strengthening conditioning, nutrition, and performance. His journey first began as a walk on football player at Michigan State University where he went on the earned of scholarship and helped bring home a big 10 championship. His college career would then lead him to an NFL opportunity for the Rams, which furthered his journey in the world of athletics and performance. He later took a deep dive into the physiology and unique needs of swimmers outside of the water when now wife and Olympic medalist Katie Hoff made a comeback for the 2016 real Olympic Games. That is a co-founder of synergy, dryland, along with Katie as they work with world class swimmers and teams across the country and performance optimization. Todd continues to produce educational content across platforms to help people not only sleep better, but live healthier lives. His mission in life has helped others realize their potential by prioritizing sleep, recovery and overall life optimization. Todd, welcome to the pod excited to dive in with you today. Thanks for having me. I'm stoked to be here. It's very nostalgic. Yeah, absolutely. You were telling me on the phone, you've been a long time baby combat. I mean, you know, like you said, I was a walk on, but I feel like I doubled my college tuition just in like self-immit monthly packages from biblian.com. So, you know, some people call home to ask for a beer money and I would just call home to ask for biblian.com money to spend on the site. I love that. I love that. We have an OG here in the house today. I feel like this is going to be one of my favorite episodes and a great way to close out the year with all of you. We're talking all things sleep. So, what you should be doing throughout your day to set yourself up for a good night's sleep, the environment to create when it's time to sleep. And the tools you can add into optimized your sleep to feel and perform better. So, Todd, let's get into it by starting out with what to sleep do for the body. And we're going to break this down a couple of different areas, but let's just break down one of the importance of sleep and two what cycles are involved in sleep. Yeah, I mean, I think it'd be a shorter answer to talk about what doesn't sleep through in the body. I mean, it truly is like the time that raises all shifts as far as health and wellness goes. And when you look at all the buckets of performance and wellness, like nutrition and hydration and fitness and strength training, all these different buckets, sleep is really the only one that spans across all of them and impacts them all. Impacts all those buckets, but it can impact them in two directions. It's like coaches always say you're either getting better and getting worse. And I think that's how sleep affects your life and to either positively impacting your life and it's allowing you to be the best version of yourself or it's kind of taking away and you're living that self optimal. You know, self optimal mindset or get sub optimal physiology and usually, you know, that doesn't allow you to do the things you want to do. Absolutely. So, let's start by breaking down one of the different cycles of sleep. Right. I feel like a lot of people here got to get your REM sleep. Got to get that deep sleep. We're both wearing loops today. Yeah. And certainly helps it easier. You know, helps it more, helps it be more manageable to measure these cycles of sleep. But I feel like general population, they don't know what this means. Right. So, let's break down the stages of sleep and how each one impacts recovery. Yeah. So, you know, I think that I think really, I mean, what I want to talk about is just the mindset around this too. I think that's important because there's so much data coming out that it makes it difficult to understand what the focus on. Like you said, people are asking about REM sleep specifically. Well, that's not really how you should look at things. It's more about the proportion to these things. Right. So you have, you basically have your, you have, break this into two parts. You have your non-RAM sleep and your REM sleep. Right. And REM sleep just stands for rapid eye movement. Your body is paralyzed besides your breathing muscles and your eyes and literally going back and forth horizontally when you're in this stage of sleep. So you like to think of it as like your REM sleep. It's responsible for more than mental aspect of sleep. Kind of resetting your mind, your mood stability, motivation, the things that are kind of intangible and then the non-RAM sleep is more associated with your physical regeneration. So give a hard workout. Your muscles break down, tendons, all that stuff. That's when you, you have the most impactful physical regeneration sleep. Right. So you have the three stages of non-RAM sleep and when you're on like a woofer something, you see that slow wave sleep. That's your deep sleep. Usually that's what people are talking about. And that's the deepest non-RAM stages sleep, which is the most impactful for physical recovery. So when you think about those things, you know, the lighter stages, like the first two stages of non-RAM that takes up about half of your night sleep, the combination of those. And then a quarter is that deep sleep that's slow wave sleep and then a quarter is your REM sleep. And it's more about having those proportions, right? Those equal proportions, not equal, but the right proportion to base on what your body needs as opposed to shooting for more of one. And I always compare this to like a band and people think that, you know, I just want to get a ton of REM sleep. Well that's not necessarily true. There's actually a lot of like psychological disorders that a symptom is, you know, a match of a monogram sleep. So it's more about those proportions and the flow and your body's ability to get through these different stages of sleep. Like we can, like I said, it compared to a band like in a band, you know, you have your drums to guitar, you have your vocalist, whatever, maybe. And it's more about how those instruments play together. And that's similar to sleep cycles. You can't make up for the guitar with more drums, like that doesn't work, right? And you can't make up for drums with more guitar. Similar to like REM cycles and your deep sleep, like you need the proportions of all those because they all play different roles in the body. Is there a specific order of events in which these cycles take place or can a very by person, right? Can one person perhaps hit their REM sleep in a different area, maybe a little earlier, maybe someone's more of a morning REM, talk a little bit about that. Yeah, so everyone, that's the thing too, is everybody is slightly different. Even, you know, male or female are sleep cycles very slightly. So I think it's important not to get caught in the weeds and when you look at these wearables. For the most part, like paying attention to your sleep cycles, I would say isn't really helpful. You're probably doing more, more damaging good because even on all the wearables, the best wearables are like 70% effective in measuring these sleep cycles, right? It's very difficult to measure a sleep cycle based on a wearable on your wrists, right? You really need to measure a brain wave. So when people think about this stuff, it's like when you're deep diving into the wearables and different sleep cycles and really worrying about that, there's probably a lot bigger things to worry about in things that focus on as opposed to 10% here or there are slow-aeth relief, which could easily just be an error in the calculations. And I think right now, people are, it's amazing. Like the shift that focus on sleep people are really into it. But on the flip side, people are becoming almost obsessed with it. So much that it's taking away or hindering their sleep. So creating additional stress. Yeah, yeah, there's actually a word for orthosonic, which is the obsession with getting perfect sleep and it's becoming more and more of a thing similar to like a orthopedic surgeon trying to fix things. So you're trying to yourself, obsessed with fixing your sleep that actually takes away from it. The more you actually think about your sleep, the worse it usually gets. Right. You know, I always like to say, I think I'm almost every conversation that we've had on this podcast where Abel says come up. And I think we can all ultimately agree that they are a great baseline. They're not the end all beyond. And they also, you know, there's not a device out there that can provide us with the same amount of data that say a sleep study could. Right. So I hear you talk a lot about sleep studies talk about what happens in the sleep study. How can almost every person benefit from going to at least one sleep study just understand it? And what are the benefits of the data that you're learning? Yeah. So the thing that's sleep studies now is the technology has advanced for you can do in the home in a comfortable environment. I mean, that's a huge component of I think what they used to do. They used to bring people into a, you know, a bedroom in a laboratory for a nine or two. But your sleep is immensely impacted by a new environment. Just the first night in the hotel for example, like that's going to, that's going to change your sleep in the architecture of your sleep cycles just being in a new place. So now you can do them at home. And you know, the biggest thing is just making sure there's not any issues, making sure of them are breathing perspective and and a disturbances perspective that everything is functioning normally you're flowing through those sleep cycles and there's not any snoring or apnea or anything like that because sleep apnea is something you don't want to play around with. It's something that is almost guaranteed to have long her long term negative health outcomes, like neurodegenerative diseases, which, you know, is horrible to watch somebody go through. And I think everybody is striving in a long, javity world to stay away from that. So it's just, it's just similar to blood work. It's like get a baseline, see what you're at because my, my own personal experience. I had no idea how anything going on. And so when we launched the Mount tape, you know, I started, when we launched the Marine Recovery and we came with the Mount tape, you know, when I started Mount tape in about three years ago, I felt so much better when I started doing it. And, you know, reading James Nester's book and, you know, a lot of these different books and studies and stuff. It makes sense. Obviously, nasal breathing is extremely powerful, but I was very curious. Like, one exactly what's going on, like, why do I feel so much better? And I wanted to get some hard data on the Mount tape because there's not a lot of studies focusing on what we're trying to do, which is optimized. Not necessarily like take someone with the clinical issue and fix it. We're just trying to make someone that's relatively healthy and trying to do big things perform at an even higher level. And usually that's not where funding for studies go. And so I did this sleep study and I slept while my whole life and never had a problem. I would get certain myself a very good sleeper. I don't snore any of this stuff. And yet the Mount tape seemed to make a massive impact. And this is before even I dealt with Mount tape on the business side. So, you know, completely self-serving. And so, I did this sleep study and didn't want without the tape and one with the tape. When I did it with the tape, I stopped reading 86 times throughout the night. I was diagnosed with moderately bad thing. The doctor would have recommended a CPAP, like the whole deal. Like, you know, it was shocking to me. Because I thought I felt pretty good, right? But you only had your own perspective with sleep. That's the thing is like, when you're awake and you're conscious and you make a big change in your life, you're able to feel the difference. With sleep, you've only slept as yourself. And it's very rare that we get the opportunity to make a big difference and actually feel that difference. Usually, it's very gradual over time. It's for better or worse. So then I did a second sleep study with the tape and I only had eight disturbances the entire night. How lately fixed my issues? The doctor said it looked a million times better. My slow way sleep is up, 0.5%. My REM sleep is up, 0.5% and it looked like a different person. Just from that reminder on my mouth, just to keep my mouth shut, basically. I love that mouth taping has become of people asking other people, hey, do you mouth tape? Tell us, you know, let's dive into that a little bit more and tell us about your specific product that you have at dream recovery and you know why that is an elevated product and comparison. What we've seen over the last several years has it's, you know, how it hasn't had its rise to fame. Yeah, it's interesting. Like we've even been seeing our mouth tape in dating profiles on some apps. So definitely, and we have a girl that has had to success with that with people. I really brings people in. It's very interesting. And it seems it's kind of like the CrossFit vibe in the beginning when people, you know, do CrossFit, they'd like to talk about it. I think mouth-tapping, it comes up quite a bit. I think CrossFit being vegan, doing ice bath and sauna, right? It's kind of falling that same category. That one kind of makes me sad because like I'm such a hardcore ice bath on a person. I'm right there. And everyone's like, I was, you know, ahead of the time, but you know, I've been on a sauna, not as much as the ice bath, but the sauna for probably a decade, which makes me sad now because it's like such a thing. I'm with you. So it's, you know, makes feelings there. But it's good people are doing it. But yeah, it's kind of been a movement, you know. And I think it is about people feeling better. I think, I think people talk about it because it is so impactful. And that's the experience I had all the, to the point where I wanted to make my own, which is pretty impactful. But yeah, so I actually started Mount Taving like three years ago. And I always tell this like, Katie came home. The first night I did it, Katie came home from a trip. It was midnight when she got home. Didn't tell her I was doing it. Walk in, tape him on mouth and she was totally freaked out. She's like, it's someone in the holding hostage and the closet, like, what is happening. And this was before like, no new name knew it. It was definitely was not a verb at the time. But like I said, I felt significantly better. Went through this journey. I mean, I've ordered every single type out there. Everything on Amazon, all of them. And there wasn't like an awesome option. I never felt like it was, it was comfortable. And then Amazon ended up banning Mount Tate because people were using these like really sketchy adhesive. And so I just felt like, you know, two things. One, we wanted to create a brand that really focused on quality. Beyond that, allowed people to feel okay about taking care of themselves. Like if you're going to be a high achiever and you're going to bust your ass in business, fitness, body building, whatever it may be, a brand that basically says, hey, look, in order to achieve achieve the highest goals and function to optimal level, you have to take sleep seriously. And that's okay. Like you're not lazy. There's rise and grime mentality is done. And that's kind of like what we're setting out to do. It's more of a mission of like making that normal as a post-ilord products. No one deserves to wake up on the wrong side of the bed. Dream recovery helps you get the best sleep possible. Try dream tape for less than $1 a day, made with medical grade hyper-allergenic adhesive for a gentle yet snug fit. And brace mouth taping as a part of your nightly routine to experience uninterrupted deep sleep, which is essential for recovery of the body in mind. Think them later, for kicking your life time snoring habit. The dream recovery sleep mask allows you to stay in the deeper stages of sleep for longer periods of time so that you can wake up in a great mood, feeling rested and recharged. The performance pillow case is made with the science back, silver ions, along with the highest grade silk on the planet. It's made to keep you cooler, help fight inflammation, prevent bacterial invasion, and maintain nighttime moisturizers applied before bed. Stop waking up tired and start waking up energized. Shop now, a dream recovery.io. Use code BB pod for 30% off your entire order and 50% off your first month of dream tape mouth tape. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, prevent any disease. For my physiological perspective, one is the benefit of nasal breathing over mouth breathing. Yeah, the biggest thing is really the psychological component and the connection to our nervous system. Breathing almost immediately impacts our nervous system. It allows us to put ourselves in the correct nervous system or a direct and go to sleep. We're usually pretty stressed out throughout the day and I think that's a pretty common misconception. People think that life is this binary thing where we're awake and we're asleep. The more we learn, the more more finding out that it's very difficult to have high stress levels throughout the entire day and then also shouldn't shut it off and fall asleep and sleep soundly. The more stressed you have throughout the day, the more impact you're asleep, even if you fall asleep fine. If you're able to fall asleep and you think it can turn it off, the more more finding is like our physiology is showing that it's impacting that night's sleep. So I think stress management is the biggest thing in allowing yourself and teaching yourself, training yourself to kind of reset your nervous system and put yourself in the mental state to be able to rest for a while and be as efficient as you can when you're sleeping. That's really what it's about is washing away all the stress in your body and when you're not breathing efficiently and you're not in the right nervous system state that really is like a low level of chronic stress and you're trying to alleviate that. And beyond that you have, it warms the air, it filters the air and it basically allows you to uptake the most amount of oxygen with the least amount of volume. We need to read through a mouth when you need massive amount of oxygen just because it's a lot of volume but our nose allows us to be more efficient which is really the goal when you're asleep. The efficiency is pretty much the name of the game. Right, I mean, not the end of the day. I mean, the nose was designed for air and the mouth was designed for good. Right, that's the best part of what there is. And I think for a very long time we've heard almost an insult right, you're such a mouth breather and now people are hearing these conversations and they're sitting there with their mouth open and they kind of pick their job and they're like, oh my gosh, I am. But also I think these conversations are important to educate them well, it goes well beyond just maybe this unattractiveness or maybe this louder breathing. This actually comes down to a physiological guarantee that you can be healthier by predominantly breathing through the nose. Definitely. Yeah, and we think around 60% of the population breathe through their mouth especially night which is a pretty, that's a big stat and it's also amazing like it's more of a reminder even when you use a small piece of tape which we're coming out with a very little small piece of tape because it freaks people out. Pretty steps. Yeah, and it is more of a psychological reminder and you can train yourself to become an nasal breather. Sometimes similar with sleep in general or anything like nutrition awareness, bring it awareness to something, often brings change. And I think sometimes the tape is just there for awareness. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, it's just like anything else right. Start with a couple of minutes a day, just sit there and just meditation, go right through the nose for me. I've had a deviated symptom for the longest time. So for me it's been a big struggle and I really had a train myself to predominantly be a nasal breather which sounds silly but it takes, it takes, it takes work. People don't realize too when they don't do it. It's, it's just accelerating that congestion and just you're just like feeding the issue. Right. And again, lead to a multitude of different issues as well. Bad breath. They can impact dental hygiene. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Lord, that's a good math lesson. And I'm totally out of it because of a cancer or fluiscum of the fluiscum, not the resistors of the 70, but you can see it poorly. And there is какие than 90 fluiscum on the antibiotic. And mind, I think it's actually out of half of the heat. A good method that's used during benching and malaria, okay, yes. Okay, doing it on my whole argument is de禿 for the urine, and although my mom wouldn't have had more ne世 than I was psychotic about brushing my teeth because it didn't want cavities. The dentist is the worst. I would brush my teeth like three times a day, do all this stuff, and I would still get cavities like every single time. We're now looking back, that's probably exactly what was happening. I was just bringing through a mouth, the entire time. Super acidic and it's just easy to break down your teeth when you're in that state. Yeah, wild stuff. I want a circle back just very quickly to the benefits of sleep, and I want to break it down to two parts, what you did at the beginning. I want to talk about the mental recovery aspect, and then more of the muscle and tissue recovery. But let's start with the mental and the impact that sleep can have on memory, fatigue, metabolism, things of that nature. Even some of the studies that we're seeing linked to some of these neurological diseases as well. So talk a little bit about brain health and sleep. Yeah, I think like when I think of brain health, I quickly jumped a neurodegenerative disease, because that's just like a long-term outcome that seemed to be a pretty good predictor of our chronic brain health over the... You know, the span of our life. And some positive on some of those research coming out is a lot of it is environment and behavior-based. You know, when you look at sleep, when you start getting under that six-hour mark, it just seems like the percentages of all those disease were trying to avoid, jump up dramatically. And, you know, the mechanisms specifically in the slow-wave deep sleep in relation to the brain, just in 2019, we were able to fully understand why it was so important. In 2019, they did the first live MRI and believe it was 2019. But they were able to actually look at the fluid movement within the brain. And what they saw was in that slow-wave sleep, this cerebral spinal fluid, which is not blood, it's just fluid in the brain, actually pumps. Like you can see it almost like a heartbeat, and it's pumping this fluid to the brain. It's washing away all those, you know, those cellular byproducts, those toxins, so they're produced throughout the day. Like the amoloid and the tau proteins, which cause tau crosses, CTE, beta amolids cause Alzheimer's and dementia. So that's pretty much like that slow-wave sleep is like our cleaning mechanism. It's like our washer for our brain. And so that's also the stage of sleep that seems to have the first issue. When some starts having sleep issues and you look at their sleep cycles, that's usually the cycle that really drops the quickest and it seems like it's the most impacted right away. And it makes sense, you know, if somebody's having sleep issues chronicly throughout their life, you know, those diseases catch up. The problem is, is once you start having symptoms, they usually a lot later in life, and it's really hard to make changes in reverse. But even saying that, I mean two weeks ago, there were some studies talking about just, you know, some of the symptoms of all of these like neurogeneral stuff being reversed. And sleep was one of the tools they were using to start to do that. So it's, I think we're just hitting the tip of the iceberg right now. Yeah, and as we've all said in the beginning of the episode, I mean, it's inherently becoming a more important conversation, especially in just in the last three or four years. Yeah. You know, when we look at, I've said this before, too, to our listeners as well. When we look at wellness, I mean, we really look at nutrition, movement, stress management, and then sleep. Your core for pillars, you know, to longevity. Yeah. You know, when it comes to working out, whether that's running, whether that's weightlifting, we all know we're ripping muscle fibers apart. And that's going to take a certain level of recovery. Sure, you have your sauna, your cold bath, your compression boots, whatever. Other modality you want to throw in there. But sleep is the number one recovery tool that you could possibly have. And then the cheapest as well, I'll say. So let's talk about, you know, from a physical perspective, what sleep does on the body. Yeah, I think that, you know, really, I think sleep, the way I actually look at sleep, obviously you recover a lot from that stuff, but it's really more of like a preparation. It gives you the ability to produce a match with amount of effort the next day. And when you look at people's goals, like, but every weight loss, you know, muscle gain, any type of fitness cardiovascular goals, you know, setting that foundation and looking at like the sleep is the first portion of your day, allows you to push yourself to that level. But that being said, like, all those things you talked about, like those antelay recovery tools, like, you know, compression boots, and cold therapy, hot therapy. That's just like, that's like sprinkles on top of the ice cream count, you know, and there's no way to overcome sleep. But I think the problem is, is when a lot of people set these goals, the first thing everybody wants to do is, like, I'm going to wake up early and work out. And I think, when you look at the person that people who fail in trying to accomplish these goals, the conversation should really be, how do we make the chances? How do we make the person that you're going to achieve these goals go up? Just by your schedule and the behaviors you choose to prioritize. And sleep makes the chances of you achieve many of those goals go up immensely. When you look across the board, you know, like, we make better nutritional choices where more motivated to work out, where less likely to drink alcohol. Like, there's so many things that just fall in line and you build such momentum when you start with prioritizing sleep as opposed to fighting your physiology. You get up early at 5 a.m. to work out. Like, that might be sustainable for a couple of months, right? Because you're motivated and you're trying to achieve something. But you can only fight your physiology for so long. And even if you keep that up when you're chronically under slept, like those symptoms, it's going to show up somewhere else in your life. It could be, you know, from a psychological side, like it could, it could deteriorate relationships, your mental health. It could be something physical. You know, you're not recovering and joint attendance muscles, whatever it may be. You're not going to know where it's going to show up, but promise your body is going to make it forward. It's going to find a way to show you that's your under slept. Right. Right. You know, the 5 a.m. club, unless you're going to bed at 8 o'clock the night before, which if you are, so I still loot you for sure. Yeah. But, you know, I think I think I said this on our last episode with Kira Stokes. I think the glorification of the 5 a.m. club has really kind of dwindled in the last couple of years, which I personally, I love to see because now schedule is going to dictate everybody, right? Unfortunately, some people that's the only time of the day. And I mean, if you're training for something, you got to get it done, right? But if you're choosing between sleep and that workout, I mean, it's good to come with a lot of benefits. And even if that means maybe I can maybe get 30 minutes in at 2 o'clock in the afternoon that day versus maybe the 90 minutes I want to get in at 7 a.m. Yeah. It's the data is showing a lot to to to side with sleep. Yeah. It's very rare, you know, when I have a conversation with someone, even though they haven't insane schedule. And like I said, this is this stuff is not easy. Prioritizing sleep is not just like, boom, I'm going to prioritize sleep. Like life is is wild. I don't have kids yet. So I can't even fully speak to that. But I can only imagine. And but I think it's more about like the prioritization because I think when you break when you break down to them and schedule and you start with the priorities, usually people have 10 minutes, 15 minutes here and there. And you can piece together or work out somewhere some way. And you can also find a way to carve things out and make sleep important. I think that's what it's about. Right now, I would say 90% of people feel like, okay, these are all the things I make a list. These are the things I need to do throughout my day. And sleep gets the leftover. Yeah. As opposed to, all right, like this is a non-agosible. I know this is going to create the best version myself. Let's start with that and then let's work backwards. And I think that shipped once people really buy into it because when it comes down to it, like people have heard about sleep. You know, it's not like no is talking about it. So it's really that that true buy-in. That it's going to make that big of a difference. It's not about the information of the knowledge at this point for most people. It's about truly buying in. And I think the only way to do that to actually experience the change. But like I said, if you're not sure if you're sleeping well, you're having a hard time sleeping. You're never going to buy in because it's not really impacting you the way it should. Right. You know, I think especially with new year coming up, everybody loves to throw out goals. Some smaller, some a little loftier. And how many of those goals are going to be? Do a marathon or start going to the gym, right? Either from either just a few years goal. Me? I mean, stress management for me is probably my number one to get on. That's a good one. You know, I think we're going to see a lot of audacious goals when it comes to physically what we want to achieve with our body. But how many people at your point are going to have sleep as part of their new year's resolution? Hopefully a lot. Hopefully a lot. But I think I bet this year, though more than any year before it will be. Completely agree with that. Which is a great thing. And you know, like you said, disciplines a big part of it mindset shifting is a big part of it. And then it also comes to what what does our wind down routine look like, right? So we briefly talked about three to one rule. It's something I really tried to abide to, you know, almost every night. And three hours before, let's stop eating to allow for optimal digestion before you hit the bed. Two hours before, let's stop drinking liquid. So you're not running to the bathroom in the middle of your sleep too many times. And then one, let's cut off one hour before, let's cut off the dice. Let's stop the screens. Let's not watch TV. Let's not be on social media. Let's disconnect, you know, from the entire digital world and just allow our brains to relax. So I would love to hear your take on and what you're doing and, you know, what works for you. Yeah, I love the three to one rule. I think it really does embody the perfect nighttime routine. I think that, what we can kind of go through each one. I think that the food one, I think people don't realize how impactful that is. You know, that first REM cycle, the night at first sleep cycle, the night you have your biggest spike in growth hormone of the entire day. And it's kind of like, if you don't lose it, you lose it. Kind of a situation where like, if you, if you don't give yourself a gap of eating, right? If you don't cut that eating off about three hours before bedtime, you lose that growth hormone spike. Your body won't create the spike in growth hormone because it's busy metabolizing this food. And you kind of don't, you don't get that for that day. You lose out on it. So I think people don't realize that and they also don't realize how much better they feel in the morning. People have done that digestive issues and just allowing your body some time is for me, I feel substantially better. And then the hydration, I would say, is probably the most messed up one. People, you know, everyone tries to catch up on the hydration later in the day because they forget about it, which is like the worst thing you can do, especially for athletes. We really struggle with the same with the food. I think for athletes when we do it with athletes, it's hard because even if someone's trying to put on mass at the target because there's a balance of calories, obviously calories are very, very important. And that is a hard decision. Like if you're going to make the choice between giving yourself a gap before you go to bed at that just and just being under your energy balance needs, that's tough. If you're a performance athlete, you probably need the calories in which we tend to recommend like a low glycemic food. It seems if you can go over a high protein source, low glycemic impact, it doesn't have as much of an impact on that growth hormone spike, but that's a tough balance. But hydration, you know, front loading your hydration throughout the day can make insane differences. I was talking about, so I would talk about it earlier. Maybe that's the sports betting side of me. But I think you had to think about it like, and it's similar to sleeping with a partner. You have to think about, okay, everybody has their stresses. Sometimes your brain gets fixated on a thought, right, in the middle of the night, and a lot of people have a hard time going back to bed for that very reason. And the more times that you wake up in the middle of the night, the higher probability that you're going to start thinking about something that's going to have room naked thoughts and going to cause you stress. So you want to give your brain the least amount of opportunities to think about something that's going to stress you out. And type of健. Exactly. The vision is a great way to either make yourself get up a million times or sleep the soundly throughout the night. And so I think front loading your hydration like first half of the day can make a huge impact and then that gulping water down right before bed. Over four or five ounces, triggers us to have to go pee more often. So that can be a really useful tool. And a lot of these sleep supplements there mix with water. And people are chugging down 12 ounces of water with these sleep supplements. And you're going to probably wake up two more times because of the amount of water you drink and then the amount at one time you drink. Right. So what about that one hour turning off devices? This is, I mean, this one's hard for me too. You know, I think that the world will be live in. It's like it's a connected world and their stuff going on and you never know when something is going to happen. So I think this one is I almost think about it as like limiting the damage. You know, I'm probably going to be watching some screens. And actually I don't fully abide by this. I have a, I actually have a TV in my bedroom. And I've talked about this, but you know, me and Katie Wajisho every single night. And we have for the last decade. And that time is really valuable to me. You know, like I really enjoy kind of downloading on the day and just like it's special. And it's not worth it to me. Like that's something that's more important to me than the optimization of my sleep. There's things I can do to combat that. And I think that's something to keep in mind too. We talk about all this optimization stuff, longevity specifically. There's so many things you can do with optimize your life. But the most important thing you can do is have deep meaningful relationships. And you can't lose sight of that because it's fun to go down this path of making everything perfect and feeling amazing. But you'll never feel amazing in the long term. If you don't care about people and you're not around people to care about you. And as soon as this, all this stuff becomes the main focus, people are going to stop carrying about you because you're not going to care about them. No, I'm going to do anything. It's true. It's true. I love that. It's a really great point. I mean, the emotional benefit that you get out of that hour with your wife before bed. And so that involves the screen. Great. If you find yourself doom scrolling, wishing that you were on the vacation that you're seeing someone else on, is that the best spot to put yourself in before bed probably not. Okay. So there's different cases. Definitely. I think it's about weighing the priorities. And then like I said, limiting the damage. So I'll wear, you know, blue light blocking glasses to limit the screen damage. And the other thing people can do is create a continuum from their living space to their bedroom at night. A lot of people have all the lights on, screens on, everything's loud in their living room. And okay, let's go to bed. And then they just think they're branching in a transition like that. Even dimming the lights down, you know, pretty significantly throughout the night, where after dinner, there's no bright lights, that can make a big difference. And people don't realize like, it's not about just not exposing yourself to a screen. It's about the length of time. Like two hours is way more impactful than one hour when it comes to the screen usage. Absolutely. I mean, seven o'clock in our house, we're lighting some candles. We're turning down that overhead. Like we are setting the scene for just a really relaxing night. I'm a big candle guy. I'm even on like a candle of the month like the blurry serve. Are you? I know the crowd that for you after. Definitely. Todd, let's move into a couple of things that can negatively impact sleep. So there are a couple of things here. And there are a lot of great things that people have written in about, about the impact that they can have. And I want to start with caffeine. This is a big one. And there are some people out there who may be better off not having caffeine in their diet. But there's also a bit of a general rule of cutting off caffeine at a certain time a day. So I want to talk about one of the impact caffeine can have on your sleep if you're having it closer to bed time. And then too, how to really understand what that sweet spot is for you. Yeah, caffeine is tough because there are a lot of positive studies about caffeine. There's a lot of positive performance studies. There's cognitive studies. There's long-term brain health studies, all positive stuff for the most part, but when it comes to sleep, it can have a big impact, as we know. And I think that just being intentional with caffeine is the biggest thing. So the first thing is with caffeine is I like to treat it like a play action pass in football, which obviously plays football. So I relate everything to that. But a play action pass, if you want to play action pass every play, it's not going to work. You have to mix it in. You can only run it every so often and it works really well because you take, you kind of catch a deep into off guard. Well, caffeine is the same way. If you don't use it for a couple of days, you have a big workout, a big event, a big meeting, a big presentation, and then you use it, it's really impactful. It works really well. When you use every single day, the exact same dose, over and over again, even after a couple of weeks, you're not going to feel that. So I recommend people just to save it for when you need it. It'll have a much larger impact. And you're probably going to enjoy it more because it works. It's like anything. If you do it too much, it's just going to become routine and it's just a habitual at that point. How does that consumption timing impact sleep as well? So the half-life of caffeine is pretty long. It's between five and six hours. Everybody is different. Some people are extremely sensitive to caffeine. They're genetic tests and you can actually see if you're one of those people. For the most part, the earlier you can have caffeine, the better, because it tapers off over a long, long period. And when you have multiple doses, they stack on each other. We metabolize it relatively slow. So even 200 milligrams of caffeine in a day, which is a pretty average amount. If you have 108 AM and then 100 at noon, that's going to linger in your system much longer because your body is not able to metabolism or metabolize it upfront, kind of stacks on top of each other and then it's going to stay with you throughout the night. So really front loading it is the most important thing. And the other thing that makes more sense physiologically because caffeine prevents us from feeling tired, more than even gives us energy. It blocks the adenosine receptors which basically makes this feel tired throughout the day. So when you think about when you're having it, you want to feel tired later in the day. Unless there's something specific. Like unless you do have a big event competition in the afternoon, yes, you would use it then. That's a perfect way to use it because it's going to block the thing that is making feel tired. As far as how we usually function in the way most people's days are set up, it makes more sense to have it earlier in the day and kind of prevents you from feeling tired throughout the day and tapers off for the night. Because for example, if someone has like three cups of coffee, 100 milligrams cup of coffee, which is small. Not many people will have 100 milligrams cup of coffee. But if they have an like 8, 11 and 1 PM, which is pretty standard, I don't think anybody would be like, oh, that's crazy. But even with that, you'll have around 80 milligrams of caffeine in your system at 11 PM, which a red bull has 80 milligrams of caffeine. So it really stays with you. So I think in tensionality and making sure you need it. Experience a couple of days without it. And really think about, do I feel a difference? Because oftentimes, two people have large doses of caffeine. They feel more anxiety. They feel more edgy. They feel like they're more irritable. And some people feel significantly better. It's just been years since they've actually tried it. And what impact could this potentially then have on those cycles that we discussed earlier on in the episode? Yeah. So usually people can't get into that that's flow way sleep as quickly. It tends to just float around in those first two stages of sleep back and forth. And it pushes you closer to those REM cycles. Or, but what's as you further in the night to the flow, I sleep in REM cycles. And the problem with that is what happens is you kind of like a similar to the growth homo spike. You kind of just lose out on those sleep cycles because your body's sleep cycles, stays consistent to the circadian rhythm. Meaning you have more REM cycles later in the night towards the morning. And you have more slow waves cycles that deep sleep earlier in the night. So if you're missing out on those deep sleep cycles because you have caffeine, you kind of just skip out on those because your brain will tend to jump into those REM cycles later in the night and skip out on the previously but hot. It's kind of like when you stay up to late. You don't start at stage one. You kind of jump into whatever sleep cycles you tend to normally get at that time. Of night. Right. So you can't really get there's nothing more important of all this stuff. All the sleep stuff can sit and see in your bedtime and wake time is by far the most impactful thing you can do more than any of these other things five times. I was just going to say your brain probably has a tendency. It has a sweet spot where it wants to be between let's say 3 am and 6 am or 4 am and 8 am if you're sleeping that way. That being said, if I usually go to bed at 10 and then I went to bed at midnight, but I still have to get up at that 7 o'clock slot. Like you said, we're missing out on key areas of the sleep cycle. Yeah. People think that like, okay, let's say you know, you're going to go to bed at 10 and wake up at 5. So you're getting 7 hours and you stay up late. Right. So you only got 5 hours of sleep. And then the next night, you went to bed at 10 but woke up at 3 and you're still getting 5 hours of sleep. That really is not the same thing because in the night that you went to bed late, you're going to have significantly more REM cycles because that's the normal time you're bringing to those REM cycles. And then when you woke up early, you're going to get more of the non REM sleep which impacts the body differently as well. So it's more like I said, there's no way to hack the consistency. Like you can't shift it one way or the other because your body stays consistent to that circadian rhythm and it takes a long time to change your circadian rhythm. Right. I hear that all the time too. I don't understand. I still got my 7 in. Like, well, what time did you go to bed? They're like, well, 1. Yeah. Yeah. What time do you usually go to bed at 9? I usually get in bed at 9.30 and I'm sleepy at 10. That's why you felt terrible at that. And it's like the more and more studies that come out, the hours of sleep before midnight are especially impactful. I just read that as well. And it's weird though because the thing with it, even like with nutritional choices and craving and poor food and things like that, but the only thing I can say is, I wonder if it's someone that's sleeping 1 to 9 as opposed to some of the sleeping 9 to 5, there's probably going to be a different type of lifestyle. Because I'm just curious, is it correlation or causation? But it seems to be pretty consistent because every single study that comes out with different populations seems to be pointed to the fact that that before midnight sleep is especially impactful. Yep. Yep. Alcohol. This is probably the one we get asked about the most. It's a highly controversial thing right now. We're actually seeing the lowest amount of alcohol consumption in younger ages than we ever have before. Let's talk about how it impacts sleep. I mean, we're coming out of the pretty cool product in this round. I can't really say much, but it's going to be sweet. I'm very excited about it. Very cool. Let's talk about, I think people are always like, I felt like I slept all 8 hours after a night of drinking, but I still feel hung over. I still feel exhausted. Now you and I kind of understand what's happening right, but let's break down how that's actually impacting the body. Yeah, it makes sense that you get the illusion that you sleep well because, you know, but there's a difference between being sedated and sleeping because alcohol is sedated to you, right? And it does make you fall asleep faster. Similar with THC. It makes you fall asleep faster. What it does is it just prevents your brain from getting into those REM cycles. So you float around in these lighter stages of sleep. It takes about four or five hours for your body to metabolize the alcohol. Then once it does, your brain is like, I have had no REM sleep this first half the night or first five hours the night. I need to make up for it. And you go into these really deep and tense, long REM cycles. And so when you wake up, you feel like you're coming out of a coma because essentially you were because you deprived your brain of this REM sleep the entire night. And so it feels like it gives the illusion that, you know, one, I fell asleep really fast into when I woke up, I was in a deep, deep sleep. So it must must be a net positive for my sleep. And in fact, that's not all what's happening. You know, to actually be opposite. Can the same argument be made about drinking earlier in the day? So it's going to brunch better than going to be cocktails. Yeah. So I think the brunch memos says is definitely a better option. The problem is most people have a couple of memos in them that just kind of... Domino's. Yeah, it just falls into, you know, let's go to the next place in the next place. But yeah, you know, like I always recommend, like let's say, you're going to have two glasses of wine. No matter what. Even if, you know, some people have two glasses of wine every night. We'll take this as a case study. If you just had those glasses of wine when you were making dinner as opposed to after dinner, that's going to result in hours and hours and hours of more of REM sleep throughout the year. So that subtle change where you're not eliminating anything, but you're just allowing your body to process the alcohol. It's a substantial impact. And I think that's the changes people need to make. It's not like, you know, I understand like there's been times in my life. You know, everybody has their ups and downs. There's been times where I have, I was having a significant amount of drinks almost every single night, you know, probably seven years ago. And it would be nearly impossible to change that right away. But I think like those minor shifts build momentum. You shift it forward. You're having the same experience. Probably a better experience. And then you're able to sleep better. And all of a sudden you start feeling better. And you probably will create that alcohol less or be more willing to cut it down. That one glass or you might, you don't have to eliminate it. There are ways to do it that are less impactful. You know, alcohol is not a good thing. But I get people enjoy it. I'll have drinks every once in a while. But I think again, like being intentional with all this stuff is the most important. I think people just rip it. And they don't think about it until they realize it's going to have an impact. And there's one thing you don't want to impact, it's your sleep. You know, having alcohol early in the day does it affect other things in our body. Yes, it affects, you know, hormone levels, protein synthesis, all these different things. I'll take that over impacting my sleep any day of the week. Right, disclaimer. We're not saying a rip shot on your 11th and conference called. But I mean, you know, sometimes you gotta do it together. You gotta do it, yes. You know, something that almost goes hand in hand is sugar, right? They're sugar, obviously in alcohol, especially in some alcohol over others. You know, you're nightly wine drinkers. I think that's a big factor that they don't really take into account. So I mean, we're in a sugar epidemic. It's a huge conversation. Talk about, I mean, you know, I totally, we go as low as sugar as possible. And in terms of our daily diet, as you've said, that may not be an easy adjustment for a lot of people. But what does sugar's impact on sleep? Yeah. So this year, they just released a study that showed that, you know, unhealthy fat and sugar intake, actually impacts the architecture of your sleep. So like I was talking, it seems like everything I say this for every negative thing. But you tend to get less of the deep sleep, the deep sleep cycles that you know, your brain is essentially, you know, pumping these fluids and clearing out of the five products when you eat a poor diet. When you eat a high fat, high sodium diet and also accelerates your cravings. Like you tend to crave those things even more and more. So yeah, it really is just a poor quality, the less efficient, night sleep. And then the other thing is that growth hormone spike. So that growth hormone spike in that first sleep cycle is extremely sensitive to blood sugar. So when your blood sugar spikes high, that growth hormone spike seems not to happen as often. Or not as not as prevalent. So you know, I think keeping your blood sugar low, especially leading up to bed can be a really impactful thing. Speaking of blood sugar, right? I think an equally as popular conversation right now is fascinating. We've talked about it on here. When you wake up in the morning and you have a lower level than you did when you went to sleep obviously because the watch has happened over the last seven or eight hours, right? You know, how should we be thinking about coming out of sleep? I think that's a conversation that we don't talk about enough as well. What do we want to, how do we want to get our body going coming out of these cycles? Well, I think along those same lines, nothing to do with like the fast, but even less psychological state. I think in alarm, like the actual alarm you have can put your body in a stress state, which is going to impact the fuel consumption and the way your body is metabolizing foods. But you know, having a subtle alarm or even like a vibration, like the the wup alarm was actually great. I was just going to say it's been one of my favorite details. It's great. If for multiple reasons, but having a subtle vibrating alarm, my bed actually creates these like tiny waves through it as these air chambers in it. And it gradually builds up to my alarm. But you know, we have enough stress in our life. And the worst thing you can do is put yourself under this, especially like technology created stress first thing in the morning. So I think that's one thing. Yeah, so with the vibrating alarm, like the other nice thing too is if you sleep with a partner, it doesn't disturb them. Right? And that's when you talk about not giving you brain opportunities to think about something that's stressful in the middle of the night. Sleeping with the partner is also something that you need to be intentional on. And a memory foam mattress is an amazing investment because when that person moves, if you don't have a memory foam mattress, like you're going to wake up. And so now you're waking up twice as often, right? And then their hydration is affecting your sleep. So now you have two people's hydration to monitor, or is if you have a, and now there's pretty affordable mattress options to their memory foam, which is awesome. But even the vibrating alarm in the morning, you know, it doesn't wake up your partner. Maybe they get to sleep in a little later than you would ever maybe, but it's just a much more peaceful way to kind of start the day off and not spike your, your cortisol and Sorry, cortisol and just kind of set set your mindset for the day. I think that like that old apple alarm, it's like super aggressive is just the worst. Right, or maybe. Yeah, you're a favorite song from 10 years. Yeah, that was actually a really, really, really, really. It did. It's so true. It would be really long. A wallay song that I had for my alarm, and I can't stand it to this day. I'm the same. I think I had like an OAR song, a backing college, and I'm still a strict, but you're always a pick your favorite song. Right, but now it's a really opposite triggering that. It's horrible. Yeah. You brought up a really great point. We hear a lot about sleep divorce, right? Yeah. It kind of has a negative connotation to it. Now, here's a thing. And here's, this is a tough one, right? Because you mentioned we want the emotional connection. It's a really often. It's sometimes the only time we get with our partner with how busy life can be, right? And there's tons of benefits to, you know, that skin on skin, being close to your partner. You know, the role that can it play on quarters or levels. On the flip side, you may be completely opposite sides of this spectrum when it comes to your sleep pattern. Someone could be like, actually, I'm like, deep sleepers. I'm making it be extremely light. Any sort of movement, you know, maybe someone moves a lot. And the other person's often like, woken up by that. So, I mean, how do we combat this? What's the solution? It's tough. I mean, I tend to lean towards the relationships, side of things. I think, I mean, in our culture and society, it's really hard to separate like sleeping together from just this like, analytical, logical choice. And like you said, I mean, you know, skin on skin contact has amazing effect on our hormone levels and stress. And I feel like I feel that I, I, I sleep better when, when Katie's home. And so, I think it's hard. Like, if it was just purely like, you recognize, look, like, this isn't an important part of our life, like spending that time. We have different sleep schedule and you, and you did that from a perspective of logic. I think it'd be okay. But the other thing is, I think there's like so many steps. You could take before you get to that point. Like, I have a hard time that people would do, you know, these 10 different things to try to correct the problem before they had to do that. I think people kind of jumped to that because they're at their width and whatever. So sleep deprived. Right. And I get why they do it. But I think that, like, whatever's causing it, it could probably be addressed. And they just don't want to address it. A lot of times it's snoring, right. And, you know, the Mount tape is amazing way to stop snoring. It, it almost works instantly. But like, also snoring is not something to ignore. Like, that is a breathing disturbance. Like, you should not just be snoring to the point where your partner is waking up. Like, that's not something to ignore. Like, you should definitely get that look at that. And I think that's the problem. I have other than most people are just like throwing a bandaid on an issue and not addressing it. And what you're actually doing a disservice to your partner by doing that because like, that's going to have some negative outcomes. And, you know, just sleeping in separate rooms is not going to help anything. Right. To your point, kind of addressing what, you know, first of all, let's figure out what the problem is. If it's a snoring, let's try to get a figure out. If you can't take it another night. Okay. Let's take a pause while we get it figured out. But, I mean, like you said, I mean, in our household, we've both done Mount tape immediately. I just you said that night, like, problem solved. Right. So they're definitely angry with the sentiment that there are steps to be taken. Yeah. And you think about all the stuff we've done, the memory film mattresses, you know, whatever may pillows, ear plugs can be a great tool. Like, if you do all that stuff, I'm just trying to think of somewhat like an issue that would still arise in a relationship. I think I think a lot can be done. And on the flip side, some people probably have a great experience and it's just easier for them to do that. And they're moving around. They don't want to get a new mattress or it doesn't work out, whatever it may be. I'm not knocking it, but me personally, I would associate it with like more relationship problems. Right. And it would, from a slightly odds of perspective, I just wouldn't feel like going about it. Right. I think there's also a hybrid approach to it, too. Maybe there are some days where your partner has to be up at 445, 5 o'clock in the morning and you don't have to be up until 7. Okay. That's 2 or 3 days of the week. Okay. Let's compromise. Those are the 2 or 3 nights. If you're fortunate enough to have the extra space to move around and have that extra bed, they're going to go over there. You're going to go over there and then the other 4 nights of the week you guys are together. So I think it's like anything else. It has to be customized to your life. And if you live in New York, like you're only a choice. Yeah, you're going to win a twin bed. Yeah, you're going to go up to the roof. So I think this lens well into what positively impacts sleep. Now we talked a little bit about going about waking up, but we haven't really addressed the circadian rhythm. Right. What is the circadian rhythm? Yeah. So circadian rhythm is just like our basically our association and our alliance with the Earth in a way. It's really how our hormones and our body reacts to light like the sun coming up and darkness. And it remains very regular to the 24th cycle of our day. And so it's really just our natural triggering cycles of hormonal release like melatonin. And it keeps us regular throughout the night. Which is interesting because when they put people in a room with like no association to the outside of the world and the lights are blocked and they have no idea what time it is. Our circadian rhythm is actually slightly longer than 24 hours. Which is closer to the the rotation of Mars, which is like maybe you know maybe you're from Mars. You never know, but it's interesting, but I think that's why it's so like our body is very sensitive to light and it's hard to align or I guess make the sun a really really important piece of your life and align it in your schedule lines with them the sun comes up and obviously different times of the year it changes. So I think being mindful of light and how to impact things and making sure you're triggering things at the right times. Then melatonin specifically is triggered by darkness. So I think a lot of people are taking melatonin which like they don't even realize why they're taking it or what it's doing. And a lot of times like I was saying just by creating a gradient from the living space to the bedroom and having it darken over the evening can really boost your melatonin production. Most people body has the ability to produce plenty of melatonin to get them through a normal sea cycle. It's just when there's a million lights on you're going to have a tough time or it's going to be significantly delayed. Right you take that melatonin now you're still in the phone all the lights are on the TV's blasting right? We're not really setting yourself up in that I think people like they expect like a sedating result and that's not what it is. It's triggering hormone on to it's not it's not about like someone how alcohol makes you feel sleepy that's not what you should expect that's why they're combining it with all these other supplements that have more of a sedating feel. Right you have melatonin already it's kind of just given that extra boost to hey you know it's time to win. Anytime you know our body has a hormone cycle it's always good if you can optimize that you know naturally your body can produce the right timing and and react to to light in the correct way like that's going to be the best option. Right I mean you hear it all the time before electricity existed right you used to be you went to bed when the sun went down you got up when the sun rose you rose with the sun right I think I think people really feel like when it in the winter you know you really feel how much it impacts you because you feel like it's like 11 o'clock in night and it's 7pm and that's how you should feel. Yeah so that's usually a good sign if you're if you're able to create that synthetic darkness in your house like if in the winter you're significantly more sleepy like you know just reflect on that feeling and understand like how can I create that in the summer months and dim these lights because you'll have the same reaction and most people do sleep better in the winter months. Yeah absolutely let's talk about the dark environment and the benefit of things like black out shades, sleep masks, things like that you know and how that plays into you know our natural circunium rhythm. Yeah I mean sleep masks I love because it's it's a very cheap easy option that you can take anywhere you go right it's hard like life is all about controlling the control rules especially with athletes with talk about controlling the controls. Light can be something that was out of your control so the sleep mask is a cheap option that wherever you go you know you're going to have black out light when you're sleeping and you know my favorite part of the sleep mask beyond just the light is it's just a psychological trigger aspect like putting that thing on for our young athletes especially like college athletes it's crazy the impact on their sleep nothing to do with the actual light everything to do with the commitment to going to bed you know a lot of kids and even adults are on their phone on Snapchat till two three in the morning till they just like are so tired they fall asleep really with their phone in their hand well also you pretty quickly create this routine of actually committing to sleep and all sudden they're falling asleep in five minutes so I think that's super useful and it's an easy way to really efficiently maximize any situation but black out shades too the thing like black out shades it's really hard is one their obviously expensive to it's really hard to fully black out a room you know we have black out shades in our room but then you know our bathroom doesn't have them and then the light kind of leaks in so that's why I just tend to go to sleep mask it's just easier it's really hard to fully black it out all right it's throwing in your bag when you're traveling it doesn't matter what kind of hotel you're going to be at just there sleep on the plane it's there that's a really great one I found overnight I struggle with plain sleep I do too so bad at it I tried to that I mean we woke up at 345 in the morning and I tried to like wake up the least amount I rarely will take those flights but there was a kid yet something we had to do it I tried to like wake up the least amount mentally you know something I'm gonna fall asleep on the flight now didn't fall asleep for a minute yeah and it was it was bummed about it I just got targeted by the this crazy device I mean it's like a it's like a box and you put and you put it on your tray table you put both hands in there in case you also want to be on your phone while you're in there but us yeah I know hold your print cover safe is it clear what it's just a hole that you put your face in that allows you to not flop completely down onto the table it's pretty uncomfortable though it's pretty rough like I can't find a position it's comfortable must sometimes on the window I can like lean over you know yeah but it's not I'm an aisle gal because I like the freedom I'm getting up but at the same time it's probably the most disturbing so I like pretty big shoulders I just can't hit like every person was hitting me I don't know walk by but I struggle like that even like the the lay down beds sometimes it's like I still can't fall off with you it's a tough environment but let's talk about temperature and how that plays a role as well we've typically inherently heard that cooler temperatures right but there's also things that we can do whether that's heating the body before bed so I want to talk about body temperature and I also want to talk about room temperature and how those go hand in hand for falling asleep yeah so yeah heat before bed is amazing you know you know in order for our body to get into those deep sleep cycles it has to drop its core temperature like about a degree and so by applying heat to your body before bed it has this reaction over like overreacts and creates this cooling mechanism that allows yourself to cool down very efficiently so any type of heat before bed you know when we talk about like sauna benefits you know with all these longevity studies and the heat shock proteins and all this stuff going on like that's a separate conversation from like just this heating yourself up before bed so even like hot tub a bath a shower like it's it's more the actual temperature in raising your temperature just the touch as opposed to you know some of the studies going on with sauna and so yeah when you heat yourself up before bed it allows yourself to cool down really efficiently and you know drop that temperature and you get into those deep sleep cycles slightly faster when you're able to do that you know what I've been doing with the temperature drop here in New York I've essentially make myself into a burrito and my heated blanket on the couch and then I head into I leave my room around you know 65, 68 and once my temperature is risen and I go into that cooler room I mean I'm asleep within five minutes yeah but I think the key is having the cooler room because when you yourself up like being too warm and the cool room is just allowing your body to cool itself down like giving it the ability to do it or the or the the opportunity so when it's even it's too warm you're going to meet a bad place and the other thing is to like I do sauna every single night the thing you don't want to go you can go a little overboard of the heat like in a hot tub or sauna like so to the point where it's a stressor so I think that it's if you're going to do like sauna protocols it's important to do like a less aggressive like a lower temperature one for a longer duration as opposed to like you know 215 degrees for 20 minutes because that's probably going to be a stress which is probably going to like wake you up a little bit. All right I typically do like my 185 degree sessions at 20 25 minutes earlier in the day if I have that opportunity to go in night same thing I'm most likely doing contrast and most likely rotating between the sauna and cold punch soda cold punch depending on the type of year and I don't necessarily want to be coming out of 30 degree water when it's also through degrees outside. I don't know why it makes it so much worse it does like a million times. Yes but the temperature is the water's the same but like and it's hard to get in there. It is so you know in the winter months I definitely love to end that contrast therapy in heat in the winter months I'll end it in cold especially these 95 degree days that we have I get out of that cold tub and then you know shortly after I'm going to bed I sleep fairly fairly well. Yeah yeah I'll usually end then like if I do contrast I'll do like a quick dip in the cold because I'm so hot right after the sauna but I won't do like a couple minutes I'll just be like two seconds and that's like I knock out hard and actually the the hot tub's growing on me like the hot tub's very relaxing and again you can have I do the sauna and the hot like all that stuff like the sauna for conversation the social side of that like I said I mean you can't beat it that's another thing you know going in the RKD and night like those two things like the sauna and watching a show like that's my perfect night time routine and it's like the most relaxed I'll ever be. Yeah I love that last one we have for positive impacts hydration you touch them this a little bit before what not to do when it comes to your hydration but let's talk about what to do for hydration to set ourselves up for great sleep. Yeah so I'm gonna think that I mean hydration in general like you know globally across the body so so helpful but I think the biggest thing the coach of hydration is the timing of it you know it's really hard to emphasize how important that is and like again intense and I keep saying intense and I don't eat but it's often thing we just don't think about and you're already doing it it's just shifting it in a way that you're aware that it has another impact so I think that a lot of people just think okay my goal is you know whatever 120 ounces of water well like let's set some smaller goes smaller goals you know in between that and I also think too I think people don't realize how much hydration they need in vigorous exercise and that's when they tend to get in trouble for my hydration perspective and then obviously being dehydrated can you know being dehydrated can really mess with some of some of your breathing mechanisms just because things get dry now and you tend to snore more or you also tend to wake up more often so I think having almost like hourly goals and smaller goals and then being very intentionally when you have a vigorous workout to know exactly how much water you should have like every 15 minutes not just like you know drink a bottle like being being aware of like how much you're how much you're expelling and how much you need to replenish along with like the elective light balance. I was just going to say and then the additional minerals that you need as well I mean I think sodium testing is a huge thing right now that a lot of people especially if you're a high sweater I think it's really beneficial to look at how much sodium you're losing and your blood work too look at your sodium look at your potassium and if you are sweating a lot in the workouts that you're could be beneficial to look at those hydration sticks especially right after to replenish. There's actually I don't remember the name of the company but there's a new company that's actually has like a patch that's like Bluetooth and it can measure the amount of sodium that you lose in different exercises and different situations which is cool because like something like a sauna it is hard to know exactly how much you're losing and what type of electalite you're losing because I think people like you know people sometimes now like you know electalite have exploded and sometimes people wake up and just hammer electrolytes when it's like a thousand milligrams of sodium which is which is okay but it's like okay well if you're drinking that five times a day like have some awareness it's not like more is always better you know it's a balance there and then like just pure hydration in general is is all about that balance it's not even I think people don't realize it's a thing about this amount of water this amount of luck lights and for they're just creating that balance of water in and out of the cell I think what we're going to start to see in the coming years I mean yes electalite have come to a significant boom you know I think back in the day it was like drink some gatoring well now today we have access to thousands of dollars. Gatoring to bad rap though I love gatoring and especially from a carburphacement as well. So people are like you know they always like give gatoring a hard time and I'm like well yeah if you're sitting around but you like it was like literally formulated for exactly when it's meant to be used for like hardcore and current athletes football games things like that like it's to pretty solid form it. Well you know it's sitting it's sitting in the grocery store aisles and if you're just picking that up from you to drink at your desk well think about it that that's not originally what the formulation was made for it was made for athletes who are losing significant amount of stress or as sweat excuse me but also carburphacement I mean you can't get better than having some gatoring in the middle of like a triathlon or a good right you know but I think what we're really going to start seeing is more people getting sodium sweat test more people you know really looking at this at a more detailed level on their blood work I mean how many people are really looking at their sodium potassium levels unless they're so aggressively under right or some emergency situation has caused their potassium just to crash and down there in the hospital right I think what we're going to start to see in the next couple of years is people really paying more attention and well how do I actually balance my electrolytes not just I'm going to pour one of these sticks into my bottle every day or twice a day and think that's good enough I think it's more a more customized. I agree I think the one work thing is started to change and shift like I work with blogs like you know you had them on the show and it's it's hard to put a value on that too and the problem is like you said people don't often go that route until there's an issue you don't have a baseline it's somebody doing like a sleep study like if you're only measuring when there's a problem the data is almost irrelevant because like those norms you're comparing it to everybody is different. Everybody has had no different norm baseline levels so especially something like electrolytes like you're the upper end of a spectrum on one or on the lower end like that's going to make you probably feel significantly different but you would never know if you don't get you know regular blood work. Right I mean if something comes back on your blood work and you are maybe maybe you're not even in a concerning zone for your doctor but maybe you're one point over the normal limit well what were you three years ago what were you two years ago one year ago six months ago you could have been twenty points lower than what you were so now just because you're only one point over the quote unquote normal range well that could be extremely elevated for where you were six months ago and now it is a problem because now we have to say why you specifically so elevated and then where you were happy you're ago. Yeah I think like the body it's like the delta like the change is is really where the value is when it comes to measuring things like these these normal ranges are great and there's it's useful but like when you're really talking about like someone that's trying to optimize not someone that has like a really you know clinical issue going on but someone just trying to look or feel it's good as they possibly can like you need baselines. Yeah absolutely Todd you've looked us with a ton of valuable tips on how to get the night sleep we've all been dreaming of if you had to narrow it down to three tips to start with today what would be the priorities. Number one like just what years ahead of the rest is staying within 30 minutes of your wait time and bedtime like I can't emphasize how important that is I would say number two is front love your hydration I think that I think that people really mess up that I think people don't realize the impact it's having on how many times they wake up throughout the night and then I think my third one would be just relax and what I mean by that is there's all the stuff out there there's a there's a million different data points and wearables and information out there but at the end of the day if you have a bad night sleep or you can't fall back and sleep get up take your mind off it like you're gonna be fine like people have done amazing things on horrible night sleep in the worst thing you can do is sit there and beat yourself up about it so you know it is what it is you pulled all night is before the next day will come and then just do better the next night awesome Todd thanks so much for stopping by today tell our listeners how they can fall along the learn more yeah so I'm on Instagram the most probably post all that stuff just taught in or soon and like you said dream of covering.io we're gonna start launching a bunch of free webinars and do more educational stuff similar to stuff we talked about today but I love just help people out I try to get to its many messages back and stuff and anybody has any specific sleep issues or they want to talk about something you know I am more than happy to help awesome Todd appreciate you stopping by while you're in town awesome yeah thank you thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: How to Heal Through Full Body Acupuncture ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 14 ｜ Jeff Medina [sMFIJWDXE7s].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bitz and welcome back to the BB Com podcast. Today I'm joined by Jeffrey Medina. Jeff is a board certified acupunctureist. He obtained his education from the University of Washington and a Masters of Science and Acupuncture from Bestier University. He went on to study Naejing acupuncture with Edward Neil MD of the Schengling Institute. Naejing acupuncture is especially rare due to its difficulty in translating an application of the original text as it was the first book written on the practice of acupuncture. Jeff's 18 years of experience in ongoing studies of acupuncture had given him insight into treating difficult conditions that range from sleep disorders and fertility to even pre-cancer skin lesions that lead to proven improvements from treating physicians. In 2022, he began studying electro acupuncture medicine with Dr. Jeremy Steiner. Electroacupuncture medicine blends the classical channel theory of acupuncture with modern research to regulate the nervous and immune systems utilizing both treatment approaches have provided the best clinical outcomes for a wider variety of patients. Jeff believes that we often accept abnormalities as normalities. Western culture tells us that having a cold and winter time is quote unquote normal and that insomnia will not fun is also quote unquote normal through his practice is able to help heal these abnormalities to balance and restore the body. Jeff, welcome to the pod excited to jump in with you today. Thank you for having me and I am excited just to share acupuncture with all of our listeners. Absolutely. So that being said, let's jump into, you know, acupuncture at a high level. What is acupuncture? What is the practice of acupuncture? And let's break down the channel theory that I know you have a ton of info and insight on. Yeah. So acupuncture. I think a lot of people know what it is. You know, they know that there's some sort of needle involvement. They don't always understand why. And so when we think of acupuncture, the foundation is actually channel theory. So what are the channels? The channels are pathways of circulation that connect to an organ. And this is how these organ systems, they get their nourishment. And we're thinking about blood circulation. You know, there were specific pathways laid out in the ancient text. That they thought of it as blood. Some people would say, no, it's an energetic type of substance that you can't really see. But my training says, it's the blood. It's the circulation. And that's what heals the body. And when we think of channels, so, you know, in your practices, there's the gallbladder channel. There's the ovarian channel, right? All of the organ systems basically relate to these channels. What are some of those examples? What are the ones that you see treating the most often? And give us a couple examples of how channels relate to the actual body. So oftentimes, what I see a lot of is pain. So either it's a neck pain, low back pain. I would say those are the most common things that bring someone into the clinic. They say that actually 80% of the population at some point will experience some severe back pain where they actually need to see a medical doctor. So when we think about back pain, neck pain, that's the whole posterior chain. And so we're looking at this urinary bladder channel, which flows pretty much from the inner corner of the eyelids down up to the top of the head down the back of the neck through the low back hamstrings. And then it actually ends into the little toe. It's pretty phenomenal to think how long these channels are, right? This is a full systematic approach from top of the head to the bottom of the toe. I you've treated toes before for specific organs, right? Give us a couple other examples of, you know, pain, complaints or pain related symptoms in relation to channel. So back pain, we're looking at posterior chain. Maybe we're looking at the urinary tract. What are a couple of other examples that you see? And so like tennis elbow, you know, you're looking at the large intestine channel because of how that flow is. It flows pretty much into the lateral upper condile, you know, the side of the elbow where the tendons attach to care veins, which is what they call mother's thumb. You know, usually it's mothers holding their babies. They get this tendonitis pattern at the base of the thumb. You're looking at the large intestine channel, but also possibly the lung channel as well because the lung channel is going to end at the thumb. And that the large intestine is going to take off at the index finger and then flow into those tendons there. So you're kind of looking upstream and downstream and kind of seeing where the problems are. So let's call that step one in a way, right? You're listening to the feedback from the patient. Maybe it's a new patient that are coming in with a complaint, right? Maybe they've gone through so many other modalities and doctors, which is usually the case I feel right by the time they get to you. They tell you the signs, the symptoms, you kind of distinguish, okay, this is where I'm going to treat what's next. What is the actual act of putting that needle on the body? I think a lot of people shy away from even starting acupuncture because there are needles involved. But tell us about that step two when we're actually placing the needles, what happens? Yes, so they tell us what's going on. You know, we make a diagnosis. What channel is this problem reflecting? And then what you want to do is you want to explore that channel. You want to see where the healthy tissue ends and disease tissue begins. And then you want to treat right at that border of that healthy and disease tissue. Because that's showing that that area that's disease is not getting circulation. We would say micro circulation. So sometimes what people say, oh, if it's all about the blood, you know, if it's all about circulation, how come I can't just hop on like a bike for 30 minutes? And suddenly all my problems are cured, you know, because, you know, you're really affecting Venus and arterial circulation that way. But we're thinking about like capillary level circulation and what's happening at those structures and what's happening at those, but how are those areas being blocked? You know, so you look at the disease tissue and what does the disease tissue feel like? You know, so usually healthy tissue, it feels nice. It feels supple. You know, it's soft. It feels like there's flexibility. I say that disease, our healthy tissue in Chinese medicine is like bamboo. It's very, very strong, but it's also flexible. Disease tissue would be the opposite. Sometimes it's like dried withered looking. You know, sometimes there's a discoloration that's like darkened in the area. But then when you feel it, it's either very congested. It's very, very hard. You know, you think of like a muscle not, very, very hard. You know, so we know that blood circulation isn't getting in there. So you want to start opening the areas around the disease tissue to let that blood circulation flow in through that area, but then also affecting the whole course of the channel, then into the organ system. So you're essentially in a way palpating, right? You have somebody on the table, they have some lower back issues. You're palpating around the lower back. You're going around the glue to go in around somewhere where their major complaints are. And then you're kind of wide spreading that treatment. Okay, you're going to treat isolated, but then I'm also going to treat the channel below and above that area as well. Talk about you said blocked, right? And that's a big thing for you. You're looking for adhesions. And these are typically things that you can't really distinguish on the gym floor by yourself, right? You need somebody to help you distinguish where those adhesions are. But then we're going to intercept those adhesions with the needle. What happens there? What happens as you're placing that needle into these tissue structures? So you can feel the physical block. So one the needle that might be hard to actually get in there. And then as you're going into this tissue that hasn't had much circulation, it could feel kind of dry. But then as you go in, you're going to feel a block. And then it's almost like there's going to be some sort of tension around the needle. And then you feel this pop, you know, the tissue. It's almost gets like spring loaded. And then the instrument will pop through. And then that's how we know that we're getting the blood circulation starting to flow in the bad area. You're just kind of breaking up the hard areas that have kind of walled around the disease tissue. And this is what you're feeling on the other side of the needle, right? That pop, you're feeling that resistance of the needle. You can kind of put it in. I always like to say it's almost like when when we find a source bomb, my body, I'm like, oh, it feels like we're pushing it through play-doh. Like you can just feel the distinct difference of it beginning to stuck in that not-it tissue. What does that feel like for the patient, for the person you're treating? Sometimes we could feel like sensation, almost like a deep tissue massage. But oftentimes it feels like relieving to someone. They're like, oh, you know, they feel, sometimes it could actually feel like circulation starting to flow into that area. Sometimes the area can get warm and actually feel very pleasant because it's kind of in stark for so long. Right. And, you know, I think again, going back to my point, a lot of people needles just make them nervous, right? So when they hear needle, they're like, no, I'm out. Some people may be a bit more reserved and out for something like acupuncture where we can still hit a lot of these points and follow a lot of these practices under the Chinese literature that go into it. But maybe they say, hey, needles aren't for me, respectable. For somebody who is looking to explore, you know, talk about how far the needles going in because I think that's a big misconception of how far the needle is going into the body. Yes, and that's also dependent upon where you're actually treating, you know, once again, if we're doing something like tennis elbow is not going in very far. There's just not a lot of tissue there. Now, if someone's having an issue with their hip, you know, select the glute media, for example. Let's say that muscles turned off. You can be going up the read of five inches, kind of depending on how big this patient is. And so yeah, pretty much dependent, you know, once again thighs, you know, hamstrings, those will also be deeper as well. All right, so it depends really how much muscle we have in that area, and as opposed to bunting a structure areas. What is the immediate turnaround rate? Our people feeling relief right there. And continuously do some treatments depending on what it is, what element that you are treating, what injury that you are treating, maybe that's something that's going to take a couple of series, maybe it's something that'll feel later on home, if they get back, take a hot shower, kind of where does that range typically, you know, end up for some patients? So, say, usually for athletes, it's pretty immediate. You know, they're exercising a lot. They're working. Their muscles are pretty healthy. So, their channel systems are going to respond very, very fast. Someone with an autoimmune condition that could take some time for them to start feeling a pretty significant difference. You know, their bodies pretty much attacking itself. So, you got to start turning off those inflammatory cytokines. You got to start regulating that immune system for them to actually respond, you know, when actually feel better long-term. But for an athlete who's generally healthy, they don't have issues with sleep. Their digestion's pretty good. Their exercise, their diets are great. You know, they're going to respond really, really fast. I still learned to most things. Everybody's going to respond differently. Everybody's going to have different rates of, you know, kind of absorption for lack of a better term for the treatment, um, different experiences. And then also, you know, how often you need to go. I mean, consistency is always the name of the game. We always talk about that for training, for sleep habits, for eating habits as same goes for your treatment, right? So, if you get relief from a treatment, and you go to acupuncture one time, you're like, that's it. He fixed my strained hamstring. I never had to go back again. No, I mean, it's really something that you would be wise to work into your routine for a preventative measure as well. Which we're going to get into right now. We're going to talk about more of the athlete side of things. And we're going to talk about acupue for bone, tissue, um, and muscle health. So, this is a big one because, like I said, you know, not not many people correlate acupuncture with just part of their preventative medicine routine. It's it's usually someone who has exhausted a lot of other options. It's someone who maybe has some autoimmune disorders, who maybe has, you know, some maybe infertility issues going on. Something a bit more quote unquote dramatic, right? But we don't typically, but we're starting to see that shift now. We don't typically, um, you know, correlate acupuncture with something like we would with I go for my massage. I go for, um, you know, my PT appointment, things of that nature. Great. There we're starting to see that now. But let's talk about why you can benefit athletes. Let's talk about more about the, um, muscle, muscle tightness and not the physical act of dispersing those tighter areas with needles. So, for example, Jeff, if we have super tight traps, right? Doesn't pertain to only athletes though. Is a big one for athletes, but also is a big one for keyboard warriors. All of us who are sitting at desk all day long were shrugging up and on the video. I have my traps going up to my ear, hopes right now. Um, you know, let's talk about, um, some of the treatment types that we use just for those muscle tightness or those quote unquote knots that we usually have our partners for about a home for us. Yeah. So, there's a few ways you could approach this, right? You can go directly into the muscle knot itself. You could break it up and start dispersing the area and a lot of people maybe have heard of dry needleing, you know, when you're starting to go into the knots. As you do that, you might get a fisculation or like a little muscle twitch and what that is doing that's resetting the muscle fiber. So that's one way to go about treating these muscle knots. But then there's also another way where you actually want to treat the whole mechanism behind what's causing these muscle knots. And so if we're thinking about the upper trap, right? Usually the upper trap and the, um, excuse me, rhomboid, they, they work together, but then they're antagonistic to the serratus anterior. So the serratus anterior, if that's turned off, the upper trap is going to get muscle knots. The rhomboid's going to get a muscle knot. So first step would actually be turning on that serratus anterior, making sure that's opposing, you know, the upper trap and also the rhomboid functioning correctly so that those muscles are linking properly and they're not just contracting. So it's really a two step approach. We want to decrease the overactive muscle, you know, movement and get that to relax a little bit while also activating the surrounding muscle structures to give it the support because if I'm over, you know, I have my, my shoulder shrug 24-7, right? Well, that tells me that the rhomboid isn't really helping pull that trap back down and I'm doing these motions on video head to YouTube. Um, that rhomboid's helping detract, um, the motion of that track from my, from my earlobe. Um, so that's a great example. Let's talk about scar tissue. I think this is the big one too. Now when we say scar tissue, we can talk about actual scar tissue formed from a deep cut from a surgical wounder puncture or incision. We can also talk about internal scar tissue. So kind of differentiate the difference between those two, how the two of those can form and then how you treat scar tissue. So there's two types. There's external scar tissue, which is from a surgery or, you know, some sort of injury and then there is an internal type. But internal could also be from surgery too since you're already going, you know, pretty much the Oregon level depending on how deep they're going. Um, any type of autoimmune condition that actually affects the organs can create scar tissue in the organ systems. And so acupuncture is good for that, bringing circulation of the organ systems that we're talking, that we've been talking about, um, but really when you start getting into, uh, deeper scar tissue affecting the Oregon systems, you want to start doing something like a digestive enzyme just to start breaking a lot of the internal scar tissue down. So scar tissue, what it is, it's pretty much collagen that's being laid down by the body and irregular patterns. And, uh, this collagen, what it does is it creates blocks in their circulatory systems, you know, either in that Oregon or in the channel. And I find that if you don't treat the scar tissue, um, the problem that you have it keeps coming back until you resolve the scar tissue. So either through acupuncture, um, or the digestive enzymes. And again, is it the same sentiment of the physical act of that needle kind of breaking up the scar tissue for a lack of a better term? Is that what the needle is doing underneath the surface of the skin? Yeah, so once again, it's that same principle. You find the border of the healthy and the unhealthy. And then you want to start treating it right at the border. And you want to start bringing that blood circulation into the scar tissue to start for the body to start remodeling. Makes sense. So I mean, the scar tissue in a way, whether internal external is going to prevent that blood flow, preventing or lack of blood flow is then going to stop up these channels. That's when you're going to start getting signed as symptoms that usually bring you into the clinic. Let's talk about soft tissue injuries, strains, um, you know, other adhesions that are causing blockage from maybe overworked tissues, right? Just overtraining. Maybe you just have inflamed tissues. And now you've got, you got yourself a hamstring strain. You know, how do we approach something like that? So that's where we're going to start using what we call the motor points. So what the motor points are, those are the junctions of the nerves and the muscles. And so usually with an injury, what we're going to see is that the muscles they turn off. They stop contracting. They stop firing like they should. They become progressively weaker. And so with the motor point, what you can do, you'll you'll treat the area, the point, but then you can create, you can actually stem the area to get that muscle to contract. And then that'll bring it back online so that it functions properly. And then that's going to help heal the injury essentially. So stim in for those of you, um, remember electro acupuncture, we mentioned earlier in the discussion, talk about electro acupuncture. First of all, taking a step back, what do you actually do? And how are we placing that stem in correlation to the needles? And then what is actually happening under the surface? So electro acupuncture, we're delivering small currents through the needle into the tissue. And so at certain frequencies, we can have a very specific physiological response. So if we want to treat pain, we're going to treat at one to five hurts. So what that is, it's going to pulse between one time and five times a second. And that's going to cause your body to release massive amounts of bait and dolphins. And studies show that bait and dolphins are 18 to 30 times more powerful than morphine. And when we say stem, I mean, we're talking about 10 units here. I mean, that's really what we're talking about. We're clipping it on to the needle. There are even times, I mean, you know, how do you dictate what type of stem you're doing? There's been the kind where you kind of just kind of do one pulsing after the other just for a couple seconds on a muscle versus maybe you are leaving a patient on the table for 15, 20 minutes at a very light stem. How do you kind of dictate which type of electro stem you're going to put on the patient? So going back to the motor point, usually the motor points, you only need to treat them for 10 to 20 seconds to activate that muscle. It's very, very fast. There's an immediate effect. So usually when we test the muscle initially, it's going to test weak under pressure. You stim the muscle 10 to 15 seconds with a little bit of sock tissue work. And then that muscle comes right back online. And as you test it, you know, the strength is there. And do we only correlate electro acupuncture for injuries? Our ROE also applying it to things like we'll get into this later in that episode, but adrenal function, immune function, etc. Is there a time in a place for acupuncture for electro acupuncture for almost essentially every treatment? Yes, essentially. So very quickly, this is what I get excited about. One to five hurts, baton door fins, eight into 30 times more powerful than morphine. If we want to start with the morphine, you said. Then morphine. Yes. Now, if we want to start dealing with someone's stress response, they're anxious. We want to use 73 hurts. We call that the gap or frequency. So what that is, that's an inhibitory inhibitory neurotransmitter. And so someone's mind is always racing. You start increasing GABA. And then suddenly their mind stops racing. They're able to relax. Interesting. Well, we're going to get into that in a couple of topics from now, but just wrapping up our athlete portion. We also can't forget skin issues as well. And this isn't just for athletes. This is for Jen Pop as well. I have seen new tree and infected cut before and the swelling has gone the next day. We have this category under athlete just because they have a higher chance of getting impacted from a skin level, cut level, etc. Talk about that because that was pretty insane. This was a couple of years ago. I saw Jeff treat a patient. I forget how she obtained. It does not really relevant to the story, but was a pretty swollen angry looking infected cut. One day, treated around the area. And then I saw this same individual the next day. And it looked like a different angle. So talk about something like that. Yeah. So I think she cut it like putting her foot in her shoe and then it caught her Achilles tendon. And so once again, we're looking at that posterior chain. That's the back of the body. Yourinary bladder channel goes down to that area. What's interesting is that after that, she started getting yourinary bladder channel signs. She started getting back pain. She started getting pain up her calf. I think even she was even getting some neck tension after that. So among the whole course trajectory she was having these signs and symptoms. And so what we did was we did an acute technique for her and the treat just the pain and swelling right there. And then we inspected the channels. And we did that same principle. We looked for the areas of tightness and the border with the healthy tissue. Treated all into the areas that de-markation area of the healthy and disease tissue. So we do that just to get the blood circulating all the way down into the ankle. And now we're going to treat ones again. The healthy disease tissue around the ankle. So we're not treating directly into the infection, but it's the healthy tissue around the infection. You know about eight months ago, I broke my pinky finger. And you would think that would be such a small event. But I ended up having to get two pins into the finger for about six weeks they stayed in there. And that was disrupting blood flow. And you said to me, hey, we have to look at the gallbladder channel. We have to look at a couple of these other symptoms in the body that would be impacted just from disrupting that blood flow. And the pinky and sure enough we started treating those areas. And I started getting rid of the other symptoms that only happened after I broke that pinky finger. And only after they put those pins in through surgical intervention. So the channels they are real. This is real science back information that practitioners have been using for thousands of years to treat not only ailments, but also just keeping people living longer and healthier lies, whether that's promoting better digestion, better circulations, better all around blood flow. If you remember episode four with Andrew Donnell, most of that discussion was around blood flow. And you're hearing a lot of Western medicines approach blood flow at the forefront now. But this is really dated back to thousands of years through these Chinese interventions. So it's legit. This channel discussion, that's really what you need to look for when you are concerning working with an acupuncturist. And sure that that is their approach, their channel based approach. And I'm sure Jeff can put it in better verbiage for me. But essentially if they're approaching it from a channel perspective, you likely have somebody who knows what they're doing. I want to move into acupuncture for GI and digestion because the gut is home based. We talk about this all the time. It's not the first time you guys are hearing it. Now more than ever people are focusing on gut health and for good reason. The gut can be seen as the epicenter for a lot of good, a lot of bad has a huge, you know, we say the gut mine connection. I recently read a book. It's called gut, ironically, by Julia Enders, check it out. It was such a fascinating read to understand all the unspoken functions that the GI system plays into your well-being far, far exceeds your physical health. So let's break down acupuncture for GI disruption. Let's talk about the biggest complaints that you hear about people coming into the clinic as it relates to GI disruption. But then also what areas outside of the GI system that you're treating to calm down or essentially resolve those issues. Yes, so you said something very interesting. You said the gut is the center. And so the center, that's actually what they refer to as the digestive system in acupuncture in Chinese medicine. And so usually for digestion, we're looking at the spline slash pancreas and the stomach. Those are the main. That is what essentially controls all of the digestive processes. So whether that is acute issues or chronic issues, those are the main channels that we're looking at. So what are some of the complaints that you hear people come in? What are the, you know, I'm sure it's things like acid reflux. I'm sure it's things like irregular bowel movements, kind of list off what people at home can kind of understand what would warrant a GI disruption. So main ones are diarrhea constipation, acid reflux, bulloting, and then also gas. Those are probably the main ones that people experience. And then let's talk about more chronic conditions. We're talking about what all sort of colitis, what else are we looking at on the list for kind of the more aggressive, you know, ailments that we're treating. Crones, you know, diverticulitis. Once again, all those fall under, you know, stomach and spleen. I really like treating those because it's, you really get into fun treatments when you start turning off some of the inflammatory cytokines and you start regulating immune system. In addition to strengthening, you know, that stomach and spleen system. And I think we also, we need to view it as two tears. I think originally some of these complaints and symptoms start out as just kind of low level inflammatory responses that maybe they don't disturb your everyday life, but they're happening more frequently. You're getting into digestion more often. You find that your bowel wounds are becoming even more regular. Those have the chance to then turn into some of these chronic conditions that we then just listed. So that's why it is important if you're experiencing, you know, symptoms and you're experiencing them on a more consistent basis, get ahead of that inflammatory response. Long term inflammation will internally to, you know, we're seeing this rise in autoimmune right now. That's because we're seeing a rise in systemic inflammation throughout the body, whether that's because of the lifestyles we're living, the food that we're eating. It's happening a lot more here in the United States. Talk about physically treating some of these now. You said the spleen, the stomach, the pancreas. You have also adopted the ear treatments have been very recent for you. And I would say in the last couple of years you've really gone in on that. Talk about how the ear placements play role in treating some of these organ systems as well. Yeah. So we go back a little bit to the autoimmune. So I just want to talk a little bit about that. Yeah, please. Yeah. So with autoimmune diseases there is a strong likelihood that the digestion could be the center of everything. Usually anyone with an autoimmune condition usually has one of those three things that I talked about acid reflux constipation diarrhea, irregular digestion. So what actually happens when you start having that, you know, those symptoms is that you're not breaking your food down. And that's bad because it's not nourishing you. And when you're not breaking down food, but when we start getting into autoimmune specifically, we're actually looking at the proteins. You're not breaking it down because your digestive system is weak and your stomach acid is in breaking it down properly. So now you get all these proteins floating around in the blood. And these proteins either they mimic or they look like your natural healthy tissue or they start attaching themselves to your tissue. It looks foreign. Your body starts attacking it. And that's what we call autoimmune. And so once again, you know, we talked about digestive enzymes. If you have a weak digestion, doing high dose digestive enzymes can really really help some of that inflammation. And then how are we treating as a metclinic? In the clinic. So once again, it's at same principle. And spec the stomach channel and spec the swing channel, know where they're all flowing. And then treating that demarcation, you know, the healthy and disease tissue. But then we're also looking at the year that we talked about. So the year is actually what we call a micro system of the whole body. And so what that means is that you can image every single body part into the year. And so we can look at the directly at the spleen. We can look at the stomach. We can see objectively how it's functioning based on that number system with the tools that we use. And so we can if that if there is a high indication of that the area needs to be treated, the tool that is the our instruments will let us know. And we can treat that directly. Can you talk more about that tool? I want people to understand how you're getting those numbers to treat. Yes. So what it's doing is the machine is measuring electrical resistance. And it will grey on a scale of 0 to 16. So 16 is borderline. It means that oh, this might be a problem in the future. But you don't have to worry about it. Now if it's at a zero, it's almost like the body saying, please help me. You know, this is a high indicated. We're waving the white flag. Oh, yeah, yeah, waving the white flag. Yeah, it's waving the white flag. It's like given up essentially on that point. And so if it's a zero and you treat it, generally you're going to get a very, very good response. You know, they're going to feel better in their abdomen. And usually when we're treating a digestive issue, you'll actually start hearing the digestion going. You'll start hearing these digestive sounds. You know, and so you probably heard the term rest in digest. So that's exactly what's happening. They're starting to engage in the parasympathetic nervous system. And their body's actually starting to heal. I can attest to the rumbles that occur on the table many times. Pretty much 10 for 10. It's really cool. I mean, this process, you introduced it to me about three years ago now. It's a receptor tool. So essentially the patient is holding one piece of the tool in their hand, a metal piece. And then you have the end of it connected by a wire. And you're essentially probing the ear, depending on the points that we're looking for, liver, spleen, gallbladder, overies, whatever, you know, we're kind of going after that day. And as Jeff said, we're looking at the function. So if we see something, hey, this was a little walking couple weeks ago. Let's check in on it. Oh, wow. 12. Okay. We're going to leave it alone today. Let's go down here to the spleen. Ooh, too. That needs some love. And it's just a really great measurement tool to really make an informed choice of what you're going to go after for that session. And not only makes it a productive session, but the likelihood of seeing the results that you're hoping for are just increased by 10 volt. Yeah, and it's very interesting how they came up with ear acupuncture. Because what they did, there was a guy named Franklin Barr. He was a medical doctor in Germany. And what he did was he would stimulate a certain body point. And then he would look for the corresponding area in the ear and they would use functional MRI. And what they found was when they stimulate a certain body point, they would look at this image on the brain and what was being stimulated in the brain. Then when they found that exact same pattern on the ear, that's what they labeled as the body point. So if it was the elbow is the elbow on the ear, et cetera. And then they mapped out the whole organ systems and all the different structures of the body. Make sense. So we essentially have an ear point for every. Every body. Yeah. And I mean, what we say, you know, when we say something is low function. I mean, it essentially means it's not functioning properly. And it's not getting the adequate blood flow. Again, we're going back to that blood flow. So my gallbladder, my spleen, it's at a two, three. What is disrupting the blood flow? First of all, let's get blood flow to that area, a sap, which is what we're going to do in a complex in our session together. But then two, as you said earlier, what's the root cause? Why is this happening? Are there additions or other scar tissues? Is there a dysfunction in the immune system that's disrupting this process? So it's kind of a two-parter. One, we can address and figure out, hey, this is the area that's not getting adequate blood flow. But then two, we love our root cause medicine, right? We have to figure out why that is happening in order to get well long term. Great. Great discussion. I want to move on to ask you for women's health because I've seen it firsthand what you've done with patients over the years, Jeff. And it's just, you have some incredible testimonies. The practice that you've put in place for a lot of different women's health issues is pretty phenomenal. You have treated women for agonizing period pain andometriosis fertility issues and you've treated, you know, through pregnancy as well. Please consult with your doctor before you take on any new treatments. But please tell us a little bit about some of these conditions and some of the stories that you've had along the way for women's health. Probably one of the most exciting ones that I'm seeing currently is she's a 47 year old woman and she wants to have another baby. And when she came to see me, the AMH level, so with that indicates the ovarian reserve. So keep this in mind. At 40 years old, AMH level of 1.0 is very, very good. When she came to see me, it was 0.016. So the fertility clinic that had actually seen that they wrote her off. Is that no, can't do anything for you? And when I saw that myself, I was wondering, I was like, can I do anything for this? But she really wanted to try. So I said, okay, why don't we try? Long story short, her FSH levels were through the roof. After about a month of treatment, they're now in range and she's ovulating again. Incredible. And this is that 47. And what are you treating for a patient like this? So she actually had a C section. And so the left side is right over the left ovary. That's where all that disease tissue is. You're saying from a previous pregnancy? From a previous pregnancy. Yes, so she actually got pregnant and I think around 42. And then she's been trying since then. And it's not happening because of the scar tissue there affecting ovary and function. Right. Decreasing that blood flow or stopping all blood flow. Essentially, I don't agree level. Yeah. Exactly. You know. And so that told them, that's going to be a primary thing to treat. So we're treating the scar tissue. But then we're also stimulating the ovaries. There are certain points, ovary and points in acupuncture that we can use. And so we've seen a dramatic decrease in her FSH, the follicle stimulating hormone. And she's excited. I'm excited. And hopefully she's going to get pregnancy. That's incredible. Let's talk about an endometriosis patient. And to meet your is this impacts one in 10 women. So the likelihood of someone using it at home of knowing someone who has it, whether they know it or not is pretty high. And it does account for their now saying nearly 40% of infertility cases in women. Talk about endometriosis and for those who aren't familiar with the disease. It's typically, it is an autoimmune disease. They categorize it as they've also ranked it as one of the top most painful diseases, top 20. It's when tissue is growing outside. Basically, the uterine area, it can attach to neighboring organs. It can attack the appendix. It can attack areas of the pelvic wall, the rectum, the bladder. Gosh, it's been even in some of the more rare. But severe cases, it can climb its way all the way up into your diaphragm and even beyond. So talk about some cases of endometriosis and how you've treated them. Whether they were pursuing surgery or not, but maybe how you decrease some of the symptoms that come with that. Yeah. When we're looking at endometriosis, we're primarily looking at two different channels. One is a spleen channel because of its relationship with the blood. And the other one is the liver channel because it flows into the whole reproductive system. So once again, you're going to look through the channel and see what's blocked and then treat that. And then usually what we'll see is that we'll see decrease in period pain. We'll see of decrease in bleeding and people actually start to have regular cycles. I think it's so interesting that you say liver and spleen because typically endo or no endo. And let's just say somebody, well, I shouldn't actually say this because painful periods are normal. So if you're experiencing painful periods, please go work with a physician and understand why your periods are painful and very heavy. But if we are maybe just addressing that period pain, maybe we know we have endo, maybe we don't have endo, but we're addressing liver and spleen. That's so interesting to me because usually we think I need to do something for my overase. I need to do something for the uterus, right? I'm not thinking of organs outside of those female reproductive organs. Why liver and spleen? Why are these such big pin points? That don't really for endo, but for a lot of the treatments because you treat liver and spleen at a ton. So the liver channel is often involved in stress. And so whenever someone has high stress like a lot of New York people do, the liver channel most likely be affected. But then also because of the channel trajectory and how it flows into the ovaries and the uterus, same thing with the spleen flowing into those structures as well. Those are the two primary ones that we're going to look at and treat. But then there's also certain point functions as well with the spleen channel. There's one that actually is indicated strongly indicated for uterine pain and heavy uterine bleeding. You know, I think liver has become a much larger discussion. I would say in the last couple of years, you're seeing very young people out there get diagnosed with fatty liver. A lot of that is due to diet and a lot of the ultra-process foods that were consuming as a society. You know, what are some traditional herbs that we can inject into our routine for liver support? I mean, one of the primary ones, especially if they're undergoing stress would be what we call the liver moopers. So free and easy wanderer, a lot of acupuncturists will know that one. You know, that's generally safe for most people to take. There's also some other ones when people are experiencing higher stress. You know, they have some sort of heavy mineral content to kind of slow down the mind. It's almost like a tranquilizer effect. You know, someone's also having insomnia, dream, dream disturbed sleep and things like that. What about things that a little bit more heard of? Let's say milk and so on? It's a big one, right? What else do we have? The anti-line T is a big one that we hear about a lot. Do you? I know you love ginger. You put me on to ginger six years ago and now every single night before bed. I take my ginger route. I grind it up. I put some boiling water on that and I let it sit for about 20 minutes. And that's what I'm drinking a couple hours before bed. To not only warm the digestive tract, but to, you know, stay off information. I want to move into sleep. That's a good way to segue into sleep and system restoration, right? Everyone's chasing not only more sleep, but better sleep. Sometimes that's easier said than done. So let's move the conversation to sleep disorder, such as insomnia as you've just noted, restless sleep, night sweats, irregular temperature, you know, gauge on your body, right? You find that you crank the AC up, now you're freezing, you gotta crank it back down, right? You just can't find that happy medium. That's a big symptom that you talk about off-in-jep. I also after we touch on sleep, I then want to move into thyroid, adrenal glands and things of that nature. But let's let's tackle sleep disorders first. One of some of the things that you see in sleep disorders that can be directly tied to organ and system dysfunction. Within Somnia, usually we're looking at the heart system primarily. And if the heart system is at play leading to someone than Somnia, usually they'll have anxiety, but then they'll also have heart symptoms like palpitations. They may experience shortness of breath. They might have sweating as well. They say that sweat is actually the fluid of heart. If it's like a liver type of pattern, you know, leading to in Somnia, you know, usually someone the wake between one and three a.m. That's what we call the Chinese medical clock for the liver. That's it's time is one in three a.m. And they'll also have issues. Their stress will be like manifesting as anger and irritation. If it's a kidney type, you know, this person they could have severe panic disorder. It's not just anxiety. It's just like one step further. And they might also have some of the classical signs for kidney channel dysfunction. That would be low back pain. Weakness of knees. Usually women in the menopause age. They have usually a combination of heart and kidney type of in Somnia. And how are we are treated? Why are we treated some of these issues in the clinic? Yeah. So once again, you just look at the channel. You know, if it's a kidney, you know, there are certain points that actually clear heat out of the body. Once again, look at the heart. If that's indicated, you treat that as well. But usually with the heart system, you're either going to combine it, heart and kidney, or you may even treat heart and swing as well. What is usually at stake when Somnia's having a very hard time regulating their body temperature? So if it's regulating the body temperature, we're going to look at classically, we'll look at the stomach channel because they say that it was like the thermostat, you know. And so someone's having night sweats. You may look at the stomach, large intestine channel, because they say that it's the channel that has the most abundant amount of blood in it. And so if that gets blocked, that leads to heat. So that was classically, if it's, you know, we're working with the ear system, I'm going to look at the autonomic nervous system. You know, we're going to look at the point when we call high-butt the alimus, which pretty much controls every autonomic process in the body. And we'll see if that needs to be treated. Remember, somebody's chronically cold. We hear that a lot, right? I just, I can't more my body, or maybe even my hands and my feet are always cold. Are those two separate issues? Are those kind of combined in the same issue? What do you typically think when you hear that? It can be different, you know. And I think a cold hands and cold feet, I also think of like the extreme rain-node syndrome. You know, or the hands actually get purplish. That's like an auto-immune condition. But then when I think of, oh, I can't get warm, you know, you're also thinking of something like anemia or you're thinking of something like hypo thyroid. And that's a great segue into thyroid function, adrenal glands, cortisol, right? Those are kind of all go hand in hand. What are some signs and symptoms of disruptions within those areas of the body? Yeah. So if we're looking at the thyroid, you know, there's two major things. There's hypo thyroid, high-perth thyroid. Hypo thyroid usually people have weight gain. They have cold intolerance. There's issues of constipation. They might have some hair thinning as well. It gets dry and brittle, you know, and it's all breaking. Hyperthyroid is the opposite. It's heat intolerance. It's insomnia. It's anxiety. Usually there's rapid weight loss as opposed to hypo thyroid, which is weight gain. And then, you know, I've heard you say before, I want to reset the adrenal system. And that's done through electro-acupuncture, right? And why, first of all, what is adrenal overload? I want you to define that because I think a lot of people are experiencing that, but maybe not knowing the signs and symptoms of that. And then how do you attack that in a treatment? Yeah. So usually if we're looking at something where the adrenals aren't functioning properly, usually these people are under stress for a long period of time. And this is where we say not to interrupt, but adrenal fatigue might be of a most common term that people hear out there. Yeah. Yeah. And so they actually feel very, very tired. It's hard to get on bed. It's almost, it can be confused with depression. You know, so you think your body, you think of your body. It's not secreting the fighter flight hormones, particularly the adrenal glands. They're not secreting those fighter flight hormones that enable someone to deal stress. And so it's almost like their body just crashes. So there's one treatment that I love doing. We call it the beach adrenal treatment. And what that is is you treat T12 and L1. You hook it up to 80 Hertz, 73 to 80 Hertz stimulation. 20 minutes that actually prevents the body from actually secreting any of these fighter flight hormones and gives them a chance to rest. And usually they feel like they're very relaxed like they're on the beach after the treatment. Yeah. Like you just gave them a cocktail on the beach. In our case, I'm Octale. But yeah. And then lastly within this within this topic, I kind of ties in a little bit to the women's health as well. But I want to don't want to leave out the fellows to hormonal health. Let's talk about two different situations. Let's talk about maybe somebody coming in, a male coming in. I have really low testosterone. What is the first step there for that treatment? Yeah. Usually we're looking at either the kidney or stomach and spine channel. So if they have something like weak digestion, it's possible that they're not breaking down their fats properly. We know fats are the building blocks of hormones. And so that's where you want to look either stomachspleen, weak digestion, or you want to look at the kidney system and see how that's functioning and how the channel's swelling. Are we looking at cortisol as well? In an individual who may be experiencing, I mean, cortisol is a hormone. It's within the same panel for measuring things like testosterone, progesterone, estrogen, things of that nature will actually sit within that same panel if you're looking at your blood work and you're getting that detail of panels done. How does cortisol play a role on some of these hormonal fluctuations as well, including low testosterone? Yeah. So cortisol is very interesting because it's pretty much involved in every metabolic process of the body. It helps with their fight or flight. You know, so it is actually a stress hormone. But cortisol also has a strong anti-inflammatory effect as well. And so, you know, if we're having excess cortisol, you know, the, like the Western medical route, they say, co-cushing syndrome. So usually these types of people, they have like weight gain, the face, abdomen. If you look at their abdomen, they actually have purple stretch marks, you know, and then one of the key distinguishing features of this excess cortisol is actually, um, kind of the hump around C71. You probably, it's like a fat deposit right there. Interesting. And let's flip the scenario over to a female patient coming in. Maybe her hormones. I mean, this can vary. We can think of 20 different situations here. Maybe she's low on estrogen. Let's use that example as well. How are we treating that? What's areas? Are we looking at? And then again, where does cortisol play a role in that function? Yeah. So once again, some explain, you know, um, if they're not breaking down fats properly to, um, to make estrogen. And then we're going to go to the year as well. We look at the overrepoint. We see how that's functioning. If it's anywhere below eight, you know, on the tool reading, we're going to treat it. What are we doing for low? This is now this is when we don't hear as as often, but we're starting to low testosterone and women. What are we looking at there for dysfunction? I would think it's, I haven't treated a lot of that, you know, I haven't even really heard of it too much, but I know it's becoming more and more prevalent. But once again, you know, you're looking at the kidney system stomach and spleen system. Interesting. So all in all, you know, let's give some advice for somebody who may have been hesitant the past to try to acupuncture. Maybe this is their first time. I'm sure this is the first time somebody's hearing a full d-load of all the different systems that we can treat in acupuncture, especially here for our audience. You know, what's your, what's your point of advice for somebody who's kind of on that teetering edge of giving acupuncture a try? I would say look for someone who's actually born certified by the NCCAOM, you know, they've had proper training, needleing, clean needle technique, diagnosis, and treatment. So that's one thing. Make sure that they're actually certified there. I mean, there are some people, you know, they come from China, and then they're doing it legally. I would say no, don't go there. Look for the credentials, yeah. And, you know, maybe somebody has an appointment on the books. Hopefully we've influenced you for a lot of a bit of a term to book your first appointment and find that accredited individual to work with wherever you're located. How does somebody prep for an appointment? And what are some best practices the follow after they appointment? Because I think a lot of people miss this. How do I go into an acupuncture appointment? Or really any medical appointment? Because I think we don't, I don't think we discussed that enough. How do we, what, what do we want our data look like leading up to an appointment? And then more importantly, in my opinion, what should that day look like after your acupuncture appointment? Yeah, I would say so generally, we don't know how people are going to respond to acupuncture. So you want to make sure that you've eaten at least, you know, one to two hours before. Some people, acupuncture actually does drop the blood sugar significantly and they could feel weak or dizzy. I'd say it's a rare, but still have something to eat. Make sure you're not thirsty. Afterwards, it kind of depending on what we're working with. If we're working with an athlete, I would say go ahead and work those muscles. We just stimulated, you know, they're firing. Now, you're going to perform better. Now, if it's someone who is who's nervous system is up trained and they're anxious, I would say don't do anything that's going to cause you stress or more anxiety, just relax. Go home, draw an absence of bath with some bubbles, drink lots of water. That's a big thing to hydrate hydrate. So the day and flush those, you know, I mean, what we're doing, I mean, we are releasing some toxins into the bloodstream by, by unblocking a lot of these areas. So flush those toxins out, get it out of your bloodstream. You'll pee it out in a couple hours and really feel much better as opposed to not going home and hydrating. You might feel a little rough the next day. I would say hydration is always good. Jeff, thanks so much for stopping by today and educating us on the benefits that Acute Hunter can bring to really all systems of the body. Really informative conversation. I'm excited to have you back to chat more. Hi. Thank you. It was a lot of fun. I appreciate it. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at Bodybuilding.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: How to Increase Mile Splits with 5K Blocks ｜ 26.2 THE ROAD TO BERLIN EP 3 [Eh5G9MaQAig].txt ===

You're on the wrong way. I don't know. I don't know. You asked him. I am. Who let the dogs out? And look at the dogs. Yeah, they come. And we said. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. So I am often you're exciting to get my recovery game on. We were all from recovery with her last week. So we did a little homework recovery. But we were back this week and taking it from there. So let's go to the stream. I know we're releasing this hamstring. That is super tight. We're getting into the inner hamstring. We just related into your ad dr. We just related to your ad dr. We only need the camera to see the twitch. So I'm going that deep. Then into the muscle to give it a release. We literally just like get your central nervous system to relax. We are in now week three. I had last week of just doing a little bit of recovery at home with the holiday. I'm at a place now where understanding my body a little more, where I definitely hold a little bit of tension, but talking about what you felt to them too. Today I felt hips, addoctorish, and your ankle mobility. I can mobility. Take a look after the ankle mobility. So stick with your central in deep squats. Even though it's mobile, they don't have to be heavy. Just open up their ankles. Reins them up in the platforms. You're getting actually deeper into them. Plus, they're sad to say that if you can deep squats, they're going to be in their killies. That's all kept in the vein. So don't miss that. Don't miss that. About definitely Copenhagen Planks. Yeah. I'm going to sing it till it's done. Homework predicts when Copenhagen, Copenh, let's say it all together. Copenhagen Planks. It's going to be better than the waffle that he eats. Don't you dare say that. No, it's the fact. It's better than the waffle you eat. I know girls bring hot sauces. I put that in the freezer. You put that out of your bag? Yeah. I need some salty girl. First naughty wife and food wise. It is a unilateral strength day. Making sure that I just feel strong. I think one of the big things that I've been hyper focusing on a lot of the times throughout this marathon prep has just been not wanting to lift legs transparently just because I feel like I'm so tired with them with them on a mile and putting on weekly. But I'm going to do a little bit of some unilateral strength today. Do a little bit of core. And yeah. Stay tuned. So most likely from based to elbow that is about your shoe size. I. But they're pretty much if I didn't have my shoe on. Yeah, because for content wise and you can even push it as like a marketing tool. Yeah, you know, these were hand made by me. Oh yeah, that's right. So, etc. It's here and it ends here. So like the actual design of the shirt with the map as the forefront. I was just like, look, I'm like, this looks weird. Like, I can't really tell what it is. So then creatively, you were like, let me do this exactly. So I was like, you know, if I put it within the perspective of like the actual country, thinking a little more sense and I was like, oh, wait, then if I do that, now it just looks like a map with like a bunch of lines in it. Yeah. And I was like, that looks like coordinates. Like these dots that I put in because the dots are the stop points. This would be out. Yep, this would be out. It's a Berlin-Marathon-Planet. All right. What's up, Dalham? Hello, what's up? I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. I'm happy to be here. Let's go. All right. So I just did 18 miles. I know today was scheduled for 22, but we had two car accidents and a fire. So cut my day kind of short. I think what I've learned also living in the tricet area, especially in a ho-goating Jersey city, is running during rush hour. It's never a good idea. So those long runs got to be really dialed in. I think I got to leave in the morning as I get ready for the next marathon, which I'm super excited to announce. The New York City marathon. I just got asked to do the New York City marathon. I'll have more details about that, but I'm super excited. Post Berlin getting into that. But I ran the fastest splits I've ever done on a long run. So there's pros and cons inside of me. Did I get to the threshold that I wanted to get to? No, but I definitely felt good the entire time. The way that I attacked today was in 5K sports. So I would run a 5K and then I would probably pull off about 45 seconds to a minute of that target pace and then go into the next 5K split. Same thing, active recovery. That's not really slow. And then go into the next 5K and so forth. So it did 4 or 5K today. I felt good. I used those blocks of active recovery to gel. I just get a little water in my body. And I felt like that was really, really helpful as well. I haven't thought about that. I kind of have just been going out my longer runs before. When I did my 20, it was like, let me start in the 8040 space and just try and negative split the entire way. And when I found in that as well was although that tactic was great, it didn't give me enough time to set a goal for a short window of miles. Now understanding that I might try and start attacking that as I think about Berlin is like, what is that sweet threshold in my first 5K out? I definitely went faster today looking back on it. The first 2-5K is I was like, oh, I'm chillin'. 7-30, 7-15, like this is easy. I think what I'll do for Berlin is treat it in that RPE. So perceived different levels. Yeah, next week I got a half marathon on my plate. That's my last kind of like, I really long run, but long-dish run and then I go into full taper. Yeah, today was a good day. Today is acceptable. Hot coffee. Today is acceptable. No hot coffee. Today there's hot coffee. Very rude diet. We're ready to go, not actually really difficult. It's like it's freezing. I'm really hungry. It's not that cold. It's not that cold. The actual city challenge. I love the world, but nice. What about the world, brother? We're back. We're back. Absolutely beautiful. What a run. I'll be high you feel it. Dad right now. We're going forward to the game right now. There's nothing better than a Sunday where the judge doesn't latch. There really isn't. It's the best. Yeah. He's right. That's why I think I'm coming up. I'm being cured. All right. Is it a break? It's a break. It's a break.

=== FILE: Hunter Labrada's 3 Moves To Bigger Calves - Bodybuilding.com [r7HmshZvys8].txt ===

Hey guys, Hunter LeBraude here. Today I'm going to be taking you through a brutally quick 3 exercise calf workout. It's going to be high rep, quick pace, and aim that maximum high hypertrophy. We're going to start with standing calf raises. From there we're going to move on to seated calf raises. Finally, to finish it up, we're going to move on to one leg at the leg press calf raises. So the first exercise we're going to be performing today is a standing calf raise. We're going to be forwarding five sets of 30 repetitions with the last two sets being a triple drop set. The reason we're going to be doing slightly higher reps to start out for this workout is your calf muscles unlike any other muscle in your body and that all day long every step you take you're using your calf. So it takes significantly more stimulation and significantly more reps to train than any other muscle that I've found in my experience. Your calf is actually made up of a couple different muscles. You have the gastric nemesh which is the muscle but most people assume is the calf muscle and then you have what's called the solius. The gastric nemesh is best trained with your leg, joint, lock down your leg, joint being your knee, lock down. You can assure that you lock this joint up by contracting both your quads and your glutes when performing your standing calf raises. What this is going to do is just going to isolate the gastric nemesh, take the solius out of the equation and make your body very rigid, taking away the injuries you might sustain to your lower back. You might also notice that in the video I was wearing a belt that's just another step in precaution to take and keeping your lower back nice and firm and straight. When performing these triple drop sets it's imperative that you keep the time that you take to drop the weight in between the sets as minimal as possible. Ideally you'll have a training partner there to strip the weight for you or be using a pin selectorized machine where it takes very, very short amount of time to drop the weight. Worst comes to worse and you have to make do and do it like I did on a standing Smith just bust it, I can get around there and take the plates off and get right back out and they're in good after it. But you want to keep the rest periods down and you don't want to take time in between them to recover. The last two sets of the triple drop sets serve to be able to keep the weight high because you want to keep the weight high enough to be stressing the muscle and breaking down the muscle fibers. But you're unable to perform a set all the way through with heavy enough weight to do that. So the last two sets being the triple drop sets you'll hit 10 reps at a weight that you can barely hit 10 reps at drop but again to a weight you can barely hit 10 reps at and finally finish up with a weight you can get another 10. It should not be comfortable it should not be enjoyable it will hurt but it will give you results. Moving on to the seated calf raises the reason we perform the seated calf raises is to train the solace the solace is activated whenever your knee is at a bent angle. So unlike the standing calf raises where we're going out of the way to make sure the knee joint is locked as possible. When we do the seated calf raise you're going to want to have an angle in the knee. Obviously you're going to be seated doing it. Something to keep in mind when doing your seated calf raises is you don't want to hyper extend your Achilles at the bottom. Once you get past a certain point all of the tensions taken off the solace in place entirely on your Achilles you can kind of see this indicated by whenever you're at the bottom of your rep whenever your feet start rolling in that's kind of transitioning from the solace to the Achilles tendon. So there's no purpose and muscle growth and it causes a lot of undue stress on the tendon. Another thing to keep in mind when training your calves is that it's really important to you to good contraction at the top. You'll notice that when I'm performing these workouts I almost perform a double clutching riff at the top. I'll get as high as I can normally. I'll let it sit there for a second and then I'll really force it to contract and I might only get an inch higher when I do that but it's really forcing a full contraction out of the muscle. Doing that like any other exercise and using any other machine it allows you to use a little less weight while placing additional stress on the muscle which is what we're after. It's imperative that throughout the work you keep the rest period under 60 seconds, optimally being around 45 seconds. If you're training with someone it should be as long as it takes them to do their set and then it's NASPAR PIPCruestyle to get on there get your weight set and for you to do your set. Moving on from there we're going to finish up with one leg head like press calf phrase. The reason we do it one leg head is you know throughout the work that you might get more and more fatigued on one side of the other so it's just one good way to ensure at the end of the work at the you really are able to thump both sides equally. In addition to that when you perform the seated leg press calf phrase is your neither straight nor bent with your knee there's a very slight angle in it so you've already attacked the gastric knee and is by doing it standing you've attacked the solius by doing it seated so the finish here is going to be the leg press one leg head calf for because you're isolating each side and you're isolating both muscles there are already worn down so it's a great finish for any calf work out in one that I really enjoy. A question I could ask often is how often to train your calves. Any calf work out including this one I believe can be used up to two times a week if you're truly training the calves to failure they will be sore for two to three days after you train them. That being said I do believe it is a muscle that requires more than a once a week training split because of how often the muscle gets used throughout the day and throughout the week is I previously stated you do have to go above and beyond to really get growth out of them. It's a lot of work and it hurts but my calves have grown tremendously and I brought them up from a week point to a strong point by doing so so don't be scared of training your calves more than once a week you will re-thru awards. To implement this work I'd enter your split I have two different recommendations. If you want to include it on your leg day I really strongly recommend you start with your calves. By starting with your calves and doing this workout you might not have as much energy to train your legs so it's definitely going to be a prioritization of calves if you employ it that way. If you aren't looking to diminish the performance of your calves and hamstrings due to the fact that you're missing energy because of how hard this workout is I would definitely recommend using an antone stand alone day or tacking it on to a workout that doesn't involve your lower half such as shoulders, back or chest. For the full workout breakdown and the tips and tricks that are included with each exercise be sure to check out the page below. If you have any questions about the workout or nutrition and exercise in general don't hesitate to send me a message on body space. My username is Hunter Liberada all lower case in those spaces. The more articles and videos like this keep on coming back to bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Hyperextensions (Back Extensions) - Core ⧸ Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [qtjJUWCnDyE].txt ===

Life face down on a hyper extension bench, tucking your ankles securely under the footpaths. Adjust the upper pad to allow you to bend at the waist without any restriction. With your body straight, cross your arms in front of you. You can hold a weight plate for extra resistance if needed. This will be your starting position. Now start bending forward slowly at the hips as far as you can while keeping your back flat. Moving forward until you feel a nice stretch on the hamstrings and you can no longer keep going without rounding your back. Then slowly raise your torso back to the starting position.

=== FILE: IFBB Pro Jessie Hilgenberg's Fitness Journey： Body By Jessie [gaSqjVRTY3A].txt ===

This is Gardener. Jessie, if you're in a ward at your west coast association, back below end diploma, because it will physically, mentally, and spiritually, and most of all, your good characters. Being fit and living healthy is what I know and love. I look at my body as an artist, sculpting and transforming the ideal physique. Using my fitness modeling, fitness coaching, and figure competitions as a platform, I hope to inspire as many people as possible. I'm here to help you change your life. I'm Jessie Hoganberg. I'm really sick. I know. I'm trying to cook these, take a piece, you want to cook these, yes? Yeah, you want to cook these. I always grew up in a fit family. My dad ran marathons, and we always had a home gym, and they always had gym memberships in my dad's play, handball. He'd take my mom with him to the gym, so it was always around, but I never really got into it until I started playing sports. Kind of a round softball as when I started hitting the weight room. My never was really a cardio person. I just wanted to lift. I realized that I was really uncomfortable alone in the gym. I would never go alone. I would never go alone. I always had to go with my mom and my dad or a friend or my brother or something. I didn't want to go to the squat rack or a machine that had to be set up, because I, you know, I thought people were watching me, and I didn't want to, you know, set a pin wrong, or I didn't know how to undo the last person's weight, or something. When I was 19, I was smoking cigarettes and drinking beer, and I was in college, and didn't even think about fitness. Kind of spent a lot of time eating top ramen and drinking and hanging out and party, and so that was kind of that phase of my life. But after college, I came home, and I knew I wanted to kind of make a change in my life, and I actually met my husband back then, and he was competing as a bodybuilder in the NPC, which is a bodybuilding organization. I went to his show, and I was literally in the audience, probably with a beer and a hot dog. These girls walked out, and I really only thought I knew of men's bodybuilding, but I had no idea there were women involved, or that there were any other sort of divisions along with that. So these figure girls walked out, with their amazing sparkly bikinis, and they just looked incredible. So I decided to compete in a figure show. I knew that that was a goal. I signed up for it. I paid the registration fees. I spent the $800 on a suit, I made an investment, so I knew I was going to do it no matter what. I tracked my progress the whole time to kind of see how I was doing and how is progressing, and I stayed motivated by meeting other people doing the same thing, or by finding communities like body space. I started working out with Alex, my husband, who was just kind of my boyfriend back then. And again, I was really self-conscious in the gym, so I just kind of followed him around and did everything he told me to do, competed in my first show, and just kind of got the bug from there, and then kind of fired him from telling me what to do, and I just kind of found my inner beast mode and went off from there. There's something in me that needs to have my own story, my own journey to get to where I want to be. I wanted to look healthy, and I wanted to look full, and I wanted this set a good example for the sport, and to women everywhere, and to people everywhere, so I did more research, and I read more articles. And I learned more about what worked for me in the gym, and that takes time. Not everybody can have the same workout, so what works for me doesn't work for the next person or the next person. And same with diet, so for me I was okay with it taking 10 shows, 15 shows over three or four years to learn from every single mistake along the way, until I finally figured it out and nailed it. And to me that story is amazing that I have that. What I love about having a lifestyle of being fit is that I'm 33 years old right now, and I have a better physique, I'm healthier, I feel better than I ever did when I was 20, 21, 22. It's incredible, and I want to keep that going as long as I can. I want to feel even better when I'm 43 than I do today at 33, and I know that the only way to do that is to have a healthy diet and to stay consistent in the gym and to live the lifestyle. How? There's a huge shift happening, is women want to look, women want to have arms like this, women want to have a shelf on their butt, they want to have a quad sweep, they want to have great hamstrings, they want that shape, so I love that that's happening. The myths behind women lifting heavy is the craziest part about all of this for me. One of the things that happens to me multiple times a day. Women walk up to me and say, you look amazing, how did you get like that? I want to know what you do in the gym, but I don't want to get too bulky, or can you help me come up with a fitness program, but I don't want to look like a man. Not a single woman on this planet, naturally, is going to look like a man if she lifts heavy. We simply do not possess the levels of testosterone and our body naturally to get that way. No squads are going to turn you into a man in the gym, but they're certainly going to give you a nice butt. I don't think that women eat enough. I eat 2,400 calories a day sometimes. Sometimes that's a thousand calories more than they're currently eating. So what I usually advise is to figure out their basometabolic rate, and there's plenty of calculators on bodybuilding.com to figure that out, you can always research it and look it up, and you can kind of find out what your maintenance calorie level is. If you're losing weight from that maintenance amount, that means that you can probably bump it up a little bit if your goal isn't to lose weight, you need to make sure that if you're lifting heavy, you're feeding your body enough. So add a few hundred calories. You are not going to change your body if you are under eating and not getting enough calories. No changes happen to the body if you're eating a thousand calories a day. A lot of women don't know exactly what to do when they are trying to lift heavy. Does that mean bicep curls? Does that mean cav raises? Does that mean lunges? The biggest bang for your back and lifting heavy is called compound lifts. compound exercises are things that recruit other muscle groups. So think about squats. If you're squatting, you're working on your balance, you're working on your core, you're holding a bar on top of your shoulders, you're working quads, glutes, hamstrings, calves, so many things. So think about the amount of different muscles that are working when you do one exercise. When you lift heavy, your body is breaking down muscle. So the magic really happens after your session in the gym. Your body is requiring extra oxygen to repair the muscles which burns extra calories which increases your metabolism. And all of that's happening after your workout while you're sitting at home, channel surfing. You're burning all those extra calories. You can do all the cardio you want. You can watch any insanity DVD you want and burn a thousand calories in an hour. But none of that after burn effect happens after cardio workouts. It all happens after you lift weights. Some of the most challenging things that women often face when deciding to go on a journey to fitness is finding the right support system to have your back throughout the entire process that ups and the downs along journey that you're about to start by getting in the gym. But I really do think that a lot of times unfortunately the significant other doesn't get on board. I don't really have an answer except for dump your boyfriend. And get strong and be a strong company independent woman. You get to pick your 50 shoes. What is that? Don't you put that. You definitely need to get ready for a long journey. You're going to have results really quickly if you're brand new to the gym. In the first five weeks you're going to see quick results. You're going to feel different. You're going to feel better. You look different better than you ever have before and it's going to be a huge motivator for you. But then at some point around the six seven week mark it's going to level off and you're going to wonder what happened and what you're doing wrong and what changed and that's when you really have to dig deep. You have to find a way to change up your program when you do hit platoes like that and you can do things like changing up your sets and reps. You can do things like just changing up the exercises. You can even go to a different gym. Have a couple different gym memberships. Do some outdoor workouts. Add a couple more yoga classes. Take a couple more rest days. There's so many options. It's not easy. You can get very discouraged. You can do 30 pound overhead dumbbell press. dumbbell shoulder presses one week and the very next week. You can't even push up one rep with that weight. There's so many factors that go into it and you need to pay attention to all of them as long as you track your progress and just keep a good training journal so that you kind of see how much you've progressed over time. You can feel you might feel like nothing's happening but if you look at your training journal and you see how heavy your squatting today that can be a big motivator for you to keep going. Lifting with intensity in the gym is the only way to truly change your body and give yourself those curves that you get from awesome tone muscles. To me it's intensity. Those extra two reps you get after you stop for a second and take a deep breath. That's when all the magic happens. That's when the intensity really happens to just go, oh I can do this. I can get a couple more reps and you always can. You always can. One thing I want everyone to take away from this is that I'm a huge believer in doing what makes you happy. If you love running keep running but also make a few extra days in the gym to lift. If you're a total yogi be a total yogi I love that but make sure that you do a couple yoga classes a week and make sure you're in the gym lifting heavy a couple times a week. All you need to do is just add a few days a week of lifting heavy to your regimen and you really will change your physique and change your life. Nobody I know has yet come to me complaining that their six pack looks too awesome or that they aren't really into their quad sweep that's growing or that their shoulders are looking too carved out and amazing. It doesn't happen. All I get is emails and positive reactions from the changes that women see in their bodies by getting in the gym and lifting heavy. That's why this is a lifestyle and it's a life-long journey. It's never ends. There's an on-nect expiration date to getting fit. You've heard me talk a lot today about my philosophy and lifting heavy but if you want a little bit more detail about my exact training program what I eat throughout the day and how I follow me and connect with me on body space. My username is Jesse Fitness, J-ES-S-I-E-F-I-T-N-E-S or you can follow me on Facebook. It's facebook.com slash Jesse Fitness. I'm Jesse Holgumberg and for more great content like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Incline Dumbbell Press - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [DnV3R4vp3K0].txt ===

Light down with your back on an incline bench and a dumbbell in each hand on top of your thighs. The palms of your hands will be facing each other. Use your knees to help bring the dumbbells up and with an overhand grip hold them out to the sides with the elbows at about 90 degrees. This will be your starting position. Extend your arms and bring the dumbbells together above you so that your arms are perpendicular to the floor. Exhale during this portion of the motion. After brief pause, return the dumbbells to the starting position as you inhale.

=== FILE: Intentional Movement Theories & Finding Spirituality ｜ Ep. 19 ｜ Alex Silver-Fagan ｜ Bodybuilding.com [hpzgCF77MEc].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Daniel Bits and welcome back to the BB Compa Podcast. Today I'm joined by Alex Silver Fagan. Alex is dedicated to transforming lives through the unique blend of strength training, yoga, and mindful living. She's the creator and founder of the method flow into strong, a Nike trainer, kettlebell specialist, yoga teacher, author, and public speaker. She uses her expertise in voice as a guiding force leading individuals towards self-discovery and empowerment in every movement in moment. Currently, you can find her on Instagram as well as on the Open Digital App and in-person at their studio in Venice, California. Alex, welcome to the podcast, I did a chat with you today. Thank you so much for having me. I got to tell you it's a little trippy being back with bodybuilding.com. It's been about like 10 years, perhaps, of this journey for me and it's very cool. So thank you for having me. Yeah, absolutely. We're going to talk more about that in just a second for topic number one today. Everybody building Alex Silver Fagan. So we're going to get to know you a little bit more Alex. You're no stranger to the fitness industry. We've all heard of you and in various modalities and scenes of the industry. In fact, you're no stranger like you said to us here at BB Combs, so take us back to the beginning of the journey that brought you here today. So I think it's surprising for people to learn that I actually wasn't an athlete. I didn't identify with sports or the traditional movement that you see on bodybuilding.com. And when I got to college, I was studying theater and psychology and then I found my way into nightlife. I just started working. I went to NYU, I was in the city and I found bodybuilding.com. I found Jamie Eason's 12-week live at trainer. And I started to train at the gym, but it was, it was contra-indicated to what I was doing in nightlife and I was waking up. I was working 10 pm to 6am, waking up at 2. I had no energy to go to the gym and it just did not work. And I started to find myself in this hole. And I saw all these bikini competitors online. And I was like, that's healthy, which I've later learned is not necessarily health and wellness, but it is discipline and fitness and sport. And so I quit the club, signed up for a bikini competition, prep for three months. I did not win. I got seventh place and for me that was unacceptable, especially with the energy that I put into it. And everything that I do in my life is, I'm like all in. So I signed up for another one two weeks later. If anybody listening, which I'm sure some of you are listening, have done shows. I essentially just kept myself in a peak week for three weeks. So almost a month. Very challenging on the body, but then I won. I won the show. And I was still posting on Bali, but bodybuilding.com. My transformation on my stories. And I noticed that there was this book's model search. It's like, might as well, not just also mid. And so I submitted. I got into, like I said, the top 25. And then I was in the top 10. And then top five, which meant I came out to LA for the competition. I got third place and signed with bodybuilding.com. Came back to New York. I was teaching group fitness at the time. Even though I, I didn't study exercise science in school. I didn't plan on being a trainer, but I always knew that I wanted to speak to people and share a message and fell into group fitness classes. The global fitness director of Nike walked into my class. She scouted me two weeks later. I became a Nike master trainer at 23. And everything just snowballed from there. But throughout that journey, I was also practicing yoga and starting to find that there was a lot of synergy with my spiritual practice, my connection to self and also movement and what I was teaching. And that's when I created flown strong, which is originally just a class blending yoga and strength. But there's so much more, which we will get into. And deeper than just a class, it's truly a method in the way that I live my life and the way that I teach people and even in my relationships and my friendships. What have been some of your favorite experiences in terms of whether that's teaching classes, working one-on-one with individuals? What do you find? That's always coming back to, and it's just your favorite part of this profession. I think it's just reminding people what they're capable of. With fitness, most people come in thinking that they need to get stronger, that they have to change something about themselves. And that's never the intention when I want somebody to step into a space, step into a yoga studio or into the gym. I want them to feel curious about learning more about themselves, uncovering their power, uncovering their strength, and then realizing how they can translate that outside of the space or even take what's outside of the space into their movement practice. And if I could just shake people, you are so epic and this is going to show you how. Yeah, absolutely. I think with every great story comes adversity, right? And you have certainly had a pass that brings you to where you are today. Can you discuss a time when fitness helped you overcome a personal challenge? Past experiences that you're going to share with us here today? I always struggled with my mental health growing up. My family, I come from a divorce family, and dynamic there. And I spent a lot of time alone, which was why I loved theater, and I loved story. And I, yeah, I mean my first entrance into bodybuilding was to get out of a dark hole of working in nightlife, partying a lot, being really disconnected from self and my purpose and my truth. And I would go into the gym and I was just, I was like, oh, I can handle this. I can handle the resistance that I feel on me. And bodybuilding, as I mentioned before, it's a wonderful sport, but it's a sport. It's not, it's not health and wellness. And training for bikini competitions for a while, being a signed fitness model, I created this ideal of my body of what was perfection, and it was not healthy. And so disorder-deating patterns are very, very common with women in this space. And while it was amazing to learn how to treat my body like a science experiment and what goes in, you know, I can, I can play with those factors and macros and create this outcome. I wasn't actually connecting to my food. I wasn't connecting to my body. I wasn't part of that dialogue. I just kept telling it what I wanted to do. And fitness, when you, when you really break it down and you get back to moving in the sensations that you feel in your body, you can start to redevelop that dialogue, redevelop the dialogue with the food that you're eating. And so I did my mental health struggled when I was younger. I then got wrapped up in my career very early on. I was 23. All of a sudden I was a bodybuilding outcomes spokes model. I was flying out to Boyz Yadho and filming programs. I was then with Nike as a master trainer teaching these big events. And I had no idea who I was because I never took the time to actually learn. I was just told who I was. And in 2020, I hit another really, really dark, dark hole. And fitness wasn't enough to get me out. And I I checked myself into a mental health treatment facility, which was one of the best things I've ever done. 30 days and there's such a stigma around going into higher levels of care when people go on yoga retreats. Or they just take these sabbaticals. And it's the same thing I was just supported with professional mental health professionals around me. But one of the things about my healing journey was that I needed to have access to fitness. And the facility that I went to didn't have a gym. So I shipped myself kettlebells and dumbbells and a pull-up bar. And I made sure that that was a part of my practice. So that even when things felt really out of control, I had control of one part of my day. I had control of my sensations. I had control of the resistance that was on me. And still today, you know, as I was going through that, I was also practicing yoga regularly and developing this deeper dialogue with who I was. And so, while yes, of course, fitness gives you endorphins and you feel better, if the intention is still to change your body or to change something or that you don't believe that you're good enough, it's not going to work. And so I tried to teach people just like I had to learn for myself. I did that rock bottom where it's like, who am I? What is my intention with this? It wasn't enough. I was already a fitness professional. I was the epitome of fitness makes you happy and I wasn't. And so sometimes it's not enough. And that's why with flow into strong and what I teach now, we don't start with the workout. We start with closing your eyes, breathing, asking, you know, checking with your heart, checking in with your spirit. What's going on right now? And how do we then move from that? Yeah, I think the transition from fitness being your identity to fitness being complementary of your identity is a really hard one. And it's a very long journey as well. And you yourself, you had kind of developed all the physical tools to keep yourself quote unquote healthy from a physical standpoint. And you had to kind of go back out there and gather the tools to start practicing mindfulness, which you're now merging the two today. You know, when in that time in the facility, you know, where you practicing mindfulness was that a time where you started to implement that was that kind of the transition for injecting this into your life? Yeah, I don't think that treatment is where you heal. I think it's where you have space to look at what's going on. Same with when people just take breaks. We all need to take breaks. And we start with awareness. We start with creating spaciousness to actually hear what's happening. And what's what you need to then then you can then use the tools because you're aware of what the source this you is. It's the same thing with if we think about illness. If you're just going to the symptom all the time and you're not getting to the root of the issue, you're always going to be sick. You're always going to keep adding more to the healing journey. So space. And that's what yoga is. Yoga, there's there's so much to yoga and it's not just the awesome practice of our physicality. Same thing with either it's bodybuilding. It's cross-fed. It's, you know, there's the movements but then there's the intention. What's the point of the program? What's the reason that you're stepping in? And so again, it's, yeah, I love that. It's not your identity. It's complementary. We are identity is much deeper than any of the things that we do. It's who we are. It's our core values. It's what we want to share with the world. What our heart is. How do people feel when they're with you? That is who you are. I agree. You know, for yoga for me and I've been practicing for a couple of years now. It's the stillness. It's the quietness but then it's also just I love being in the room and collectively breathing with people next to me. That's very powerful and I don't think enough people have given it that chance. I think people often have a stigma around yoga. It's a very crunchy modality, right? But I want to talk about that more in our episode as well and how we can combine not only the physicality of yoga and having that be complementary to a strength routine or running or whatever competition you're setting yourself up for in terms of injury, prevention and reduction, but also just the mindfulness and mentality that you get out of that. It's incredible. Speak a little bit more about open because I think this is a good time here. So talk about the mindfulness and breath work and the studio that you're doing, your class, power, etc. Also, I just want to I live in LA now. So I'm a little crunchy but I keep I keep my new younger and me in support it with support both posts. It's good and I'm in love with it. There's room for all. So open is a mindfulness studio and everything that we do there. All of our modalities are a practice in coming into the present moment and we use our breath and our body is a tool to get there. So we have meditation practices, breath work practices and then there are yoga practices. There was not fitness as part of this for a really long time. I met one of the founders two years ago and started telling him about flow and it's strong and he was like, hmm, interesting. That sounds like something we could do here. So I moved out to LA and I created and helped create this program called Power. Power is it's a workout. It's a strength training class. But like I said before in the way that I train personally and work with my 101 clients, what we do in the classes, you first create space. We breathe. We listen and then we start to engage in a dialogue with the body as opposed to just telling it what to do. And a lot of so we have an in-person studio where I teach in person at our location and then we also have a digital app. And in the classes, you know, all of it is it's conversation. It's a moment to to be with the body and a lot of these digital programs that you or digital classes that you take other apps, other fitness programs. A lot of it is trying to distract you and just get you out of what you're doing because it can be hard. And I actually want people to feel the hard, recognize the hard, recognize the challenge. You came here to feel something just like why we're alive. We're here to feel something to have these sensations. And so it's a work in. It's truly which can be a little like, woo, of a statement. But it really is. We're not working out. We were going into the body. I don't want to distract you. I want you to feel everything so that when you're alone and you're in the gym. You're not just checking your phone. You're not looking around. Maybe you want to film like one set. Sure. But you're really moving with your breath. You're connected. And yes, it's learning how to treat it like a meditation. But what I find from yoga is everything is rooted in the breath. And it's also I'm a kettlebell specialist. I've done an RKC strong first. And what I loved about kettlebell is I found something that was yoga and strength. You're learning how to play with tension and release and your breath and linking your breath to your movement. When we're moving through our day, are you conscious of your breathing? Are you recognizing that your feeling anxious and your breathing pattern has changed? You can regulate yourself. And I want people to learn how to do that on their own as well. Yeah, I think it's it's very similar to the saying you have to slow down to go fast. And I think we're very used to our warm-up speed. Let's get the heart rate up. Let's hit the treadmill. We'll talk about that in a second at why that's not what we want to probably do, right? And just jumping right into it. You get done with that last call. Five o'clock. You know, you're out the gym. Your heart rates up. Your heart rate stays up for three or four hours, right? This is so unique in the sense of we're starting at like a yoga class. We're sinking our breath. We're sinking our breath internally. We're sinking with the people around us. If we're doing it with others and person at the studio, maybe you're alone just taking some time for yourself. But you're just kind of checking in. How hard was today? How did today make me feel? You know, what do I feel up for? How hard can I go in this? Maybe this is a class where I'm dialing it back a little bit, right? Or maybe this isn't even what I should be doing. Right, maybe I turn it off too many things. Right, and I go for a walk, right? Go for a run. And teaching people, I say I have something called the movement menu. The more modalities that you try and the more conscious you are of how you feel going into it and what you feel after, you can then start to choose what's appropriate for you in the moment. So you had a lift on this schedule. I don't care. Get it in another day. And really listen. And there's also something that I wanted to mention because it's really special with our class. At open is that we use perna Yamaprakises within power, something called Kapalabati, which is skull shining breath. And it actually just creates heat in the body. Without needing to get on the treadmill, you're just manipulating your breath in a way that is then going to support the next thing that you do. And you can do that. Your breath is beyond powerful. Powerful. You know, I think creating the self-awareness pieces, what we're seeing a lot more of, which is fantastic. I think we're seeing the industry shift and shape into something where we're less so good to tell you what you need. We're going to help you determine what you need for yourself. And we're going to your point, providing that menu. It's not just you guys that are doing and I'm seeing it more and more across the board. So we're going to provide you with the tools and resources to understand what you need today. Because what you need today is going to be significantly different than what you need tomorrow. And developing that self-awareness, like you said, walking down the street and my breathing with my shoulders or my breathing in my belly right now. Oh, I just got really nervous for this presentation. Same thing where I'm my shoulders, where am I breath? Where's my heart rate and just applying that to everyday life. So I love all of that. That's great. Yeah, we're in this routine of needing to stick to our rigidity of our routine. The routine can be throwing the routine out. And there's this beautiful line between discipline and rigidity where discipline is holding yourself accountable to what you said you were going to do and how you were going to do it. Rigidity is there's no flexibility within that of where you're showing up. And you also need to find joy and everything that you're doing. If something's a part of your career and I'm not, I do have friends who are professional athletes and I totally understand that there are moments where it's just not but we have one life. So if you can find joy and anything even just the choice of I'm going to do this because I said that I was and I'm going to honor that and then take care of myself later. There's so many we have we have a full menu that's not just our movement of availability of taking care of ourselves. Yeah. And I think I mean movement has to be fun. Movement should be played on like this should be an enjoyable part of your day. It's just like as we were children like you get back to play and just adventuring and jumping around you look at a kid they're just like bouncing off the walls and that's I want to feel connected to my body and so many people forget this beautiful tool that we have and you know they go into the gym for an hour they go take a spin class and then they sit all day and they don't feel anything here. I learned something recently it's a practice with a just a process that that is very much an inner child work but our body is its own experience like we have our intellectual body we have our heart our emotional body we have our physical body we have our spiritual body and you want to make sure that you're taking care of all of those. Yeah talk a little bit more about flow into strong like take us through take us through a workout Alex. Sure. To be transparent when I first when I first developed the class can he sent you to you who's on this podcast recently and he he was a good friend of mine he hired me for a gym that was here in New York called Solis and I was a group fitness instructor I was a strength coach I was working with Nike already and again this goes back to how movement has helped me out of some dark moments I went through really bad breakup I loved my yoga practice and I ended up going to Thailand for my first yoga training with no intention of teaching I just went and I was like I'm going to learn and have that influence my practice which a lot of people do. I came back and it just felt like a disservice to my Dharma my inner work to not teach and the owners of the gym canny one of them said we've got the yoga studio why don't you go in there and teach and I was terrified of teaching a following the yoga class I just had this imposter syndrome so at first I was like I know how to teach group fitness I'm just going to put them together I'll do a little bit of yoga a little bit of strength and I started moving through it and I was I was very aware of the magic that I had stepped into which is blending the two together so I'm not reinventing the wheel you you start with breath you start with sunsight mutations warming up the body connecting there's a there is a repetition that happens when we do workouts you're doing the same thing over an over and over so you can drop into a flow you can start to understand and then you know we go through a strength circuit there's a little bit of a like a fire moment at the end and then you finish in a meditation and you get to actually feel what happened so that's the that's the class flow and just wrong the method the lifestyle is truly coming home to the body to unlock the strength that is already within and I spent about three years writing a book which has been quite a process I've taken some time away from it I've come back as I've gone on my own journey of learning how to flow into my strong I've now been able to come up with clear clear tools and clear like clear moments within this journey of how to unlock the strong and so it's broken down into three areas you have flow how do you cultivate flow it's through awareness it's through source a connection to spirituality something outside of yourself connection to pleasure are we having are we enjoying so great all of the all the pot everything that we've set on this podcast is is truly this journey and then our strong practice which is starting with movement how you how to express the emotions and moving forward in your life we then have your solitude are you okay being alone and then your identity do you know who you are and after that you unlock what I say is woman but it works for men to I work with of just this ultimate self and we're not trying to get to a goal of changing anything it's just learning about who you are and so that's the journey of the book and I've also created a master class which is almost like a little TED talk version of that and I'll go and film a new program which will follow that framework as well I love that solitude was a piece of that because a lot of us we may not even realize that we can't sit with ourselves we spoke a little bit about this was Christina Centanari in our recent episode too or such a sweet amazing love her a lot of people can't sit with themselves and you talked about distractions a few minutes ago that's what we're doing we're using the workouts as distraction we're using TV and social and all these things once work ends okay we're gonna go work out now we're just in watch TV now we're just growing now we're gonna go to bed well did you sit with yourself did you sit there and I'm quote in Christina like look at yourself in the mirror and just take inventory of how you're feeling and this is how time passes by so quickly everybody says oh you know the years have gone by it's because you didn't take the time to slow down and kind of live intentionally with each day I mean every single day you gotta look yourself in the mirror and say how am I feeling physically how is my body feeling I'm my feeling emotionally and mentally am I okay and do I feel safe we're gonna get into that this is actually a really great transition into topic two I want to talk about us we've only done one only one topic wow exploring spirituality so spirituality isn't necessarily always something we think about in traditional fitness dialogues Alex but there are a few sub-tockets sub-tockets excuse me that we're gonna explore here so number one tells about your story with connection to spirit how the main integrate into the theory of movement being medicine awakening the inner child etc let's break this one open sure hmm where do I start with that people often get confused with spirituality and religion and I I've started studying Kabbalah recently which I really appreciate because it's just the source of consciousness and if you spend time sitting alone with yourself there is a voice within you there's two voices there's this ego voice the one that's telling you what you should do and and also we need it to keep us alive it's how we've progressed as a species but there's also this higher self voice that's this truth of you can tap into it with your intuition does it feel good do I feel safe in this moment and there were so many so many experiences early on in my 20s where I wasn't actually listening to that higher voice that spirituality I was just doing what I thought I should be doing and I got into this rat race just alright I was just here's the next thing here's the next thing and I would I would distract myself and the more that you distract yourself the less that you can hear that source in that connection and you don't need anything to feel it you just need to sit alone there obviously things that can help rocket ship you there but when you do sit alone and you also start to really listen to your body that that inner voice is within your body your intuition is it comes through and your heartbeat it comes through and you're gut like what you actually you can sense and feel and know and and your inner your inner child you look at a child and they are so tapped into this other energy that's around us they have no idea it's just truth it's they haven't had labels put on then there's not this this feeling of I have to do this because it will make me a good person it's just shall I be kind am I playing am I outside and movement is a quick way to get to source so I think you know as you as you just put it not everybody can kind of just stop what they're doing to start that this is not a overnight success story in terms of being comfortable doing that I don't think you ever get completely comfortable if you do come on to this podcast but yeah I want to hear about yeah I was called some a D in yoga where you reach this like ultimate state of enlightenment which doesn't really ever happen yeah I want to talk about plant medicine here because that can certainly be a catalyst in terms of getting you to the point of slowing things down and just looking at yourself a little more intentionally both literally and metaphorically right let's dive into plant medicine let's talk about your experience what plant medicine let's define what that means when we say plant medicine right because this is a new topic for us here yeah most people here plant medicine and if they're not actually where they just think of drugs and the word drug is an interesting word because you go you take you pop an adville that's a drug and some drugs are apparently good and some are not what I love about plant medicine or just psychedelic work is that this is a connection to the earth it's a consciousness that exists and has exist for thousands millions of years like the planet mushrooms have been growing since the beginning of time and I I always judged psychedelics when I was working in nightlife I was I was doing the the drugs that would be quote unquote bad but everything is again with intention if you're trying to numb yourself and take your take yourself out of what you're feeling then that's probably not the reason to be taking something if you're trying to if you're taking something to drop in to learn more to have more connection to those around you with the planet with yourself then there is going to be some juice there's some magic there my first entrance with psychedelics was with a plant medicine called bufoh oh it's actually it's actually an animal medicine it's from a toad known as bufoh of aris in the cenore and desert it's a toad venom and they call it the god molecule it's like the ultimate and mind you before that the only psychedelics I had done was mushrooms once so I I told you I go all in I went zero to a hundred like fully blasted and all it is and all that I felt was the sensation of joy and you don't even exist anymore I did that and all of the work that I've done with medicine as either in ceremony or it's been with a therapist and again it doesn't matter if you can't find that for yourself it's just the intention of what you're what you're doing what you're taking and I find it to be quite primal and a practice in surrender in letting go and it's also that's something that's very hard for people even in fitness can you surrender so much of the sensation I find even when I'm alone I'll catch myself trying to cut reps because it's uncomfortable and I'm like hold on hold on we're surrendering to the sensation and we're gonna go deeper and I learned that with plant medicine work again you don't need any of these things the goal is not to keep taking them it's you you you get information and then you move forward with that but like I was just mentioning to it feels quite primal which is what fitness is too we were hunter gatherers we we moved our body to protect ourselves and we are so at this moment in life we're so disc or and at this moment in our society we're so disconnected from the planet we don't even know where the food that we eat comes from and when you when you take these substances or you you really start to listen you realize how disconnected you are and then you can start to reestablish that relationship yeah I think similar to to you know to myself and my past as well I grew up in a very rural town I grew up where alcohol was kind of the daily standard right drug right and I'm gonna use a little bit let's call the mainstream in this instance and I want to use cannabis and celacidin for a little bit more of the mainstream planet medicines here perfect you know they were seen as red light major red light so you can drink alcohol every single day but you can't touch cannabis and don't even think about mushrooms right I've connected it to movement I've connected it to broth work to yoga flows I've connected it to running I have trained for iron man's and marathons with the help of some of this planet medicine so I think there's a huge stigma I think some of us are even a bit scared to share that initially in the first meanings because immediately that judgment is placed so I actually don't usually disclose that information until somebody gets to know me and then it's always a shock still it's always a shock when I do disclose information that planet medicine has and continues to be a part of my life because they look at me as in what you're you're a functioning individual you do this at fitness you do all these things and I'm like are you still you know and you see the gear start to turn in their mind and it's really fascinating thank you for sharing that and that's really what I kept thinking about it because it's basically mentioned cannabis as well and we're so controlled by this consumer culture and if these big companies can make money and so cannabis is now becoming legal yes and because you can make money off of it and what most people don't know is that cannabis is actually a feminine plant it's very soft it's also in the Bible they used to have they used to hotbox with with weed for spiritual purposes and we also have cannabinoid receptors in our bodies one of the only plants that we are actually in connection with in our DNA and yet it's treated like a crop it's sprayed with chemicals humans are in hazmat suits as they're taking care of it instead of just growing it outside and they they alter the THC level so everything that we it I could go down as spiral because it's so overwhelming to realize you have to be very clear of where you're getting things what you're doing with them why and what the energy is and we don't need that much we don't need that much but they're tools at the end of the day it's tools that you have in your toolbox just like fitness fitness can be a drug people can go into the gym use it too much use it for a reason that no longer is connected to love to to joy to growth and we just have to be really careful it comes down the the entire this entire podcast this episode it's really it's awareness it's space why yeah I want to transition into sexuality right and connecting our spirit there you know connecting all of the learnings that we're finding and all these other modalities and bringing in to the top of those sexuality so curious your thoughts there sexuality is also something that we are taught to be afraid of because it's powerful and it's also true connection to source and especially as women were never taught that our pleasure is important and yet it's it's a primal desire and it's it's a chance to feel your body fully and so I feel I love that we just went from plant medicine and to fitness and to spirituality because or I'm sorry plant medicine fitness and sexuality because to me it's all a reconnection with the earth which is what we are we are part of this planet and there's also there's something sexy about a woman and a man who's taking care of their body and is in relationship with this being connected to the earth and so I think it's a tool I think that again it's it's what are your preconceived notions around your own sexuality what you are afraid of we've always been taught how to look how to dress what to do how to love and what if we took all of that away and you just got down to what made you feel good and made you feel connected and I'm still on that journey of connecting with my sexuality and a part of the mental health process this this might be a little too much but one of the first things that my therapist and treatments had to me do masturbate and as a woman that's so scary feeling our pleasure and yet you go into a gym and you enter into a workout and there's that moment where you're like right it's that same sensation you're so proud of what your body can do and you can feel yourself fully and I hope that every person can connect with themselves that way and not take advantage of it yeah I think I mean all these topics that we're talking about today Alex really comes back to just connecting with yourself I mean I think we have our episode title that's yeah I usually well I usually hold that until we actually have the conversation right because it kind of gives itself to us you know I think it just comes down to remove the influence remove the media remove the cultural you know quote unquote norms and just really do the work of getting to know yourself and and just you know it sounds simple the way in which we're saying that's just you know tomorrow just wake up and ride yourself right just know yourself yeah like to see you'll have that done my next Tuesday it's it's a life journey and that's you know that's what we're getting out here today and there are going to be times in your life where you're going through tremendous adversity or tremendous transition and or you say hey I'm kind of done with this version of myself I'm going to go in case I after this version and I've done that a few times and I'm excited to see you know the version of myself that I don't even know exist so this is great dialogue yeah you have a chance to reinvent yourself as many times as you want yeah because you're not you're not beholden to a career label and identity because like I said earlier who you are is underneath all of that and there's freedom in this journey of learning who you are and growing and I've also learned within community sometimes people don't fit anymore and they don't work with your lifestyle and there's nothing wrong with them there's nothing wrong with you you've just grown and that's okay we have to be all right with that I'm not a bodybuilder and bikini competitor anymore but did you learn something from that did I learn something from that experience 1000% and we don't write off those old versions of ourselves just like we don't write off our inner child once we feel like we've transcended into our King or Queen or woman or man that is always going to be within you and that comes back you would then you just invite more seats to the table and you get to have a deeper dialogue with who you are. Yep I love that topic three Alex I want to talk about creating authentic relationships which both well to what you just said the most exciting shift we've seen over the last several years within the fitness and wellness industry is prioritizing community um now more than ever we're seeking ways to move to breathe and connect with other souls whether that's yoga, run clubs are exploding right now out in Venice I keep seeing the Venice Run Club on my Instagram feed and like oh my gosh I have to get out it's a vibe yeah that I saw um they actually had the they had to do police at sports because like the Wednesday night one got so insane or something like that I love it I love it um but we're doing this online but what people are really chasing I think more so we're seeing the rise of experiential and in-person connection coming back now bigger than it was four years ago which I'm referring to COVID obviously we're talking about both so to start Alex tell us the value that you put on community why that's key in terms of our pillars of health and whether we're doing it in or out of the traditional excuse me gym setting studio setting etc. yeah so when you get back to what it means to be a human we used to exist in tribes and being in connection with people supporting others I've now gone to Burning Man and it's definitely a part of my true true expression of self and what you find in places like that is that we take care of each other and we are in community and we it's not you and everybody else it's us together and with the pandemic we didn't realize how much we actually needed that so many people started to realize how disconnected they were from their community from even their friends and maybe there wasn't even an intimacy there when you're with somebody you don't feel like you're you're close enough I love to even touch my friends and be close and that is that is a need it's a human desire and with fitness I found my love of group fitness and fitness through community being dropped into the New York Fitness community going into the gym playing with my friends working and allowing the interaction and the connection to also be embodied and so now that we're getting into digital and there's also a social media conversation I like to think of it as are these things allowing you to feel more in connection when you're with people in person or do you feel even more disconnected and I love digital fitness I love social media I love being able to talk to people all over the world in the comfort of their home can even be even it can be more vulnerable for somebody to be in their own space and have that conversation with you through movement but is it is it allowing you to be a better person when you're with others and one of the great things that I love about LA is I really I prayed for try by prayed for community and I found it and it wasn't that I started doing anything different other than started saying yes I started talking to new people were so afraid and you have a story to share and it's going to be light for somebody else but you're never going to be able to make that connection if you don't say hello if you don't dive a little bit deeper than what do you do like how's your heart right now what are you feeling how can I show up for you and I hope that we can continue to use it as a tool and again it just comes back to your intention are you trying to are trying to distract yourself and take yourself out of a sensation or lean in more and learn more of how to connect what I'm seeing more and more I think as you said Alex people are starved for this connection and the communication the level of communication I should say because anybody can say hey how are you good how are you right right yeah that's just autopilot no but it's like how are you doing and it's actually easier to do that when you're running or when you're contrasting sure or you know as you're walking out of a flow where you just so rendered completely for an hour to 90 minutes and now you're willing to have that conversation on the side walk back to your vulnerable right because you've you've felt your body we we live here we don't live here I mean we do it's part of it but but there's this full connection and energy and so when you can the point of a yoga practice the end chavasana is the point it's to tire out the body so that you can actually feel and here and be with what's coming up and so it's the same thing with when you're in connection with people in a fitness class you feel this bond with people because you're you're vulnerable you're sweaty you're messy we don't have to be perfect and there can then be a deeper relationship and what I would love to see I think you know the rung clubs and the yoga classes and whatnot more families need to start doing this together how many of us haven't had conversation with our moms or dads or aunts and uncles that we probably want to have before their time on earth runs out right you know I'm kind of in this mode of and this is the journalism past life coming out in me I want to sit down with everyone of my family members and I want to essentially make a mini documentary then like I want to preserve that there are so many things that I haven't asked them myself and this is just me personally speaking but you know how many people feel that so can we go to yoga with our mom can we take our mom and our aunt to yoga and then you know walk down the street with them and have some of these vulnerable conversations can we get dad into surfing like what are the options here how can we inject movement into our family relations to have conversations that we may have never had with the people give us life yeah I do think that that's why meditation and breath work which is something we do at open is really wonderful because there can be this physical barrier to entry for a lot of our family members and so if you breath work is amazing because you don't have you don't have I'm in sync with meditation you you sit and you're you're present but it does create this vulnerability how many people take walks with their family right like just just go on a walk connect with the phone away I'm really glad that you brought that up because that brings us back to reconnection with the earth and who we are and we'll at our core tribal beings yeah you're in the spotlight from a very young age and how important is identity and discovering self worth without their reliance on others dictating that for you and you know a lot of this can be social media too where I we love to have our online persona you know for you how do you kind of remind yourself of that self worth or maybe you start to disconnect with yourself how do you bring yourself back I was very lucky to be successful at an early age but like I mentioned earlier I didn't have a chance to figure out who I was and I find that I can use productivity and work to make myself feel successful and like I'm I'm who I am whom I'm supposed to be I'm teaching but if I don't if I want I'm sitting alone and I don't feel nourished then I know I need to take a step back and take a break and I I can hit burnout really quickly and a lot of people can and there's a fear of stopping and failure and you said earlier slow down to speed up we do have to just slow down and listen so a lot of my practices are taking a walk by myself sitting by the waters and by the ocean by the river when I'm here in New York and spending time listening to what's around me and what's within me by creating space but I did have had a lot of labels put on me early on you know Nike Master Trainer bodybuilding.com athlete will let me know if it is model. I I started to use those as who I was and when 2020 happens had a chance to rip all of those off even the title of Tfiyanse or sister or daughter those are those can be part of who we are but they aren't who we are so I like to ask people and I consistently ask myself who am I without any of this what is my heart feeling like how can I how can I tap into something a little bit deeper and that changes all the time we have to be okay with that so it's really being comfortable being alone and those titles and in work titles aside VP director whatever master coach they come with a lot of weight but so it is like you said daughter Fiyadze sister friend they're all very heavy things and when you try to be all those things you can certainly lose sight of yourself and I think you know for me I think 10 years ago the epinome of success was that jam pack schedule was like wow look at this like I'm important and now 10 years later it's my success is actually how free my schedule is I can be the dictator of yeah on schedule I'm not on your time I'm on my time and this is what operates best for me someone said to me once true success is owning every part of your day and yeah working less and living more and that's has nothing to do with that work is bad I love my work I love work and my work is also my play but I also need just space to actually be I was talking to someone last night about the difference between being home and traveling being in routine being this masculine energy versus when you're not in your consistent schedule and you're in this feminine flow and we all have that men and women have masculine and they have feminine and as long as you can bounce between the two you can have control over certain parts of your experience but then also be okay with just this flow in this this surrender then it gets really clear on you get you get more clear on why you're doing things and what you want to be doing so it's a hard journey though continues and I think that I'm going to continue to reinvent myself I'm still really grateful to be working with Nike almost 10 years but I don't use that as my identity I know that if that went away I still have who I am and that's because I've listened and I've leaned into what my message isn't what my story is and even if that goes away and flow and strong isn't even a thing I want to be able to sit with somebody sit with you and just have you when I leave feel like oh she was really sweet like I thought that was really nice I just feel better in her presence and if that's our goal then you know who you are yep I love that last one here for today Alex before we wrap up with a couple final questions how do we distance ourselves from the idea of living two separate lives so one here together like we are right now and then the life we see on social you have a very large following on social you've done a phenomenal job of building that online community how do you kind of say well one I have two questions for you right um how do you prevent yourself from living two separate lives because I think that's a huge problem that we see the life online versus the life right here in person and then two kind of how do you bring yourself back into you know or minding yourself of the person you want to be everywhere it comes down to authenticity which first starts with the vulnerability I'm very grateful that I started social media at an early age before it felt like I needed to be perfect on the internet it was it was before reels and you know all these like catchy viral pieces of content I would just sit on my couch at the end of the day and talk to stories and just share and I found that people resonated with me more I was relatable when I was messy when I was honest and so the way to not have two separate lives is are you showing up the same way in person as you show up online and vice versa so that's number one I think two is prioritizing what happens off of technology off of the screen so that should be your North Star and then being able to pull all of that into that space I've had beautiful connections on the internet and then I meet somebody in person and I don't feel that they're the same and it's because they're prioritizing this glamorous perfect version of themselves and we don't live on the phone and there's there is scary alternate reality where we drop in so far that we're living life of those like Sims like you're just playing the game and we're not actually living the game so limiting the amount of time that you're on there making sure that you're prioritizing your connections with other people and staying real authentic people want your mess they they don't want you to be in pain or messy but we want to feel like we're with you and connected and it doesn't mean that you need to share specifics I've I definitely went into a spiral of sharing in detail what was happening in my life and you have to keep some things a little close to the chest because not everything not everyone deserves that much of you but they can deserve not everybody deserves that much of you but they they are everyone's entitled to to know truth who you really are who you really are yeah I think and this is gonna be a little free social advice for anybody looking at the internet social but authenticity always wins this is at the brand level thousand percent go to the bodybuilding calm instagram and you know our our inspiring transformation clips crushing they do better than any other piece of content that we put out there and sorry I'm giving some insight away here be become but I mean it's just true and then mean to take with a grain of salt me and my 1000 followers the post where I'm putting up a photo and I'm just saying this is what my life is right now or this is how I'm feeling right now we'll get 10x to the amount of engagement that a stupid real trend that I played into from my vacation clips right did I like making that sure but I made it because I like making it I just like creating things and I'm not listening here looking at my insights and my KPIs and my personal social but it's apparent no matter you're on on the brand scale on the personal scale professional scale it's very apparent what does well in these platforms and it all comes back down to just connecting community yeah I have a North Star for moments when I'm not sure if I should be putting something on mine and it's it's a phrase that is give or validate am I giving something here it can even be giving am I giving something for myself like you just mentioned that the trendy viral clip from your from your vacation it's it's fun to do that but are you validating that you went on that trip am I giving my heart because I feel that it's going to connect with somebody else or am I trying to validate something that's deeper within me and so if you can ask that to yourself before you post you sit with somebody and respond am I actually giving energy and life to this conversation or am I trying to validate something that's deeper within me and it's okay if you are then that's the awareness piece and then we can dive a little bit deeper into that we could keep going for a long time yeah Alex I want to leave you with a parting question and I want to ask you for those at home how do we begin to move more intentionally how do we begin to inject intentional practices into what we are physically doing on a daily basis ask questions to yourself and to your body listen and then respond don't start with I want to look this way I need to feel this way I should do this ask and you'll get the answer love it Alex thank you so much for joining us today I want you to tell the audience about some upcoming projects and how they can continue to follow along on your journey so you can find me on Instagram as you always have been able to at Alex overfagan and I'm very excited to be launching my masterclass with Flow and Distrawn which we spoke about earlier in the podcast eventually that will be a full book that I've worked on and that's currently in the works and then I'm also going to be filming a four week program with yoga classes, lifts all fulling videos with me and meditations as well within that you can also find me right now on the open app and also on Nike congrats looking forward to it all thank you so much it was really a pleasure to be here thanks for tuning in to another episode here at BodyBuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: It's Your Life (Football) ｜ 2010 Bodybuilding.com Commercial [IhDG0GbVZSU].txt ===

It's your life. Lift it. If bodybuilding.com. It's never too late to be in great shape. No matter what your goal is, it starts with a plan. And you can find that plan at pottybuilding.com. But I'm 45 years old. I'm an old guy, but I'm really not because I found the found in the view. If I want to be the best, I can be, I go to bodybuilding.com. I get the supplements that I need to give me the energy, the confidence, the focus, all those things needed to go out on that practice field, be the leader. And then turn around and go home and still be the leader. Log onto bodybuilding.com and get a customized fitness plan that will literally change your life, including a workout routine, a diet plan, motivation, and a supplementation plan. See why over 6 million people are among visitor sites and have made us the number one online retailer of nutritional supplements. Who laws prices on the web just got lower. Visit bodybuilding.com and enter the promo code on your screen to take an additional 10% off your first order. It's your life. Lift it.

=== FILE: It's Your Life (MMA) ｜ 2010 Bodybuilding.com Commercial [69ssMxGifaA].txt ===

It's your life. Lift it. If bodybuilding.com. It's never too late to be in great shape. No matter what your goal is, it starts with a plan. And you can find that plan at bodybuilding.com. My goal was to just to get bigger, all throughout high school, I've weighed about 125 but most soaking wet. And everybody who sees me now can believe how that changes. My brother didn't recognize anyone he saw. I picked your review of my shirt off. Nutrition is the most important aspect of any fitness going. Try to build on that count. Supplies. Any nutrition or information you need or any supplements you need. Log on to bodybuilding.com and get a customized fitness plan that will literally change your life. Including a workout routine, a diet plan, motivation and a supplementation plan. See why over 6 million people are among visit our sites and have made us the number one online retailer of nutritional supplements. Who rules prices on the web? Just got lower. Visit bodybuilding.com and enter the promo code on your screen to take an additional 10% off your first order. Get your life lifted at bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: It's Your Life (Motocross) ｜ 2010 Bodybuilding.com Commercial [_XpWd_VZVqU].txt ===

It's your life. Lift it. If bodybuilding.com. It's never too late to be in great shape. No matter what your goal is, it starts with a plan. And you can find that plan at bodybuilding.com. I like to be an extreme sports athlete. I like to race motorcross. Do you have to be able to have the endurance, the muscle capacity to get through an entire race? Bodybuilding. I call him as a lot of workouts that can actually train you for like a motorcross race, like circuit training, high intensity cardio. I can get all that information and I can fly it to my motorcross career and reach that goal as well outside of the gym. Log on to bodybuilding.com and get a customized fitness plan that will literally change your life. Include in a workout routine, a diet plan, motivation and a supplementation plan. See why over 6 million people a month visit our site and have made us the number one online retailer of nutritional supplements. The lowest prices on the web just got lower. Visit bodybuilding.com and enter the promo code on your screen to take an additional 10% off your first order. It's your life. Lift it.

=== FILE: Italian Turkey Burgers ｜ Jamie Eason's LiveFit Recipe [tuJbW_okAoc].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Easton and today I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen and I'm going to make my Italian turquoise zucchini burgers. I've already started by prepping my oven and setting it on broil. You want to set it on high, there's high and low settings. Make sure you put it on high and I've moved the rack to the top about two inches from the heating element. I've also already grated my zucchini. I'm using two pounds of turkey and for every pound of turkey I've grated two zucchini. So we've got quite a bit of zucchini here and it makes a lot of juice but we want that because turkey tends to be really dry so that's why we're putting a zucchini in there in the first place so it'll add some moisture. So I want all of the liquid as much as I can get. Try to balance that and get in the bowl. Alright. And then after I've added the zucchini I'm going to add all of my spices. This is a really easy, easy recipe. It's got one measuring spoon which is a teaspoon. So I've got a teaspoon of pepper here. One teaspoon of garlic. One teaspoon of salt. One teaspoon of oregano. And then two teaspoons of onion powder and two teaspoons of basil. So that's it. It's lots of green stuff. And then I'm going to add the turkey. And then this is where you get your hands dirty. You just reach in and start mushing it up. You never want to overwork protein because then it can tend to get a little bit tough. So just really kind of squish and pick it up and fold it over until you get it all incorporated. You can make the same recipe with really any sort of meat, whether it's beef or maybe ground chicken breast. I actually prefer lean ground chicken breast but it's actually it's really hard to find not every butcher makes it or every grocery store offers it. It's looking pretty good. Now I've already prepped my pan. I covered it in foil because this can get pretty messy. The zucchini adds a lot of liquid so sometimes it gets a little runny. You can make these on the grill if you prefer but for me the broiler is just easy clean up so that's why I like it. And now I just need to form these into patties. I get about a palm full. And you want to aim for maybe about four or five ounces. This whole recipe makes about nine to ten burgers. This is actually a really great low carb option. So zucchini is a carb but there's very few carbs in them. This recipe is also really versatile. Instead of burgers you can make them into meatballs and put them on spaghetti squash and there's another low carb option for me spaghetti squash is a life saver whenever I'm sort of in that low carb phase and something like this makes me think that or makes me feel like I'm having spaghetti. Also using the grater to grate up your vegetables and things like that and not only does it add moisture to your lean meats but it adds more volume. So even though it seems like maybe you're like for instance if you're having a party or something and you've got to make your dollar stretch you can add lots of great vegetables to things and it'll actually create more food. So the more zucchini I would have grate up if I only had two pounds of turkey it actually might make more patties. So it looks like I'm done and I'm gonna rinse my hands off. Okay, now I've just gotta get them in the oven. With their broiler you're actually gonna treat it just like a grill and this one I usually like to do about seven or eight minutes on each side depending on how hot your oven is. I'm gonna set mine for seven minutes and then we'll open it flip them over and do seven minutes more. Okay we flip the burgers and it's been seven minutes on one side and now seven minutes on the other let's get them out. So you always want to make sure it's done so we'll just kind of poke into one and peak. No pink inside they're really juicy so that's good sign and then I guess we'll just put one together you can eat them by themselves if you're doing the low carb thing or another option is to use is the gill buns or any kind of bread you really want but I prefer these. They are only made from sprouted grains so if you look at the ingredients there's nothing artificial in them you can only find them in the freezer section these are buns these are an English muffin which is another option and then you've also got just the bread so different ones have different calorie counts I think I'm gonna go for an English muffin. You can toast it you can leave them soft whatever you'd like and leave them soft. So I've got my bun ready I'm gonna slice up tomato. Down a few slices a little bit of lettuce. And then whatever condiments you want to put on this ketchup works or mustard might work. I like the ketchup this is the reduced sugar variety just make sure you get one that doesn't have high fructose corn syrup in it. So I'm gonna squeeze some of that on there I like quite a bit get a patty put that on there and then there's my burger it looks pretty good alright I'm gonna take a bite see if I can get my mouth on it. Alright for this recipe just check the link below you know if you want more recipes or articles you can find those at bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Jackknife Sit Up - Core ⧸ Abs - Bodybuilding.com [GEZ8NLbtc8Q].txt ===

Life flat on the floor on your back with your arms extended straight back behind your head. This will be your starting position. As you exhale, bend at the waist while simultaneously raising your legs and arms to meet in a jackknife position. The legs should be extended and lifted at approximately a 45 degree angle from the floor and the arms should be extended and parallel to your legs. The upper torso should be off the floor. While inhaling, lower your arms and legs back to the starting position.

=== FILE: James Grage's Rewired Fitness Trainer - Bodybuilding.com [BnfDCvCOkwU].txt ===

Day 1 Motivations High Gears Pads You're unstoppable. You lose fat. Build muscle. Transform. But it doesn't last. Days pass. Desire drops. Fitness goals. Become fitness dreams. Again. Because fitness starts on the inside. Your brain is a circuit board that powers your body. If you know how you're wired, you can avoid your pitfalls. If you start with your mind, you can master your muscle. To achieve lasting success, you can't just repeat. You have to rewire. Take the rewire personality test today. Discover who you are. Get fit for life. Right when I finished a transformation, it really just kind of it shocked me. I still never thought I looked enough. I'm not good enough. It's not quite right. I can be better. I can be better. I can do more. You get dialed in and look really good for a short amount of time. But it's hard to maintain. Especially when I had I knew nothing other than just that one diet. So the transformation as a whole, I think it's an emotional roller coaster. You have ups, you have downs, you have good days, you have bad days. Most of the time it for me was just trying to get through each day individually. I never like transition during that 12 weeks. I never sort of practiced on what you do afterwards. It was just like, you're going to do it. This is your goal. You have 12 weeks. You're getting shape and then boom your done. It's kind of like, alright cool. We're going to go with some wings. I'm going to pick out maybe for a little bit. You kind of eat the last thing I was thinking about was eating chicken breast broccoli and brown rice. When that was all said and done. So yeah. Your typical transformation is usually all about a short term goal. Even if you achieve your goal at the end of, say, the 12 weeks, you've achieved that short term success. The problem is, what's the next step? What's your goal after that? Really a transformation challenge should be just a stepping stone into this lifelong fitness lifestyle. The problem is, most people are so focused at the end of this short term goal, they haven't bothered to look beyond that. What's the next step? What are you going to do after that? What's the new goal? What's your structure? What's your plan for achieving that beyond the 12 weeks? Getting to my last day, I felt tired, but excited. I couldn't wait to see where I ended. But there was also a little bit of fear of where do I go next? What's my next step? This program isn't about helping you understand everything that you've done in your past or how you've gotten to this point. It's about understanding who you are and how to take that and use that to your advantage to help find success with your fitness goals. The purpose of this program is to better understand our personality. To really take a hard look at our self, the way we are, the way we make decisions, the way we feel, be honest with ourselves, so we don't have to defend our actions anymore. But to instead take an honest look at who we are, why we do what we do and figure out how to take that and use that to create change, lasting change in our life. I've realized after going through these transformations that cycle of celebration, working your ass off to get back into shape again, not maintainable, it's stuff. And so we're trying to get into that coasting mode as we're in my new goal as set. It was like after a whole week, 12 week period, I didn't really learn anything except for how to manipulate my body, but it didn't really stick on how to live a healthy lifestyle. In order to create lasting change, you have to reset, rebuild and rewire your brain. If you can understand why you fail, you can make calculated changes to create success in your life. Rewire is a nine week program that incorporates training, nutrition and supplementation, but this is so much more than that. We've designed an easy five minute 20 question test that will help you assess your personality type and some of the pitfalls that cause you to fail. Past six months were pretty brutal, there's just a lot of travel for work, a lot of stuff was just going on, it was very stressful. I've started three transformations and the first two I did not finish, I think because it was a lack of planning, a lack of setting goals, you know, I wasn't really on a specific plan, just stopped doing it. When it comes to people achieving their fitness goals, through the years I've heard all different reasons why people quit. Now after asking friends, family members, coworkers, getting on social media and collecting every reason or excuse of why people quit, they will take those and categorize those into four basic personality traits. One is the thinker, the feeler, the socializer and the provider. I like to give back and be there for everybody, so I do a lot of volunteer work. When you clock out, sometimes it comes home with you. My physicality does affect my emotions because I'm not aware I want to be, but I'm not going to be happy with it. When I get lonely or sad or depressed, I want to turn to food. Like you're stuck in this mindset of just, it's all or nothing. I believe that we all fall into each of these four categories. We can all relate to them in different ways. Maybe it's a different point in your life. You could relate to one more than the other. And circumstance, life changes can also make you relate to each of these categories different. There's nothing that generates more power and motivation than the way you feel. The key here is to identify your strengths based on your personality. The most important thing you can do right now is stop. Take the five-minute personality tests, which you can find on the homepage of the Rewire program here on bodybuilding.com. To determine, are you the thinker, are you the feeler, are you the provider, or are you the socializer? Once you've established which personality you are and watch the corresponding video, I think it's also important to watch the other three videos. Since as I mentioned before, we can all relate a little bit to each of the four categories. Later I'll be giving you all the details on the train, the nutrition, and the supplementation. But really, that's not the most important. The most important thing right now is to establish your personality trait and press to address those issues. It's time to reset, rebuild, and rewire. Take the rewire personality test today. Discover who you are, get fit for life. Thank you.

=== FILE: James Grage's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [zwhAKRUhRI8].txt ===

My name is James Grage, so I've done everything from personal training. I was an amateur bodybuilder. I worked in the magazine industry and the supplement side at in 2009 starting BPI Sports. I think my love for fitness. Some of it was ingrained in me. I think, you know, even going back to when I was a kid, I had a distinct advantage. At least for my generation, I grew up around health and fitness. My mother was very into health and fitness. I grew up around gyms. I grew up needing healthy. And so I grew up with these habits and they were ingrained in me. Hopefully when I was about, I guess I was 15 years old. I wanted to get a weight set for Christmas. And, yeah, I did everything to persuade my parents to buy that for me. And they surprised me on Christmas and they got me this jack-willing weight set. Set it up in the backyard. My buddies would come over and kind of try to throw together what we thought were workout routines. Really it was just doing bench press in the backyard. I was about all we knew. That jack-willing weight set was the beginning for me and kind of cool opportunity for me later on in my career. I was able to actually sit down with jack-willing. I was sitting in a restaurant in LA. I was buying myself. The restaurant was completely empty. I was the only person in there. This guy in his wife walks in. And he was really energetic and kind of commanded the room when he walked in. So I couldn't help it stare. So I was looking up at him. And he turned around and he caught me looking at him. This guy made a B-line right towards me. I had no idea what to expect. Didn't know who the guy was. He had sunglasses on and he walked right up to me and he grabbed me by the arm. He took off his sunglasses and he said, nice to meet you. I'm Jackal Lane. And at the time he took off his glasses and sent in and sent in and sent me a recognized and I said, you're Jackal Lane. He said, I just said I was Jackal Lane. He said, otherwise I would have said I was Richard Simmons. So he invited me over to the table to meet his wife and I sat down and I talked with him and had the opportunity to learn about what he believed in. And never been a celebrity that I was an author. But I was an author this guy because he was the father of the fitness industry. And so we were talking about the difference between a body-building lifestyle versus a health and fitness lifestyle. And this guy was 92 years old and he was fit. And he flexed his arm and still had a peek on his bicep and he was walking upright and he was energetic. And this was at 92 years old. At the end of the conversation I told him, I say, well, Jack, I said, I hope I look like you when I'm 92 and he said, son, he said, you'll be lucky if you live between 92. So I never really had any interest on a same body-building itself. I always loved health and fitness and I liked being in shape. I didn't have an interest in stepping on stage. It was something I'd read about in magazines, but that was about the extent of it. And I had a buddy mine who came into the gym one day and he said, hey, I'm doing the body-building show. And it's over in the Bay Area. He said, why don't you do it with me? Eventually, it's okay. I'll do it. I didn't win. I got third place, which it was a big show. So that was a pretty big accomplishment, but I got a taste of it and I'm very competitive. And so at that point I went back and now I went through and figured out, okay, well, what's the right training program? What's the right nutrition and I planned everything out. And so for those whatever it was, five, six months. I was diligent about it. And I was kind of cocky. I thought it was going to win. I was very prepared this time. And I didn't. I got second place. Well that was 1999. I wouldn't compete again until 2004. And that's because in 99, a couple months after that second body-building show, I got in a car accident. I'm very bad car accident that I was lucky he didn't take my life. So at that point all I had was my commitment, commitment to building myself back up and building everything in my life back up. But eventually I did compete again. I did in 2004 and I got that elusive first place. Living the fitness life-sauce different from me now. I'm not 20 anymore. I'm 39 years old. I've got a six-and-a-half-year-old son. I've got a nine-month-old daughter. I've got a wife. I've got a business that's very consuming. So it's not like it was when I was 22 and I had nothing better to do but go into the gym and just train hard and eat right and my expectations aren't really any different than they were 24 years ago just because I'm creeping up on 40 doesn't mean I give myself that easy out and say hey it's okay to be flabby now. I don't want to be. I still want to be in just as good as shape as I was back then. I just have to do it differently. It's just trying to figure out how to get the same result doing it in a different way. Yeah I would say that my training style sounds funny for me to say but I would say that my style probably is kind of a little bit old school or antiquated. Who knows maybe it'll come back in fashion here but I found a routine that works for me that I've been doing for a long time. I enjoy it. I get the results from it that I want. That's important. So my routine is I come in. I do a five-day split. I do a Monday through Friday. I'll do my cardio in the mornings and the afternoon I'll come in and I'll break up my workouts and I'll have my back day and I'll have my biceps at my chest day. I said it's a little bit old school but that's what I enjoy. I'll usually start off my week on Monday with a chest day. I'll have a bicep tricep day. I'll have a back day. I'll have a shoulders abs, calves day. As far as my reps I used to train a lot different than I do now. When I was younger I didn't have the injuries. I could come into the gym and just abuse my body and I would recover and and I would grow. Really at this point my life my biceps aren't going to get any bigger. My chest probably isn't going to get any bigger and that's not even my goal now. I like the way I look. I like the size I'm at. I like the string. Now it's just sustaining that. Doing it over a long period of time. So usually what I'll do is I'll come in. Everything on the low side is 10 reps. Typically I'll come in. I'll start with a set of 15 reps. Really get warmed up. I'll go down to 12 and I'll go down to 10. But like I said it's what I'm comfortable with. What my body's comfortable with. The progress is all in the recovery. So if I can't recover from it then it's pointless. If I were to take someone under my wing. If I were to be able to offer up something to someone day they want to learn how to get in shape or they want to learn what I know. It's not about what I know about training or what I know about nutrition. To me it's about how you apply it. It's how much part you show when you go into the gym. How hard. How hard do you push yourself? What's your ability to push yourself out of your comfort zone? And I think that's really one of the things that probably separates most people in the gym as far as getting results. And that could be said the same could hold true for even doing cardio. And not just going to the machine and sit there and talk or text while they're doing it, but going there and really dig into it and just sweat it out. That's where you're going to get the results. It's just like anything else in life. It's a hard work. And even that with the goal of flesh that out, what is your goal? Really find that dig into that and latch onto it. Find that goal, commit to it, and push yourself. I think that's probably what's made me successful in most things in my life. Yeah, the way I eat definitely falls in line with my training philosophy. It's all about longevity. It's all about the long term. I have, like I mentioned, I have two kids and I have a wife and I want to be around for a long time. I don't just want to be around a long time. I want to be able to enjoy that time with them. I think that just goes back to habits that I've developed over a lifetime. So to me, I don't consider it diet. I just consider it the way I eat. But I enjoy eating whole foods. I don't like a lot of processed food. For protein sources, I eat a lot of chicken. I'll eat a lot of turkey or fish. And maybe in the morning, it's egg whites. I like my oatmeal, brown rice or other grains. Maybe like in law. I like vegetables. Actually, in that sense, you don't really like vegetables. I eat them because because they're healthy and I know I should. And I'm trying to set a good example for my son. But, honestly, if I had my choice, I would eat vegetables. But I try to eat a well-rounded meal. Try to keep it to usually about four ingredients. If it's got more than four ingredients on the plate, then usually it's too much. So it's not like I'm on some sort of big organic kick. I just believe that whatever you put in your body does make a difference. So for me, it's eating food that's healthy, yet still tastes good. I don't feel like I'm sacrificing anything. But, absolutely, it's about a long-term goal as well, not just about right now. I think the most important thing is finding what works for you. There's not one cook-and-cutter diet that's going to work for everybody. Something could be very successful. It could be the best diet in the world, but if you can't maintain it and you don't like doing it, then it's not the right diet for you. I just try to keep it reasonably clean and then once a week or every other week, I'll go have a nice dinner with my wife and with my kids and order whatever I want off the menu. And usually it's still reasonably healthy, but something that I've been thinking about during the week, you know, have a craving for them. Maybe it's chicken pad tie, I don't know. It's not like it's bad for you. It doesn't follow that bodybuilding diet, but it doesn't straight too far from it either. As a parent, I take my job very serious. A lot of responsibility because you're responsible for shaping who these kids turn out to be as adults. I try to educate them on nutrition and health and fitness in general. I want them to grow up and maybe they'll be into it, maybe they won't, but at least they'll have that choice. They'll be able to make that choice for themselves. My supplements are pretty basic. I think it really comes down to what you're looking for. I like my amino acids. I like creatine, I like protein powder. Just like everything else. Just like I touch on with nutrition and with training. It's what suits you. There's some days where I'm dragging and I'm tired and I just, I need that little extra push. So I will take a pre-workout powder or maybe I'll even just take a fat burner 30 minutes before my workout. And that'll give me that little energy kick as well. Do I take them every day? No, not every day. I'm taking them on the days that I feel that I need it. I always take a creatine supplement, post-workout, always take a branching amino acid supplement. Been doing that for past 20 years. Way protein powders. I supplement my diet with that. So if I'm eating six, seven meals a day, a lot of times I'll get all the supplement that meal planned with protein powder. So maybe two of those meals through the day are with shakes. Or even if I'm having a whole food meal, say with my breakfast, I'll have egg whites and I'll have protein shake with that as well. And then if I'm trying to get in shape, trying to diet down for something, I'll definitely take a fat burner. I like to take mine first thing in the morning when I wake up. I don't drink coffee. So first thing, I'll take a fat burner with water. Hop in the car, go to the gym, do my cardio. By the time I get there, that fat burner is kicking in. It gives me the energy and it gives mental edge. I have taken different things that have worked for me. I've taken testosterone boosters and I definitely feel like I get an extra edge from it. I don't always take them. I'll rotate, rotate those in, maybe take it for six, eight weeks and won't take it for a couple months and then I'll get back on track and want to do it again. But pretty much unwavering, I'll always take those core supplements. Like I said, my supplement program varies depending on what my goal is. There's sometimes where I'm just kind of in that maintenance mode. Other times where I'm trying to really hone it in and trying to find tune my body. Maybe that's where I add in the fat burners and add in some different things. But it all for me comes down to quality. Whatever I put in my body, just like my food. It's the same thing with my supplements. I'm very particular about what I put in my body. I want to make sure that I'm taking the best of the best. The quality is there. The purity is there. I want to make sure that if I'm putting in something in my body that it's the best, I think there's two important things that people should do. One, go out and do a little bit of research. I just don't take someone's word for it. You're going to get a lot of different opinions. Maybe if you go into a supplement store, you're going to hear one person say one thing. Maybe the guy in the gym is going to say something else. Go inform yourself first. Maybe take some of their feedback. That's a great starting point. Now you've got everything at your disposal. Write it to your fingertips. You can find everything online. Anything that you want to know about supplements. But it all goes back to your goal too. First, you've got to look at your goal and be very clear about what your goal is. And then from there, you can figure out what supplements you need to help you achieve your goal. I like the same with some of the parts. It's never one thing. It's always the combination of things. It's the...infinness, it's the synergy between the fitness, the training, the nutrition, the supplementation. They all work together. People are always looking for the magic bullet and want one thing that's just going to fix their problem. And it's never that way. It's never that way with anything in life. So as far as how much emphasis do I put on supplementation, it's equal. It's a training, it's a nutrition, it's supplementation, and all three work together. So that's it for my training, nutrition and supplementation. For more information about me, you can find me on BodySpace, it's James Grage. Definitely there to answer any questions that you may have. That's really my main purpose for being on there is share my progress. And maybe hopefully inspire some other people's and other people's progress inspire me. For more information on training, nutrition, definitely BodyGloan.com. Videos, great resource for anyone that's looking to start a new program or maybe looking to find something new to keep them inspired and keeping them moving forward towards their fitness goals.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason - Big 'Ol Butt Video - Bodybuilding.com [rsJSLERgBDg].txt ===

Team got a Big Old Bowl I know I told you I'd be true Team got a Big Old Bowl So I'm Leövi Team got a Big Old bowl I know I told you I'd be true Team got a Big Old Bowl So I'm Leövi

=== FILE: Jamie Eason 12 Week Trainer Intro - Bodybuilding.com [6qR_rf6rwEM].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Eason and welcome to my 12 week trainer. As a fitness professional and bodybuilding and got comespoke model, I'm often asked, how do I get in shape, how can I improve my muscle tone and how can I look more like you? I always try to offer answers and encouragement and love any opportunity to help people with their fitness and nutrition goals, but it's always been limited to one-on-one interaction. That is until now. I'm excited to say I have teamed up with bodybuilding.com to offer you for the first time, a comprehensive program, using my own personal approach and philosophy for fitness and nutrition. Together with some of the most talented professionals in the business like Jimmy Pena and Michelle Burnin-Lessor, I've come up with one great program, my 12 week trainer. This unique program will work for anyone of any age, any sex, and from any walk of life. It will produce great short-term results and lead to lasting success for everyone. You're all starting from a unique place, no one has perfectly match genetics, metabolism, hormones or lifestyles, but the same training diet and supplement principles work for nearly everyone. I'm proud to say that I've had tremendous success with putting people through this program, even my own family transformed. My parents supported one another just as I hope many of you will and successfully transformed their bodies in just three short months. My mom went from a size 8 to a 2, and my father went from a 35 to a 30 inch waist and in six years they have not regained any of the way. This program teaches you a manageable and realistic approach that if followed correctly, can and will give you lasting results. My brother who's just a year older than myself was the first to try out my program. Just as most siblings do, he'd rid me and poke front of my hobbies and how I was so focused on my fitness routine, but once he saw me on that stage for the first time, he quickly had a change in attitude. My brother has a busy life running a business and lettuce fitness and nutrition slip over the years. I shared this program within doubtful that he'd do it and in just a few months I was shocked to see the transformation because he'd not only sling down considerably, but added serious muscle definition. Everyone in my family looked years younger and such a short time. Needless to say, all their friends were intrigued and became interested in the program. The key to this program success lies in its balanced approach. The three four week phases you'll be cycling through each container complete program for training, nutrition and supplementation, and I'll be with you every step of the way. These components are all designed to work together helping you achieve your best results. Just remember the phrase three by three, three components training, nutrition and supplementation. Each phase builds systematically on its predecessors so your body progresses without injury, overtreating, or boredom setting in. Let me quickly break down the phases for you. They're simple but effective. In phase one, we're going to boost your metabolism. That term gets thrown around a lot but it simply refers to the rate at which your body burns calories. To burn the most in the least amount of time, I need you to build some muscle tissue. You can't sculpt what you don't have, right? That means you'll begin training with weights six days a week and you'll eat more frequently throughout the day, cutting out four through choices and replacing them with nutritious ones. I'll also make specific supplement recommendations that can help you reach your goals. You'll feel healthier and more energetic in a matter of days. By the end of this phase, you'll start to see positive changes in your physique. What you won't do is bulk up with too much muscle. So let's alleviate that fear right now. Guys get big because of their testosterone, no need for you women to ever worry about that. In phase two of my 12 week program, you'll continue to live weight six days a week, but you'll also incorporate cardiovascular exercise burning more calories in fat and uncovering some of the muscle you built in phase one. You'll continue to eat healthy and your new body will start to take shape. You'll also change your supplementation slightly to support the other changes in the program. Phase three is the home stretch. Here you'll give it your all and intensify your workouts with intervals and plyometrics, manipulating your diet to rev up the fat burning, really buckling you'll lose a ton of body fat and you'll get into your best shape ever. Don't feel like you need to go at alone. I'm here's your guide and I'll be doing the program right along with you. I encourage you to find someone or group to do this transformation with. The number one thing with any program like this is compliant. Being able to stick with the 12 weeks, pairing up or joining your group creates a sense of support and accountability. If you know somebody's waiting for you at the gym, you're going to be less likely not to show. That'll help you stick with the program. So if you're ready to commit to a program that is proven time and again to work on people of all ages, shapes and life styles, let's get started. You're next. You're only 12 weeks away from getting the physique you've struggled in the past to achieve.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason 3-Bean Turkey Chili Recipe -- Bodybuilding.com [GIQGI7CGhWw].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Eason and today I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen to show you how I make my 3-been chili. It's a one-pot dish super easy to make and it comes together fairly quickly. I've already started and in this large pot I've added some onions, diced onions, I did about a whole cut but the recipe calls for a half cut by just really like onions and then I did two pounds of extra lean turkey and about a tablespoon of garlic. I've already browned it, I drained off any excess fat and I'm ready to add the rest of my ingredients. To the turkey I'm going to add some diced green chilies. These come in a can and I chose two four ounce cans. You can use one if you'd like but I actually like the flavor of these are just only slightly spicy. They've got hot and they've got mild. I chose mild. I'm going to add those in. Give it a little stir in between. And then we'll add the beans. Now I call it my tribean or my 3-been chili because there's three different types of beans. There's an organic can-been that comes with pinto, kidney and black beans and you'll notice on the cans if you buy the organic version. Really it's nothing more than just beans and salt. Just make sure if you choose the canned and you're watching your salt that you choose the low-assotian variety. So I'm going to add these. And since I really like black beans, I actually did an extra can of the black beans. So again, I'll give that a little stir. And then to that, I'm going to add really the base of our chili which is diced organic diced tomatoes. There's different versions. Some of them already have spices in on a regino, different things like that. Choose whatever you like. These are just plain and simple because I'm going to add a lot of spice. So it's up to you. This is two 14, I think they're 14 and a half ounce cans. So I'm going to add those. And that's your liquid. There's not a whole lot. This chili's pretty versatile. You can make it really thick, which is what I like to do. I think in Texas ours is a little bit more thick and hardy. But in some places, people will add things like broth to actually make them a little more soupy. So it's totally up to you. And by the way, I drained the liquid from the beans. I don't like to do the added starch. But from the tomatoes, I didn't drain the liquid because I actually want the liquid in there to sort of beef it up a little bit. So to that, I'm going to add some spices. I've got this might seem a little odd, but this is actually a zylitol. And it's a sweetener. I like midchilly. There's a lot of acid. There's a lot of heaviness. I'm going to add some mustard and different things like that. So this kind of balances out the flavor. Most typical chilies will use a brown sugar. And there is a brown sugar variety that actually, that's what I'd love to use right now. But I only have this on hand. So you can leave out the sweetener if you want. You can use the zylitol brown sugar blend or you can just use the straight zylitol. This is a tablespoon. Sprinkle that in. Then I'm going to add some cumin. Cumin is a smoky flavor. It pretty much gives flavor to a lot of things like chili, Mexican dishes, things like that. This is a teaspoon. Add that in. Got a little bit of salt. That's about a half teaspoon to a teaspoon just whatever you prefer. And this might seem a little odd, but this is actually two tablespoons of white vinegar. You can use rice vinegar. You can use any kind of vinegar that you want. Again, if you think about like a tomato sauce or barbecue sauce, usually there's either more vinegar or more tomato depending on what flavors you like. So I'm just going to add a little bit because I like my dish is a little more tomato-based. And then I'm going to add some chili powder. Of course, can't chili without chili powder. So that's a tablespoon of chili powder. The more you add of that, the more spicy your dish will actually be. And then my final and sort of odd ingredient for chili would be the mustard. I'm doing three tablespoons of just your regular yellow mustard. Let's get all that in there. And I've got one lonely spice left, but I'm going to wait to be very into add that one because I don't want it to lose too much flavor and that's cilantro. And a lot of times something like cilantro, if you put it into soon, it just kills the flavor. You don't taste much of it. So mix this up. Get that mustard. I'll mix in there. And if it's too thick for you, if you'd prefer it to not be quite as thick as this, just add another can of tomatoes or again, you can add the chicken broth whatever you'd like. So that's about it. It'll actually get a little bit more liquid as it simmers. So I've had it on low. I'm going to crank up the heat just a tiny bit. Put a lid on it. And about 10 minutes, I'll actually come back add my cilantro and that's it. That's how easy it is. Okay, it's been 10 minutes. So I'm going to check the chili. I brought it up to a boil and then I reduced the heat and I let it simmer for about 10 minutes. It's looking good. Give it a little stir real quick. And then one last ingredient is my final ingredient is the cilantro and I only add about a tablespoon. You can do fresh cilantro, which actually is probably better, but I had this on hands. This is what I'm going to use. It's a good good in. Give it another stir. And really that doesn't have to cook in too much. The longer it cooks, the more the cilantro will kind of lose its flavor. So I don't let it sit too much longer after that before serving it. So it looks ready. It smells really good. Got my bowl ready. Now you can choose to put this on top of something like brown rice. You can put it on spaghetti squash. You can eat it alone. Remember that beans do have quite a bit of carbs in them. It's about 24 grams of carbs and a cup of beans and probably about 8 grams of protein. So you get a little bit of protein but not a considerable amount. So I don't add too much starch to this. This recipe is really adaptable for you vegetarians out there. You can actually leave out the meat and just add lots more veggies. Just start by instead of sauteing the meat and onions, you want to saute all your veggies to sort of soften them a bit and then add all the same ingredients. So that's about it. You can add cheese if you want to but most of us are you know on a strict plan so don't add too much. For this recipe, check the link below and for more recipes and articles for me, check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason Trainer Blooper - Bodybuilding.com [2HQ7sHmbotI].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Eason. Welcome to my 12 week trainer. As a fitness professional and bodybuilder.com I'm often asked, how do I get the shade? How can I improve my muscle tone and how can I look more like you? I always try to offer answers and courage me and love any opportunity to help people with their fitness goals. I'm nutrition goals but it's always been limited to 101 until now.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Carrot Cake Protein Bars - Bodybuilding.com [b4Adfwjkhfc].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Eason and I'm in thebodybuilding.com kitchen today. I'm going to make one of my favorite things to make, which are my carrot cake protein bars. To make these, we're going to need two bowls. We need a large bowl and a smaller bowl. Our large bowl is going to be for our dry ingredients and our smaller bowls are wet ones. We're going to put that to the side for now and start with our dry ingredients. First ingredient you need is oat flour. You can find it in the healthy section at your grocery store or if you're unable to find it, it's essentially just ground up oatmeal. I suggest you use the quick cooking oats because they're a little bit easier to grind. But if you use it, you can do it in a blender. You can't typically get it as fine as they do in the store. So you want to make sure you do a little bit extra to make up for the density that you're losing. This is about a cup and then you're going to do maybe about a cup and a quarter for the other oatmeal. Or even a cup and a half sometimes. We'll dump in the cup of oat flour and then to the oat flour, I'm adding two scoops of a protein. You can use any protein that you like but I will tell you this. It will change the flavor of them if you don't have a good quality protein. I always look for one that just has that's lactose-free. I do low sugar, low carb, low calorie. And most of the time, just clean up ingredients as I can get, but here's two scoops. And you use the scoops measure out of the container. And then the next ingredient, I'm going to add will be my cinnamon. And I'm going to do two heaping teaspoons of cinnamon. You can really never have enough cinnamon. So add that. Cinnamon's really good for you so you can add as much as you want. It's really taste. And then we're going to do an eighth of a teaspoon of all spice. And an eighth of a teaspoon of nutmeg. I'm going to get it all in there, because that's the good spicy stuff. Now I'm going to show you a quick, my measuring spoons have an eighth of a teaspoon. But a lot of people, you won't be able to find that. Here's the fourth of a teaspoon. You're just going to have to get really good at kind of measuring half full. And you can still, you know, manage to do your eighth of a teaspoon. So then the next ingredient we're going to add is our baking soda. Baking soda is what makes the cake rise. So we're doing about a half of a teaspoon of baking soda. Again, I'm going to get it all in there. And then we're going to do about a fourth of a teaspoon of salt. The salt will make the baking soda react. So there's all of our dry ingredients. We want to incorporate all that. Mix it together really well. Make sure you stir these really well. Anytime you add a leavening agent like a baking soda or baking powder, if it's not mixed in really well, you can actually taste it. And it's not a very good taste. So, okay, there's our dry ingredients. Now I'm going to set this aside and we're going to do our wedding ingredients. And for our wedding ingredients, you're going to need four egg whites. I have number two. It seemed to be getting some eggshell in here, so I'm going to fish that out. Number three. And you can use liquid egg whites if you prefer. It's a little bit easier, but make sure that when you look at the cart, to see what four egg whites equals two, do a little bit less because it tends to be a little more liquidy. And number four. Okay, so we've got all our eggs in there. The next ingredient that I'm going to add to the egg whites is our sweetener. Now you can add any sweetener that you want. I chose Splendid today, but I've made these with a stevia, like ingredient like trivia. Some people prefer something natural, like a govine nectar. I've even tried before, if you've ever heard of it, it's called Succa-Naut. It's a, um, something's supposed to be a two-flight brown sugar, but it's very, very natural, so it's really granular. And you really have to mix like crazy to incorporate it. But, um, for the easy convenient sort of thing that I like to use Splendid, this is a half a cup. And I'm going to mix those together. Now I've even made these with no sweetener and just used the natural sweetness of the carrot. And it's good, too. It just tastes, um, it tastes just more like straight spice, but I think that way it tastes pretty good, too. So if you don't like Splendid, all there's always that option. Okay, now that we have that mixed together, we're going to put in our carrots. And these are baby food carrots. You can actually do shredded carrots if you'd like, but, um, honestly, they don't seem to give you the moisture that you need for this recipe, and I think they tend to be, um, it's going to make it fall apart a little bit. So you can do it however you'd like, but I think these work great. So I'm going to scoop all this off the top. Chaining these this whole spoon. And as I mentioned before, carrots have some natural sugar in them. I'm going to use them too. So these look like they have about five grams of sugar. Look at different ones. Like, there's one that I have at home that only has three grams of sugar in it. So the less sugar the better, but this is going to make 16 squares. We're using an eight by eight inch pyrachs dish. It's going to make 16 squares. So you really aren't going to get very much sugar at all. So that would be 10 grams of sugar and then divided by 16 at less than a gram. So add the second jar. Now the next step that I'm going to do is optional, but it's something that I've always done because I like my really moist. So you can either add some almond breads or you can just add water, which is what I knew. I add a little bit of water. What I like to do is just take my baby food jar and actually fill up the baby food jar with water. Kind of turn it a little bit. Get all the good carrots off there. And it doesn't matter if it's hot cold or whatever, but there are eggs in here. So don't make it do do hot or it'll cook your eggs. So before that in, set those to the side for recycling. And then stir this up. And now this recipe, too. You can change the flavor of the baby food and the flavor of the spices and make all sorts of flavors. We're going to probably do some on future shows here. So, but for now, these carrot ones. But do know this. If you make chocolate or anything where it changes the flavor of them ever, you still want to use your vanilla protein. Because that's always going to be your good base and then you add the flavor in other places. So now I'm going to add my wedding ingredients, two major iron ingredients. Just scrape it all out. Again, you want as much moisture as possible. So use a spatula like these little nifty rubber ones. Okay, we got that all in there. And I'm going to mix this together. Now earlier, I preheated my oven to 350 degrees. So it should be about ready for us. It looks like it is. Okay, got this all mixed together. I want to lick it because it tastes pretty good, but I won't. So, and then we're going to take our pyrex dish. You do want to opt for the glass because the glass will keep it from baking too quickly. But you can just as easily use the aluminum one. You just probably want to cut back on your cooking time of it. So now I'm going to spray it with my nonstick butter spray. Just lightly. And a little tip when you're baking and you spray stuff on your nice dishes. Try to use something like a towel or even a paper towel and wipe around the edges. Because if you don't, this stuff will gunk up and over time your pan will get old really quickly. So I always like to clean it up a little bit. And then I'm going to pour this in. And scrape it all out. Once you get it all in there, it should look about like that. And it's ready for the oven. So we're going to put this in the oven. And now oven cooking time is really very depends on your altitude. It depends on how new or older oven is too. So I'm going to put that in there. And typically, I mean, you can bake these anywhere from 20 to 30 minutes, just depending on your oven. So I'm going to put these in for about 22 minutes and then check it. So turn a timer on. And then when we're done, we'll have our carrot cake bars. See, we'll turn this off. Looks pretty good. To come out. I'm not directly on the hot counter. All right. It looks pretty good. I checked it with a toothpick earlier. We'll do it one more time. It came out clean. So think they're ready to go. When you're going to actually serve these, want to make sure they're cool. And if you actually heat them up, they're really good warm. But when you're traveling and stuff, they're good cold too. But you're going to make three slices this way and three slices this way. And it'll give you 16 squares. Thank you for watching BodyBilly.com. Please come back often for more recipes. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Chocolate Protein Bars - Bodybuilding.com [1fNZT-ShOnI].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Eason and today we're in the kitchen at Bodybuilding.com and I'm going to show you how I make my chocolate protein bars. For this recipe, you're going to need two bowls. I've got a larger one and a medium size bowl. First, we're going to use the large bowl and I'm going to assemble the dry ingredients. First thing you need is a cup of oat flour. Oflour is just essentially ground up oat meal. You can make your own. You can buy it if you're going to store in the health section. This is about a cup. If you make your own, be sure to use the quick cooking version and be sure to add a little more than just a cup. Probably a cup and a half-tab in two cups and that'll, it's not quite as fine as this version. So you'll need a little bit more whole put that in. The next ingredient would be the vanilla way protein. You can choose any kind that you like. Just make sure you look for a low carb, low sugar, low calorie and I like to do the lactose free. So this is two scoops. I'm going to put that in. And then our next ingredient is a half a teaspoon of baking soda. Baking soda will make our protein bar rise. It makes it a little bit more of a cake consistency than like a dense bar. And then we're going to do a fourth of a teaspoon of salt that'll make the baking soda react. And then the chocolate. You may notice that I used vanilla-pricing powder instead of using chocolate. For some reason, the additives in the chocolate version actually don't bake up very well. So but the vanilla seems to be fine. So I up to use the actual baking cocoa instead. This is three tablespoons. Now yes, chocolate does have some fad in it. But if you ever look at the ingredients in the baking cocoa, it's actually only a half a gram of fat per tablespoon. So this is three. So you're only looking at a gram and a half of fat for some really good flavor. So we've got that in there. Now I'm going to just mix up these dry ingredients. Whoops. Like that. Alright, there's our dry ingredients set this aside. And now we're going to use our medium bowl and we're going to assemble the wet ingredients. And now we've got four egg whites. You're going to separate the yolk from the egg. You can toss it. You can save it for later, whatever you want to do with it. Number two. You can always add more eggs to your bar if you want more protein or you can take them away. But the more eggs that you have in your bars, the more kind of gummy-like fill-in up, so don't do too too many for to me as about the right amount. You can add more protein powder as well. And number four. Alright, so we've got our eggs in there. I want to if you choose liquid egg whites because you're not so good at separating eggs or it's just easier. Be sure to not put in the equivalent of four eggs because it'll actually be too runny. You want to do more like three eggs. Okay. Next thing we're going to do is we're going to add the sweetener to our egg whites. And do know that cocoa is not sweet whatsoever, so it's actually kind of bitter until you add a sweetener. I'm choosing to use a half a cup of splinta. You can use any sweetener of your choice. If you use something like trivia, just know it adds more carbs. Like one packet of trivia is three grams of more three grams of carbs. And I think in that version I actually did like 16. So that's a considerable amount of additional carbs. Okay. When a mix it tilts a little frothy, looks about right. Okay, and to this we are going to add baby food. Now this is apple, I think it's apple blueberry baby food. So you can use any sort of berry, any berry will enhance the flavor of chocolate. It's going to peel this back. And this comes in a pack, but you can use the glass jar version as well. See, let's peel this off. I'm going to get the good stuff off the lid too. But this is going to replace the oil and butter in our recipe. So we'll pour those in. I've done these using apple. I've done these using the blueberry. There's apple blackberry. There's apple cherry. There's all kinds of good baby food choices. So here's number two. See, I can get the lid off here. Okay, we're going to dump this one in. Now depending on how moist you want them, you can stop there. Or for me, I like to add even a little additional water. You can do an almond milk if you want, but really it doesn't change the flavor and water has no carbs and no sugar, no calories. So I just add a little bit. I use the same container. Don't do hot water. Because we've got eggs in here, the last thing you want to do is scramble your eggs. So pour those in. We're going to mix that up really well. And I've already at this point preheated my oven to 350 degrees. So it should be ready to go. We're just going to add these wedding ingredients to the dry ingredients. Get out all of the moisture from the bowl. This point is smells like baby food, it's not too great, but after I mix in this chocolate, it'll be much better. So you can see it comes together pretty easily. Okay, now we need to prep our pie rest dish. I recommend using a glass pie rest dish. There are aluminum versions, but it gets considerably hotter and actually your cakes or your protein bars will end up cooking a little bit too quickly. So if you like them all done, you can use that. I'm going to spray it with a nonstick butter spray. Add in the dish, scrape it all out. This point now, it really smells like chocolate. All right. And then 8x8 inch pie rest dish, you'll cut it into 16 squares. Now, usually a serving size is about to the 16. So we're going to put it in our 350 degree oven and all oven temperature is very. So I recommend baking them anywhere from 20 to 30 minutes. So I'm going to kind of split the difference in due to 25. And now we just wait and see how they turned out. So we'll check them out in a little while. Okay, time is going off. Let's see. We're going to time. Let's check these out so you're done. We got a little toothpick here. Looks so pretty good. I think they're about done. So it's snow pretty good. So once you take them out of the oven, you want to make sure you let them cool completely. So you can then cut them into 16 squares. You just make three slices of one direction and three slices in the other. You can pack them up and take them with you when you're out and about they're really yummy and good option. Thanks for joining me today in the bodybuilding.com kitchen. I hope you enjoy the chocolate protein bars and I hope you'll come back next time for anotherexp.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Cinnamon Swirl Protein Bread Recipe (SD) [oVBnFiIgZ44].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Eason. And today I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen. Excited to show you how I make my cinnamon swirl protein bread. It's one of my favorite things to eat. I can use a snack or even as a meal because it's got your healthy carb and your healthy protein. So let's get started. First thing you're going to want to do is preheat your oven to 350 degrees. The next thing I did was I got my pan ready. This is a 8x8 inch pyrex dish. I just did a light little non-six spray and you can set that aside. And then I got all my ingredients together and for this I want a large bowl for my dry ingredients and a smaller bowl for my wet ingredients. So the first ingredient I'm using is oat flour. In a super market, this is what oat flour looks like. Now I'm often asked if this is gluten-free and oats typically are gluten-free but one thing to note is that unless it doesn't indicate it on the bag, you're never really sure if maybe it was cross-contaminated in processing. So for this one it doesn't indicate gluten-free but for the most part oats are but if you're concerned, be sure to look for that indication on a label. If you can't find the oats in the supermarket, you can actually make your own. You can use a coffee grinder and just grind a little bit at a time or you could use a blender. Just make sure to know that sometimes you can't get it as finely ground as what's in the package so you might have to increase the amount that you're using for the recipe. In this large bowl, I've added a cup and a half of the oat flour and to that I'm going to add a vanilla way protein. Now you can use whichever one you'd like. There's two scoops in here. Make sure to know that the different flavors from the different manufacturers will make them taste differently. So I like to use when it has its few ingredients in it as possible to cleaner the better. So I'm going to dump that into my oat flour and then to that I'm going to add my salt in my baking soda. Now if you use a leavening agent like baking soda or baking powder, you usually need salt because that makes it react. So I'm going to use a tablespoon of the baking soda and a half teaspoon of the salt add those in and then to this dry ingredient batter I'm going to actually add one fourth cup of stevia. This is what stevia looks like at the supermarket. Stevia is a great natural sweetener because it's no calorie and it has no carb but I don't typically use just stevia alone to sweeten my recipes because it can be kind of bitter. There's different brands of stevia, there's stevia and there's another brand called Truvia. Truvia is a great option too but it's typically more expensive. There's two sides to the stevia plant. This one tends to be slightly more bitter. It is cheaper and then the Truvia usually see it in packets or in a little tiny tub for baking. We're going to the cheap route today. So that's it for our dry ingredients. We do have these two other ingredients, these are the extra special ones that just make it extra yummy but we're going to use this later so I'm going to keep this aside and get my whisk and just mix this up really well. Make sure I get that baking powder all incorporated because sometimes if you don't it won't bake evenly. So I think that looks good. So I'm going to set that to the side and get this smaller bowl ready for my wedding ingredients. For the wedding ingredients we're going to need two egg whites. You can actually use a whole egg if you want to use a whole egg but I prefer to minimize the fat and pretty much any recipe if I can do that. And I'm a second egg. If you ever drop the yolk in there you can just use the same shell to fish it out. It comes right out. I've dropped plenty. And then to the eggs I'm going to add one jar of baby food apple sauce. Now you can use regular apple sauce but one of the reasons I like the baby food brand is there's typically no additives as long as you read the label. There's no additives and it's nice and portion controlled. So I'll open that, get all the good stuff off the top and then skip this out. But again just unsweetened apple sauce from the jar that works just as well. That's my additional sweetener. One of them to the stevia which actually will cut some of that bitterness. Next thing I'm going to add is going to be my yogurt. And I choose Greek yogurt because Greek yogurt actually has less sugar and it has added protein. So I only need a half a container of this. So I'm going to scoop that out. That's going to add some oyster to this bread. The baby food apple sauce and the yogurt actually replace the butter and oil in a traditional recipe. So I'll add that and then for a substitute for milk, I'm using my unsweetened almond breeze. Now almond breeze again I like this better than say soy or rice milk because it has again added protein. So it's just more nutritious and it's healthy fat. So I'll add that. I'm going to do about a cup and that's about it for my wet ingredients. Make sure I combine that really well. It's really a pretty simple recipe and it tastes really really good. Again, I want to my favorites. You can actually make this in either the 8x8 like we're going to do or you can do it in a traditional loaf pan. Now that I've mixed all the wet ingredients, I'm going to add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients. So I'll get my large bowl back and I want to get my little rubber spatula so I can get all of the wet ingredients out of there. It's really sweet the bowl. More moisture the better because then they'll be nice and moist and stay that way. Not get dried out. So I've added the wet to the dry and I'm going to mix that and let's see. You want it to be slightly runny because it needs to pour really easily so if it's too thick, you can always add a little bit more of the almond breeze or almond milk whichever brand you want to choose. All right, that looks pretty good. I'm always tempted to lick it but I won't because there's raw eggs in there. So I'm now going to set this to the side again because now I'm going to start using my special dry ingredients. Here I've got my cinnamon and I've got Zylatol. Now Zylatol is the other brand of sweetener that I like to use or the other type of sweetener because this one, even though it's no calorie, it actually has carbs. But it is far less bitter than something like stevia. So I find whenever I use both it kind of balances out that bitterness. So I'm going to add my cinnamon to the Zylatol. This is a third of a cup. You can use more or less. I just like my cinnamon's raw protein bed pretty sweet. And I'm going to add two or three teaspoons of cinnamon again. How much you like. I added three, I really, really like cinnamon. So I'll pour that in. I'm going to mix that up really well. Now Zylatol does tend to be a little more granular than traditional sugar and more granular than the stevia. But I think that's good because it actually helps sort of maintain that layer that we're trying to create in our protein bread. And also, I don't know if you know, but Zylatol is actually the same thing that's used in fluoride toothpaste. And it's actually good for your teeth. So imagine that, a sugar that's good for your teeth. So I think that's nice and mixed looks pretty good. So now I'm going to set these things aside, grab my pan. Now we'll start putting together our dessert. I'm going to pour a really shallow layer on the bottom of the pan and kind of spread that out. The thinner the better because if you pour half the batter, which seems like that should be fine, typically you're going to kind of miss that little cinnamon layer that's in between. So spread that out really well. That looks pretty good. And again, depending on your protein, the consistency of your batter might vary a little bit. So now I'm going to add my cinnamon Zylatol mixture. Cinnamon sugar will just call it that. It sounds better. And it's pretty heavy. I like to actually add more than half. So that's covered pretty well. Got about that much left. I guess for the top and that's what my middle looks like. So then I'm going to pour the rest of the batter on top and you just kind of want to do it where it's even, make sure you get it all covered and all right, that looks pretty good. So I'm going to spread that out. Then I'm just going to add the rest of the cinnamon sugar on top. The nice thing about this too is that it looks really pretty. And if you make it actually in the loaf pan, you can cut slices and actually use it to make in French toast, which is pretty good as well. So I'm going to take my knife now and to make a swirl, I'm going to draw my knife through the batter. Can you do it? However you want, just kind of make sure it's incorporated. I just kind of go back and forth a little bit. Now I'm going to put it in the oven that remember I preheated before at 350 degrees. Okay, it's been 24 minutes. Let's check our cinnamon protein bread. Now we're oven depending on the temperature, they kind of vary. Sometimes it's 24 minutes, sometimes it might be more like 30 minutes. So let's check and see how ours looks. Okay, it looks pretty good. I think now we've got to let it cool down for about 5 to 10 minutes before we can actually cut it into serving sizes. Okay, now I'm going to cut this into serving sizes. Let's see, I do about 3 cuts this way. And then 3 in the opposite direction. That should make 16 for your 8 by 8 inch pan. And about 2 squares really would be a serving size for a guy, get away with maybe 3 or even 4 if you really really want to indulge a guess. But 2 squares is going to have just around 100 calories. And it's about 8 or so grams of protein about 8 carbs. It just depends on the type of protein that you decide to use. So it looks pretty good. You can see the little, hopefully you can kind of see the little layer of cinnamon in there. It's a little harder to see here because it's my cutting skills report. But let's see what it tastes like. Just for you again. You're going to want to make sure you store these in the refrigerator. There's no artificial flavors or preservatives. And also, if you want to see how I packed these to take them with me when I travel, check out the Pumpkin Protein Bar video. And for this recipe, check the bottom of the page. For even more of my recipes and articles, check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Fish in Foil Recipe -- Bodybuilding.com [ZaROKDMw5_8].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Ethan and today I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen and I'm going to show you how I make a really simple recipe I like to call fish and foil. I call it that because pretty much you can make it with any kind of fish you'd like. Today I'm going to use to lapea. I like to lapea because it for ounces. It's only like 100 calories. It's got 1 gram of fat and it's 23 grams of protein. So with fish the one thing you just want to be sure of is watch the cholesterol and watch too much sodium. First thing I'm going to do is preheat my oven to about 375 degrees. I've already done that. So I want to show you the other things you're going to need like a cookie sheet. I like to use this one with edges just because we're going to put some fish in foil and we just want to make sure that if anything leaks out it doesn't get in our oven. So of course we need our foil and then I just have all my little spices, my fish and the veggies. I want to use with my fish. I've picked asparagus today. Asparagus is awesome. It's a natural diuretic. So for those of you who really want to lean out and maybe try to reduce the water. This is an awesome option. So I'm going to get these going. So we'll just give them a good rinse. I've got my cawnger here. Okay. I think that's good. I can actually leave those while I start on my lemons. Let them drain a little bit. So I'll use my lemons. I'm just going to slice off the ends. So it's usually more rind, you know, the ends and other good stuff. And then just kind of cut these in some pretty big wedges. Depends on how many pieces of fish you're making. Sometimes I cut up, cut up like, you know, only one or two. Sometimes I'll cut up, you know, 10 lemons depending on how many pieces. So. So I'm going to set that aside. And then we'll start putting it all together. This is pretty simple. I'm going to get the foil ready for my fish. I'm going to piece maybe about this big. So I'm going to tear off one and I've got five pieces of fish. So I'm just going to go ahead and get all my foil pieces ready. I think that's the easiest. Three, four and one more. All right, I can set that aside. Now all you have to do is get your piece of fish. Now you can spray this with non-sick spray if you want to, but I really don't think you need to do that. So I know some people want to avoid that stuff. It's important to know with those that check the ingredients because you'll notice there's still butter and there's still oil in them. And the serving size suggests that it's like this little millisecond of a spray, but who really does that. So you're actually adding butter and fat to your dish. So be careful with that non-sick spray. So I've started with my piece of fish. And next thing I want to do is actually add some lemon. You can cheat and just get the squeeze kind or you can do the slices. I'm going to do both because I think it makes it quicker. So I'm going to squeeze some lemon on top as much as you want. And then get a seasoning, whatever kind of fish seasoning you like. Oh, Bay's good. There's red fish seasoning out there. That's one of my other favorites. You just want to sprinkle that on top. As heavy as you like, you can do a lot or a little bit. I like quite a bit. So but watch out for sodium don't add too too much. And then I'm going to add a little bit of pepper. And then I'm going to add some actual lemon slices. So I'll put those on top. That one's not as cute. So I'm going to get different one. All right. And then we just want to add our veggies on top. So I'm going to grab my spare guest into prep a spare guest. This end is really, really hard to chew. So if you just bend it, it naturally snaps off in a certain area. See, it doesn't really do it there. But over here, just break shred off. So I'm just going to break it and put it across the top. You can do as many as you want. Think of this as a serving size. For me, one of my favorite things about fish is I like to eat and I like to eat a lot. And with it only be in 100 calories, I can eat actually two servings of these. So that's it. That's all you have to do. You can squeeze more lemon. We'll do it just for fun on our veggies. And then you're going to want to close it. And to do that, you just bring the sides together. Fold it over. Leave a little bit of air in there because it actually steams inside. And then just kind of fold it the sides. And put it on your pan. So we'll do it one more time. You're going to add your piece of fish. Squeeze a little lemon. Add our seasoning. Some pepper. A few pieces of lemon. And then our asparagus. I'll do five pieces on this one. And again, I'm going to add my lemon. So that's it. I'm just going to finish these up. And then we'll get them in the oven. Okay, I prepared all my packets of fish. I ready to go in the oven. Again, I preheated at 375. And I'm going to put them in for about 14 or 15 minutes. Set the timer. All right. And in about 15 minutes, our fish will be ready to serve. Okay, the timer went off. Let's check on our fish. All right. See. See. It's pretty hot. It's looking pretty good. Let's see. Yep, it's nice and opaque. There's no clear, no clear parts in it. Looks pretty good. I'm going to try it actually. It tastes good. I think it's all done. It's the easiest fish dish you can possibly make in the best part. Is that it keeps all the juices contained in the packet. The veggies you can taste in the fish, the lemon of course in the fish. And then you can eat right out of the packet. You can serve it on a plate. But if you eat it right out of the packet, you just crumble it up and throw it away. I'm going to plate this up. Remember that fish is an excellent source of lean protein. And for this dish, you can use pretty much any type of fish you buy. Let's get this one on the plate. And again, you can always eat a larger portion of fish. That's one of the reasons why I love fish so much. So I'll do that one and then I'll do the one I opened earlier. Lots of a spare, yes. For this recipe, you can check out the links below. And for more of my recipes and articles, check out bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Lemon Protein Bars - Bodybuilding.com [cu8Plo9hVdg].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Houston. I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen and I'm going to show you today how I make my lemon protein bars. I'm going to need two large bowls. One really big one in a medium size bowl. In the large bowl, we're going to put in our dry ingredients. Right here, I have a cup of oat flour. It's just ground up oatmeal. You can buy it at the grocery store in the healthy section, but if you don't have it, you can actually grind up your own and the blender. I would recommend using the quick cooking version. It tends to be less chewy and easier to grind up. But do know that this gets really fine. It's kind of hard to get it as fine in your own blender. So you might need a little more than a cup, maybe like a cup and three quarters or cup and a half. So, just a cup. Then we've got two scoops of vanilla way protein. You can use any version that you want. I always just look for low-shoulder, low-carb, lower calories and as clean as possible, I usually do lack toast free that kind of thing. But it's two scoops. And then we've got a fourth of a teaspoon of salt and a half of a teaspoon of baking soda. The salt will help the baking soda react. Then we also have our special ingredient, which in this case we were using crystal light, but you can use any lemon variety you can find. But this is the drink mix. And this actually is the, I guess, the quantity you need to make a two-court, a two-court jug of lemonade. So I typically like to use a different version that has no artificial sweeteners in it. This one does have aspertainment, which is not always the healthiest, definitely not perfectly clean. So just know that and try and look for a version that is a little bit cleaner. If it's you're going to dump that into your dry ingredients, we're going to mix it up. And I set that aside and trade out my medium bowl. And then this one we're going to put in our wet ingredients. We've got four egg whites. You can separate the eggs, you can save the yolk if you want to, or throw it away. stubborn egg. There's two. You're not good at breaking eggs, you can use the liquid egg whites. Just make sure if you use the liquid egg whites that you do less than the equivalent of four egg whites. More like three egg whites because it tends to be a lot more liquid like and then your batter will be really running. All right, that was number four. Rinse my finger to off. Okay, and two are egg whites. We're going to add our sweetener. The crystallite has some sweetener in it, so we don't need too much. This is a half a cup of splender. You can do less if you want to do less, or you can use an alternative sweetener of your choice. And I'm going to mix that together really well. Want to get it to let's like kind of frothy. Okay, it looks pretty good. And then I'm going to add apple sauce. I'm using the baby through version of apple sauce. I've got two of them here. Just look again for a lower sugar variety. These do have a considerable amount of sugar in them, but they're like this when I think is 11 grams. But remember, this is going to make eight, or sorry, the eight by eight inch pan is going to make 16 squares. So the 16 squares, you know, divided by, I guess this is 22. We're looking at, you know, just a little, little more than a gram of sugar for each one. It's not too too bad. These are a treat. There's a second one. And this apple sauce serves to replace the butter and oil and your baking dishes. You can do it in your leany baking dish, you bite. And because I like mine a little bit more moist, I'll often add just one additional jar of water, too. So I'm going to do that now. Go. Make sure when you get the water that you don't add hot water because this is egg and you don't want to cook your eggs. So we're going to mix this up really well. And now we want to add our wet ingredients to our dry ingredients. All the liquid out. There you go. I'm going to mix these up. And I've already preheated the oven to 350 degrees. So it should be already for us. Now if you notice when I'm mixing this, it's kind of hard to see, but it gets a little bubbly. That's that drink mix. So don't worry about it. It doesn't make the cake bubbly. All right. That's all mixed together. I've got my 8x8 inch pyrex dish. So I'm going to spray that. Get it ready for the batter. I use the butter spray. I use that on pretty much all of my baking dishes. You do want to spray it pretty well. Apple sauce can be a little sticky in the batter. I'm going to clean up the edges just so that my my dish doesn't get cruddy. I'm baking it. All right. Pour the batter in. Let's scrape it all out. And depending on your oven, you're going to put this in for anywhere from 20 to 30 minutes. It's a big difference because of altitude, of, you know, however efficient your oven is. So we'll put these in. The middle rack's best. I'm going to set the timer. We'll go for, I think we'll split the difference. I'm going to do, I actually will do less. Do 23. You don't want to over bake these. They're actually pretty good when they're a little gooey. Okay. And that's it. So in a little while, we'll check them and we'll see how they turned out. All right. I think they're done. Check and see. You can put a toothpick in and see if they're done. But I can usually tell by eyeball and I made these a few times. Looks pretty good. You can either eat these warm or cold. Actually, like I'm really a lot cold. So but anyway, that's about it. That's our lemon cake protein bar. Thanks for watching me today on buddygilling.com and hopefully you'll come back and check out Morris Space.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Post-Pregnancy Trainer： Program Overview - Bodybuilding.com [20krUmnLVs4].txt ===

New Life New beginnings New challenges New rewards When you bring a new life into the world and expand your family, it can turn your world upside down and force you to reprioritize, especially when it comes to your own health and fitness. I know you're dealing with a mountain of new responsibilities, but when you're ready to tackle your health and fitness goals, I want to help. I'm Jamie Eason, I'm a fitness model, author and trainer, but I'm also a wife and a mom. My son was born in 2013 and like most new moms, I wondered if I'd ever get my pre-baby body back. I had a wonderful pregnancy, but a complicated delivery, and it took me nearly three months before I started training again. By six months, however, I felt confident enough to step back in front of the camera for my first post-baby photo shoot. I know what it's like to wonder, where do I start? Can I do this? Hundreds of moms have reached out to me asking those same questions. My hope is that this plan will give you answers. Welcome to my post-pregnancy fitness trainer. I did not look like myself. My thighs were literally hanging over my knees, and my stomach was hanging into my lap, and I had ankle rolls. Everybody's like, this is the happiest time of your life, so you're supposed to be like the stoning mother that's just so happy with no matter what you have a healthy baby, which is so true and I'm so grateful for that. But at the same time, you still can't help to think, oh my goodness, you know, I look like a wreck, you know, what's going to happen at this point? My name is Sheila Dugin, and I'm a doctor of physical medicine and rehabilitation. Even if you don't have a background in fitness, being pregnant sort of tunes you end to your body in a way that you usually are not tuned in. So I think the opportunity to have this self-discovery around the power of your body all sort of sets you up to become physically active. This is a resource that I hope people can go to, whether this is their first pregnancy, their fourth pregnancy, just to be able to have something to follow to where they don't have to think about it. They don't have to say, okay, what's the best plan of attack? We tried to be as responsible as possible in bringing the doctors' opinions and make sure that people felt like you have these options in these resources, but still go to your doctor, still make sure that you're listening to your body, make sure that you're not putting this undue pressure on yourself. It's really important that women realize that this is going to be an individual, at your own pace thing, there's no pressure to stick to the schedule exactly. You really should have this as part of your lifestyle, because I think it'll be the best thing you ever did for yourself. I hope it will be because it was for me. Whether you had your baby six weeks, six months, or even six years ago, I'm here to hopefully take some pressure off and provide you with a free plan to help you get back into your pre-baby genes and to a place you can feel good about. With just a half hour to an hour each day, you'll be able to take it week by week at your own pace as I coach you throughout the next several months. The initial exercises in this program start out conservatively, but around three months after your baby's born, the intensity will increase and build throughout the 12 weeks. Once you've completed the post-pragancy fitness trainer, my hope is that you'll be ready to tackle the live fit. My plan is already helped millions of people transform their bodies and their lives. As little as nine months after your baby's born, you could find yourself not only in your pre-baby genes, but quite possibly in your best shape ever. For these workouts, you can do almost everything at home using your body weight and some simple home gym equipment. The great thing about this program is that you'll be able to take it day by day starting where you are right now and progressing when you're ready. Remember, you were pregnant for nine months. It may just take nine months to get back in the shape, and that's okay. Whether your goal is to get your body back or transform for the first time, you can begin here. I'll help you figure out what to eat, wind a train, and how to find time for fitness in your busy lifestyle. This is the plan that helped me achieve my post-baby transformation. My hope is that it'll work for you too. Challenge yourself and focus on the journey, not the destination. It's just as much about being happy and enjoying the process as it is about being fit. Remember to consult with your doctor before starting this or any fitness program. Then, when you're ready to join me on this journey, be sure to watch the complete series of videos here on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Pumpkin Bar Recipe - Bodybuilding.com [O-1D7Yi1TVc].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Eason. Welcome to thebodybuilding.com kitchen. Today I'm going to make my pumpkin protein bars. I know I've been making a whole lot of different types of protein bars, but I don't want to be burned out. I've got this brand new one. This one actually makes a larger portion than the 8x8 we've been using. So we're going to get a bigger pyrex dish this time. I've prepped this by spraying nonstick spray. It's a 9x13. And I've also preheated the oven to 350 degrees. So this one's easy because it's all in one large bowl. See, first we've got two cups of oat flour. Again, oat flour is just ground up oatmeal. And you can buy it at the store in the healthy section. Take your own by grinding it in a coffee grinder or in a blender. So I'm just going to put that in two cups. And then I've got two scoops of vanilla way protein. You can use any flavor that you like. For me, I just look for the fewer ingredients the better because then it's healthier. It usually tastes a little better too. So two scoops of that. And then I'm going to start putting in all of the flavoring ingredients. I've got two teaspoons of cinnamon. A teaspoon and a half of ground ginger. A half a teaspoon of cloves. Clothes are pretty strong, but I think that's really what gives this to its flavor. So then we've got a teaspoon of baking soda and a teaspoon of baking powder. And then a half a teaspoon of salt. For my sweetener, I'm actually adding a half cup of zylitol. You can use the brown sugar blend. You can use the regular. I actually like the brown sugar blend for this recipe a lot. But you can't always find it. This means just the regular half cup of zylitol. So put that in. I'm going to mix up these dry ingredients really well. And then to this, I'm going to start adding the wet ingredients. You can mix these in separate bowls if you like, but it's really not necessary. So I'm just going to put it all right in the same bowl. First, I'm going to start with four egg whites. You can use the liquid egg whites if you like. I used regular real eggs. I kind of like those better for my for baking, but it's up to you. And then I'm going to add a half a cup of almond milk. You can use whatever kind you want. You can do regular milk. You can do rice milk. Whatever you'd like, but I like the almond milk. So half cup that. And then to that, I'm going to add one four ounce of the baby food apple sauce. You can use regular unsweetened apple sauce at home if you have that. That in there. That comes out to probably about a fourth of the cup. If you're going to use the dry at home. To that, I'm going to add my pumpkin. I've used a whole 15 ounce can of pumpkin for this. So you can use as little or as much as you want. I really like mine really pumpkin is so I use the whole entire can. Make sure to that you pick the raw pumpkin and not the pumpkin pie mix. That's loaded with sugar. Put that in. And then my final wedding ingredient is just two teaspoons of vanilla. So I've got all of those in. You can use the whisk if you like, but I don't want to make a mess. So I'm just going to fold it all in with my spatula. Okay. Starting to come together. Now for this recipe, you can use nuts or you can do it without nuts. I'm going to put some walnuts in it. I really like pumpkin and walnuts together. So I've got it all mixed up. I've already put a half cup of walnuts in a little baggy. So the reason I've done this is because I didn't buy the crushed up kind. I'm going to actually crush these myself. So I like to buy the ones from the bin. Usually they're a little bit more fresh than the ones that have been sitting on a shelf a while. So I just put them in a bag. You can grab anything you like. I like my little rolling pin. Just sort of crush them a little bit. If you're worried about adding too much fat to your dessert, you actually don't have to mix them in. You can put it all together and just maybe sprinkle half on one side or just lightly sprinkle them on top. I like to mix mine in because I like there to be nuts in every bite, but it's totally up to you. That's pretty good. Getting there. Maybe a little smaller. Okay. Now I'll just dump these in. Now the difference though, if you make it with or without nuts, with nuts you're looking at probably about 67, 68 calories without nuts you're looking at under 50. It's about 47 calories. So it's totally up to you, but the fat isn't that different. And then amount of protein really isn't that different. It's like about 4 grams of protein and bar. This makes 24 bars by the way. So I've got that all mixed in. And I'm going to get my dish ready and just pour it in the pan. Okay. I'll get it all spread out. Now this one you want to bake it for about 30 minutes. I would say, but it's totally up to you. I like the bars a little bit more soft and some people like them a little more cooked through. I suggest that if you're traveling with these, I'm definitely keeping them in the oven a little bit longer because you want them to hold up these in the oven. I'll bake it for about 30 minutes. I think that's right. And then we'll check it in about 30 minutes. Always make sure when you're baking that your oven rack is usually in the middle. If it's too close to the heating element on the bottom, it'll burn. And if it's too high up, it'll take forever to cook. So we will check on it in about 30 minutes. All right. The time we went off. Let's check our bars. All right. They look good. I'm pretty sure these are done. But if you want to make sure you can stick a toothpick in and if it comes out dry with no wetness or anything, it's pretty much ready. So I'm going to let these cool and then we'll come back cut them and I'll show you how to wrap them up. Okay. My pumpkin protein bars are fully cold. So I'm going to cut them up. Let's see. We've got it. It's going to make 24 squares. So I'm going to make three cuts. Link twice. And five this way. All right. Let's go get a few of these out. I look really good. You can see some of the nuts in there. And then I'm going to wrap up the rest. Shea how I wrap them when I travel. Be sure to store these in a cool place like the refrigerator because if you leave them just out on the counter or not in your cooler, they'll actually spoil. There's no preservatives or anything in these. I do them by two's. I just place two on the surround wrap, fold over the one end and roll it over and then fold in the edges and it's pretty simple. I'm going to finish up wrapping up the rest of these for this recipe. You can check out the link below. And if you want to check out other recipes and articles, just visit bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Pumpkin Spice Pancakes - Bodybuilding.com [99X_SzXciFc].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Easton and today we're in the bodybuilding.com kitchen. We're going to make my sugar-free pumpkin spice pancakes. We're going to need two bowls, a large bowl and a smaller bowl. We'll use the large bowl first. We're going to put all of our dry ingredients in the large bowl. We're going to start with oat flour which is essentially just ground oatmeal. You can get it in the health food section or you can grind your own. If you do your own, it's hard to get it so fine so you want to make sure that you use a little bit extra. This is a cup and a half. We're going to add a little bit of sweetener to it. It's a pumpkin spice pancake so it shouldn't be overly sweet. You can add syrup and stuff at the end. This is just two tablespoons of Splenda. We've got our baking powder which is about a tablespoon of baking powder. A bit of salt. This is a fourth of a teaspoon of salt. Our spices we're going to have two tablespoons of cinnamon. Let's see a fourth of a teaspoon of all spice and a fourth of a teaspoon of nutmeg. Those are all of our dry ingredients. You want to whisk those together. Just until it's all incorporated. Okay, it looks good. Then we're going to trade it out and I'm going to use my medium-sized bowl here for the wedding beans. We're going to need four egg whites. Look at this. Make sure you don't get me eggshell in there. I got a little piece of egg shell in there but it's easy to fish out. I use this one to fish it out. There we go. Then we put in our egg whites. You rinse my fingers off a little bit. We're going to add a half a cup of pumpkin. That's where the pumpkin spice pancakes can be used. You can use real pumpkin if you want to, which to me is a lot of work. I like to just buy the canned pumpkin but make sure that when you're buying the canned pumpkin that you're not getting the pumpkin pie mix. That's loaded with sugar. This is just raw pumpkin. Just basic raw pumpkin. So let's move it all into the bowl. Again, we're going to whisk that together with the eggs. Make sure you mix it up really well because it'll get a little bit lumpy and you don't really want to be able to see any of the clear part of the eggs. That looks pretty good. Our last wet ingredient, just going to leave the whisk there, is going to be almond breeze which is actually just almond milk. You can use any brand that you'd like but this one is a unsweetened version which is what I like because I don't want to add any extra sugar. Now almond milk comes from just compressed almonds. It's got some healthy fat in it but it's definitely really good for you to add a little bit of protein. There's 40 calories for a half cup. So we are going to add a cup and a half and this little scooper I'm using or measuring scoop is a half cup so I'm going to do three of these. Now depending on the consistency of pancakes that you like, you can just do a cup. You can do a little less, a little more, however you want to do it. Sometimes if you add a little less, even once you've incorporated the wet into the dry, you can still add a little bit of liquid. There's really no rule there. Just back together. Now we're going to add our wet ingredients to our dry ingredients. Bring this whole back, pour the wet in and scoop all the good stuff out. Okay, then mix this together. And I've preheated my griddle over here. You can use just a frying pan kind of pan. If you have a griddle it's great because you can do a lot more at once and that's about right. Alright, now I'm going to spray my griddle with a little bit of non-stick butter spray. Okay, and I like to use my one fourth scooper to get the batter out because I find it makes all my pancakes more uniform and just easier to kind of control where the batter goes. I'm going to spread it out. This should make about 10 pancakes. Okay, because we're doing pretty good. Trying to get them all down there so I can flip them all about the same time. A lot of times they say watch with little bubbles to see when you're supposed to flip it. But for this you just kind of have to be patient. Usually a pancake takes anywhere from 3 to 5 minutes on your side. When we're done we're going to use our sugar free syrup. There's lots of brands out there. You just want to make sure in your ingredients that you're not using one that's loaded with a ton of different additives. This one's made with super low, which is just splendid again. But if you don't want to do an artificial sweetener like that you can do pure-aid like fruit, you can put peanut butter on some of them which is pretty good or you can actually just use whole fruit. That's it. So please come back next time and check out bodybuilding.com for more recipes.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Tips & Techniques - Bodybuilding.com [LQXNZiyqu6k].txt ===

Hey everyone, it's Jamie's and here welcome to Special Installments on Tips and Techniques that can help you achieve your fitness goals. My 12-week trainer consists of three four-week phases and I really want you to follow them to the letter the way they were designed to be followed. Following your instincts in the gym, it's a great thing but only after you've learned to be dedicated and consistent by following a program like this one for three months. Be consistent now and you can be creative later. Let's run through a few tips and techniques that didn't fit into the three phases. They'll help you stay the course and achieve even better results when you otherwise will achieve. My first tip is to keep a training journal. You can write down your sets, reps, and weights allowing you to track and review your progress. Hopefully you'll see strengthened creases and endurance gains as well as sticking points that may need addressing. You can even track factors like how you felt during a certain workout, what exercises or machines you got the most from, and what progressions you like the best. Down the road, when you might be feeling less than inspired or motivated, referring back to your training journal can provide motivation and a no-brainer way to get back into the swing of things. By keeping a journal, you'll also hold yourself accountable. It's easy to become complacent with a routine. Seeing it on paper will remind you to keep pushing for progress and challenging the muscles in a new way. Another great tip is to find a committed training partner. Having a fitness partner can help create accountability and keep your workouts on track. Also an extra boost of friendly competition during the workout can actually serve as a great motivation and bring more energy to your lifts. You'll be amazed at how much more weight you can push around when someone else is tearing you on or talking trash. Another tip to stay motivated with your workouts is to visualize. Start with visualizing the body you want to have some day. Don't hesitate to look for pictures of people who's a physique you admire, cut them out of magazines, maybe print them from the internet. By having a constant reminder of what you want to achieve, you'll stay motivated. If that athlete can build a physique you desire, then so can you. Another helpful technique is to visualize the exercise in your workout before you start. Take a minute or so and run through the movement in your mind. If you're unclear about your fitness goals, you'll lack the drive to reach them. Visualizing is a great way to get excited about the workout ahead and keep your energy level high. One of the common frustrations for fitness-minded people is hitting a plateau. You're cruising along, making progress, and the next thing you know, you're stuck, seemingly without reason. Maybe you're no longer getting stronger, maybe your endurance is lagging, maybe you've stopped shedding pounds. Either way, you're still doing what you thought you were supposed to do only it's not working like it did before. My 12-week trainer is designed specifically to avoid platoes. But after the program ends and you continue training, they could become an issue. The best way to rise above a plateau is to add variety to your routine. I'd recommend changing things up once a month, hopefully to avoid them. That doesn't mean you have to alter everything in your workout from the ground up. It just means trying some different combinations of sets, reps, and rest time or maybe changing around the workout split. For example, one change would be if you've been doing the standard three sets of 10 reps, try going heavier for fewer reps. Then there's the rest periods in between the sets, which many people forget to ever change. Something you could try is resting for two minutes on your heavy days, and only 30 seconds to a minute on your lighter days. You might be surprised at the difference this makes. Oftentimes we lose track of just how long we're resting. If you have a hard time keeping track of time with the gym, just grab a stopwatch to take with you or download the gym boss application on your phone. If you've already tried different reps, sets, and rest period schemes, another option might be trying different body parts splits. For example, you could do an upper and lower body split. So on Monday, you train chest, shoulders, biceps, triceps, and back, and after an active rest day on Tuesday, on Wednesday you'd only train legs, but maybe some abdominal work thrown in for good measure. There's literally hundreds of workout combinations, exercises, and splits that you can do. You may have to plan and research a little bit, but with a huge resource like bodybuilding.com's exercise in article database, there's not a lot of room for excuses. You can definitely find a way to change up your routine and rise above any plateau. Training may not be the only reason you're stuck in a plateau. If you've hit a weight loss plateau, it could have something to do with your nutrition choices. And there's a few things you can do to kick start your progress here as well. One thing I suggest is riding your meals down in a food journal similar to the training journal. A food journal is a great way to hold yourself accountable and track what you're putting into your body. You may start to see patterns in your diet you weren't even aware of. A food journal can also become a history of your successes and unfolds. If you start to see really great results from your diet, you'll have a record of what worked for you and you can always refer back to it. After you lock into a routine of working out, eating healthfully, and challenging yourself, you may think it's okay to skip your postwork out shake because you aren't really trying to change your physique anymore. Don't make that mistake. Just consider your postwork out shake or meal as essential. It'll help your body recover fast and move your closer to your goals. I'm also including some homework out options for both upper and lower body. These aren't really alternatives. They're great glass in case of emergency solutions just if you simply can't get to the gym that day like if you're traveling. I hope these tips are helpful and will keep you on track. The more tips like these, be sure to log on to bodybuilding.com and check out our monthly features. Curiotically, we provide incentives and new ideas to help you stay motivated and you'll find professionals like myself ready to support you in reaching your goals.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Training & Nutriiton Plan [LsMcVT7CPJ4].txt ===

Hi, my name is Jamie Eason, I'm the official female spokesmodel at bodybuilding.com. I'm also an oxygen columnist and you may have seen me on a couple of magazine covers before. I'm actually aiming to get my 50th one this year, which will be a pretty big milestone for me. I'd like to share with you today how I maintain my physique, how I got to where I am and share with you some of my nutrition, my training and my supplementation. How are you the most commonly asked question I get is how I stay in shape around. I think a lot of women do the competition scene and that's where I started and I had a great time with it. It actually taught me to be disciplined and had a kind of stick with a program. That was good for helping me stay focused, learn what it took, give me the confidence that I knew what it took. But then I had to sort of make that work for everyday life. I couldn't do this really hard pour, really easy, really hard pour. It was brutal on my body, I could see the O.O. The other thing is it's just not, it's not going to be just what my goals were, which is I wanted to do the modeling and I wanted to be able to work full time instead of just on occasion when I was in shape. I haven't competed in years and really there is a noticeable difference in my physique. I've actually lost some fives, not a considerable amount, it's funny like the tighter that you get in the more full you get. People think you're so much bigger but I think I weighed 96 pounds then and I weigh 100 to 6 pounds now. It's just the muscle to the body fat ratio is a little different and magazine's actually per per a slightly more attainable look. I always wanted to be consistent so I just found a place where my body was comfortable and I could keep it there all the time and it wouldn't bite me. But all that had to do with making sure that I got the training and the eating downpads. So I had to learn to balance calories so lift heavier for the most part than what the most women would think and also to eat enough. And people are always on this perpetual cycle of cardio but for me I've learned to balance the training and the diet so that I can minimize the cardio which I can. Traveling is brutal. That's probably one of my biggest challenges with my whole lifestyle. I just plan ahead. I plan a lot. I've figured out little sort of routines that I can do on the road. A lot of plyometrics, a lot of running which I hate running but I've just kind of learned that I had just had to do with the available. The hardest part of traveling is just you don't know where you're going to end up. You don't know if they'll have a fridge. You don't know if there's a gym nearby. So it's just a lot of prep and planning. Now that I've told you a little bit more about me and about how I stay in shape 365 days a year. Now I want to get a little more specific and share with you what I exactly I do for my training, my nutrition and my supplementation. But first let's tackle my methods on training. Well I'm limited on time typically so I like to do what I call training for my weaknesses. Everybody seems to have one body part that sort of excels naturally better than everything else. You have that lagging body part. Minds my whole lower body so always make sure and try to hit that at least twice a week. And everything else, if I can only get in the gym once I'll even combine everything. But if you have the luxury of time, I always say you can ever train your back and your shoulders too much and of course my lower body. So my arms, everything else seems to respond fairly easily so I can get those in my pushing full emotions and not really have to specifically focus on those. I always recommend people when they start out to kind of do what I did which is I worked out six days a week with one day off. For beginner that that may seem like a whole lot but I was really committed and I had my heart set on exactly what I wanted to look like which was a really lean tone to the. I tried really hard to focus on one body group a day, one major muscle group a day and I felt like that that allowed me to put all the food energy and all the energy I had into growing that one particular muscle. And so if I could do that throughout the week you know every muscle got the attention that it deserved you know and so as long as I was keeping up my sleeping my healthy eating you know stuff like that over time you just start growing it. It really only took me probably six to eight months to drastically transform from about 28% body fat which is where I started to. I believe that stepped on stage for the first time at nine percent. I was a little too lean I wouldn't even recommend that because because I actually looked what's called stringing which is your muscles don't get as full I overtrees. Exercise is a paradox it's good for you and it's bad for you because it breaks down muscle it releases free radicals in your body it it you know it does some harm so that's why we use the supplements for you. That's why we eat right that's why we sleep so we can allow the body to turn your cover. I'm what I would probably call a hard gainer because I'm so little being really petite it's hard for me to gain and be like real quality size. I would probably have to eat like crazy crazy and I already keep my calories pretty high so I tend to lift heavier and I tend to lift in a lower rep range so. Like my lower body I know that I want to grow it so I'll lift pretty heavy. I'll do a lot of drops that sell you a lot of super setting. But I'll do heavier weight and just less reps and then straight into another exercise just to kind of hit it in a different way. When there's time that I want to get in shape for something whether it's the lake a wedding you know go hang out on the water or a photoshoot. I'll really kick up the intensity I start doing higher reps and sets. I'll do a lot of plyometrics. I never do long extended periods of cardio ever I feel like it really kind of eats away the muscle on my body's height. So I always recommend people do like interval training like maybe instead of resting in between a set you have a jump rope and you do some you know revolutions of your jump rope or maybe you're doing plyometrics or something like that. But I also like sprints. I'll just go outside and I'll sprint land post. But when walk one because my travel schedule is so hectic I don't really plan a rest day. I just I let things happen and I just make sure I don't miss out on any of the fun things and take a complete day off to go do something you know. Cool and exciting so I have a life outside of this and then just get right back on my program. Now that I've shared with you some of my methods on training you can get my full program down below and now let's move on to nutrition. So the first thing I recommend is make sure you're keeping a food log so that you can make sure you're not under eating or overeating and sort of find where those calories you know could be. You can you can eat it on a higher end sometimes when you're training harder and a lower end when you're training lower. I tell pretty much everybody that I really really strongly believe in in meal spacing like time in your meals and even in intervals throughout the day. Some people do that every two hours every three hours every four hours. I personally do about every three hours. I just find that the reason they do this really is so that you can have a stay and energy throughout the day. You don't have peaks and valleys and you're not going long long periods without eating. So it keeps your blood sugar stable. It keeps your mind alert and basically it keeps your body fed and energized. So you won't binge. You won't feel like you know you're having a horrible off of cravings. Well if you eat on a schedule your body trusted is going to get fed. So over time you quit you know craving you quit your your taste for things change. It starts releasing fat when you actually exercise because it's less than 10 to get fed so it's not hoarding that food for energy. If I wake up you know pretty early all always get in six meals but I tell most women to at least aim for about five. I think that's realistic. So every three hours you know pretty much all of us are awake that long. I actually keep my protein intake pretty consistent throughout. I find like what I do more than manipulate carbs when I want to grow or whenever I want to lean out. So if I want to grow I usually add a little bit more carbs especially after training. If you take in carbs then it acts like a broom to sort of sweep the protein up into the muscles which is when you even need it to mess. That's why some people do the little tricks with simple sugars and women love fruits. I don't really eat much fruit but if I'm going to eat it that would be a good time to eat it because the fructose in the fruit is what's going to allow the protein to be swept up. One of my favorite hobbies is just being in the kitchen. It's like the stressing and I sort of just put my total focus in that. I crank up music and I just kind of do my thing in the kitchen but necessity is the mother of invention. You know I had to figure it out and I could not eat boiled chicken and broccoli. You know I have a sweet tooth. I have a massive sweet tooth so I figured there's got to be a way to make something taste good. So I started experimenting with baby food. I looked at the jars and they're one of the few foods on the shelf that's prepackaged convenient. I could just open it and dump it in and it's doesn't have a ton of preservatives because it's for a baby. So I thought okay I'm not eating that straight out of the jar. So I just started mixing it and playing with it and I came up with several protein bar variations that I love and I packed them with me everywhere. They're staple in my diet all the time. Some of my go-to I guess staple meals I've shared with bodybuilding.com. So you can find them on the site. I've got my lemon protein bars, my chocolate protein bars, my carrot protein bars. I also do turkey zucchini burgers, I do meatloaf muffins. I think that's really convenient. It's mostly lean protein is pretty dry but if you cook it in a muffin tin those vegetables and everything that's in the meatloaf will really keep it more moisture and retain moisture. And there conveniently packages and like a perfect portion size. So again everything is just really making a ton and having a ton of good options ready on the end. Most of it reads as well. So and I'm going to add more to the site. I've got my cinnamon swirl protein bread which is a big hit. It's good on its own which you can slice it and make crunchy toast out of it too. So it's pretty good. I hate hearing the words snacks. I believe in meals all throughout the day. You know it's it can be I guess you can call it a snack if you wanted to call it a snack. But really when again when it's clean and processed kind of foods you can eat some substantial amount throughout the day and still stay in that calorie range. Well I don't believe in cheap meals because I think they're a slippery slope. Like for me personally if I eat a little bit I suddenly develop this taste for it like a craving for it. And I've got some pretty good willpower but not always. And so I just realized that there's too many instances in life where you just get out of your control anyway. Whether you're traveling you've got a wedding to go to birthday and you just want to be in the moment. Anyone enjoy it with your friends and you know the people around you. Now that I've shared with you some of my systems and techniques for nutrition you can check out my meal plan down below. And now let's move on to supplementation. Well supplements to me are exactly that there's supplementation. You know one of my favorite things about bodybuilding.com is even though we sell supplements for we've packed what we've got. We've packed what we've reached we all eat healthy and exercise first. And those are actually in addition to your workout plan. You know I've seen it a million times. Somebody will go into a store or online and they buy 300 dollars with supplements. But they're not even eating right or working out right. And we want you to be successful. So this is why we share these tips with you so that you'll figure it all out and buy the supplements that you actually eat. You know I'm in my 30s and so I've noticed like for me especially recovery partners. So supplements will help with that convenience. You know I travel a lot so protein powders are good for that. There's just certain things that definitely fit what I would need as a woman whether it's for a home or a mental health, whether it's for weight training. Depending on what your you know your personal needs are going to depend on what supplement you might choose. Well I would always recommend a multi vitamin for everybody. You know when you when you start any sort of working out or cleaning especially when you start cleaning. You tend to you tend to go a little extreme at first because you really want to be committed you're all in and everything. Sometimes you cut out a lot of food groups and when you do that you're missing out on some nutrition. So the vitamins they'll fill in those gaps and when you're weight training too you want to always make sure you have added calcium because it's you know it's weight bearing activity on your bones is can be pretty hard. Another one that I always recommend is a protein powder. I think it's always great for convenience. There's a little window of time that you work out when your muscles are most receptive to you know taking in the protein and actually using the protein. And then the other one I would recommend is branched to an amino acids. You know it's it's not something probably women would think of all the time but again my goal specifically is to make sure that I look lean and tone. And branched to an amino acids for me are like my insurance. There are the building blocks of protein and of course I'm taking my protein powder and I'm eating protein and stuff like that. So I just make sure I take them in I drink them before during an after I train there's in my water so. So those are my favorites so the ones I always take. A long time ago when I first started this I really didn't understand the value of supplementation. I really thought well if I'm eating really good quality food all the time you know there's I'm getting everything I possibly need you know your body makes. I'm not eating all the things naturally but I'm an anxious person by nature you know I stress out quite a bit. Also when when my food when I'm buying it or even when I'm cooking it I don't know how I'm changing it. I don't know where it started out what farm it was on how it got to me and stuff like that. So there's all these unknown factors that make me feel a lot better whenever I know if I'm getting a good quality supplement that I'm filling in all the gaps that in that possible you know. Any holes in my nutrition and and I've been able to tell a supplement has been invaluable in my training when you when you train is often and as hard as you know a real athlete showed or or if that's what your real bowl is. Thurn necessity. Now that you know my approach supplementation you can check out my recommended supplementation program below. If you'd like to ask me any questions you can find me on body space my username is Jamie Eason and for more information like this you should check out bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Jamie Eason's Turkey Meatloaf Muffins - Bodybuilding.com [ug_Y454tBiQ].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jamie Houston and I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen today to show you how I make my turkey meat love muffins. You're going to need a large bowl for this because we've got a lot to mix up. But the nice thing is just one big bowl for everything. Okay, the first ingredient we're going to need is a cup of quick cooking oats. So we're going to dump those in. And then you've got all these ingredients that we're going to mix in with it. We've got two tablespoons of garlic. Now you can either use the powdered version or you can use the minced version. I'll show you what I've got it over here. Here's the minced garlic. Now this one seems to be okay. If you read the ingredients it says garlic water. It's just phosphoric acid and no preservatives. So this one's okay. You could probably use this as an option. But some of them be really careful read the label. They actually have oil in them. It won't be real prominent. It won't stay it on the top. So you've got to really check out those ingredients. This one's actually rare to be just in water. So that's an option too, but we're going to use the powdered. It's just as good that way. Okay, then we've got one teaspoon salt. We've got two teaspoons of pepper, black pepper. We've also got two teaspoons of a dry mustard. Just dry yellow mustard. And sometimes if you're looking for dry yellow mustard, some people will not be able to find it in your standard like dark kind of like this one. You'll have to find it in sort of a box. It looks a little bit more like the pepper, but it's in a darker box. So I've noticed it's hard to find some times in that's why. And then we've got one teaspoon of, I'm sorry, this half teaspoon of cumin. Cumin is a really smoky spice. It's really good for your lot of these spices are antioxidants. So they're really good for you. If you're not using a lot of spices in your food, you should start doing so. And then we also have a half teaspoon of thyme. So thyme is used a lot in poultry dishes, whether you're making chicken, turkey or anything. So, and then our last ingredient is the one that makes the whole dish. So this is not the easiest to find. So this might take a little while, but it's very well worth it. This is two teaspoons of a Chipotle pepper seasoning. Here's, let's see if you can find it. Here's what it looks like. So hopefully you'll be able to find that. It does add some heat, so be careful if you're not big on hot things. Then maybe only add a teaspoon and a half or something like that. But I really think if without it, there are little won't bland, so you definitely want the heat in there. So that's it. So I'm just going to use my fingers and kind of get it all incorporated and stuff. This whole recipe is pretty much about using your hands. So, sorry, that looks pretty good. And before I really get it messy, I'm going to take this off. So, that's inside. Alright, the next thing we're going to need is going to be chopped onions and chopped celery. Now, this is pretty convenient because it just comes in the package in your produce section. I'm all about quick and easy, so this is what I'm going to do. I hate chopping onions. So, we'll open that up. And if you were to chop it, you're going to want to do a cup of everything. So, quite a bit, you really can't overdo the vegetables. And if you're not a fan of celery, you can use red peppers, green peppers, anything you want. But celery and onion seem to work really well for this. But the more veggies you add, the more moisture, there's going to be in your dish. So, so, overdo the veggies instead of under. Okay, we'll put that to the side. Alright, the next thing we're going to need is meat. Grab these out here. For this recipe, you can either use extra lean ground turkey or you can use extra lean ground chicken breast. Either one will work really well and actually even be for two. So, that open. Jump it in. And I'm using probably, I would say this is about probably about two pounds of meat. Just jump that in. And it doesn't have to be exact. That's the great thing about this recipe is you kind of do it all the taste and you just dump it all in and see what you get. So, then the next thing we're going to need to add some moisture is going to be three egg whites. If you're not concerned about adding any added fat, you can actually do a whole egg in there. But for this purpose, we're going to just use the egg whites. One. Egg number two. And egg number three. Now, before I really get my hands in there and get dirty, I'm going to make sure first that I have my muffin pan crept. And I've already set the oven to 375 degrees. So, make sure you preheat it and it's ready to go before you put them in. That's my hand bath. So, we're going to prep this because I don't want to have to stop in the middle with goofy fingers and do it. So, I'm going to use my canola oil or olive oil spray. And this is 12 muffin tins. It should make about 12. Sometimes it goes a little over it just depends on how big your small you make them. Okay, you want to spray them pretty good to make sure they don't stick. And to save my pan because I hate when they get gross, I always always always wipe the excess off the top because they will get pretty gritty. If you start making these a lot, which is what I do because I always have these on hand and in my refrigerator just ready to go. You can actually keep this recipe completely frozen in your in your freezer and just take them out one at a time and microwave them for a while. And so, I'm going to make sure they're frozen in the front and see. Alright, so that's ready to go. I'm going to set that to side, bring this back and give it a busy. So, take any jewelry off this freaking cold. So, alright, starting to look pretty gritty which is exactly what we want. And you don't want to over mix meat too too much. You do want to make sure you get all the spices incorporated and lift it up and get all that stuff out of there. If you over mix meat though, it tends to get a little more tough, so don't go crazy. Just get it all in there. And the nice thing about this dish too is that the muffin tins are what keep it in its serving size. So, it's all nice and portable that way and it's got your carb and your protein all mixed in one. Now, it is a low amount of carbs, so you could still eat them in a pita. You could add a few rice cakes or something to them. Every time I flip it, I'm still seeing spices so I'm making sure. Alright, I don't want to over mix, so I'll stop there. Alright, now we're going to put them in our muffin tin. And I'd say you do about a racket ball size. Let's see. That might be a little larger than a racket ball size, but not too bad. We'll see how that looks. And sometimes you'll get all the way through and have to steal a little from the other one to kind of make them even out. There you go. They don't have to be perfect, but... Another thing is that the fact that they're in a muffin tin, this is essentially just a meatloaf. The difference is most meatloafs have like a ketchup base kind of in them that you whether it's ketchup or tomato sauce or something inside of them. We've kind of let that out and just put the eggs in a lot of veggies in there. So, they're not quite as moist. You can, if you want to, you can actually do what I call a thumbprint, push it down in the middle, and put like a ketchup or a barbecue sauce or something in them if you want to. They get a little slimy and a little bit messy to take with you. So, only do that when you plan to eat them at home, I think. Okay, we're doing good. Not looking like I'm overdoing it yet. But, oh, the beauty of having them in a muffin tin, not only is that it's the right portion, but the moisture from the veggies stays confined in the little tin. So, it's tends to keep the meat from getting overly dry because, you know, actually, in the ground turkey, it has no fat really, so really kind of just gets overcooked pretty easily. Go. Exciting stuff, let's do this, I'm sure. Okay, it looks like I actually maybe have, I can make it maybe make them a little bit bigger, so. I'll make the last one and then we'll add a little bit to a few. Now, if you were to cook these and measure them out, they would usually be about 2 1 1,5 ounces each. So, that will come to, you know, a pretty good serving size, like a male-my-eat, maybe three or four of these, where female would only eat two would be her serving. And each one of these, depending on how large you make it, is going to be like about 70 or 80, 70, 80 calories, or, you know, maybe a little more if you do two large ones. Like, these might be more like 80 because they're, I'm making them pretty big. I think those packages, I didn't check the exact weight of them, may have been a little bit more than two pounds, so. That's good, I'd rather have more than less, and these are really mean, so, that would be good for us. That looks pretty good. We'll rinse it off. And so, oh, continue with the macros, about 80 calories, maybe like two grams of fat. You're looking at four carbs and about 11 grams of protein, and that's for one muffin. So, you're going to get 22 grams of protein for two muffins. All right, these are ready to go. Looking pretty good. And stick them in the middle rack. And we want to cook these for quite a while. You never want uncooked turkey. And so, depending on how hot your oven gets, I'm going to put mine in about 40, but you might have to play with that. Go a little over go a little under and just check them as you go. All right, so we've got 40 minutes to wait, so go watch a sitcom or something, and we'll come back and check them. All right, I think these are about done, so, check them out. They're looking good. It's cool, Matt. This smells good. Here we go, we'll put in my pot holder so that I can't burn the counter. So, they look pretty good. All right, now we just need to give them time to cool. I suggest that you take them out a little bit before they're completely cool. And I put them on a paper towel. I just fold it up on the counter, and I put them on there and let it allow the juices that kind of accumulate in the bottom to get a little bit dry so that I can put them in as it block baggy, keep them in the fridge. For anytime, then I just, I need to grab something to go, or just look for something to eat. So, hopefully, you like the turkey meatless muffin, and hopefully you'll come back to bodybuilding.com and check out more recipes with me. Thank you.

=== FILE: Jaquelyn Kastelic's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [eYV3hNBDqXk].txt ===

My name is Jacqueline Castellek, team optimum nutrition. I'm also a 2010 body space spokesmodel and acrossfit box and a national level bikini competitor for NPC. I got started in fitness at a very young age, I used to watch my dad work out when I was probably three years old and he had his little garage gym so I used to sit in there and watch him and then as we grew up he always said, oh you guys need to get into fitness and we didn't really know what that meant until high school I did a weight training class for P and my gym coach noticed that I was strong for a girl and that kind of motivated me I like to be strong. When I was in college it's kind of when I really picked it up so I had to start you know kind of making sure that I was staying motivated so I started hitting the gym really hard. Then I started meeting people that were really into competing and bodybuilding and figure and stuff like that and so that's how I you know originally started. I had a very traditional training regimen and I would go about five six days a week and split it up I would do you know my legs my upper body back just the basic bodybuilder routine is what I started with. I switched over from the traditional bodybuilding routine in 2009 and it was because I was training for women's tri-fitness event. Women's tri-fitness is an obstacle course in bench press box jumps a lot of running one of my friends had mentioned to me that oh that sounded like CrossFit I said what's CrossFit I'd never heard about before and so she told me about her gym that she went to and said I should go try it out I was hooked instantly from that first day because it reminded me of being an athlete again of you know running track running cross country very competitive so I fell in love with that first day. A lot of people think that if you lift heavy you're gonna all of a sudden become this big and bulky person and we're very small petite person so you know I like to show people I could lift heavy and do bikini shows it worked well for me because I don't have to spend you know three hours in the gym doing weight training and cardio I get all of that in one session I'm there unless you know less than hour so it worked well from me my schedule. What's nice about doing the CrossFit is that we're doing a lot of stuff that you would do if you were an athlete in a sport it's such a high intensity and we're doing a lot of intervals and stuff like that that for me and my body it works better I burn fat, weight quicker I stay lean all year round and it's much more fun than doing two hours of cardio. I opened up my own gym CrossFit and rivaled and we started with 20 members and most of them were women and now we're at about 130 and probably half and half male and female and it's been amazing and very busy but I wouldn't want any other job in an entire world because daily I get text messages from my clients and they will send you before and after photos and they're just like I can't believe how much changes I made you know in three months, four months it's amazing they're always thanking me and it just feels really good to be able to help people and so I'm actually trying to constantly motivate people that hey you know we're getting older we're not getting any younger here you guys need to kind of take charge of your health and take charge of your fitness and do something about it because I do on a gym obviously I like to preach doing CrossFit and the time that you're saving by doing it because a lot of people have jobs, lives, kids and they have a hard time and everybody's main excuses I don't have time that's the main thing that I hear for them not to work out so you know I always come just go try it, try it out and CrossFit is fast you're gonna be there and done with an hour so there's really no excuse because it's not really that much time out of your life My training approach is CrossFit and what CrossFit is is it's hindsight's the functional fitness we do power lifting we do Olympic lifting we do plyometric workouts body weight a lot of running pushing pulling everything that we do is a compound movement so it's gonna combine multiple muscles and multiple aspects of fitness and we don't do the same thing every day we're always changing up what we're doing the only time we ever go back and do the same workout is if we want to measure our strengths if we you know we gain strengths or you know endurance or quickness in a workout just so I know that my training is working with me with CrossFit we have a quad and that's the workout of the day I program that for our gym and every every gym runs differently so every gym is gonna have a different quad for that day for my gym specifically everybody's gonna come into my gym and I take everybody through a group warm up and we want to reduce that risk of injury and then we're all gonna do the workout together and we all start it together so it gives you a push because everybody else is doing it the same time with you if you look over and you're resting and the person next to you is working you're gonna say a crap I need to get up and do this because they're working I can't be lazy so it gives you that extra push you know when you're doing your workout just to make it work a little bit harder make it work a little bit faster I train usually five times a week but if I can get six and I'd like to get six in but because I own a gym and I'm really busy it's hard to get six days in we have a bunch of workouts that are named after military or firefighters or police officers that lost their lives so those workouts are gonna be really hard like compared to a normal quad there's one that's called Merff he died overseas his favorite workout was to go run a mile and then do a hundred pull-ups two hundred pushups three hundred squats and then run another mile that was his favorite workout so now that's like a big crossfit workout we do it on Memorial Day me and one of my girlfriends we decided to do the weighted run and so we had 15 pound weight of vest on and then we went into that workout and it was probably 90 degrees outside it was horrible but when you do workouts like that those hit they're called hero odds when you do those workouts you kind of have it in the back of your mind why you're doing it because you know somebody was protecting us overseas and they lost their lives so it kind of motivates you to get through that pain and that suck I followed the paleo diet it's a grain free diet it's also a dairy free diet however you're gonna see different variations with the dairy because if you have dairy when it's raw it's healthy for you when you have dairy when it's overly processed at the grocery store it's not that healthy for you because you're not really getting all the nutrients and stuff that it says that you're getting you don't absorb the calcium that it says you're getting because of how overly processed it is I'm gonna say I'm like 90% paleo because a hundred percent paleo you're not gonna have anything artificial and I do take protein powders in ways that do have artificial swaners in it but when I'm eating my foods I just eat lean meats I eat a lot of fruits and vegetables I eat lots of nuts and avocado's just really healthy fats sometimes I eat the raw cheeses and I'll have raw milk one of my clients actually she owns a farm so she'll bring me fresh goat milk which is really good sounds kind of weird but it's really good and then as far as regular milk in the store I will have it every once in a while because my husband drinks it so I'll put it in my coffee but if that's the case we do like organic whole milk when I go to the grocery store I really try to find anything that is hormone free I like to go with the grass fed if it's not ridiculously expensive and then getting everything fresh really fresh that's my favorite thing is like the fresh fruit and vegetables however I know that stuff goes badly fast so I do still do a lot of frozen vegetable stuff like that that way it can last me some time and I do a lot of eggs eggs are my favorite thing to eat because they're so quick and so easy and a lot of chicken and a lot of fresh I usually four to five meals a day and it just depends on when I get up I try to eat every three hours sometimes it's like two hours a two and a half hours because I'm hungry all the time I eat a lot of food and then the way that I plan my meals is protein a carbon a fat every single time that I eat. Let's say my favorite paleo meal is anything I make in the crock pot because I don't want to spend too much time sitting around cooking I just chop everything up and throw it in the crock pot but I can think I'm like my exact favorite I put chicken in there frozen and then I stick a can of coconut milk in tomatoes and broccoli and then I do sea salt pepper and then Italian seasoning and I just let it cook there for about five hours or something and it's amazing it's creamy creamy goodness me my husband like to have a chimeo at least one time a week and our chimeo will be completely not paleo because we both love pizza and we go for the Mexican food so we'll go have that like usually on a Friday night or Saturday night if I'm trying to get ready for a show or an expo or a shoot I just cut the chimeo out so I won't have anything that's a non paleo food so no Mexican food or no pizza for me but what I eat on a regular basis I don't really cut out much other than my fruit that night and that's pretty much it. When it comes to supplementation I believe that less is better and taking stuff that is you know more natural I try to stay away from things that don't have a lot of ingredients so when I when I go for supplements first thing I do is I turn it over and I look at the ingredient list. On the front label it might say one thing but when it turned over on the back there's a lot of other stuff in there that you wouldn't know so I always make sure to look at those I take a post workout protein shake in the morning I take a fish oil a vitamin D3 and then a calcium supplement probably twice a week before workout I'll take a pre workout energy drink but like I said those usually have a lot of artificial swaners and them so that's why I only take them a few times a week. If I feel like I'm a training extra hard or maybe when I'm adding in those extra strength training days I will take XMA at night because I really like that as far as recovery goes I sleep a lot better when I do take that stuff and my schedule is crazy so sleep is really important for me but I do notice that when I take XMA supplement I'm not merely a sore. My supplementation stays the same just throughout the year I don't really change anything up I use to a long time ago take a fat burner for competition but within the last few years I realized that I actually like just drinking coffee better for that so I took that out of my diet completely and I mean that's really it I just stay the same I stay consistent I don't feel like I really have to ever change you know what I'm doing. Plains come in that they're you know their brand news that the whole working out in nutrition they do ask me a lot of questions about you know what they should be eating or supplementing so I do recommend to take protein shake after they work out as far as like vitamins and stuff I usually tell them to take a multi because most people don't eat enough fruits and vegetables so the average person definitely needs to have that you know vitamin supplementation everybody always asks me about a pre-workout drink so I usually will recommend them you know to just look at the ingredients find something that you know that's minimal you don't want to go crazy with that kind of stuff so that's it for my training nutrition and supplementation and if you guys have any questions you can go ahead and find me on body space at Jack Will & K. If you want to follow my full programming you can find on the page below and for more content and videos just like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Jason Wheat's Big And Strong MVP Chest Workout - Bodybuilding.com [11ExAi6M2ho].txt ===

Strench extends beyond the gym. I am a power lifter, firefighter, and captain of the Muslim Malaysia. I'm Jason Wee. During today's workout, we are training chest, and the goal of today's workout is to build some mass and strength simultaneously. The benefits from this workout is to really get your body used to working under a heavy weight load and experience a lower reps so that you can really tear up the muscle, get the blood pump in there, and really build some serious mass to your chest area. This workout consists of six different exercises, four compound movements, and two isolation exercises to finish off your chest workout. This workout should take no longer than 60 minutes with no longer than a minute to two minutes in between each set. This first exercise is the machine fly. It's basically to warm up your pectoral muscles, to really get into some heavy movements later on in the workout. The consists of three sets of 15 reps from lightweight to medium weight, and you really want to concentrate on the stretch and the contraction at the beginning and the movement to really get the butt pump in in the pectoral muscles. With workout at the chest, I'm really big into warm up sets. I picked a machine fly movement to warm up, because it really isolates the pectoral muscles and really gets the butt pump in and gets my body ready to really lift some heavy weight. The first exercise is the barbell flat bench, and I'm using the pyramid method. Starting with four sets for ranging from a rep range from 10, 8, 6 and 4, and really on your last set. You really want to try to really push it from three to four reps. I always like to lay flat on the bench with an archer malor back, even my feet under me are really pushing through the heels, so you concentrate all on the power of pushing with your pectoral muscles. The flat bench pretty much is your meat potatoes for your pectoral muscles. It works your upper and lower chest and your shoulders and triceps at the same time. The second exercise is the barbell incline. I like to use this movement as my second exercise, because it's another compound movement. Really let you move some heavy weight and really tear up the muscle again, also as like the flat bench. I use here three sets and you want to get any range from 10 to 6 reps, really your first set. You really want to get around the 9 to 10 range and you last set, it really forced the reps out from anywhere from 5 to 6. During this exercise, you really are feeling fatigue, but you don't want to sacrifice form and do as much weight as your body in hand will. Alright, with the third exercise we're doing a dumbbell flat bench, again another compound movement and we're doing another press exercise because we're really concentrating on building mats and strengthening your chest and this is another exercise that really concentrates on working your upper and your middle of your chest. With the dumbbell flat bench, we are more concentrating now on using stabilizer muscles that we didn't get to use with the barbell incline and the barbell flat bench. This again is another movement that's going to help you really build some master strength to your chest. With the dumbbell flat bench, I really try to concentrate on really getting the stretch of the bottom of the movement and then really concentrate on stretching and contracting my chest at the top of the movement. That way you're getting the maximum blood flow to the chest area. With this exercise we're doing a superset and we're really concentrating on two isolation movements. We are starting with dumbbell flies and then we are moving straight into dips to failure. On this exercise we're really concentrating on doing four sets of six to ten reps. When you're actually performing the fly, you're really concentrating on getting a deep stretch at the bottom of the movement and then when I'm coming up I like to rotate my wrist in and that way we can track into chest and really get in the good squeeze at the top. On the dipset section of the superset, I really have the concentrate on keeping my body leaning forward. This keeps emphasis on the pector muscles. With this lack section of the workout, you really want to give it every last effort that you have. Your pecs are already be full of blood and super bumped so you just got to concentrate dig deep and finish strong. That's it for this workout. All the details are described in the page below. If you have any questions about this workout, you can always contact me on body space. I.G. or Facebook at JWe54 where you can find me on the Turinite website, TurinLab.prociere.com. For more videos like this from the Muslim Alisha, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Jay Cutler Curls in the Elevator ｜ We Lift This [DUlnlzjhUe4].txt ===

Get in there. Get in there. Yeah. Yeah.

=== FILE: Jen Jewell's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [LUPqpUFgsT0].txt ===

I'm Jim Joel, team-celli Guadalier, personal trainer and fitness competitor. My fitness journey started back and high school. My love for weights came when I was 16 years old and I saw my first copy of muscle and fitness. So I picked her Monica Brayette and I went, wow, I want to look like that one. What do I need to do to get me there? I'd always been active with gymnastics and everything, so I figured, okay, I'm already athletic. I need an outlet for my energy to join Jim's. My first job ever in high school was at the personal trainer. I was teaching aerobics and personal training as my first job. So I just kind of catapulted from there and I thought results quickly. I was really excited when I was 17 years old, excited at some day. I wanted to compete in a fitness competition. I moved down to Southern California for college and I continued my job as a personal trainer. I was very active working out and then I had a slight hiccup. I dealt with a personal tragedy. My best friend had passed away. She got killed in a car wreck and I was down to Southern California and I didn't have any friends or family nearby. I was just alone in school and working. So I got, I don't want to say to pass, but I was definitely not my full self. Instead of continuing with all my workouts and eating clean, everything I guess I had been. I started making new friends to take my mind off the fact that I had just lost my best friend. We would go out to dinner and we would have desserts. Everything because I ate everything. So I added up and I ended up going from probably 118 pounds to over 150 pounds to probably over 160. And that one over the course of a year or two, it didn't just, you know, it was just a slowly crept on. My body fat got up to 35%. At an aha moment, I went to the doctor and had to say, I had to step on a skill and I had it done that for such a long time. I went, oh, so that's why I have to buy a size 11 now. Not because my legs are extra muscular, but because I'm kind of a beef cake grain now. I needed to take my own advice, so that's what I started doing. I got serious and I made slight changes to my diet. And for me that was key. I'm a self-proclaimed dessert monster. Obviously I had to stop eating dessert every night. So instead of going cold turkey and putting myself on a really strict, say, contest prep diet or something like that, I stop going out to eat every day, maybe I would just be there for the weekends. I would have dessert once a week and I just kicked up my workout routine a little bit more. Again, I'd still been active during that time while I was gaining the weight. But I was going through the motions at the gym, getting on the same elliptical all the time and just putting in an hour sometimes that even sweating. It was kind of a waste of time. So I realized when I'm at the gym, I need to make every minute count, switch up my workout as often as possible. And it was very gradual, my changes too. It was over the process of three to five years probably. And I got down to about 22% body fat and that's when I decided I need to do a show. I wanted to do it forever. But I don't want to at least try. I know I'm always going to regret it. So I set the date exactly 12 weeks out from the show that I found. I started training for it and went from there. It's been an interesting journey with ups and downs and being fit and being overweight and at an unhealthy body fat for a little while. And then fit again. I want to be my best knee. So I'm always striving to be the best version possible of myself. Being strong fit and healthy is important to me. And also now it's great because I've been able to help so many people around the globe with my online training and working with BITALID.com and sharing workouts and working with Seliqor. People from Australia have a message to me about saying, hey, I started doing your leg workout and they send me their results. And it's really exciting. So that's a huge motivation to me as well. Honestly, if you have fun with your fitness, you're going to stick to it. You're going to stick to the program. No matter if it's hey, I love Pilates and I have fun with it. So I'm going to stick to that. For me and with my clients too, I know if it's something they dread doing. They're just not going to do it. It's not going to keep them consistent coming in and out. So if I'm getting bored with the treadmill at the gym, then I make up something new on the step-mil. I'll do some intervals and do something crazy and jump off and do jump out for a while and jump back on the treadmill. Because for me, that's actually fun. It's a new challenge and it's not just the same but not in this walking on a moving belt. I live in Southern California. So we have the Santa month of the day. We have the beach. We can go hiking. There's so many things to do that. That type of activity too. Again, it's key to the fun and it keeps me more interested in fitness all the time. Right now, I'm doing body parts split. Sometimes they do total body too. So I go back and forth between the two depending on what my goals are, what I'm getting ready for. That's what I'm getting. I have a contest coming up. I hold a decent amount of muscle all the time. So I'm not ever worried about, okay, I need to bulk so to speak. My main goal is to maintain my lean muscle mass and stale. Next week I actually start my total body workouts again. So 3 to 4 times a week, basically, every other day. I do a lot of compound movements. I like to do cardio bursts in between all of my strength training as well. Maybe I'll do a set of squats and then I'll bust that instead of pushups and then I'll jump up for a minute. And then I repeat that. And that's what I would call a tricep. So I make these little triceps up in my workouts. So I usually do about two strength training movements with one cardio burst and each strength that. And that's kind of what my weight training is going to be consisting of starting a beat. Right now I'll be in the gym lifting four days a week and cardio, a set of five days a week. Because sometimes I'm a cardio only day off throwing abs or something like that too. Just because I didn't have enough time to hit abs. Any of the total body workouts earlier in the week or maybe I want to bust out hardcore out workout. I always keep one active rest day and then there's usually one day a week and each week is different depending on my schedule and everything. I do a lot of people like to take some days of rest day. For me sometimes I get my best workouts in on Sunday. The gym's quiet. I usually don't have a ton to do that day. I kind of take that as my day away where I'm not answering emails from clients and I'm not posting a lot of social media and I'm not doing any outside work but it's just a day for me to do whatever. So I usually get my best workouts in on Sundays. When it comes to nutrition my overall philosophy is simple. It's about balance. You have a great amount of protein. It's silly you might help these starches every single day and healthy fats. You know I have fruits, vegetables, not afraid to say yes to the third. You know I do a little bit of everything. As long as they stay balanced you're round and able to have those splurgees whenever I want. I used to weigh all my food and then I learned how to eyeball the portion sizes. So for me and we have four to five ounces of chicken breast and then a yam and then veggies. One to two cups of veggies with a meal like that. I usually cook my protein some bulk. I'll pick a couple of proteins for the first few days of the week. Lately it's been a lot of chicken breast and ground turkey breast that I have is the meat that I eat. Gams. I'll just throw them in the microwave for a quick to bake those. So I don't keep all those prepared ahead of time all the time. If I don't need to, I'm fortunate that I work from home most of the time so I can cook throughout the day goes. I haven't always been like that though. Before when I was in a different job completely unrelated to fitness and I was outside sales I had to pack and be gone for the entire day. So I would bring a protein shake with me, have the powder and my shake are ready to go, have almonds ready to go, maybe grab a quest fly or something like that and have the meals packed and tough aware too. I do care about the taste and play. I'll never be that girl that during competition prep or in general has the tilafian asparagus. I haven't tasted tilafian almost tears. So if anyone has great tilafian recipes please share them with me. When I go out especially if I'm prepping for a shoot or competition or something I don't just lock myself at home and eat only what comes out of my kitchen. I still want to go out and have a social life and go with my friends and enjoy dinner out and everything. I just make sure that my proteins are grilled and I also ask like do you grill these in any oil or butter? Sometimes grilled doesn't always mean that hasn't been saturated and something before it goes on there. Ask for a modification if you need to. If you're looking at the menu and you see oh gosh I don't think I can eat anything here. You probably can. Never be afraid to ask the waiter waitress at a special request because I'm sure they here at all the time for people that have allergies or other things like that other limitations so you ask nicely I'm sure they'll be accommodating to that request. A tip for salad I get this a lot with my clients. My clients will say oh I just grabbed a salad at lunch instead but a lot of salads on the restaurant menus are one of the worst offenders. I either get a burger and you still get less calories and more protein than salad. So I always say always ask for your dressing on the side and if you really need to use the dressing and dip your fork in the dressing first and then in the salad and you'll end up using less of it. If you can go without the dressing I have become really accustomed to squeezing lemon on top or salsa and those two things can help save countless calories. SELFMENTATION is just that. It's meant to supplement a balanced diet. For me the protein has really been key for what I had on the go. So if I don't have time to make a couple extra meals you know if I have a protein shake right after the gym maybe again at night that's great. I'm still getting a clean healthy lean source of protein and to my diet. So that makes it really simple. I always tell my clients to stock up on that. Multimitamin always great to take you and though you are you know getting in some of the essential minerals and vitamins and everything from the fruits and vegetables. I don't know every day everyone's going to get all those key vitamins that they need to have multivariaments also great. The other supplements to the aid and recovery. So when you're working out recovery is just as essential as the workout if not more. So supplements that help you recover properly are definitely key. Pre-workouts for me have really helped kick my training up to the next level. That's maybe not for your brand new beginner but someone who's been weight training for a little while. The supplements is always going to be high. You know you see all the marketing, you see all the fancy ads. So whatever you hear at your friends talking about it and definitely do your research a few years ago. It's going on by the building.com to research. It's like two really neat glue to me. Like, brands change, they take them pill or powder and eat different things like that. In the read the reviews of other users on sites like bidabilland.com it's been really helpful too because instead of just asking your friends who are like, oh yeah yeah I take this you just go and take it too. You actually get a well-rounded response to see what kind of work best for you. For me it's all about balance. I think a lot of people when they maybe embark on a new meal program or work out program or they put like 110% in and then they get current out really quickly and I want to make sure that people don't do that make the same mistakes. Don't lose away and then gain it right back which is something people often do but if you make these slow gradual changes it's very balanced so it's more realistic that way. You're much more active stick to a program that's more realistic in that future lifestyle and kind of blends seamlessly into your current lifestyle. Instead of something that you have to do completely overall. So that's it for my training nutrition and supplementation. If anyone has any more questions to me you can contact me on Facebook, Twitter and my body space. And for more content videos like this keep coming back to bidabilland.com.

=== FILE: Jennifer Nicole Lee -- Fitness for Women  - Bodybuilding.com [B0bhrzGIvUo].txt ===

You guys just seen me as a glamorous lifestyle of being a quote-unquote, super fitness model, but I wasn't always this way. It's just a lot of hard work and dedication. It's also the painfully years of my life being fat overweight, not knowing what I was doing. I went through that and it's really humbling to know that this was my pass, but it gave me a foundation to grow upon. It's not easy, it will have to over night. We're worthy enough to eat a great health-imil supplement wisely. Give yourself the gift of exercise. Respect yourself enough as a mom and a wife as a very busy modern day, multi-tasking woman. We can do it together and here on Bodybuilding.com you got great free support, information, nutritional to bits so you're not going it alone like I did. I created a blueprint for success by myself, but you don't have to do that. I'm here to help you, so let's do it together. Thank you.

=== FILE: Jens Pulver's MMA ｜ 2010 Bodybuilding.com Commercial [FlrVHESe0oc].txt ===

I'm James Polver from the UFC Laiway Champion. What is a company like Bodybuilding.com? For everything that we do, you have to sell from Bodybuilding.com has that your finger did. In fact, when you do a for a career, you need to have those up to it. It's how to get you from whatever it is you were doing to the case. I'm James Polver from the UFC Laiway Champion.

=== FILE: Jerome Mayberry's 10 Commandments Of The Weight Room - Part 1 - Bodybuilding.com [w6ReaQW44CI].txt ===

Every night? I closed the door, unless I was driven by a police law cylinder. I've been driving back before this was a landlin. Oh no, no, let's not hurry up. Your car driving bin is absolutely... Oh no. I don't know about my Pizza proverb, but you're leaving at night. Yeah, I know I don't know. Your ozzmoop. You're invalid and you hear what this is, this is just E stake iniezin. Look, what's going on the second side? Get on it. Never. Never. Never, Norma. All right, start with the heaviest weight who can imagine. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. I fool. What are you doing? I thought I just warmed up with it. You want me to? Bro, you paid for the Jerome Mayberry workout player. What are you doing, Norma? We don't warm up. Did I ever say anything about a warm-up? Ain't no sense thing is a muscle full player. No sense thing. All right, it's just a muscle that wasn't ready. Teach you not to be ready when I want to workout. Number two. Fakes spot. Huh? Fakes spotting is a technique I use with my clients for the first time. You know what I mean? Cat just come in here, pay this money. And I'm like, you can lift the weight. Don't worry, I'm here. It's okay. I got you. Come on. Come on, easy. Right here. Get under it. Okay, count the three. Four, one, two, three. Get out. Get out. Get out. Get out. Let me tell you some howl's they gonna learn how to lift. Hey, thank you because you know what Jerome Mayberry just taught him about the real world. You trust no one. Not even Jerome. Rule number three. Smoking cardio. Before you do a cardio session, you'd like to see her. I just want to hang in. Yeah. Hey. Let's go. See this thing, act the base. The capillaries in the lungs and it bores us them to survive. Alright, I do this all day, man. Let me say, I breathe in one lung. And then when the other one comes out, I just sweep. You can shake like a mud. They do this in jail all day. You'll see a cat in out of tape and jail. My point, exactly. What? Two, three, five, five, five, five. Take control. Alright. Next time you win the gym, you take yourself a couple times. About six or seven. You know what I mean? You're there and I've never seen him. And then you can go and touch it down. Let me show you this rule in action. Here we go. Oh, that's mine. Who the? That's mine too. And what's that? What's that? Are you using this machine? I'm using that. What about that one? I'm going down one too. That one over there? That's me. Yep, that one too. He's using all these machines. Have you ever heard of a circuit? Calm down dude. Yeah, I'm using all of them. Number five. Never stretch. If you want to look tight. You must be tight. What are you doing? You pose like you stretch it. It just looks like it. It just is. It's just a set. Twenty push ups. Be sure to watch part two of Jerome Mayrares 10 Commandments of the weight room.

=== FILE: Jerome Mayberry's 10 Commandments Of The Weight Room - Part 2 - Bodybuilding.com [2wFUFQSf--s].txt ===

Jerome may very presents the second half of Jerome may very tend to memos of the weight room for two. We're on the 6th. Pay is good. Hey man, if it doesn't hurt what you're doing it What's wrong? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? You crying? Shut up! I remember having a cramp last the 16 days. I was walking around like this. Nobody knew that's just thought the way I was walking like Obama. I wasn't that bad. That's what I do. Shut up. You don't? Just talk one. It was trying to come back on. Number 7. Common sis will get you common results. You're going straight to the heavy stuff and play a. Shut up. Come here. So you can't think your way through the weight moved out. All right. You're brain on him no way. Think about this. Let's move on. Let's move on. Come on. I want to hear. Come on. Come on. What? What? What? What? What? Runaway. All right. Water is in. But every job of water. It takes away three cuts. This is something. Water is an enemy dog. Yeah. Yeah. That's it. No water. Nothing. Shut up. Shut up. Get back to work. Number 9. Never re-react your weights. You need that stuff right away. Uh. Please, right down on weights. These weights ain't mine. You got 500 pounds on the weight wreck. And look grandma, what a good night. Excuse me, sir. Could you help me with these weights? Grandma. Why don't you go somewhere else and work out? It's all heavy. I can't do it myself. Yeah. You're going to work out here grandma. What are you doing? Shut up. How are you? Peace. The last command. And your role. Mayberries. Tink amendments. A white room. The general isles. Constantly. Stay away. Cast it. Let me tell you something. All this oil and up. What it does. It activates the sub-utaneous membranes in the muscle. That will make the various, various, vaining muscleization. Activate in your subconscious. Stand up. Rub it on your body. Take your oil and rub it on your body. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Just like that. There you go. Let's go. It's so good. You will feel. And therefore be your best. We say when the sun is shining, all these glistening muscles. Okay. Okay. You. What? Jerome changed my life. He is the only one who can do it. Jerome changed my life. He is the best trainer in the universe. The role may bear. To commandments of the weight room. And all you hate is out there. All you really blinks is. Or even the women. You know what? Even the women kind of come up in here. Jane Fonda's and Jillian Michaels and Richard Simmons. You know what? I'll take you women too. Take you out. No problem. Nobody else trains me. I will train your person. Let me train you. Let me take you to the next level. Let Jerome be very taken to the next level. You know why I ain't done my work out yet? Because it's good. Mmm. It's good. I'm out. You

=== FILE: Jesse Norris ｜ 800 Deadlift in the Animal Cage [AtwX_jrxMFk].txt ===

Kreke thyude Efendi eBay Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My name is Dennis. Thank you. Thank you. You're a tough guy. I'm the one who's... Since you're the one who's... I said I'm moving. Since you're back in the air. I said, I'm telling you, today. I'm gonna be a Jessie man. I'm gonna be a Jessie man. Woo! Woo! Woo! I'm gonna be a Jessie man. Oh, my God! I'm gonna be a Jessie man. I'm gonna be a Jessie man. Jessie, let's see your hand. I'll see you in the next video. I want to see you pulled. See you.

=== FILE: Jessie Hilgenberg's 6 Reasons Women Should Lift - Bodybuilding.com [e_zKn7H3v4w].txt ===

Hey, I'm Jesse Holgombard, NLA for her athlete, and I'm here to talk to you ladies today about why women should be lifting. I spend so much of my time coaching women on how to change their bodies, yes, on the outside their physique, but how to also change your lives and your bodies on the inside to reflect those lifestyle changes. Lifting has obviously changed my physique and my life in more ways than one, but I wanted to give you some key points on what I believe are the most important reasons for why you should be lifting too. Number one, reason why women should lift is it gives you confidence. I cannot stress this enough. I have so much more confidence now in my mid-30s than I have in my entire life. When I first started training, I would walk into a gym and I would really be frozen. If I wasn't training with my husband or a friend, I truly had no idea what to do. Even if I knew what machine to go to, I was so worried that people were watching me, and I wouldn't know how to adjust the machine or sitting on the machine wrong. All those things are running through my head, and I didn't have the confidence that I should have when you want to go into the gym and you want to have a great workout. So now that I've been lifting, I feel like I own the gym when I walk in, and I love that. It's taken some years as taken some experience, but if you just keep going to the gym, keep lifting, you build up your physique, you're going to build up that confidence and you're going to walk into the gym, you're going to take whatever equipment that you need to take, and you're just going to kill your reps in your sets, and you know what? So what if people are watching me? They're probably watching me, wanting tips for me, wanting to know how I'm doing, what I'm doing, and nothing feels better than that when you're in the gym with that kind of confidence. Outside of the gym, I can't even go grocery shopping in a tank top without women and men stopping me saying, Girl, you look so good, what do you do? What do you do? And it's just really neat to be able to say, I lift. It's as simple as that. I say, I go to the gym and I lift. It's just so neat to be able to put on a dress or put on an awesome pair of jeans or favorite jeans and just have those curves and feel good about your body and walk out there in the world and just know that you feel great and you look great. The second point I want to touch on is a really, really awesome one because we get to eat all the carbs we want. Well, maybe not all the carbs we want, but we get to eat a lot of carbs. If you're lifting with intensity in the gym, you get to eat, you have to eat. You won't have an intense workout if you're not properly fueled before you work out. A lot of women are really scared of carbs, is it gonna make me fat? Is it gonna make me gain weight? And it won't, as long as you are lifting with intensity and have consistency in the gym. You need those carbs to change your physique. So if you have carbs all day long on a leg day, for example, your body will use every drop of fat to grow muscle to maintain muscle and to completely change your physique. And that's a pretty darn good reason. It's gonna be a lot of women get fat. Lifting weights is what's going to put muscle on your body and change the shape of your body and change the way that you fit into your clothes. A lot of women get caught up and changing their physique by spending hours in the gym doing cardio. It is important to do cardio. I definitely do cardio, but lifting weights has completely added curves that I've never known to exist on my body. My butt, my glutes, my legs have grown. I have awesome legs and I'm not scared to show them off whatsoever. I love wearing my favorite pair of jeans or just my leggings. It just feels so good to see hamstrings through my leggings. Another awesome tip is that the more muscle you have, the more calories you burn. It's as simple as that. So build more muscle and your body has to work harder and burn more calories to maintain that muscle mass than it does to maintain body fat. When we do cardio only for example, we are burning fat, but we're not really building muscle. But as soon as that session ends, the fat burning stops. When you lift weights with intensity, you are burning fat and you are burning calories. And the really awesome thing about lifting weights is as soon as that session is done, the fat burning does not stop. Your metabolism is increased. You're burning all day long. You go home and you're resting. You're still burning calories. Your metabolic rate has increased and you're going to have the effects of that training session all day long. And all night long while you're sleeping. So I don't know about you, but I'm really into burning fat while I sleep. The next point I want to discuss with you ladies is something that you may or may not be concerned about quite yet in your life. But as women we are at higher risk of osteoporosis. And what that means is we're at higher risk of fracting our bones, breaking bones. And the way we can absolutely squash that is by lifting weights with intensity. And I don't mean, you know, a few reps here and there on machines, a little bit of circuit training. I really mean intensity. Get into the gym. You can use machines. You can use cables. You can use dumbbells. You can get in the squat rack. Whatever is comfortable for you, just lift weights and whatever you're doing. You will build muscle mass. You will increase your bone density and you will increase your strength, which will help you later in life. It'll help you now, but it'll also help you later in life to reduce that risk of that osteoporosis, which you definitely want to avoid all of those bone fractures and breaks at all costs. The last thing is just being able to say, I got this. So whether it's carrying your groceries, carrying your luggage, putting your luggage in overhead compartment, rearranging your furniture. It's really neat to be able to scoot that couch and move that dresser all around that house without needing any help. But one thing that always cracks me up is, for example, in the gym, setting up a lift and a guy walks up and he's like, hey, do you need a spot? And you guys should just be like, nope, I got this. So now that I've discussed with you, some of my top reasons on why women should definitely be lifting. I want you to check out the page below. I have given some of my top exercises and a sample workout of some of the best types of workouts that you can do that give you the most bang for your buck. They were crude a lot of muscle, they were crude a lot of energy. I know give you that intensity that you're looking for in the gym to increase that strength and build that muscle. So if you have any questions about anything I've discussed with you today, you can catch up with me on body space or Facebook. Both of those user names are Jesse Fitness. You can find me on Instagram or Twitter at Jess Hillgumburg. And for more free videos and articles, just like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Jim Stoppani's 6-Week Shortcut To Shred Training Program [GuWEHKGRr6g].txt ===

I've spent my life in pursuit of the perfect program in the gym, in the lab, moving weight, making adjustments, training clients and changing lives. It's what I do. It's what I know best. I am my own subject. My body is my brain's greatest work. The gym is my testing ground, I inflict trauma and tear tissue. I practice the science of cold iron and calculated change. Every rep is a road to growth. I hit the books as hard as I hit the weights. I make research a reality in turn studies into results. I measure mixed nutrients, to maximize recovery. I swap exercises and alter variables. I target as results. I chase the perfect program, the ultimate combination of mind and muscle.

=== FILE: Jimmy Peña's Power Rack Training Episode 2： Partial Movements - Bodybuilding.com [nYuuiUmRkgc].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jimmy Pena and this is My Power Rack Series. I'm an exercise physiologist. I've edited in written thousands of articles on training and fitness and nutrition worldwide. My purpose now is to develop prayfit.com where we help people stay healthy from the inside out. In my opinion, the Power Rack is the most underutilized piece of equipment in gyms everywhere. The second technique we're going to talk about today are partial movements. The best way to demonstrate those are using the bench breast inside the Power Rack. Partials are all about overload and with partials you can overload the target muscle more than you can through a full range emotion. So remember, partials are angle specific. Meaning you only gain strength that they angle your working. So that's what's great about the Power Rack. They have so many different angles for you to work in that if you can gain strength at all those various angles, then you'll add up to one powerful strong full repetition. To demonstrate the partial we're going to utilize the bench breast. Let's get started. So now that you've set the bar and the weight is set and the bar is clipped. Go ahead and lie back. Make sure your back is fully supported. Your feet are flat on the floor. Grasp the bar with an overhand grip, wrapping your thumbs around for safety. As you can see, I've set the angles pretty high towards just about six to eight inches from the top. The good thing about the Power Rack is you can change those angles whether it be in the same workout, lower in the angles or from week to week. Much like partials are angles specific. The Power Rack can help you be goal specific. So whether you're looking for strength, keeping your reps between one and six or perhaps high-perchriffe, muscle size, keeping your reps from eight to twelve or even endurance. Going as high as 25, the partial technique can be useful in supporting those goals. So just make sure that because you are stronger, let's say right here, I'm much stronger in this five to six inch range than I am in a four inch emotion. Be certain that you load the bar with enough weight that causes you to fail at your particular goal reps. So if my goal is ten repetitions and I'm doing it in a partial range, I better make sure that I fail at those ten reps. Don't put your standard 10 RM on a partial movement otherwise it can be too light. So make sure that wherever angle you are, it's also specific to the failure point of your target rep range. Power Rack. Buryah! Parsons inside the power rack with overhead presses fantastic overload for the shoulders. The good thing about using the power rack in this way, you can roll the bar back, right over head, which really incorporates the front delts, the middle delts, and the rear delts. You just much of the shoulder involved as possible to do as a bar is directly overhead. Remember, Parsons are all about overload. With Parsons, basically we're breaking the lift into smaller components within the range of motion, allowing you to handle a weight that's much heavier than you could normally use if you're working in a full range of motion. Remember your gains in strength will be limited to that particular range of motion that you train. And so make sure that you adjust the safety bars up and down, working various parts of the range of motion. So you gain strength throughout it. So we've just gone through another technique, Parsons for the Power Rack. On more on how to incorporate Parsons into your routine, visit the page below. Be sure to check out episode 3, IsoMetrics, and learn how to incorporate them into your routine. For more on me, come to PrayFit.com and for more great information on training and nutrition, go to bodymilit.com.

=== FILE: Julien Greaux's 365 Circuit Trainer - Bodybuilding.com [hdY319btIPs].txt ===

What's up guys my name is Julian Greio with the Team BS10. You may know my face and my body from different covers. I've been on the fitness rx, muscle fitness, man's hair, man's fitness, many more. I've been training since I'm like 15 years old. So almost like 20 years of age. But doing it, you know. Every pro athletes, they train every day. Like look at that football player. They run every day, they lift weights every day. And they're still writing a good size, you know. So I don't believe much in the other training. But if you don't want to relax, heat and more functional, I think you can train your body every day. What are you going to do? I'm going to explain how do I train for the week. I do a lot of the first circuit training. Monday would do like a total body circuit training. Tuesday also, different circuit. Wednesday would take a day off. I will give you some tips for your diet. Thirds and Friday another circuit training. So wow, what are you going to do? We're going to mix with the barber, dumbbells, with your own body weight, flat and matricinal heavy light, and being shocked. Originally I saw Julian self-help because I was actually hospitalized for four months with major illness. Julian's experience, I knew it had been basically a core type of training, functional type of movement where I had only been in bodybuilding. So the first guy of Julian to help me, was more of a rehabilitation program. Never thinking I would continue it. Just to give myself back and shape and get into the gym. Was that surprised? The first day couldn't even go to the workout one time. It was much harder than it looked. I think people are thinking the dieting is like very complex. And it's very simple. You all watch it. It's very clean food and it's pretty much shit. You know, good suits of carbs, some fat, some good protein, some vegetables, like for fibers. And that's it. There's no secret. It's very like state to do basic. It was going to keep you lean. It's going to work all your muscles. It's one group, not really stress-time. I want particular areas to get much more intense workout in a shorter period of time. And then in turn, it's like same leaner. I think more like for the average person is much better. You're more like a functional workout. That's more like than the bodybuilding workouts. I keep that very basic movements. You want to try a little fancy moves. Some guys are inventing movements. You know? Stay good at basic. You know, you want to build mass, bench, squat, deadly. Very simple, you know? The thing about this is a very high intensity working. Not only are you using weight on a lot of these movements, but you're doing higher repetitions. No rest time except maybe in between one series, have a drink of water. So not only is the train your aerobic and anaerobic, you're going to stay much leaner you're around. You're still going to get good definition with the muscles. And on the heavier workouts you can train with more weight. Give me more size on those days too. So if you stick with this program, I'm guaranteed you 12 weeks. We'll get the results you want. Much better looking for Z, much more functional. It's very simple. If you know what you want, that's it. And it's simple.

=== FILE: Kai Greene Dynamik Muscle Supplements Available At Bodybuilding.com [m0Ifqfx0KHc].txt ===

Hey guys, Kai Green here and I'm excited to announce to you that my company DynamicMuscle is coming to Bodybuilding.com So grateful and appreciative to be able to tell you that DynamicMuscle is coming to Bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Kai Greene： A New Breed - Vol 2 Redemption - Bodybuilding.com [PQ7SaQfpnFQ].txt ===

Coming soon to bodybuilding.com. The long awaited sequel to the groundbreaking bodybuilding documentary Kai Green Overkill will be serialized on bodybuilding.com once a week beginning the first week of August. Taped over a six-month period in 2009 and 2010. Kai Green Redemption follows the most controversial bodybuilder in the sport today from his disappointing Olympia placing to his triumph at the Arnold Classic. Along the way we get new insights into Kai's philosophy and work ethic, including a demonstration of a specialized opposing workout and a hardcore leg training session. The exam end is growing popularity and talk to his fans about the public perception of Kai. In redemption, Kai instructs Kai explains, Kai inspires. Born as the drama of Las Vegas, in its place's determination, positive thinking and lots of hard work. Redemption takes us inside the mind of Kai Green, takes us backstage and on stage at the Arnold Classic to watch firsthand as bodybuilding history is made. No other bodybuilding documentary brings you the depth and insight of the Kai Green series. And bodybuilding.com is proud to be the first and only place to host these inspirational and informative videos. Bookmark for bodybuilding.com video page now so that you don't miss a single episode. Kai Green Redemption is brought to you by Muslim Meds Performance Technologies. Muslim Meds has been nominated for three bodybuilding.com supplement awards, including New Brand of the Year. Fat loss supplement for metal burn extreme and pre workout supplement for code red. Please visit bodybuilding.com to cast your votes for Muslim Meds.

=== FILE: Karina Baymiller's Plyo Legs Workout - Bodybuilding.com [JQiGmNpB_-A].txt ===

Hi, I'm Crana Bamelar, teambodybuilding.com athlete and Celia Grazli. Today I'm going to be taking you through my high rep plyo leg workout. This is one of two leg workouts that I do each week. It's made up of three supersets. I generally do my heavier leg workout earlier in the week and my plyo leg workout later in the week, just make sure that you leave one to two days in between. So let's get into our first superset, which is going to be front squats and backstumps. For this superset, we are going to be doing four sets of 15 front squats followed by four sets of 25 backstumps. So because we're going to start out with a barbell, warm up for the front squats of about 10 to 15 reps. So for front squats, you want to make sure that your elbows are high and I like to go a little bit below parallel so that I incorporate my glutes and hamstrings as well because generally front squats are known to focus on your quads, but I like to do my entire leg so a little bit below parallel. So if you're a beginner, you want to start with a box that's maybe 20 inches. If you are more advanced, you've been doing this for a while, you can do a 24 or even higher. I'm using a 24 today. So now we're going to move on to our second superset of reverse lunges and flile lunges. For this second superset, you're going to be doing reverse lunges followed by a plial lunges. We're going to do four sets of 15 to 18 reps per leg for the reverse lunges. Followed by 50 jumps total for the plial lunges. Sometimes it can be harder to gauge the weight that you need to use for higher reps. So I like to use the first set as my tester set so I can see if I need to go higher or lower as far as we go for my second set to stay in that 15 to 18 rep range. So I never climbed my rice period. I judge how I feel. I'm just putting on the day. Depending on the exercise, this could be anywhere between 30 seconds, a minute and a half. So you want to keep your heart right high enough, but you don't want to put yourself too hard so that you're able to keep your level of performance up. Okay. For this 30-per-set, we're going to be doing step-up followed by a plial lunges. We're going to do four sets of each. For step-ups, we're going to do 15 to 18 reps per leg. And for squat jumps, we're going to be doing 20 to 30 jumps. For your step-ups, you want to find a box or a bench that when you step onto it, your knee forms a 90-degree angle. Because this is a lighter of my two workout days, this is it so much about how much weight I can left, but more about focusing on form and functional movement athletic movements. And then also because they don't do much cardio, this is a good cardio-bastula workout as well. So that's it for my higher-up plial leg workout. My heavier leg workout is provided on the page below. If you have any more questions about either one of these workouts, you can find me on body space. My username is Kay Baymiller. For more videos and content like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Kendall's Kitchen： Gluten-Free Garlic And Herb Shrimp Recipe - Bodybuilding.com [wS8073lclm4].txt ===

So this just looks absolutely amazing. It looks good. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. Hello and welcome to thebodybuilding.com kitchen. I'm Kendall Lushman, athletic edge athlete. And today we're going to be making my garlic and herb gluten free shrimp. The shrimp that we're going to be using today is raw peeled tail on shrimp. But about a pound to make the marinade we're going to start with one teaspoon of basil, one teaspoon of Italian seasoning, one teaspoon of paprika, one tablespoon of stevia, one tablespoon of olive oil, one tablespoon of lime juice, and a tablespoon and a half of minced garlic. So once you have all your ingredients in the bowl, you just snap the lid on nice and securely. And then you shake it really well until everything's coated. And since there's paprika in there, generally when everything's well coated, all the shrimp kind of have an even red color to them, just a real slight red. It looks pretty good. Put it in the refrigerator here for about two hours just to let the marinade set. So before I open up, I'm going to give it just a few more quick shakes. To get all the juice from the bottom over the shrimp again. Everything looks good, nicely colored. I'm going to take this baking sheet and just lightly spray it with some non-stick spray. We're going to take the shrimp, lay them out one layer on the pan. We're ready to place them in the oven and bake them at 350 degrees, depending on the size of your shrimp, the time can vary, so you're going to want to keep an eye on them. I really love to incorporate shrimp into my diet because it's a lean protein, just like chicken or turkey, but as a completely different flavor, it makes you feel like you're eating a really fancy, delicious meal, even though it's relatively inexpensive and very quick and easy to make. So this just looks absolutely amazing. I'm excited to try one. Sweet. It's perfect. I love it. I really do. I really do. I want all the details for this recipe, including the macronutrient breakdown, are on the page directly below this video. For more of my recipes and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Kendall's Kitchen： Mustard-Crusted Pork Tenderloin Recipe - Bodybuilding.com [ZHy6KzBhgDw].txt ===

So this just looks absolutely amazing. Looks good. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. I'm your food and my team. Hello and welcome to the bodybuilding.com kitchen. I'm Kendall Lushment Athletic Edge Athlete and today we're going to be making my gluten free mustard-crusted pork tenderloin. This recipe calls for a pound and a half or 24 ounces of pork tenderloin. We're going to begin by checking a half cup of our balsamic vinegar and covering our pork with it in a large bowl or dish. Roll it over a few times, make sure it's well coated and we'll allow the pork to marinate in that while we prepare the mustard crust. For our crust we'll be mixing the remaining ingredients in a large bowl. Starting with a half teaspoon of dill. Two tablespoons of rosemary. Two tablespoons of thyme. Two tablespoons of black pepper. A fourth of the cup of dried minced onion. A fourth of the cup of minced garlic. And a quarter cup of brown mustard. So we'll mix all these ingredients together. And it's going to form a thick paste. We'll place our tenderloin, smack dab in the middle. And then any balsamic that's still left in your marinating dish or bowl will just pour on top. Once your tenderloins in the dish we could take the crust we made and we'll press it on top of the tenderloin. Just right there with your hands. So as a person with silly act disease, I obviously love this recipe because it is gluten free. But in addition to that, it has tons of flavor. It's something to really mix up your lean protein, give you something different in your diet. And it smells and tastes incredible. Perfect. Really, it's really good. So that's it for my mustard-crusted pork tenderloin, the full recipe and the full macronutrient breakdown are on the page directly below this video. For more of my articles and recipes like this one, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Kendall's Kitchen： Thai Turkey Satay Skewers - Bodybuilding.com [JMifj1g24FY].txt ===

So this just looks absolutely amazing. It looks good. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. I'm gonna put it in my teeth. Hello and welcome to thebodybuilding.com kitchen. I'm Kendall Lushmet, athletic ed jathlete, and today we're going to be making my Thai turkey satay skewers. Today we're using about 40 ounces of turkey breast tenderloin. We're going to start with a nice empty bowl and mix the liquid ingredients for our marinade. They have cup of rice vinegar. 3 tablespoons of gluten free soy sauce or liquid amino's which taste just as amazing. And 3 tablespoons of lime juice. And we'll add the dry ingredients. Table spoon and a half of minced garlic. 2 tablespoons of curry. 1 teaspoon of ginger powder. 1 half teaspoon of wasabi. 1 half teaspoon of ground turmeric. And a half teaspoon of cayenne pepper. And I'll just give it a few more stirs to make sure everything's mixed together really well. Okay, so now that our marinade's done, we'll take our cube turkey and we'll place it in a large bag. With a really good seal on it. Take the marinade, pour it into the bag with the turkey. Seal up the bag and then massage the marinade into the turkey. You can tell everything's coated when all the turkey has that same rich color to it. So if you've never worked with curry or tamarik before, I'll give you a little warning that it is very colorful. And if you're like myself and you have acrylic nails, it can potentially leave them a nice colorful orange ish yellow for quite a while after you skewer. Your turkey is so I'm going to go ahead and slip on some latex gloves. All you have to do is take your skewer and of course fill it up with meat. And then rest the ends on the side of the pan. So both of our trays are done now. We cooked them separate to make sure that each tray got the same type of exposure from the broiler flame. We'll slide off a chunk from my first skewer. I'm going to do forever to eat a part. So these turned out great. This is one of my favorite ways to eat my turkey. It's a nice way to mix it up if you're getting real sick and eating turkey and chicken breast. It's quick, it's easy and of course it's gluten free. All the details for this recipe including the macronutrient breakdown are on the page directly below this video. For more recipes and videos like this for me, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Kettlebell One-Legged Deadlift - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [JOoc07_Xkls].txt ===

Hold a kettlebell by the handle in one hand. Stand on one leg on the same side that you hold the kettlebell. Keeping that knee slightly bent, perform a stiff leg at deadlift by bending at the hip, extending your free leg behind you for balance. Continue lowering the kettlebell until your parallel to the ground and then return to the upright position.

=== FILE: Kizzito Ejam - 'Lift Life' Bodybuilding.com Ad Campaign Interview [Q059a_K3InI].txt ===

Hey, bodybuilding.com. This is because you know EGM, aka kids MVP on bodyspace.com and these are a whole lot for me to be on the shoot because when I started at bodybuilding I was coming to see all the inspirational people where they started and where they ended up and my goal for bodyspace was to inspire me with that achievement like a little I was doing fitness modeling so when I got that call from a first of got to even from a group married they did so much and they crystal also helped me out and I put my name in there. I was so excited so excited so excited I'm so happy to be here so excited I'm making sure that I do the best I can not just for myself but for everyone out there that I try to inspire every single day so you have a goal in life we have to do is make sure that you set a plan for it make your actions in life and then you'll achieve okay bodyspace.com Kiss MVP up

=== FILE: Kizzito Ejam's Power Up Your Muscle-Up! - Bodybuilding.com [dP7zB3weV7U].txt ===

I train every day to look great and perform better. But fitness isn't always a serious business. I also train for fun. I'm Kazeato Ejam, muscle up. Hey guys, Kazeato Ejam here, bodybuilding.com athlete. Today I'm going to take you through my muscle up full body workout. Now this workout is in consist of two circuits. You start to have four exercises and the whole workout should take you about 30 minutes to do. Now the entire goal of this workout is to help you achieve a muscle up. Now what is a muscle up? Muscle up is one of those litmus tests to see how great your physical fitness level is. Let me show you a muscle up and then we'll get the workout started. Make it sure again, muscle up with the mic on. Pay close to attention to what we're going to do this once. All day! Easy! muscle up. muscle up. Oh man, better than pressing people at the public pool. Okay, now before we get into it, like I said, we're going to break down the components of the first circuit exercise and the first part of this circuit is designed to help you build that explosiveness that you saw on the muscle up. So now we're going to get into the first circuit. Now the first circuit is in consist of four exercises. First exercise, we're going to start with ten pull ups. They're going to go over to lap pull down. You're going to do six lap pull down to heavy and we're targeting to shoe for over our body weight. So if you weigh 180 pounds, you have to shoe for at least 190 to 200 pounds on lap pull. They're going to go over back to pull ups explosive five of them. And then we're going to finish with bent over barbell rolls for ten reps. This entire circuit should take you about ten minutes and you rest at least one or two minutes in between rounds for four rounds total. All right, exercise one pull ups. So when it comes to circuit one, the reason I put a lot of these exercise together is because those are the first areas that are targeted when you're doing the muscle. For example pull up obviously you need to do how to pull up. It's now we're going to go into the wide bit lap pull down and I'm going to shoe for around two 35 to the weight 25 pounds. So we're going to shoe for more than your body weight. And this exercise is very important in where wrist wraps, but she when you're going heavier because you don't want your forearms to fail before your back muscles do. So the wrist wraps helps to port that. They alleviate the pressure off your wrist and it put all the strength on your back only. The lap pull down is what we do in heavier. What that does is it gives your body that low capacity, that ability to lift more weight. Because you can lift more than your body weight. The pull up should be easy. Because it's a more. All right, back over the pull up. We're going to be doing explosive pull ups. Five reps. The explosive pull ups means you pull with all your force almost trying to pull your body above the bar. Okay. We're trying to do them fast after we lifted heavy. Your body should be acclimated to heavy weight. So that those explosive pull ups feel almost effortless. You should be able to pump out as many explosive pull ups as you can. Last part. Bend over barbell rows. Still using the straps. Like I said, you want to take the pressure off your wrist and your forearms. So you can actually target your back a little bit more. And at the beginning of muscle ups. Some people tend to kick. It means you swing. When you swing you tend to pull more. Or your middle up and back. So that's what the bent over barbell rows helps to target. Swing that area. So when you get up to the next part. What the next round of the circuits. Which helps with the other aspects of your muscle. So doing them in this order is going to help the first portion of your muscle. Now one thing you noticed on the. The bent of a barbell row. They did them a little bit differently. I tried to do it more explosive because like I said. The muscle up is an explosive exercise. So when you're doing it bent over barbell rows. You let it hang and try to pull. While we have explosive. Get used to that whole word explosive. Muscle up explosive explosive explosive. Exercise. So when you get used to that whole by frame and everything else. Exercise that you do. Okay. Let's take one to two minutes rest before we start. Round two. So let's get right into it. Finish is not just about looking good. You know it's about performing good. That's always in my model. When you do it exercise like this or work like this. You're just going to help you perform a lot better. That's going to put you ahead of everybody else. Because if you keep doing what you would do in the forward. You're going to have the same results. But you want to be ahead of everybody else. I always push in yourself to the next level. So this workout is designed to push you to that level. Okay. Now it's your own. Round three. Third round is a little way different from the first two obviously. You're exhausted. You can see it sets in a lot more. Your back starts to spas out a little bit. Your forms. But this is these are the two rounds that actually make sense. These are the rounds you're shooting for. These are the rounds that you're. That's going to set you apart from everyone else. So when you get to this point, this is a true test. You can just stop now. You can give up. But if you give up now, you're actually going to be reaching. You're ultimately going. What is your ultimate goal to prove yourself? Test your physical fitness level. You can't do that by giving up early. So round three and four. Get around the shooting for. Then round three. Woo. Oh. Shit. Sorry, cut. Don't say shit. Alright guys, back completes the fourth round of circuit one. And doing this circuit. If you notice, well, once you complete it, we'll show you which areas. I actually can help you improve your muscle. How's going to help you improve your muscle? You're supposed to do your stamina. You muscle capacity. You're exposed to this. Which in turn. It gives you that ability to achieve a great muscle up. Rest between two to five minutes. And then we'll jump right away into the next circuit. Alright guys, now we're going to get into the second part of this workout. We're going to go into circuit two. And circuit two differentiates a little bit from. The one because for circuit one, we focus a lot on our pulling our exposed to this. And circuit two, we're going to be targeting more the core aspect of the muscle up. Alright, same thing for exercises. We're going to complete four rounds. Rest in at least one to two minutes in between each round. circuit two we won't need wrist straps. Come on a bitch. But we will need weight. A weight belt. Because the first exercise we're going to start with is weight pull-ups for three reps. Get we're going to go right away into body weight dips for ten reps. Going back over to the bar for hanging knee raises for ten reps. And then we're going to finish with pull-ups with knee-tucks for five reps. It's the hardest part to slide in the weight. Alright, I'll choose two. Because last time I did three in the weight belt broke on me midway. So. Okay, now when it comes to slide in the weight for weight pull-ups. Like I said, we're shooting for three reps. You want to choose weight that you can get. Really get three reps with. She can't do one plate just to put your own body weight. And then get three reps later on you can add weight to it. Alright. Seriously. Because this is what we're doing weight pull-ups. I'll give you the option to choose whichever style you want. If you want to do underhand grip, close grip, wide grip, whatever you want. So for this exercise I think I'm going to go with the neutral grip. Like I said. We go over to our dips. That's what helps you press at the top of the muscle. Which is the finishing move of the muscle up. So remember that focus on that. When we get to the dips you want to try to press over where we get over to the bar. Alright, after we just finished the dips we're going to go to the direct exercise. Hanging leg raises. We need to talk to whichever wave is comfortable for you. 10. As it actually really important when it comes to the muscle up, people think it's not. We have to have a good strong core to help you lift. And it actually makes it look a lot easier. That's because I've been training so hard on core strength and core building it up. That makes it a lot easier for me to do muscle up. Alright. For the exercise, we're going to do pull-ups with knee-tucks. That's what's going to give you that extra lift. Expose it over the bar. So, each after the very important, you put them all together. That's going to give you the great foundation for a perfect muscle up. Ooh. First round. One minute rest. Then over to the second one. Move. Oh. Two more rounds to victory. I don't look at how this workout in the beginning. You see the exercises and it's four exercises, third to one, fourth, side, third to two. Three reps here. Six reps here. Ten reps here. Do you think that's easy? So, like I said before, once you get to the third round, you start to see the challenge. You know? But that's what's important. It's always about doing extra. Because what separates the ordinary from the extra ordinary is that little bit extra. So, doing a little bit extra reps, next for round, is going to make you extra ordinary. That's what we want to be. A pull-up is basically, let's test the ordinary. I've sized with a muscle up. It's extra in the ordinary, okay? Let's get to the ordinary. My abs hurt. Just my abs. Okay. This is the fourth round. Find a round of this circuit. Find a round of the entire workout. So, put it in the effort. Power through it. All right. So, in my normal workout regime, what I do is I'm elastic and basic. I exercise. I'll do one muscle group a day. Chest one day, back one day, legs one day. Things like that. But then every once in a while, I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll do it. One muscle group a day. Chest one day, back one day, legs one day. Things like that. But then, every once in a while, I like to take an exercise like this. We're working like this and challenge myself to see how much I've progressed. So, for the full breakdown of this workout is the detail below here on bodybuilding.com. So, if you have any questions on this workout, you can find me on body space at Kids MVP, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, same thing, Kids MVP, and also check out my YouTube channel where I put more workouts just like this for you to do as well. So, check me out there, have any questions? Follow the end of those sites. So, more free videos and articles like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Kris Gethin & Team Grenade Ab Workout - Bodybuilding.com [MDVfD1KjQ7U].txt ===

So we just finished our workout with James. He's going to turn the tables now. He's got a great set of abs. So I wanted him to put me through an abs session. So I'm excited and willing to give it a go. So let's see what he's got in store. I'm going to start off with a decline bench overhead bar down. Okay. It's not often an unloaded bar just for a warm-up. So just wearing the shoulder width grip. Yeah. Sit up. Flex is our main board thim sweat but it is also cool. On the way down. It's going to negative crunch. Right okay. Bar is that shooting up and dead straight. Nine. Yeah. So what is the advantage of having a bar? There just as accurate resistance and as extra resistance. It's extra resistance. I need more costability to support it right. Because normally you'd have a weight into your direct. Direct. Yeah. It's not much more bling around. You'll take the weight away from your body. Yeah. I'll believe it. It looks a little bit harder. Okay. Okay. Right. Want me to go straight into the air? Go straight into the war up. That tends to be a few reps and then we'll stick it up and it'll be a bit slow. I'm not going to sit right up and rotate the shoulders. Right well I was the last of the three to be put through our workouts and on behalf of the grenade team and the boys who had just been slaughtered. Tables returned and I was able to put Chris through an abs workout. We started with decline overhead barbell bench sit-ups. I want a decline bench with a barbell. Sitting up allowing the shoulders to go through rotation to the bars directly above the head and then controlling the negative phase. We start off with a warm-up set, empty bar and then put a few plates on for two more sets. Okay, for all the steps we're going to do on a working rest. We're going to sit straight into the right. I'm going to sit in a little warm-up setting, a little white on it. Look at that. For all the steps today we'll do it working rest. Are you rest? I'm working right. Okay right. I'm going to sit in the middle of the barbell. Man, it's just a bit easy to do. Oh no, it's got brakes from abs. Oh yeah, I struggled without any weight. I said, it's off his feet. Oh that's okay. I find it really hard to hold. I've been the legs down since we were in the country. I've got a record that's been down. I've made it to feet. It's a cool level. Yeah, yeah. We're going to think when you're legs are up. Give it a down. How many reps? Well, same as the 12 but I lost count. We're going to have to 12. Okay. That's good. That's good. I said keep that good rotation through the shoulders. That's just enough. It's like that bar around. It's good, you got it. I lost you now, I'm sorry. Oh. That's good. Red. I made that. Boy. That's good. Last set, just a little bit more weight on. That's good. It's good. Yeah, it's good too. Oh. So you're getting the impression you can just keep going. I can't even tell you. All right, the finals were great. Okay. You're way something you reach value before you were able to rest for us? Yes, definitely. That's good, nice and strong. Oh, your head's set up, so it was a completely inaccessible press. When most of us do that to work out, you'll feel the pump isolating in your apples muscles. It's all of your dominoes around the sides, but with the overhead sits up, because it's massive core strength work out as well. You don't get the lactic acid buildup, you just reach muscle failure. And on the last set that we were doing, as you're controlling the negative phase down, which is the hardest part of it. Second to last set, Chris just slump down. And then that point you know you've reached failure. Try control the lowering a little bit more. Excellent. Is that so? Any new exercise is going to shop the system, and you are going to struggle and fight it, you know, really, really tough going. And he did really well. Yeah, it's funny because like I said, I could feel it with course, you know, really stretchers of course, I could practice and but the strength is just getting the politic from the hands. Yeah, it isn't so much of a pump that it is just, just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, yeah. So, we're going to fail. Now because for me, if you do higher reps, they're just brewing, brewing, brewing, brewing, here, and just the belly. Okay, next exercise we're going to do is win-mills. Nice, like good. Licks have come up. All right, I'm down. I'm down. Okay, okay, just make it harder, more challenging, and to push you past, want him to get up. Now I see the standing front of me. So, for the danger of me giving up, and a bit, you know, all right, you've been not going to get up. Take your one of you down, so, you can push me. Second exercise we did was on the pull-up bar. Win-mills made it a little bit more challenging by getting Chris to stand in front of me for my reps. The end of the game is just to keep my legs good up. The nice circulation around over his head. Once I reach failure, I would have taken his head off. So, I stopped just before failure, which was good. We were working on a working rest system. So, as soon as I came off the bar, Chris was up there working, while he was working that was my rest. And we just kept stopping that through throughout the whole workout. I'm down a rest. It's a failure. I know that I would be kicking you in the head. I'd say, have a rest now. Okay, you know what I'm saying? I know, so I'd see, you know, that I was stepping into the head. Like, the pain that the brakes are normally doing. If I ever do, it's normally on the swings. Like, that was our fine grip just to keep doing it. Eventually, it dripples. Straighten for now. I'm also behind as well, you're working more. You're bleeding that. It's going to go off. So, legs straight. Like, straight as straight as possible. I'm saying straight as possible as high as possible. But again, it was a brand new exercise to him. He's not used to putting his body through that emotion. So, it was good and challenging. Ask him. You grip goes before your abs come off. Shake it and get that out. He's a lot more heavier, he's carrying a lot more muscle, mass than me. So, power to weight ratio, I might have a slight advantage over him. But again, it's just the fact that I've done these exercises before. But for the bigger guys to get your legs up and around in a controlled manner, they may can be quite challenging for that first. Still working on the working rest, though. Okay, when we stand there again, we go. Yeah, good. Okay. Okay, okay, yeah. Okay, contouring up. Amazing Excitiveness This one Beautiful More Pretty nice Oh, shit. That was three times. No, my bike's. Everything else. My bike sets, and I find that I probably don't have the flexibility in my legs. I don't like it. Yeah, yeah. To get them up, you know. So, definitely something I need to work on, and I'm so used to grabbing all of everybody's straps. So, you know, it's just put in a lot of strain on my forearms, which obviously this is my weakest link that I need to work on. So, these are two this, and the exercise before things are definitely going to work off, because it's exposing weakness in that, which is good. Okay, next exercise we've got is back on the foot of bar again, toes to bar. Yeah, okay. In the grab of wide grip, and you should look before, or narrow grip, doesn't really matter. Or you're doing as lifting your feet up. So, it's touching the bar. Yeah. It's easier. It's obviously bringing you these in nice and tight. Okay, okay. If you've got more strength, keep your legs straight. Okay. Okay. Okay. Again, two sets to play there. So, the exercise we did was toes to bar, grabbing onto a pull-up bar, just raising your feet up, til your toes touch the bar, and then lowering your feet in a controlled manner. It started off keeping our legs quite close to the body, to make it sort of that much more easier. But as the sets went on, challenged him a little bit further, asked him straightness legs a bit more. That just increased the lever length, the made it extra bit of weight, challenges core, which he definitely felt. We did two sets to failure of that. And again, new exercise for him, but he did really well. Okay. Now, let's go for a lot of strength. He just relax your foot and trust on the weight to hold you. Okay. So, here we go. Okay. Last exercise on the bar. You're hanging it upside down, using some ground-tribs. You're looking, you're looking for some boots or ankle hooks. You're going to pull the bar, you're going to effectively do a touch to bar. And pull the feet in. Okay. That one's in. Hang. Okay. Yeah. Does that your ankles will act, step on the, try to flex it up. And for that, you're just going to do very slow crunches. Okay. Yeah. If you start cheating yourself up, you'll start swinging legs. Okay. So try to control it. Move the bar if you need to. Okay. The full factor size being introduced to some equipment, called gravity boots. A little ankle clips, a clip around your feet. They've got a metal hook on them and it allows you to hang upside down off the bar. From that, we did upside down crunches for the first set. Slightly more challenging than on the floor or on a decline bench just because you've got to control your body from swinging. Maybe you're also working fully against gravity. Yeah. This is an average. Yeah. This is an average. We're going to flex with our sulking coming up. We're going to hold it with our sulking. Okay. So to get up there, we've got two to wrap up. I'll get my self first and look what I do. Yeah. To get you off, press, actually, we just get your hands in back to the bar. And then we'll put the back to the bar and then we'll put the back to the bar. I'll see how I do it. I'll see how I do it. Okay. So it's going. You need to get it. It's too hot. No. No. Come on. Come on. No. No. Come on. Uh. What's up? Okay. It does. Two left. Two left. Two left. We're going to relax. It's three left, so three left. Yeah. We'll take it. That's how it's done. Okay. Do the core in. And then just crunch. So a nice and steady crunch, just he don't swing. It's hard left to swing. It is. If I stop seeing you swinging three bucks, just stick your arm out and grab hold of the frame. Oh, Chris got up here. Oh, that's a piece of love. Oh. Let's get it out. Get it out. Oh. You be a piece. Oh. You be a piece. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Okay. Yeah. Good crunch. Boom. Three. Okay. Yeah. Good. Nice. Whoa. Whoa. Let's go. Let's go. Oh. Let's go. Let's go. Yeah. Because of the rushes for the head, we wouldn't do this for more than a minute. Yeah. Keep it 30 seconds for a minute, though. Yeah. And if it's squeezing out, say 10 reps. Yeah. Two second up, two second down. It will say that time rough, then. Okay. One more second. Let's do it. Slay changing things, not. I think I'll wait there for a second to it. I needed that. Okay. It's hard for you to do that. It's just crunching. What we're going to do is we're reaching. It's nice to have front and then the other side. We're going to be going side crunches in as well as an orange. Okay. Stop swinging. Crunch. That second set was we picked up a five kilogram plate. And we were alternating between a front crunch and a side crunch. Just to work a bit more, if you're a bleaks. And then as we reached failure on crunching, we can go on a crunch. We just did a static ice-smeter at hold. We held the weight out. Arms length. Nice right angle position, hanging it upside down. Hold your own air. Nice strong back. And it really, really does challenge the whole of your core. Hold it. Just like that. And you feel like in your abs, do you know? I have already keep it up at the shoulder as well. To the lower your core for the abs, on it. Oh, like. You want it to feel adventurous. It's an imitation of twist. You can actually add a rotational twist in as well. Just challenges as stability, core muscles, so that little bit further. I think we managed about two or three reps each. That's very stretching. That's it. So if the bars went there, I was hanging the other way. I would have walked with some more. Okay, quite a little bit. Just relax the feet. It's kind of weird. Well, you do this with all of that weight plate. So, we're going to stretch the front side. Back to the front. And to the other side. If you want to keep on doing this, a not going to stretch the head. Just drop the weight. Perfectly to do it. Go on. Oh, excuse me. You're going to see the cart crunching. Safety issue to be considered with the gravity boots. You will be hanging upside down for possibly up towards the net. So, all the blood will be rushing towards your head. If you have high blood pressure, probably recommend this exercise. I'll also recommend always having a spotter or a training partner or someone to hand. So, once you reach failure on the crunches, they can actually give you a hand up to hang back onto the bars. You can unhook your feet. You don't very slightly lower the weight. Awesome. That's tough. The thorn of twisty. Yeah. There's a little bit scary as well. You can't just constantly pick it up. The weight goes into one foot and the other one unhooking. In one. Now, I know when it plays mind trick to the other. But I like ice. For a crisp, final exercise today. I always finish with these as planks. You can have a front plank and then side plank. And both sides. Great for courseability for this course strength. Okay, okay. So, you know, adopt the session as such. I'll be honest. I'm sure you know this, but you can go through it the camera. Alright, all those. Draw the abs in. Good night and straight. All the way from head to toe. And hold. Okay, the 30 seconds. Okay. So, don't forget to keep breathing nice and steady. Variations for this. If you are fighting it too easy, everything is slightly rocked forwards and backwards. Okay. Deep up and down. We will shoulders. And move forward leg off the floor. Move forward leg on one arm. Okay. If you don't have a bench that you're feeling, how strong you are. Let your bridge gain more. Okay, 30 seconds. Walk to the side. Strucks one elbow. Push your hips. Push your hips. Nice and forward. And then lift. That's good. The tendency of the sides is people tend to dip forward. You can keep your body nice and straight. Okay. All the way. Bring through that top shoulder. If the hips up, it's like you know, it's just going to go. I've checked it. Okay, all the time. We'll swap around. And we'll shoulder. Okay. So, switch. You don't have to get push your hips forward. And then raise your hips up. You can do that call, Jordan. 20 seconds. 10 seconds. That deep, deep. Just got to go and do this. Maybe we'll show you when they get down. All the exercises today. Um, and cool, stretching. The whole core. The core as a whole is the place of isolating certain parts. Of the muscle group. Uh, full crest being a body builder. Um, very, very important. I've had perfect set of defined abs. And that comes with lifting masses of weights. The more core strength you have, the more weight you will be able to lift. And all these exercises today, we're incorporating core strength as well as, you know, the standard crunch move, standard twists. Um, so hopefully it all increases core strength, which will enable him to lift heavy weights. Push them tough further when he goes back to what he's used to do. All right, cool, all right, 10. To me, there's harder guys. If you want to add some dips in some it, go either weight plate, rest on your head. Do dips with the weight plate. You can add some rotational twists in to it. Okay, switch. And switch, last 30 seconds. To make a higher stilt, go one foot and then add rotation twists. That's how it's going to go. Okay. 5, 6, good. Yeah, good. Okay. With hips forward and hip-sup. Take it last five. Okay, good. Alright, then training has finished. All our grenade athletes, despite I'm in training for a while, I've definitely learnt something off Chris and hopefully being put through one of our workouts. Here's something from us as well.

=== FILE: Kris Gethin 12 Week Trainer - Bodybuilding.com [OXeUgib6t5g].txt ===

My name is Chris Gettin and I am here to help you achieve the body of your dreams. I lost about 35 pounds during the whole transformation. He's kind of like I said, no nonsense, no frills, you have a goal, you stick to it and that's pretty much it, you don't mind I'm complain. You see, I know what it's like to be trapped inside an unhealthy body. My severely injured my back, I was depressed, my asthma, my back was getting worse and I sunk to a personal low. It was this low point, was my transformation trigger to change my habits for good. But I didn't do it overnight and I didn't do it alone and you don't have to either. Workout plans, nutrition advice, motivation and supplementation, you'll get it all right here. If you have somebody like Chris behind you and knows what he's talking about, or just lose weight, look better, feel better, you're just going to change your life. So what's unique about this program? I'll be doing it right alongside with you. I'm going to be there with you every step of the day in the gym and on the non training days and you order info that you need to have a successful transformation and be a winner at the end.

=== FILE: Kris Gethin 12 Week Video Trainer  - From Apprentice To Mentor - Day 81 - Bodybuilding.com [n5XaL0Pb_8o].txt ===

I want to talk to you about how to be a mentor and how to be a role model again. So remember when you complete this trial week transformation a lot of people are going to be looking to they'll have questions you're going to be their role models. So given the advice let them know that anyone can complete its well-retransformation you just need the determination and the focus to follow through. Doesn't matter about genetics we can all do it we just have to control our environment. You'd be amazed at how many people have got it you know they've been out of shape then they've got in shape and then they've become a personal trainer. But you that person to help other people have a responsibility to you know give them the knowledge and you know the set short of dollars and one-term goals. Find out how you can pay it forward with what you've learned how it can go by or

=== FILE: Kris Gethin's DTP Trailer - Bodybuilding.com [3wntufOJs-A].txt ===

This is being my life for the MassFit psychologically.We are 50 years. And this is what I know best. And you're next. So let's f*** go.

=== FILE: Kris Gethin's Quad Radical Equation Workout - Leg Workout - Bodybuilding.com [G3dBxBZso8w].txt ===

Dirty, the bear in me I'm still alive I've missed me the pain gets me hurt Since when my life left him am I Dirty I've been in this industry for a long time I've trained, learned from and taught the best And all through the sweat, pain, blood I've created the largest legwork that you will ever do Uncriscat in, bring your balls, aren't a f*** up and let's go This legwork came from years of training Like I've been training for 14 years now So I have to keep on thinking outside of the box To make sure that each body part evolves And legs be in a hard body part to continue to involve I've had to kind of extract pieces from myself And people that I've trained with such as Douriniates Branch Warren, Gary Strider, Neil Hill, Flex Lewis and a tighter, you know, Attach each part into my own sort of method And every now and again, like every eight weeks ago I'll do a workout such as this It's high volume, but it isn't endurance workout We only train for like 45 minutes So I just throw that in there and just shop the system Every now and again and it works It's the world's toughest workout for me for sure And for anybody else who tries to push themselves Beyond the realms of what seems natural This is unnatural what we're doing in the gym And you know, it isn't an endurance workout by any means But what makes it really really hard Is the intensity of it Like we're only taking like 45 seconds rest In between the sets So you're going to be sucking a lot of oxygen Especially if you've got more muscle Which requires more oxygen And you're going to be dragging ass in there And we're leaving no stone unturned We're hitting our Type 1 muscle fibers Our Type 2A's Type 2B's We're really knocking the central nervous system At a whack And you know it's going to knock your head about It's going to knock your body about And if it seems easy You're just pushing it hard enough with the intensity All the way We're going to be using a various techniques Tunis workout We've got our straight sets We're going to have drop sets Throne in there We're going to have partial reps Throne in there We're also going to have super sets Throne in there as well So you know we're going to be hitting the muscles From all types of angles Just to make sure that we're shocking the system And we're not allowing the muscles Specifically the legs Now get adapted to its environment We're going to start off with leg extensions We're going to get nasty, grimy and dirty in this We're going to get work up to 100 reps And you may think it's going to be a lightweight But it's not going to be a very heavyweight We're going to be doing a drop set In order to get out 100 reps But before we do that We're just going to do a couple of warm upsets Just to make sure that we get the side No real fluid in our knees And the blood within our muscles and the cycle head up All right, and then between the sets Just stretch out the quad quickly Pull the stretch for about 10 seconds Because it takes about 10 seconds At least for the muscle to stretch out And then we're going to increase the weight a little bit And just do another warm up Of around 10 to 15 repetitions Again just activate the muscles Get them firing and get the brain activated So for this workout we're going to start off with 100 reps on leg extensions Now this is going to be a drop set What you should be doing is starting off with the heaviest weight That you can possibly push on leg extensions After you've done a couple of warm upsets Obviously I'm going to put the stack on it And probably probably go through about 20 or 30 repetitions Before dropping it down Every time I drop it I want to get out at least 10 reps So I may do 20 or 30 now I'll drop it, grind out another 10 Drop it, grind out another 10 And keep following that theme and pattern until I get to 100 repetitions Once I get to that 100 repetitions I'm going to put it down on the stack again And just knock out some passports I'm going to be aiming for anywhere between 15 to 20 reps Before dropping it, 15 to 20 reps So I'll do that three times then Stray at the end of this 100 reps drop set So I don't 100 reps now I'm going to put the weights all the way back to the bottom of the stack For my passports I'm going to pass the weight back to the bottom of the stack From my passports I'm going to do a little bit of that I'm going to put the weight back to the bottom of the stack From my passports Make sure that you lean forward on this now Don't lean back To choose a weight for your passports for instance It's going to be trial and error I don't know how fast you fatigue, how much you have How to cast it, that you have how many type 1 muscle fibers you have over type 2 So you'll have to trial and error If you're doing a lot less than 10 reps before reaching failure Then you need to lighten it a little bit next time Again, if you're doing more than 20 reps Then you need to make it a little bit heavier So just trial and error Make sure that you chart down what weight that you used Until you find the right weight we're year Which is very round 50 to 20 on those passports Okay, so we did 20, 40, 60 Repetitions there on the passports As you can see it was only like a 2 to 3-inch movement Very little movement What you'll find is that it really targets the quads Right here right around the knee Right on the rectus from our us there If I lean back on the seat I'll find that it works a little bit too much of the flexors So it's really isolate the quads right around the knee Right there We lean forward when we're doing the passports The muscles are just absolutely gorge-dried blood man So to target the quads even more now We're going to superset leg press with scissy squats To start off with the leg press We're going to start off with our feet at the bottom of the platform With heels about fist distance apart To slightly pointed out And we're going to start off with 14 repetitions And then you're going to rest for five seconds without racking away And then you're going to do 12 repetitions again Rest for five seconds and then do 10 repetitions And then we're going to continue that theme with 8, 6, 4, 2 And then that set is done Are you superset onto the city squats then For some people, I've trained with They'll do with 100 reps on the leg extensions and the partial reps And that's how it worked out done They're on their way to the rest room and they're throwing up But you've got to be conditioned to this I do a lot of cardio remember So my cardio-verscal endurance is pretty good So I can hit the high reps Someone like Branch Rowan would you believe Has got pretty good cardio-verscal endurance as well He trains very intense And he's a big guy so if he can do it a lot of other people can You just have to be conditioned to it So it takes a lot of experience But it takes a lot of mental focus as well Okay again straight into the 60 squats now Always unstrat my knees Now I don't feel too much stress Within the knees on 60 squats And I want to get the blood flow Back around my quads and my knee area We're going to start off with 20 repetitions Hold in the dumbbells Going down to just a little bit further than a parallel So your hand string should be just a little bit further than a parallel Once you've reached failure with that You're going to drop them go a little bit lighter And do another 20 repetitions Now you may reach failure before the 20 repetitions But that's fine You just rest pause until you get to the 20 again When you feel like there's nothing left in the tank You drop in the weight and you go and add it again And it's a great sense of achievement But it's a great sense of just being the bully And the gym, you're just pounding yourself Pounding yourself, pounding yourself Until you ain't got nothing left Until you get back up next on, do it all over again Shit, that was tough All right, so Once we're super-set it onto the Susy squats as you can see I was using a dumbbell As my counterbalance To lean back Keep it back a little bit more upright So I haven't had not lean in too far forward So I'm still getting a lot of pressure through the quads Not much pressure on my back And I only come up three quarters of the way Because I want to keep constant tension On the legs at all time Nothing on the joint All on the muscles You cannot stop until you reach You're a quiet amount of repetitions Which is 20 repetitions In this case, just do all day You've got to do it, you've got to accomplish it You have to achieve something every time you go to the gym If that's a goal that you set you make sure your damper set you're going to achieve it Okay, even though I made a breath It's time for set two where we're going to bring the legs up A little bit, a little bit wider Same with the Susy squats we're going to take slightly wider stance Now to hit the abductors Which is the inner part of the thigh So leg should be in the top of the plate now Close to the shoulder distance apart And about shoulder distance apart Honocity squat Let's hit it I don't like to rack the weight on the leg press In between my five second intervals between the 14 reps and the 12 reps or whatever Because I want to keep the mental focus in that set the whole time If I rack it, I feel like that set is over with I want to keep the stress and load on the muscles I don't want to relax and go out again Because I feel that it's going to take too much mental energy Just to get back into it again So I prefer to keep that tensioner, keep the intensity in there Because this workout is all about intensity and that's it for me So I like to just keep it un-racked and just keep knocking it out Not going to get out Okay I'm strapping in There's no pressure on the Susy squats on the knees So I need to get the blood back into the area That's a sense you'll be following these sets Take a few deep breaths in few nose Get the oxygen to your brain, clear the head Of any outside distraction And get your head into the set Because not just quantity, we're looking forward to absolute quality When I come into the gym, I think about nothing else for that This workout and I'd be thinking about it for maybe 24 hours before I'm pitching myself going through the motions You've got to, you know, psych yourself up and put yourself into that dark place as well If you want it bad enough, you will accomplish it A lot of the time I should sleep more than what I should But sometimes I feel good if I'm slightly sleep deprived Because I'm a little bit more pissed off And I'm a little bit more cittat to get through workouts like this And so reason being that's why I do it A second set absolutely mulled me But it's good, I felt no strain on my back and my knees Just my cardiovascular system and we're supposed to work right through the quads So I've experienced a lot of back problems with the conventional squats And a meal hill actually taught me this movement Which really blitz my quads just as much Without the stress and load on my back, of course I still squat And I do recommend squat Just I don't make it a common part of the workout on a weekly basis Okay, so we're done with that superset now We just did two sets, that's all we required from that We're going straight on to the next exercise Now we're going to do what's called hills squats With one leg, superset that With a variation of the lying hamstring curl Which I'll demonstrate for you Once we've done one leg on the quad and hamstrings In the superset fashion, we'll do the other leg In the superset fashion And we'll cross back and forth for three sets in total All right, let's get into it So the next exercise is a superset with hills squats With a variation of the lying hamstring curl Single leg on each one Now the hill squat is something that I learned from Neil Hill, hence hill squat So what we're going to do is with our single leg of the hill squat We're going to do 20 repetitions holding a plate Once we've reached failure at 20 repetitions on that same leg We're going to superset on the lying hamstring curl That variation that I demonstrate Once we've finished 15 repetitions on there We go straight back to the hill squat on the opposite leg Of 20 repetitions And then superset that with a variation of the lying hamstring curl For 15 And then we go back again on to our beginning leg of the hill squat 20 repetitions superseted back onto the hamstring curl For 15 And we just keep going back and forth until we've done three sets in total of each superset on each leg So there's no rest here You know it's going to hurt us going to be hard You're going to be lightheaded and you're going to feel sick But you know this is an assistive work out you know I'm sick of seeing people with big built up a body and skinny legs If you want to get big legs with cuts with separation You're going to have to get with a big body So let's get straight into it So remember when you're doing this The hill squat We're doing 20 reps on here and we're doing 15 reps on the hamstring curl When we're doing the hill squat here We're only going down All the way but only going up through quarters away That's three We're going to 20 So when you're doing the hill squats your leg should be supported on a box or something That's about knee height Any lower than that you're not going to get the full range of motion You're going to have to go down as far as you may or you might find that you're going to have too much stress and load on your supporting legs So from the ventral box of knee height is about adequate Bring that supported leg up right high So we can isolate the leg as much as possible Keep your legs arms locked, stay upright You won't be able to use much weight on this It's private We're going to 15 On the hamstring curls you'll notice that my range of motion wasn't fully extending The knee so the leg was never straight Because I want to keep the tension on the hamstring at all times And not on the tendons or the joints There's always tension on the belly of the muscle at all times Keep an at stress and load on there We'll allow you to reach failure faster as opposed to using the full range of motion And it's going to have less chance of injury as well I really enjoy workouts like this I thrive off the pain because pain is pleasure at the end of the day And not only that, you know, I get motivated by people telling me what I can't do And what isn't correct Specifically goings on the forums that I hate is And they say you can't do this meal frequency doesn't mean shit And you know, high reps you ain't going to build muscle like that Well, instead of having their noses in the book Maybe that it should be bleeding right here in the gym Because half the time I look at these cats and they're like fat pieces of Omebas or you've got like skinny rakes Tell me what to do, you know? Just check out the results that I'm able to attain All the ones of my clients and then talk to me You know, because otherwise you ain't standing next to me If you can't stand next to me, go talk to someone else in ways to breath You know, because I'm here to evolve and move forward Wow All right, that's our three superset stone With Hill squats and hamstring curl again No rest in between those sets or three single sets at all It's just back and forth, back and forth You will be blowing there, you'll be trying to suck in oxygen It's going to be tough, but you know, you've got to fail to succeed You leave everything here in the gym, you don't take anything with you right the door Then you do it all again next week, but tougher and harder As I said, if you want unnatural results You're going to have to do unnatural things in the gym So guess what, we're going to go straight back To our first exercise on leg extension We're going to do the same as what we did when we started this workout My hamstrings and glutes are really fried From this exercise, I want to fry the quads again So again, we're going to start with the first exercise We're repeating it exactly the same 100 reps drop set, followed by the triple drop of the passports No rest, let's do it So our final exercise is repeating our first exercise Leg extensions, 100 reps drop set Identical to the way we did it before Start off with a heaviest weight of around 20 to 30 repetitions I did, but you've got to do a minimum of 10 And then once you've finished your 100 reps go through the drop sets We repeat the passports again When you feel like there is nothing left But to drag your ass out by your lips Hitting those passports just totally, you know, wipe the floor with you Because you're not only just hitting some passports You're going back to the weight stack that you started with You're heaviest weight when you legs are totally fatally So you're just draining that last bit out Just think about getting your ass not out in the ring for instance And then someone dragging you by your face out of the ring That's what it feels like And you know, doing something to shock the system Or always shock the body So that's it for hamstrings, quads and glutes So I did a drop set then until I reached 100 reps It doesn't matter if you do Three drop sets, five drop sets as long as you get to 100 Reach in failure with every drop set Starting with the heaviest weight possible Just to totally fry whatever is left in the quads It is now dead, remember when you come into the gym It's your chance to be the bully You can kick the shit out of yourself, you know And it's legal So you just keep on adding, keep punching it Punching it, if you feel this some life left And you punch it some more So let me ask you, you're going to come up with an excuse Or a commitment, you have to do what you fear And not fear what you do If you fear something like this, do it Because that's the only way that you're going to progress But if you've got any more questions for me Hit me up on body space, my name is Caged Muscle And for more of my training programs You can check out the 12 week hardcore video trainer Or my 4 week DTP trainer And for more content like this Go on to bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Kris Gethin's Shoulder Annihilation Workout - Bodybuilding.com [kRVKvACQhsE].txt ===

The fitness culture in India versus other parts of the world, the main differences that I see is that it is behind, by I'd say about 10 years. But it's rapidly growing. It's just the beginning here. So I see what's happening here is what happened in the US. Maybe in late 80s, early 90s where you had the van dams, the stilones, the Schwarzenegger's dominating a box of his screen. And now you have a lot of the bodywood stars with great bodies that inspire in nation. So people are inspired by that and they're filling up the gyms and they want to be educated, they want to learn about nutrition and how to evolve their physique. We hope to continue to expand the nations, you know, of transformations here in India. India has changed my lifestyle, definitely for the better and my routine. The routine was a little bit hard to begin with because, you know, we're in Mumbai here. There's a lot of traffic as a lot of delays. People are on a different time scale to me. Once I wrap my head around that, it was fine. I was able to adapt accordingly. And what I've really enjoyed here is that people are generally happy. You look at the TV, it's all colours and music. People generally have a smile on their face, the weather's great. I can see a definite comparison to how I was to how I am now. We're on a much calmer than what I was and a little bit more relaxed in my approach. Yes. The one thing I missed the most, I'd say, about training in the US. And I don't want to sound nasty or arrogant with this. People generally, you know, kind of leave you alone in the gym. But, you know, it's not uncommon for me to be in a middle of a set here and people come up and talk. Which is absolutely fine. That's not their fault, you know, people in India are just very, very approachable people and they're very curious and they're just happy, interactive people. And I'm not used to that, especially when I go to the gym, when I go to the gym, it's my therapy time. It's my alone time, it's my office. So I have to kind of close everything out there in order for me to internally express myself within the gym, you know. When I train it's much more than a vanity aspect for me, it's more therapeutic. I can stick to the same foods here in India as I do in any other country so I don't find it harder here at all. Two keywis and I'll have two avocados for you to transform, you just need to have your staples, which is what I need to every single day, it'll be lean, culture, you know, chicken, fish, egg whites, you know, oatmeal. So you've got low fat, high fiber, no cholesterol, good, so you can, you know, improve your health fitness and appearance goals regardless of your diet training. So I just had breakfast here now, as you can see, I just had egg whites, I had my roti bread, and you know, generally what I'll do, I'll have that set of for a while and I like to go for a running the morning, you know, I'm here right at the beach in Bandra and you know, when I go out and go for my run, it's my time to climb the clear my head and get myself set for the day. So from there, you know, generally come back and have my pre-workout subs and head to the gym, and then what we're going to do is hit doubts today. And my mindset when I'm going to the gym is generally, you know, visualization of what I'm about to go through in the workout. But to me, it's not really that much for challenge because I've been doing it for so many years now, I've become accustomed to it and I know how to control my environment. As I get older for some reason, I deal with more emotional issues, I don't know why, so I find to dampen those issues, I have to train more intently. I find that the more intense that I train, the more productive that I'm able to be in other aspects of my life. So we're here now, we're at the gym where at a gym called I think fitness here in Bandra. So what I'm going to do is show you some volume and some intensity. And various techniques and angles that I've kind of applied over the past couple of years to make sure that my weakness being my doubts is turning into more of a strength. So we started our first exercise now after the warm-up, was straight into single arm side raises and what we did was 12 repetitions on one side, 12 reps on the other, straight back for 10 reps on the starting side and I followed that theme all the way down to two. So I just find that it's a great way to kind of warm up the joint, the ball and socket, start improving the elasticity to the muscles, start getting a little more electrolite function, more contraction as I start reaching for tea again. I'm going to go a little bit heavier for the second set, rest about 45 seconds and stroke back into it. So that way was perfect. It did 30 pounds on the first 135 on an extra and really rich failure then. By doing one arm at a time I feel that I'm able to isolate my doubt that much more, but you know I still do both the time but I like to do this every night again, swap things up and get the isolation in there. What I'm going to do now is go onto like a side and a front adult raise at the same time where I come out to the side and I come to the front to make sure that I start off with the outer delt but now I start targeting the front as well. So we start hitting the in-between point. I hit 12 repetitions, I rest for five seconds and then I did 10 repetitions and then eight following a thing down again to six and then four and then two and then finish and I'll do one more set on that now as well. Again a real good pump throughout the deltoy. I can't feel any second remussels so that's exactly what I want. A lot of people find it hard to get that mine muscle connection, that neuromuscular education so that they can contract but you know with this give it a try I go into you you won't have any trouble isolating that area whatsoever. So we're going to move on to this bench at an incline about there. Now I really want to get this area here between the chest and the delt. You can only go light on this because it really isolates that much by getting a real good stretch and a contraction is insane. So we're going to go 10 pounds. We're going to do the girly weights. Okay so on that we did 20 reps. Make sure we're going to good stretch real good stretch out the deltoy. You wouldn't normally get if you're standing upright and you only come up not even 45 degrees. Just stop there any further than that you'll kind of rest. Hold it there for about one to two seconds come back down don't even go all the way down we're resting constant tension applied to the delt. Come back up and repeat that for 20 times and then I just rapid out with a little bit of momentum because I've pre-futy that muscle so then the isolation is just still within a front delt. I'm going to go a little bit heavier now anyway especially because I don't want to look like a girly front of you guys so I'm going to go up to 15 pounds. The next movement I want to go into now is going to hit all heads of the delt so we're going to do some upright rows here now with a variation of grips. So we'll start it off wide to 10 reps so what I find is going wide to begin with that really targets the rear the posterior delt especially if I come out in a slight angle just to get that contraction wherever your elbows point you're pretty much guaranteed that's where you're going to target when to the medium shoulder width and at 10 as I start going closer elbow start pointing up. Because I'm starting to try to target the traps a little bit more than and then close into 10. So wide posterior delt closer a little bit more traps so I started off with 10 reps then I did 10 and then did another 10. Obviously accumulating to 30. So I'm taking my arms up to take the headphones off but now I'm going to go a little bit heavier if it means decreasing the reps a little bit so be it because I feel like I'm completely isolated and pre-fitting now. From that final set I had to rest of the balls but that's okay. It's your body that's going to give out before you're brain. Take some deep breaths in between the sets and like I said take that meditative approach. That's it. What was that about 40 minute workout if that and now we'll just go and have a post-workout shake on wind and get ready for the day. That's it. So remember if you've got any questions for me and regards this workout or anything else then you know you can contact me on body space. My name is Cage D'Mussel, spelled K-A-G-E-D-Mussel, M-U-S-E-L-E and contact me through my body groups on body space and you know for more content like this with this video series or any other video series from Neil Hill, Jimstapani, Dorian Yates all the experts are on there. You know where to go. You get all this good content on bodybuilding.com. Peace. Live reporting from Mumbai. We're on the way to the gym right now. Hey persistent.

=== FILE: Kristina Olson Fitness 360： Driven To Succeed - Bodybuilding.com [-w_Jo_9WxHE].txt ===

You know, I think a big part of what I want to tell people is that it's okay to step back and re-evaluate your life and make a change. And it happens with fitness, it happens in business, it's your life and you need to be happy. And it's okay to decide to change. You're not a failure. You're just choosing to do something different. I'm Christina Olsen. I am a certified personal trainer, have my degree in Earth Sciences, and in the 2015 body space books model way. My dad used to raise motorcycles professionally. He did flat track and quarter mile. He raised that they used to in Texas, Astridome. He was always extremely athletic growing up, and he really wanted to transfer that onto his children and get his children to be. He was active, always outside playing, participating in sports, extracurricular activities, skiing, snowboarding, from a very young age I started skiing. I mean, I was probably two and they took me to Jackson Hole when I was, you know, taking ski lessons. And he just always really pushed us to be adventurous and experienced life and all the different things that has to offer. And so for me, I've kind of embraced that. After I graduated from high school, I decided I didn't want to go straight into college and I wanted to pursue a career as a musician. Moved up to Los Angeles, got after it and made some good things happen. And I really enjoyed it. I got to be the singing voice for Barbie, which is like huge, because little girls love Barbie, and, you know, I loved Barbie, growing up, Barbie and the rockers. So that was like kind of a really amazing achievement for me. I'm just really driven. You know, that's the one thing at the body space spokesmodel search finals on stage that I didn't say about myself when you could describe yourself. My husband was like, I'm really surprised. You didn't say driven, because that's the number one thing. But I guess for me, it's just so ingrained in such an innate quality that I don't really consider it so much. I just go for things that I just want to be the best at what I do. It doesn't matter what it is if I do something, I'm all in. I love to cook because it makes me feel good. I don't know, it's cathartic for me. So what I tend to do is I take a lot of the recipes that I have or that I see mostly family recipes, and I just make them a healthier version. You know, instead of adding olive oil to something I'll use coconut spray instead, or instead of doing pork and green beans, I'll do like chicken and green beans. You know, I think it's about really learning how to shop in the grocery store and looking at the ingredients because there are a lot of things that if you just look at the label, you know, when you're scrolling down the aisles and you see something and it says, gluten free, non GMO, all this stuff, you actually look at the ingredients. It'll, you know, the second ingredient is like evaporated canches or something. So it's really about reading the ingredients and the fine details and that will, and itself teach you how to shop better. Also I'd love to do a cookbook that's something that I'm working on and I want to do more cooking-related videos because I feel like people can read recipes, but sometimes you're not really sure. They look a little different than they do in the pictures when you pull it out of the oven. So I'd like to show people, this is what it actually looks like. You know, you can go about cooking it this way, that kind of interaction. So as far as end goals go, I don't necessarily have just one end goal and I'm not trying to look too far into the future. I would like to continue to pursue fitness because I'm very passionate about it, obviously I love earth science, but I've kind of put that on the back burner for a little bit because there's so much going on in the fitness industry and I feel like for me it's kind of an extension of the entertainment industry as far as you know, me being able to give things to people on, share with them. I'd like to start training more clients in person. I do have online clients that I work with right now and I have a couple in person training sessions that I do with a few clients and I really like that experience, you know, being able to be there and personally, you know, cheer them on and root them on and be like, you can do it one more rep, you know, you got this, that kind of thing. I just want to tell the women out there that you can lift weights. It doesn't have to be just cardio. Wates are going to give you the tone body you want. Don't be afraid to lift heavy, honestly, because you're going to get the booty and you're going to get all the lines and the definition that you want by doing that. And abs are made in the kitchen. Jamie Eason says it all the time and it's so true. When you're really in shape and you're feeling good, it just translates to everything you do. It just radiates from the inside out. You hold yourself in in such a different manner. You know, when I worked in the music business, I never felt as good as I do now. And it's such a huge difference. I'm so much happier now with my life and with everything that I've done and with my body and I just feel a million times better and it shows with all my interactions with people. And I think that if people knew how they would really feel when they got in good shape that more people would do it.

=== FILE: Laura McGraw Fitness 360： Survivor Strong - Bodybuilding.com [zZCXEfITZUk].txt ===

I was in five or six car accidents, total, which resulted in a broken back. I decided that I was going to go to the gym and see if I could make it stronger myself and I became addicted. I'm Laura McGraw and I am the Optiminatrition 100,000 dollar transformation winner for 2012. My group in England, born in London and Dad was playing for a team there. I watched him get up every day and go for a run. He used to do sit-ups in the living room and he was the kind of athlete that didn't necessarily come to a gym every day but worked out every day. In Europe, you are gone in the morning and somebody may feed your lunchtime and then you go play the rest of the day and I always just competed with the boys because there wasn't girls' teens per se. So if there was a running race I'd just run with the boys or soccer. I'd do a play soccer football technically with the boys. But I wasn't really a tomboy. I love girl-y stuff. I love putting a dress on and he'll go out for a dinner and I also love the gym and I don't mind getting dirty and love competition and that comes from my family for sure. Everything we did was a competition. Who can brush their teeth the fastest? You can get everything every day that we did was competitive. I was in five or six car accidents total which resulted in a broken back. And back then I think it was, I was thinking about this bad luck and now I look back and I think that everything happens for a reason and I wouldn't be in the gym and working out lifting weights of it. Hadn't been for those car accidents because there was nothing that could fix it. They tried all sorts of different procedures and numbing the spine and everything they could possibly think of to fix it without having to fuse the spine. And so I decided that I was going to go to the gym and see if I could make it stronger myself and I became addicted. They said I think that the past enabled me to do well in the challenge because when I did finally get everything dialed in and then taken a supplement and I was watching when I was eating calorie-wise and contented food and just got everything in line and when it came off I said, oh look what just happened look what I did for the last 10 years of lifting weights and going to the gym and now I got the weight off and I have the muscle masses there so. About four weeks into the challenge, bodybuilding.com sent me in my order the body by design book and I started reading through it and one of the pillars in the book is about being accountable and sharing your experience with other people. And so I decided that I was going to do a fundraiser for the school and six weeks into my challenge started 30 moms and dads at the school in the same program I was doing and I think that that's huge when you're doing a program like this it's share what you're doing with other people. People in to give to others that are trying to change their lives and either with exercise or eating writer and I'm just being more positive without expecting anything great turning. That was a big learning experience for me because I felt that I needed to be a hundred percent committed to what I was doing to show them that they could do it too. My training is for ever changing and I always start my week with a plan of what I want to get accomplished but I don't really assign days to specific activities and busy because they am baseball and soccer and dance and all sorts of stuff so I know what I want to get accomplished and I would say probably 90 percent of the time I get it accomplished when it's going to happen in a one-order. If I get up in the morning and in my mind I thought I was going to do legs today and I'm just not feeling exciting. I know I need tons of energy for legs. Then I switch it up and maybe I'll do shoulders and abs because it's one thing that I want to get accomplished in that week. For the program I did Jamie's lift fit plan and I took a bit about sticking to it and towards the end she does a really high rep pretty intense superset some cardio intervals in between and so that was some new stuff for me. I've been very traditional in the way around 8 to 12 reps, three sets and so changing it up with Jamie's training program was great and my fighter responded differently to it so that was cool. You know the new philosophy and training with a lot of the programs is very very little cardio and that's hard for me because that's my in-dorther release. That's when I think and when I clear my mind and so I do cardio every day and usually somewhere around an hour. One of my favorite machines is a subbell and just stepping up the subbell you just feel like you're about to do your stuff and there's rarely a day that I don't do something active so a rest day for me is maybe an hour on the elliptical with heart rate maybe 60% of my act so I got some great tunes always in my ear. All I will drive home to get me. I pot if I don't have it with me so I'm always good music and I enjoy it I think this is a minute if I didn't like it and maybe I wouldn't work out so hard but I love it. I love getting sweaty I love picking up a 50-con dumbbell. Well my nutrition program is really basic and for me don't count calories and I don't weigh and I can eat the same thing every day so I can have chicken and broccoli every day for 12 weeks if I need to chicken and bread. It's very black in the way so I don't eat a lot of variety. I did eat a lot of Jamie's muffins which are the turkey meatloaf muffins in cupcake containers. So they were awesome. I'd make four batches and three half of them and so I could always grab them. I did the body by design nutritional program more so than Jamie's program. They're very similar. Jamie's is just more detailed of listing out foods. Normally I'd have oatmeal for breakfast. A couple hours later I made reaching to the fridge and grabbed some turkey then it went and shall have a spinach salad usually and kind of throw whatever's in the fridge on their vegetable-wise and chicken. If I've had chicken cooked or sourced more turkey on there and some point during the day I'll have a protein shake on the go. Always have a bar in the car. A protein bar in the car. I think that while my goal is to eat whole foods as often as I can I'd rather eat a protein bar or a protein shake if I don't have anything else. I don't believe in cheap meals per I think if you're at the weight that you want to be at then every once in a while you can have a treat and it's okay. For the program I was clean and I found in the past that diet was my number one obstacle. I enjoy working out. I knew that about myself. I'd always been active but I always had this extra 10 pounds, 15 pounds depending on where I was or if I just had a baby and so I knew in order for me to get where I wanted to be I had to be a 100% wan which is great for me because I'm very black and white so that worked for me. My supplements I believe in supplements I think that they supplement your diet they're great. I have not been consistent in the past with supplements and so I was 99% consistent with my supplements this time and without a doubt it made a huge difference. I had never done BSAs before and I've always struggled with recovery and so I couldn't go day after day after day with hitting it hard and then getting up and doing it again and being able to get a 100% number again and so I would say that the BSAs was probably the biggest change in my supplement program. I've always done a multi-vitamin. I did a mega as I always do a mega as I supplement with protein pattern when I don't have pulses on hand, same with protein bars. It's individual to everybody. What their body needs to help them recover and help them feel better and be able to work out again and enjoy working out. So for me it was BCA as I think I was lacking them internally and they made a world of different domains. Each supplement does something different but it doesn't mean that your body needs that. I think everybody needs a multi-vitamin. Protein powder is great to have as far as what kind of protein powder my body digests way protein is best but somebody else's body might do better on a sway protein way so it really depends on how you digest different foods and and what works for you. I don't think that it would have been able to achieve the goals in 12 weeks without supplementation but they haven't been able to do it before and I feel like I finally found what was lacking in myself to be able to recover and I needed those hard workouts more than once or twice a week. I needed three or four days a week in order to make that large transformation over a short period of time. I'm lucky that I feel that my body responds to whatever I throw at it. So it was responding to my workouts in the way that it could based on what I was giving it. So when I started giving it the BCA's and the amag is in the multi every single day it turned into a clock. It was expecting it. You know on Sundays I have my big supplement holder and open it all up and it has an amp and on Sunday night religiously. I filled up the entire week and I was good to go and for sure my body feels great to be better than ever actually. I've been a 41 this year so it took me a while to figure it out but I got it. Well that's it for my training, my nutrition, my supplementation. If you want to know anymore or ask me any questions you can sign me about a space that Laura McGraw. If you are looking for more motivation and you want to make a transformation you can get on bodybuilding.com and find tons of resources, transform your body lots of motivation lots of people they're willing to help you. You can sign up for a contest just like I did. I lost 22 pounds and 16% body fat in 12 weeks so can you.

=== FILE: Layne Norton - Competition Tips - Peak Week (SD) [DkFFcXTSYyg].txt ===

How many times have you heard somebody say, man, I look so great the week before the show or I look so great that they have to the show, I look like garbage on the show day. What happened? What were it wrong? Hey guys, this is Lane Norton. I'm a pro natural bodybuilder for the Ph.D. in the traditional science. I'm going to use my experience in knowledge to walk you through one of the most important aspects of your contact prep. And that's your final week before the show, often referred to as P.C. We're going to go through what needs to be done in terms of your nutrition, your protein, carbon, fat intake, what you should do in terms of manipulating your water and sodium if at all, your workouts and cardio, we're also going to look at your posing. And what needs to be done on show day, like tanning and stage presence, I'm going to talk to you about the right way to do P.C. the science-based way.

=== FILE: Learn how to manipulate your body weight [yuAfVg7Z9Mo].txt ===

In this video, I'm going to explain to you everything that you need to know to figure out how to manipulate your body weight in any way that you want. But there's a cat. This is only gonna work if you can stick with these recommendations for an entire 14 days. You're only gonna need three things. A food scale, a body weight scale, my fitness file, or any other similar app. That one is establishing a starting point. The Harris, Benedict's equation. That's gonna give you an estimate of how many calories we need to consume every day log your body weight daily and at the same time wake up. You take a fluke, you weigh yourself, you throw about your day. Way the food that you consume the only way that you can do this accurately. It's choosing foods that are really easy to measure. Chicken, brown, beef, rice, 40% of that total calorie requirement. And you're gonna put it towards your protein and say 40% towards carbs and 20% towards fat. After weighing yourself every single day for a week, you're gonna take the average of those seven day and you're gonna compare it to the average of following seven days. And you're gonna see whether there's a change in increase, you stay the same or you decrease your body weight. Using that information, you're gonna be able to make a much more objective decision of how many calories you could be consuming, whether you need to up them, even the same or decrease them. That is literally everything that we need to know in order to learn how to manipulate your body weight the way that you want. If you still have any more questions, feel free to drop them down below, make sure you save this post and share with your friends.

=== FILE: Lee Labrada 12-Week Lean Body Workout & Diet - Bodybuilding.com [udqDDQ7i0vY].txt ===

I am Leela Brada. Welcome to my 12-week Lean Body Program. Regardless of what shape you're in your age or how many diet programs you've tried without success, I'm confident that you can transform your body and become leaner and stronger. In my Lean Body Program, I'm going to show you how to shift your metabolism from fat storing to fat burning so that you can stimulate lean muscle tissue while shedding access body fat. This will be your personal journey of physical and mental self-improvement. You'll make changes that will profoundly improve your appearance, health and well-being for the rest of your life. Ready to start your personal Lean Body Success Journey? Let's get started. By using the Banx Program, which stands for Balance Nutrition and Exercise, I'm going to provide you a specific meal plan for recipes, exercises, workout routines and other information every day. So I'll be there with you every step of the way as you go through your transformation. As a former IFBB Mr. Universe, best-selling author and fitness expert, I've trained literally thousands of people, sharing my full-proof method to achieving the lean body that I've always wanted. In fact, I once helped an entire city get into shape. Once known as the Fatacity in America, Houston, Texas, had a weight problem. Working with the city, I was given free-range to do whatever it took to get Houston back into shape. I implemented an initiative called Githling Houston. 18 months later, I appeared on the Today Show with Matt Lauer to break the news that Houston was no longer the Fatacity in America. His name is Lil Libraita and they are standing by right now. In Houston, Texas, to share in the good news, Mr. Mayor Lee, good to see you both. For the next 12 weeks, you'll get one episode for every day of your transformation challenge, including weekends. But before you jump into day one, watch the overview episodes on nutrition, training, supplements, and the tools that you can use to get started. The four overview episodes outlined the principles of the lean body program and explained what type of exercise you'll be doing, what you'll be eating and how you can succeed using the lean body system. I'm on a mission to show people how to get into shape and stay in shape for the rest of their lives. And now, I want to help you.

=== FILE: Lee Labrada announces Transformation Winners [6UMYGxKPWpw].txt ===

Hi, this is Leela Brotta with Lebrot in Nutrition. I'd like to congratulate all the contestants at entered and successfully completed the Lebrot-AleamBodyBodyBody.com transformation challenge. I'd also like to announce the winners of this transformation. Our third place winner is Jason Taylor from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Jason will receive a three-month supply of Lebrot-A-Products and a Lebrot-A-Winner's checking. Congratulations, Jason, on your transformation. Our second place winner is Amanda Pate. Amanda will receive a six-month supply of Lebrot-A-Products and the Lebrot-A-Winner's check-in also. Congratulations, Amanda. I'm your transformation. And now it's my great pleasure to announce our grand prize winner. That is Andrew Clark of Salt Lake City, Utah. Andrew will receive a four-day cruise for two to cozy mill Mexico, along with a training session with me at the Lebrot-A-Nutrition Gym in Houston, Texas. Andrew will also receive a one-year supply of Lebrot-A-Products and Lebrot-A-Winner's check-in. Andrew, Amanda, and Jason will all have their photo and story posted on both the Lebrot-A and Bodybuilding.com websites and receive and awards certificate. Congratulations on your remarkable transformation guys. Your dedication and determination to finish the challenge has helped each of you make unique and dramatic body and lifestyle transformations. You're all truly winners and we're proud of you. I'm Lela Brada, your Leem Body Coach.

=== FILE: Leg Anatomy & Training Program ｜ Built By Science [4H2hH2_GrPQ].txt ===

You're not to me, is a blueprint. You are an architect beneath your skin like the plant for your fastest, strong, and the longest, most powerful self. If you can learn the structure of your skeleton, you make up of your muscle and the mechanics of movement, you can create your best possible body. I'm Mike Robertson. This is Bill By Science. If you're serious about building a complete physique, it really begins at ends with your legs. In my opinion, they may be the most important muscle group to hone in development. Let's be honest, there's no way you can short-change yourself. If you're not pushing it in the gym, there's no way you're going to develop the type of size and strength you're capable of without getting a great looking set of legs. When you think about it, the legs are literally half the body, and there's five big muscle groups that we're going to cover here today. Your quads, your hamstrings, your glutes, your adductors, or groin muscles, as well as your caps. So there's a ton of real estate and a ton of information that we're going to cover in this video. With that being set, there's four areas that we want to cover with you guys here today. Number one, we're going to cover the muscular anatomy like we just talked about. We're going to cover the skeletal anatomy, the bones and the joints involved in those movements. Third, we're going to show you the motions that your bones and joints and muscles work together to create, and then we're going to finish it off by showing you guys a few key exercises that we think best represent how your body should move when you're in the gym. We've selected IFBB physique pro Krika Perso. We're going to help you guys better understand the anatomy and the function so that you can get the most out of your training in the gym. As I already alluded to, the legs are literally half of your body. We're going to cover five big muscle groups and 17 individual muscles in this episode. And if you ask me, there's no better place to start than whatever guy wants to build, it's great looking set of quads. So we got Krika Krika, if you just kind of relax here for me, quads means four individual muscle groups. So you've got what's called your vastus, ladder out of us, your vastus, media out of us, vastus, intermediate, and your rectus femurus. So we'll start with rectus femurus because it's unique. It actually starts at the top of your hip and comes all the way down and crush your knee. Next onto what's called your quad or peteler tendon. And this muscle is unique because it's the only one of your quad muscles that crosses your hip. From there, you've got what's called your vastus ladder out of us. And a lot of people want to talk about their outer thigh sweet. It comes from the top of your femur, comes all the way down across, and it also attaches to that quad or peteler tendon. From there, you've got your inner thigh or that vastus media out of us. And you guys can see we talk about a tear drop. I mean, Krika's like a perfect example of that. So that vastus media out comes from the top of the thigh, comes all the way down and around, and attaches to his quad or peteler tendon. And then last but not least, you can't see it, but your vastus intermedius. It runs deep to your rectus femurus, and it comes all the way down, and also attaches onto that quad or peteler tendon. So quadriceps, four muscles, obviously the biggest bulk of the front of your thigh. So when we talk about legs, you may have heard people talk about the term feathers. Krika's a great example here because you can see all the individual fibers. You can see how his fibers are penetated. And that just means the angle of a nation or the angle of his muscle fibers. So I mean, he's a great example to look at. And when you're in the gym, you want to get after it. If you want to build a great looking set of quads, that's where you're going to look at. A squat, a lunge, or even a leg extension type exercise. Now that we've covered the front of the thigh, let's take a look at the back. So I'm going to have Craig turn around, and keep in mind, I get it. If you want to get big, strong quads, that's cool, but make sure you're spending equal time developing the back. So when we're talking about the back, we're looking at the hamstrings. And there's three hamstring muscles, but don't be confused because the biceps femurus, the first one we're going to talk about, has two individual heads. So the biceps femurus runs from the isle tuberosity, or essentially what's called your sit bone, comes down, and attaches onto what's called your fibula, or one of your lower leg bones. So you have your long head, it only makes sense that you have a short head as well. So in this case, the short head runs from the back of your thigh, and it also comes down and attaches to the fibula. So biceps femurus, it's one muscle with two different heads. And you also have two more hamstring muscles, and they're more on the inner portion of the thigh. You have what's called your semi-memberinosis, and it runs from the isle tuberosity, comes down, and it attaches to your fibula, or your other lower leg bone. And the thing that helps you remember, semi-memberinosis, it's more medial, or closer to the mid-bine, relative to the third muscle, semi-tinentosis. And it runs from the isle tuberosity, comes down, and it also attaches onto your tipion. And it's going to be a little bit more medial than the other one. Up to this point, we've covered the quads, and we've covered the hamstrings. Now let's talk about another muscle group that people love to work on and sculpt, and that's your glutes. You've got three glute muscles, your glute max, your glute made, and your glute min. We're going to start with a glute max, because that's the most obvious one of the ones that most people are focusing their time on in the gym. Your glute max runs from your sacrum, and your thoracolumbar fascia, which is essentially this big piece of connective tissue. And it comes down, and it attaches onto what's called your IT band, or your iliotibial band, which is another big piece of connective tissue, and it runs down, and crosses your knee joint. So that's one attachment. It also comes down, and it attaches onto the outer portion of your thigh. So when people are talking about glutes, most often they're talking about their glute max. So now let's take a look at the glute meat. Craig, if you can give me a quarter turn here. A lot of times, people don't hear about the glute made or the glute min, because they are deeper muscles. You can't see them, so most people think they're not important. But your glute meat is actually a very critical stabilizer of your hip and your thigh. So your glute meat, if you can imagine, runs along the top of your iliot crest here, or the top of your hip bone, comes down, and it attaches onto your outer thigh. Even deeper to that is your glute min, and it's a very small muscle right here on the outer portion of your hip, and it also comes down and attaches onto the outer portion of your thigh. So don't forget, when you're training your legs, when you're training your hips, you've got three glute muscles, glute max, glute medius, and glute menimus. Next, muscle group, we're going to talk about called your adductors. Now, a lot of people maybe aren't familiar with these, or they don't realize just how important these small muscle groups are. So you actually got five adductors muscles that we're going to cover here today. All of them start on what's called your pubis, or if you can imagine kind of the inside of your hip, that's where your pubis is. So they all come off this pubis and come down and attach to the inside of your thigh. So the first one is called your pectinius. It comes down and across and attaches to the top of your thigh. Second, you have what's called your adductor brevis, and brevis just means short, so it comes down and across and attaches below the pectinius. Third, you have your adductor longus, so again, running from the pubis comes down. So you guys can imagine how these are almost layered in fashion. Fourth, and one I want you guys to make note of, the adductor magnets. It's probably the biggest adductor. It runs from your pubis, comes down and it attaches not only to the inside of your thigh, but a little bit lower down as well. And that makes your adductor magnets quite unique. Last but not least, you've got a long skinny muscle, called your grisillus. And it runs from your pubis, come all the way down and attaches to the tibia, or the inside of your lower leg bone. So we covered five big adductor muscles, pectinius, adductor brevis, adductor longus, adductor magnets, and grisillus. And what's important, I don't want you guys to confuse these with the quads or the hamstrings. They're absolutely important for bulk and width, front to back side to side of your thighs, but they are unique. And we're going to make sure that we try and use some exercises to develop these muscles in their own right. Last but not least, we're going to look at the calves or the lower leg muscles. I'm going to have Craig go ahead and turn around here, and there's essentially two muscle groups that were interested in developing. Your gastrocnemius and your solius. With your gastrocnemius, it's unique because it crosses your knee joint. So you have what's called a lateral head of your gastrocnemius, and you also have a medial head. And both of those heads converge or come down and attach to your Achilles tendon. Deep to that gastrocnemius, you have what's called your solius. And your solius attaches to your tibia and your fibula, those two lower leg bones, and it also comes down and attaches onto the Achilles tendon. So two muscles, one crosses the knee, but both attach to the Achilles tendon and help create planar flexion, which we'll talk a little bit more about. Later on. So we've covered a lot of ground in this video. Five big muscle groups and 17 individual muscles. Just as a quick recap, you got your calves. You got your hamstring, the big muscles on the back of your thigh. You got your glutes or your butt muscles for lack of a better turn. If we spin Craig around, you got your quad, the big guys on the front of the thigh, and then it turns his thigh out. We're just a little bit. You get a good look at the ad after some of those inner thigh muscles. So we spin a lot of time covering the muscles. Now let's jump into the bones and joints involved in creating all these different movements. Now that we've covered the muscular anatomy, let's take a look at the individual bones and joints that work together in your lower body and your hip. To create motion. The first bone that I want to talk about is called your pelvis. And if you imagine on both sides of your body, you've got a pelvis and it kind of works like a bowl to shape and tie everything together. So your pelvis is a really critical structure. Within your pelvis, coming on down, you've got your femur or your big thigh bone. Working our way down even further, you've got your big lower leg bone, which is called your tibia. And that's kind of the media of the two. It's right here in the front. And last but not least, you've got this smaller bone called your fibula. And while most people don't talk about it, it only absorbs about 10% of your body weight. So when most people are talking about their lower leg, they're typically talking about the tibia versus the fibula. Now that you have a better understanding of the bones, let's see how they all work together to create joints which will help us create movement. I'm going to have Craig go ahead and give me a quarter turn again. And when you think about your pelvis, it's really simple. It's got two basic motions. It's got what's called anterior tilt or rolling the hips forward. And it's got what's called posterior tilt, where he rolls the hips back and underneath it. So the pelvis is fairly straightforward. But from there, you've got your hip joint. And your hip is essentially your thigh bone coming into this socket here. So it's what's called a ball and socket joint. And at that ball and socket joint, you have tons of freedom of motion. If you can imagine, you can do all these different movements. So Craig can flex his hip. He can extend his hip, AB ducted, AD ducted, internally and externally rotate. So that's important to note, hip joint. It's a centerpiece for your body because it has so much mobility. Moving down, you got your knee joint. And a lot of people would call your knee joint a hinge joint. But that's kind of a misnomer. It's actually what's called a condoloid joint. So you can go ahead and give me a quarter turn here, Craig. Condoloid means it's got a little bit of rotation. It's necessary to note, but it's not necessarily true of what you're going to be training in the gym. Primarily, when you're thinking about your knee, you've got knee flexion or pulling your leg back like you would in a hamstring curl. And you've got knee extension, like you would in a squat, a deadlift or a leg extension. Last but not least, if we come down to your ankle joint. Your ankle primarily has two basic motions. It's got what's called planar flexion, like you would when you come up on your toes to do a calf raise. And you have what's called doorcy flexion. And that's where you would pull your toes back up towards your face. So far, we've covered the muscles, the bones, and the joints that are on-volved in creating movement through your hips, your thighs, and your lower leg. But what's even more important, I want you guys to have a really strong understanding of how you take all these individual pieces and put them together to create seamless, fluid movement. And that's what we're going to cover in our next section. Now that we've covered the muscles and the joints, let's put it all together. So you guys can see what this is going to look like in the gym using these muscles for real function. If you recall, your quad, you've got four quad muscles. But what is unique? And that actually runs from your hip comes down and crosses your knee. So, rectus femurus is there because it can help you flex your hip as you would in a step up, or even if you're going to the track and you're doing some sprinting for your conditioning work, that's where you're going to see rectus femurus being used. But more importantly, in the function that most people are probably most familiar with is knee extension. So you're going to see this anytime you're in the gym if you're doing like a leg extension or something of that nature, that's where you're going to see the quads. And then on a big compound lift like you would in a squat or something of that nature. Anytime you're squatting, that's where you're going to extend the knee and bring out those quads. So your quads are those big muscles on the front of the thighs. Now let's spin Craig around and we're going to look at the back. Remember your hamstrings cross two joints. They cross your hip and they cross your knee. So there's got two primary functions that we're going to hit when we're in the gym. The first is hip extension. What you're going to see if you're doing a Romanian deadlift or a trap or deadlift or any kind of deadlifting variation where you're pushing your hips back. You're loading those hamstrings and then you come up to the top and you finish nice and tall. So you got hip extension, but there's also knee flexion. So as you recall, hamstrings come down, they cross the knee. So anytime you're doing a leg curl, a glue ham raise or anything of that nature where you're flexing the knee, that's where you're training your hamstrings. So we got quads, we've got hamstrings. Now let's talk about glutes. When we're talking about glutes, most people think hip extension. So again, when you're coming back to those big deadlifting variations and that's sort of thing, that's where you're going to load those hips. So if he comes back, you can see stretching that glute out, stretching the glute out in this way and then finishing up tall. So he's using glute max. Now if you can go ahead and face the camera for me, if you think about a split stance exercise or something like a lunge or any time Craig's on one leg, that's where you're using those small glute muscles. Glute medias, glute minimis. That's going to help control your hip in your thigh position so that you're nice and controlled. Anytime you go from two legs to one leg or from two legs to a split stance, you've got to create stability on your own. So this is not only going to tax your glutes, but it's also going to tax your adductors. We talked a little bit about the adductors early on, but those adductors are there for stability and control. One exception, your adductor magnus is a really big muscle. If you recall it runs from your pubis, comes all the way down, attaches to the inner thigh, and even the lower leg, your adductor magnus works as a hip extensor. So if he comes down, he's actually stretching that adductor magnus out and then coming out nice and tall. So it works almost just like a hamstring. Last but not least, let's show some calves. So if you guys think about calf work, you'll recall your gastrochrosis, not only the knee joint, but it comes down and runs into your ankle. So if you're doing a standing calf race, you're going to be focusing more of your time and attention on your gastrochneemings. On the other hand, if you're in a seated calf race position and you've got this knee flex, that's where you're going to be spending more time on the soleas. So as you guys can see, there's a lot of different muscles, there's a lot of different joints, but hopefully after watching this, you've got a better understanding of how you can piece this all together to create a more functional program. Last but not least, we're going to highlight a few key exercises so you can get the absolute most out of your training in the gym. In this video, we've covered the muscles of your hips, legs, and thighs. We've covered the joints, and we've covered the individual movements that those create. But what's really important is tying this all together. I want to show you guys how this works when you're functioning in the gym doing some of your favorite exercises. Now, keep in mind, as we're going through this stuff, in no way shape or form, is it indicative of the kind of intensity that you're going to use when you're in the gym. In fact, Craig right now, he's not happy with us. He wants to in a quarter on the bar, but we're going to do it light. We're going to show you guys great technique, so that when you go in the gym, you're doing everything right. The first exercise we're going to demonstrate is a front squat. So Craig's going to go ahead and set himself up. Now, keep in mind, when you're front squatting, you're typically not going to walk the bar forward out of the rack. You're going to walk backwards and stay in the rack. But again, for demonstration purposes, we're going to set it up this way. So Craig's going to set the bar high up on his throat. It's a little bit uncomfortable, but this is the best place to have the bar. As he walks it out, he's going to set up with his feet about hip, shoulder width apart, toes turned out very slightly. And then from this position, always going to do, keep the weight about mid-foot to the heel, and he's going to sit back and push the knees out. The cool thing about front squat, it's going to hit almost every muscle in your lower leg. You can tell, as he's lowering down, he's really lengthening the quads, as he stands up. He's going to extend the knee, and he's really going to hit those quads hard. But it's not just quads, as you'll see, when he goes back and he sits down and back, he's loading the hamstrings. He's loading the glutes on the backside of the hip. So as he comes up, it's not just knee extension, but hip extension as well. That's why we love this exercise. It's going to give you a ton of bang for your buck. So again, great technique. He's up tall. Sitting back, knees out, and then standing up finishing nice and tall as well. The front squat, if you guys are going to pick one exercise to start building your legs, this is what we'd recommend. Next exercise we're going to demonstrate is a Romanian deadlift for RDL for short. This is a fantastic exercise, because it's really going to isolate the glutes and the hamstrings on the backside of your body. So I'm going to have Craig go ahead and pick up the dumbbells here. And I want to give you a few coaching points, or really set up points before you get into the exercise. If you can imagine, we're going to work on the glutes and the hamstrings in this exercise. And what you're going to focus on is pushing the hips back. So to do that, you want soft knees, you don't want them locked, and you want a nice neutral spine position top to bottom. So once he's set here, you can see as he pushes his hips back, you guys can imagine his glutes, how they're getting stretched out. You can imagine his hamstrings, how they're getting stretched out. And then to finish the movement, he's going to pop his hips through at the top. So that's why if you've ever done these before, and your hamstrings are like super sore the next day, this is why because you're going through a full range of motion and you're really loading the hamstrings eccentrically, or you're lengthening them out. And that's what's going to give you that nice stretch. That's what you're going to give you the soreness, and that's what's going to give you the growth and the development you're looking for. The next exercise we're going to cover is a lunge. And the reason we've chosen this is because as soon as you go from two legs to one, it's just going to change the stress on your muscles just a little bit. So Craig's going to go ahead and grab the dumbbells here. And to perform the lunge, he's up nice and tall, he's going to take a big step forward, he's going to land on his heel and push back. The reason we've chosen a lunge is because it's using every muscle in your body, every muscle in your leg. As he takes a step out, his quads, you can see his vastus lateral, his rectus femurus, his vastus medialis. They're going to help him extend his knee when he comes back. As he takes that step out again, again, his hamstrings are pulling him down and then they're going to help him come back out of the bottom. So you guys get a feel for you're using all the big muscles, but you're also using those smaller stabilizing muscles, like your adductors and your small glute muscles as well. Give me one more rep. So he's got to control his knee position long ways through his bone, so that's where his glutes and his adductors are coming into play. So even though they're not creating a lot of movement, they're controlling motion, and that's what's really critical in this movement. The final exercise we're going to cover here today is just your standard standing calf-free. Now, we're going to demonstrate it using body weight, but feel free if you're doing this at home, you can use dumbbells, you can use a barbell, or even a standing calf-free's machine. So I'm going to go ahead and have Craig just pick up this easy curl bar and use that to steady himself. And the best thing about a standing calf-raise are really most calf-raise variations in general. They're very hard to do wrong. They're not very complex. In this case, you can see he's got his knee nice and straight, because remember we're targeting the gastroch here. And what I want him to do, go ahead, get a full range of motion, really stretch out the gastroch and that Achilles tendon, and then come up nice and tall, getting a nice squeeze at the top. One of the big cues that I use in this case is that as you come down and you stretch, give that stretch a second or two, because the Achilles tendon stores a lot of energy. So if you're just bouncing up and down, you're not going to maximize your muscle grip. So get a nice stretch in the bottom, a nice squeeze at the top, and that's going to help you maximize your calf development. Now, with that being said, don't forget, this is just a small sample of the exercises. Make sure you check out the entire program to see all the exercises that we've included for your training. After watching this video, you may be feeling just a little bit overwhelmed. And if that's the case, trust me, guys, I get it. We've covered a ton of information. But with that, I hope you guys are starting to have a good understanding of just how important your hips, your thighs, and your lower leg muscles up. Don't forget, we covered five big muscle groups and 17 individual muscles. So don't be afraid, go back, watch this video again, to make sure you're getting all the information out of it. When you guys start to put it all together, you can start to have a really strong understanding of just why we're spending so much time on our legs. Again, it's half your body. If you're not spinning the time and the energy to learn this stuff, you're not going to be able to take it to the gym and apply it to get maximum muscle growth and development. Don't forget to check out the entire built by science program, which is going to give you a full training template for your workout's going forward. Run muscular anatomy by mechanics of the cali, the skeletal system. muscle function and the best exercises to build the mass bath. No, it's power. No, you're self to build yourself. Build yourself with the best. Mind, muscle, master piece.

=== FILE: Leg Crushing Workout Part 1 ｜ Dorian Yates' Blood & Guts [ctYNk-UF1B4].txt ===

Music Ten minutes. Ten minutes. Ten minutes. Ten minutes. Was that too much for you? My card yet. Music I'm going to attempt to do these tight jeans on. Oh, that. By an off-law. Caw tight. So you visualize sucking your belly button and just spline a kick of like that. Heels on off-law. That side. That side. Six either side. Then lift up to here. Same thing. Six either side. And then the third level is legs straight. Same thing. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Chosen. Chosen. Okay. I'll sit. Right down if you can. Good. Good tight. That's just activating the muscles in your lower back loose and everything off. Next one is for the hamstrings. I'm going to do it like a regular hamstring stretch. I got them walk out on your hands. Keep legs straight. And then just ankle walk in like this. And then walk out again. Push, push, push. Good. Walk with your hands again. Your hands down. Keep your legs straight. Walk out of your hands like your body stretch out. Keep your legs straight now. Just walk without an ankle. That's it. That's it. Just keep going. It's close to your hands. You can get push a little bit. Good. Go again. You do it like a regular four with lines like that. Which is going to rip my jeans if I do it. So I'm not going to do it. So line it forward. I'll sit. I'll just elbow inside here. And then in such stretching the glutes, keep that leg straight like that. And pull one hand, do the side of that foot. Now sit. Straighten this leg up and keep the other one straight. Come up on your toes. Feel that I'm straight. Then lunge forward on that one. Down. Keep this back leg straight. One, two, three, four. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. One there. Good man. Feel that loose enough as you go along. Yeah. There's better than the static stretching because of this stretching like this. Because a little micro-thairs in the muscle and actually we can re-can you in the workout. This is activating getting the muscles ready to fire. Kind of warm up and sit up and all. All right. Nice little warm up. Leg extensions. Just light warm up set. 15. Easy. Nice and light, yeah. Yeah. Shouldn't have taken out. Not just getting a cup ready. Yeah. That's the light one out of the way. Going to go medium now. I swallowing Chris. Same form. Squeeze it at the top. Control down. Go easy stuff. One out of the time man. One out of the time. Concentrate. Squeeze it. Come on. Big legs. One. Two. Three. Everything. Come on. Six. Push. Seven. And again. Push. Eight. Two. Let's go. Squeeze. Nine. Come on. Let's go. Push. Push. Come on. One more. Let's go. Everything. Go. You got one more. Let's see. Everything. Yeah. In the quad. Squeeze. One win. Five. Goats. Two. Three. Oh. That's just the start. One that's these 뭐야. Allot. Seven. Good man. sequence. Oh. Kirst. Good. Kirst. Okay. Nice, right? Well done. 10 nice two more push on more push easy good nice and tight man nice where you screw I'm 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 good job 2, 4, 6, 7, 7. All right Chris, come on. Nice and tight, yeah? Last set. There's many as they can get. I worried that the number is on that. Come on. 5th on the way down. Which one? 2, nice. 3, 4 is good. Come on. Play it up. 5, 4, 6, 9, 7. Come on, and again. Last one. Last one. Last one. 4, 7, 8, 3, don't want to move. Come on. 6, come on. Kick it in. 1, 2, 3, 4. Come on. 1, 2, 3, 3, 1, big red. Power. Good. Good. Good. Good. 12. Why is the mental failure? Because when people train with me, they're ready to stop and I'll say no. I don't know that they've actually got the formal reps, but I'll break it down into a few seconds. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll just do it. I'll do it. If I do it one more finish and when I do it I don't do it. No, one more. I'm not going to ask somebody to do something that they can't do. You know, you could do it. He did it, but he's not used to going that far. All right. All right. 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 2 more, 11, 12, these are stuff now. Well, this A-Leb-Train separates the men from the boys, which is still here, moderate stance, a little bit closer. Nice and deep, below parallel, tight on the way down. Now I'm bouncing, my sense of smooth, a little bit lower, come on. There we go, 2, 3, 4, good, 5, all the way, 10, good, these are stuff, a little bit lower if you can't Chris, if not a problem with his knees. Chris, you're talking too much, that means you're ready to train man. Let's do some proper fall reps and only half reps, a bit man. I'll sit on this, okay, yeah. Sit right now and blast it up. Nice and tight, they're deep, squat, yeah. Ooh, should a little bit more. That's it. 2, now what are we doing it? 3, 2, come on, I'm watching man. 5, all the way. 6, all the way forward, 7, come on, come on, set, all the way down, 8, it's 2, D, 1, try, go, guys, guys, guys, one more, one D, go on, power up, power up, squeeze it up, squeeze it up, good set, one more, you're one more, alright see it, I'm glad we're good. Deep and more, four, four, good man, excellent, not good. It's a quad workout, we're finished and then we're going to go and do hamstrings and calves.

=== FILE: Leg Extensions - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [yR_LqZYSIgM].txt ===

First, choose your weight and sit on the leg extension machine with your legs under the pad and your hands holding the sidebars. This will be your starting position. You'll need to adjust the pads so that it fits snug on top of your lower legs. Make sure your legs form a 90-degree angle between your lower and upper leg. Using your quadriceps, exhale and extend your legs while the rest of your body remains stationary on the seat. Pause a second in the contracted position, then inhale and slowly lower the weight back to the original position.

=== FILE: Leg Press - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [3R0SOJ3alTA].txt ===

To perform this exercise, sit down at the leg press machine and place your legs on the platform directly in front of you with the shoulder width stance. Lower the safety bar holding the weighted platform in place and press the platform into your legs are fully extended in front of you. Do not lock your knees. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the platform until your upper and lower legs form a 90 degree angle. Now driving mainly with the heel of your foot, push the platform back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Leg Press Guide #legday #legpress [vf4iM3XiFfA].txt ===

Legbris is one of the best exercises to build your lower body, but you need to know how various foot positions target the different muscles of your legs. Number one, low foot position. This is a great way to emphasize your parts in the legbris. When you place your feet lower on the back, there is a higher degree of knee pain. When your hamstrings are almost touching your calves in the bottom position. This is what leads to the maximum brother situation. Next, high foot position. This is the best way to target your boots in the legbris. When you place the feet higher on the back, you'll notice that the degree of hip pain is more than the knee pain in the bottom position. It results in the most tension being placed on the boots instead of the quads. Lastly, wide foot position. This can be a great way to bias your adactors in the movement. A wider foot stance with the toes pointing outwards allows you to easily co-deeper in the end range of motion. This is where the adactors are the most active out of all the other muscles. Keep these dry and you'll feel the difference right away.

=== FILE: Legs Like Jessie's： Hilgenberg's 7-Move Lower Body Workout [DtSvlEJnM6U].txt ===

And today's workout we are focusing on legs. We're focusing on the entire lower body here. We're working our quads. We're working our hamstrings. We're working our glutes. The only thing we're not directly training in this workout today is our calves. But keep in mind that you work your calves indirectly by doing awesome exercises that we're doing today like jump squats, walking lunges and step ups. In today's workout we're going to do seven exercises. We're starting with squats. Then we're moving into the leg press. Barbell, hip thrusts, walking lunges. Moving into sumo stance, Romanian dead lifts, Bulgarian split squats in the Smith finishing off with weighted steps. Your rest period should be no more than 60 seconds and the entire workout should take you about an hour and 15 minutes including your warm-up. Okay, so let's get going with this leg workout. One of the biggest setbacks in getting results from your squats is having weak glutes and or tight hip flexors. So I always make sure to do a lot of hip mobility stretches and hip flexor stretches before I start my squats. So we're going to get a mat. We're going to get on all fours and we're going to do a fire hydrant stretch which also opens the hips up. Starting with the left side, you're going to lift the knee up and you're going to go in a forward circle with your entire leg. Keeping your hips steady and parallel to the floor. Then you'll put that knee down and do the exact same thing on the right leg. Once you're done with that you want to do it all over again but switch the direction of the circle that you're moving your knees. On each leg you'll do 10 circles in each direction. From that exact position we're going to move right into a hip flexor stretch. You're going to bring one foot out into a kneeling lunge position and really push the opposite loop forward getting a really good stretch on your hip flexor. You'll do that for about 30 seconds on each leg twice. Now that our hips are open and our hip flexors feel nice and loose and stretched right here to go we're going to move into our warm upsets of our squats. I always start with the bar only. I do two sets of 10 reps. In between those sets I like to do jump squats. The point of doing the jump squats in between is it really gets the blood flowing, gets your joints lubricated and gets the nervous system really circulating so that you're ready for the weight of the squats. The next two warm upsets I'm going to add a moderate weight for me it's 10 pounds on each side of the bar. You do it right for you. I do two more sets of 10 reps. Now we're ready for the working sets. We're going to add the correct weight that allows you to get to three sets of 10 reps with perfect form. I like to set the bar not right on top of my shoulders but right below my shoulders resting on my upper traps. Step back get your core activated, get your feet perfectly parallel to one another, your toes pointed straight ahead and your feet are going to be placed anywhere between hip width and shoulder width distance. When you feel steady you're going to pop your butt back, archer lower back and go down into the squat. Make sure your knees are staying right over your toes and not wobbling right in left. Knees to ability is really important for perfect forming your squats. Look straight ahead, keep your chest lifted and go down just as far as you can in order to activate your glutes and rise back up the same way you came out. In my head when I'm doing my own squats, when I get to the bottom of the squat, I like to keep the weight in my heel so that I really dig those heels into the ground and drive up for my squat with those heels and that will definitely help you keep the tension in the glutes and really build muscle on that area. Moving into exercise two, we're going to do four sets of 15 reps on the leg press. And what's unique about this exercise is we're really going to focus on building our quad on this leg press move instead of the regular glutes or hamstrings that you're used to seeing on the leg press. We're going to grab a weight that's a little lighter than usual. Every machine is different so make sure you test it out do a couple of warm upsets and make sure you're choosing a weight that isn't too heavy. You want to go a little bit lighter on this because you want to focus on form. So what you do is you get into the leg press and you bring your heels as low down on the platform as you can. Your heels are together at the bottom of the platform and your toes are pointed out. As you bring the leg press down, you're going to make sure that your knees are pointed in the exact direction of your toes. So what I'm doing with this exercise is focusing on tempo. So as you bring the weight down in your head you're going to do a count to three. It's one one thousand two one thousand three one thousand. When the weight is at the bottom you're going to give it a two count so one one thousand two thousand. As soon as that two seconds is up you push the weight back up nice and slow one one thousand two one thousand three one thousand. You rest very quickly without locking your knees and start all over again. As you bring the weight down and push it back up the weight is going to be in the balls of your feet. You're not your toes but really in the balls of your feet. You're going to bring that weight down and your heels won't even be on the platform whatsoever and that is what's going to turn all of the tension into your quads. Moving into exercise three we're going to do four sets of 12 to 15 reps of barbell hip thrusts. This is one of my favorite exercises and one of my all-time greatest moves for building up those glutes. It also works your hamstrings with a foot position that I use. I like to do it the way I'm showing you right now in the rack because ladies it shows you that you do not have to have a spotter and you actually can use a heavier weight. All you need to do is grab a bench from inside the gym and set the rack to the same height as the bench. This setup will allow you to un-rack and re-rack the barbell without needing a spotter. When doing barbell hip thrust you want to make sure that the barbell is right across your hips and that you set your feet so that the back of your knees are at a 90 degree angle your heels are a little bit close together and your toes are just slightly pointed out. As you lift the weight up you will squeeze your glutes and as you lower the weight you'll have a slight anterior tilt to your hips and then when you bring the barbell back up you'll have a posterior tilt and squeeze your glutes and hold it at the top there for just a second before repeating the rep. The next exercise is the walking lunge. We're going to do four sets of 24 total steps which is 12 steps on each side. What you need to focus on while you're doing this exercise is nice, slow and controlled reps. Do not use momentum to be in a hurry as you're doing your walking lunges. I like to take every single step and at the top I collect myself. I actually sometimes put my foot down and then take another step with the next leg. In doing that it allows me to make sure that I am going straight down and straight up instead of leaning forward and activating all the wrong muscles. Taking a little bit more of a shallow step during your walking lunges it allows you to use the heel of the front leg to really drive up and that will help you focus on the glute and the hamstring of the front leg. The next exercise is a sumo stance Romanian for this exercise we're going to do four sets of 12 to 15 reps. I like using the sumo stance during my Romanian delips because it allows me to just slightly shift the focus of the muscle being worked. By doing a sumo stance you move the focus a little bit to the adactors which is the inner thigh instead of having such focus on the glutes and the back of the hamstrings. A tip I like to share for Romanian delus is to start the movement by tilting your hips and really moving that butt backward. I like this a lot because most glute and leg workouts focus on the up and down movement and this really focuses on the backward and forward movement which is really really crucial to building up the glutes. The next exercise is Bulgarian split squats. We're going to do three sets of 10 reps. When you're getting set up for Bulgarian split squats I like to get my body under the bar and put my heels directly under my hips that sets you up for good form right from the start. From there I take the working leg and I take a small step forward about one foot distance. Once your foot is in that position you're going to take the back leg and place it on the bench behind you. As you move down into the squat you want to focus on keeping your knee right above your ankle do not let your knee go beyond your toes so take a peek down at any time during this movement and make sure that your knee is right above your ankle. Look in the mirror if you can and make sure that your knee again stays really steady and that there's no right left movement. It's really important that that knee working alone is really strong in steady. As you move down you want to focus on keeping the weight in your heel. Keep that weight in the heel as you drive back up and that'll make sure that you're working a hamstring and the glue on that leg. Our last exercise in today's leg workout is the weighted step up. We're going to do three sets of 15 reps on each leg. You want to make sure that you find a bench or a box that's about knee height. You don't want the box to be too short otherwise you won't get the depth and the range of motion that you need for this exercise. Grab a moderate weight that allows you to control your balance as you're stepping up and down off of the box. As you step up onto the box drive with your heel. Make sure all the weight is in that heel and again that will focus on using the glue and the hamstring and the quad of that working leg. When you get to the top of the box I like to stop just briefly to collect my balance. I do this with this exercise and my lunges. It allows you to just make sure that you're using perfect form throughout the entire movement. Step back very slowly and I do all reps on one leg before I switch to the other one. This workout is great. If you only have time to train legs once a week it works all of the major muscles and the lower half of the body. The full breakdown of this workout is in the article below right here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions at all about today's leg workout you can reach out to me on body space or Facebook, those user names or Jesse Fitness or you can find me on Instagram or Twitter at Jess Hilcombberg. And for more free articles and videos just like this one keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Lifting For Two： Nicole Moneer's Full-Body Pregnancy Workout - Bodybuilding.com [ALJMI4pQUbE].txt ===

Fittness fuels everything I do. At 29 weeks pregnant, fitness is an important part of my life. And the life I'm bringing into this world. I'm here to help you be the healthiest, fittest, happiest mother you can be. I'm Nicole Monier, IFBB the Kini Pro in Olympian, Nazm Certified Personal Trainer, Check Holistic Life Style Coach and teambodybuilding.com athlete. I'm 41 years young, 29 weeks pregnant naturally in my third trimester. I'm here to show you that working out while pregnant with weights can be safe. It also keeps you and your baby healthy. And prepares you for the biggest marathon of your life childbirth. Today, I'm going to take you through a total body workout. A lot of the exercises are very common, but as I'm progressing in my pregnancy and getting bigger, I've had to make a lot of modifications. So I'm going to show you how to safely and effectively take yourself through a total body workout while pregnant. Today's workout is 8 exercises, legs, chest, back, shoulders and arms. And we're here today filming at bodybuilding.com headquarters and they're awesome state of the art gym. Now if you don't have access to a gym, don't worry. I've provided alternative at home exercises in the article below. Now about to get into this workout, but I need to mention that every woman's pregnancy is very unique. And remember, you're just as unique on the outside as you are on the inside, so be sure to check with your physician or midwife before starting any exercise program. Let's get started. The first exercise we're going to start with today is a squat variation. Set one is going to be hip width apart squatting. And then set two is going to be a seawall squat where your feet are out wider than hip width apart, toes pointed out to the corners of the room, and then you're going to end in the split stance for a lunge. You can do anywhere from 10 to 15 reps, listen to your body. Take rest as needed. Want to two minutes if you need to take more, no problem, take it, and get water whenever you need to. So let's get started with the squat hip width apart. So for your feet, hip width apart, make sure your heels are down when you're squatting through the entire movement. And again, during your pregnancy, you may notice that you may be able to go a little bit lower early on, and as you progress, you may not be able to go as far down. So again, range of motion, listen to your body what you can and can't do. So I use the Smith machine that's basically something that I've used for squats and lunges all along, but I've taken off the weight. And for me, having the Smith machine there gives me that support. So then, you know, there's no risk of losing my balance, falling anything like that. And it's still actually a little more challenging for me than doing just my body weight. Next set, Stunwell Squat. Doing legs is important because you're strengthening your pelvis, you're strengthening your back. And those are the muscles that you need to deliver that baby. Now, with the squats, ideally, I don't know if many women know this, but that is actually the way that they gave birth back in the day. And that's actually the way many women still get birth today, naturally, whether they're doing a home birth or they're doing a hospital birth without medical intervention. Last set, lunges. The second exercise I'm going to show you is inner thighs. We're going to do double drops set. So I'm going to start at £30, because that's my pregnancy weight that I'm at, and do 10 reps, drop to 20, and another 10 reps, drop to 10. And end with 10 reps. That's one set. Once that, then I'm going to take a rest and then I'm going to do two more. So I'm going to get on the machine and being pregnant, you know, sometimes it's hard to maneuver and as you get bigger. I can usually get into position, but sometimes it takes me a little bit longer, so bear with me. So make sure your knees are over your ankles. So I'm going to open this up, get a nice, good stretch, you can lean back and then squeeze in, breathing. I'm not working out as many days as I used to, and I'm not working out as the intensity that I used to either. So there's certain ways where I've been able to incorporate the drop sets or other variations with tempos and speed and timing where I can still feel challenged. I'm not feeling any pulling or anything that feels different or doesn't feel right. And I still feel like, hey, I'm getting a good workout. Okay, now we're going to move right into our next exercise, outer thighs. So we're going to do the same thing we did for inner thighs. We're going to do a double drop set. We're going to start with 30 pounds, 10 reps, drop to 20 pounds, 10 reps, 10 pounds, another 10 reps. Take a breather, that's one set, and then we'll do two more sets again. So with the inner and outer thighs, again, it's the same thing. You want to get the whole leg in there. So every single muscle that is in your leg is supporting your pelvic girdle and your back. And same thing with, you know, labor and delivery. It's going to help with that opening up the birth canal. So you have those strong muscles. And there's your double drop. Now we're done with lower body. We're going to move on to upper body. The next exercise I'm going to show you targets the back. And so most of you, mommy's like me know that posture is not so good during your pregnancy. So this exercise, I actually call it a chest expansion and a scapular retraction because we're opening up those tight chest muscles from carrying that extra weight in the front and also from sleeping and that side lying fetal position. And then it's strengthening our scapula and the rhomboids and the muscles in our back. So I'm on a stability ball. Arms are out straight and I'm on a police system. I'm using a very lightweight only 2.5 pounds. Every police system is different. So make sure again you pick a weight that feels good for you. My arms are straight and then I'm going to open up with a little bit of bend in the elbows. Squeezing the scapula, bringing my palms past my shoulders and then bringing it back to the middle. Back exercises are a lost period whether you're pregnant or not with being pregnant. It just exacerbates it more because as I've said, you know women, they're breast are going to larger. You've got this weight here. I just want to make sure I'm really opening that up, stretching, I'm tight and again strengthen it because you're going to need it during your pregnancy and then even after when you're feeding and then again throughout life. The next exercise we're going to hit is chest. So I'm going to modify my knees being in my third trimester letting go a little bit and I'm going to start with about 10 to 15 reps and we're going to do about 3 sets. So I'm going to make sure my hands are in line with my chest and shoulders. I'm going to drop down, maybe about an inch or two above the floor but again everybody's bump is probably going to get in the way so down and up. Now if it gets too hard because again you've got that weight, your baby, weight, bring the knees into a tabletop position and you can modify here, finishing off, keeping your shoulders and wrist stacked and then your knees and hips stacked. Always listen to your body. I tell all my clients that doesn't matter if they're pregnant or not because you know what feels right, what doesn't any questions talk to your doctor, your midwife, you know be safe and as I said letting go, I'm dropping my weight, I'm modifying my exercises, I'm not doing this stuff I'm doing but you know what, I'm still proud of myself. At this point, and I'm still inspired and I think that I know that I'm inspiring other people when I'm a pregnant female in the weight room, still doing stuff. Now I'm going to take you through exercise six. Seated dumbbell shoulder press, my favorite muscle group. So with this one as I progressed in my pregnancy, I used to lift 25 pounds. Now I'm down to 10. So again listen to your body, drop the weight as needed. Another tip for you is that before I used to be able to do it, seated or standing. Now I really have to do it seated because I noticed a little bit of pulling when I'm seated. I'm good. So we're going to do again three sets and about 10 to 15 reps. If it's your first time training pregnant, you don't want to bite off more than you can chew. It's better to start out at a lower level and then progress. And again with pregnancy, the main thing is keep moving, keep active, moderate activity throughout the week and don't overdo it. You want to make sure you're hitting the whole body, shoulders are important there. Attached to your arms are going to be lifting the baby, carrying the baby and same thing with shoulders, posture opening up, having that strength, whether you're doing an overhitch shoulder press or incorporating other shoulder exercises as well. We're going to wrap up today's workout with a super set of arms. And we're going to do about three sets of each exercise, 10 to 15 reps. So again, being in my third trimester, I've modified to seated against my don't have any pulling. When you're seated on this stability ball, shoulders are stacked over the hips, knees are over the ankles. And I'm going to take my palms up to the ceiling and out to the corners of the rub. And again, I'm going to drop right into my triceps. So I'm going to go a little bit heavier with an overhead extension here, bringing the weight up and over. And I want to make sure my hands are positioned right. So I have my thumbs crossed and back. Elbows are in tight by the forehead, squeezing up at the top. That's my super set. So that's one set. Now I'm going to take a break, one to two minutes or whatever you need, and then we'll continue on with the second set. The mindset from this whole workout and this video and everything that I have to share is that self-care is the best health care. And you control your destiny, you control your health, you control your child's health. And so every woman comes into pregnancy at different places. And so we all have a choice on what we want to do or what we don't want to do. There's plenty of days where I've rusted from the gym and I've been fine with that. And that's the one thing I can say is that take care of yourself. And the huge part of taking care of yourself isn't just working out, but it's also resting. Well, that's it for my mommy to be approved workout. Hopefully you learn something new. If you have any questions about today's workout or anything, health and fitness related, please feel free to contact me on body space under username to call Lonear. As always, our bodybuilding.com family is committed to improve and change lives for the better. So no matter what stage of life you're in, be sure to check out Bodybuilding.com for videos and articles to help you no matter what your goal is.

=== FILE: Live to Lift - Show Us Your Beast Body - Motivational Video Finalist [8ISn_UnmWxE].txt ===

ho... Many aspects of energy we use is that fun!

=== FILE: Living Large： Jay Cutler's 8-Week Mass-Building Training Program ｜ Trailer [DY_R-YNPuJQ].txt ===

Rolling, rolling. Day three, interview tick one. You don't understand the benefits of being a normal person, so you look at someone like me. When you're £290, it's very difficult to do a lot of things. You have to be, I think, a little crazy. You're asking me if I get sick of being a bodybuilder never. I mean, I love lifting weights, that's what I do. Come on, back time for Baby Boy. Get a wash around your bum. I'm the greatest bodybuilder ever. But I never looked at myself and said, I'm so obsessed. Because you always want to be better. You always want to better physique. Everyone interrupts his workout. But Jay has never turned one person down ever. Are you at your 16-time a day to build a plan? Dad's dead. I'm going to get a wash around my house. Yeah, you're water-mind-out. But the whole mind-out.

=== FILE: Look Strong, Lift Strong： Layne Norton's Legs And Arms Blast - Bodybuilding.com [O2XyvcB4XY0].txt ===

As many of you know, I'm a power lifter and a bodybuilder. In today's workout, I'm going to start out with a main lift, squat, and then I'm going to progress to some accessory work for arms and calves. I'm going to use blood flow restriction training in order to target those areas. I like to use blood flow restriction because it enables me to get a lot of volume and muscle stimulation in without taxing my joints too much or detracting from my main lifts. So now we're going to get started with this workout, starting out with squat. So today I'll be doing four sets of six reps and I'll be taking about anywhere from 5 to 10 minutes of rest between each set. Now I'm not going to talk about how I actually perform squats today. If you want to know more about how I recommend performing squats for you and your body types specifically, check out the how to squat video tutorial I provided on the page below. I kind of go through the same sort of progression when I squat because I have the same and telling me I get my music on, then I put my belt on and make sure everything's in position where I want it. One is your first. Then when I get to the bar I'm going through my checklist, breathe brace. Take the bar out, three step walk out, get in position, breathe and brace, push your hips back, push your knees out. All those things I go through and it just leads to a more repeatable outcome. Don't just get in there and start going. Think about what you're actually going to do. Think about how you're going to do it. What do you want to accomplish with that workout? This evening, isn't it? I'm such a slow squatter. I'll do one of the people like, oh, he maybe have one more left. Two, six more. A lot of people will think that, oh, you squat, 600 plus pounds, 400, 400, 500, and easy. It's not easy. It still feels heavy. The difference is my focus. Many people believe that taking longer rest cuts down a muscle stimulation. But that's not necessarily the case. Time under tension is cumulative. So even though I'm taking long rest, my time under tension for all the sets combined is still going to be similar. And by taking longer rest, I enable myself to use more weight and do it more safely. There's definitely benefits to shorter rest periods. However, if you're going to do that, I prefer doing that when you're using lighter weight or not using compound exercise. This is how you should be breathing. If you're breathing correctly, tell your breathe afterwards. When I go training a different gym, sometimes it can be a little bit harder. Because I'm out of my element. It's a little bit different. But it's good training too, because on meat day, you're going to be at a different place. What is your profession? And I train with a lot of people. So I'm used to having a lot of people watch me when I lift. So when I go to a meat, it doesn't affect me. Not over. Not over till you win. Well, more round. Not always about killing it when you feel good, some days about grinding when you feel terrible. One more round. Action. Twist the tried. Round one down. Blood flow restriction coming up next. So why would we want to do blood flow restriction? Is it better than regular training? Is it worse than regular training? The research suggests that blood flow restriction is basically as good as the normal heavy training. So people say, well, why would you do it? Well, the reason you'd want to do blood flow restriction is you can use much less weight. You can use really light weights and still get the same hypertrophy effects as you can with heavy weights. So obviously, for somebody like me who's doing heavy squats, heavy bench, heavy dead lifts, and is pretty destroyed by the time they get through their main lifts. Something like blood flow restriction, why would I have to load up my joints again with as much weight is very beneficial. For blood flow restriction, you're going to wrap proximal to your limb. So any upper body work you're always going to wrap at the top of the arm. For any lower body work you're always going to wrap at the top of the thigh. Regardless of what you're working, for upper body work, I prefer a smaller cuff like a crickly medical attorney. There's some scientific evidence that the area that the cuff covers does not get the benefits from BFR. So you want as minimal a cuff as you can get for a smaller limb. For lower body which is a bigger limb, you can have a wider cuff like an e-rap, which is well-being used for caps. A lot of people will ask, well, how tight should I wrap? It depends on the cuff you're using and it depends on how wide the cuff is, but in general, if I'm using knee wraps for a lower limb, I'll wrap about a 7 out of 10. For arms when I'm using prickly medical attorney, it's because they're so thin, I'm pulling them to about a 9 out of 10. So for Bysept Curls, we're going to start with about 20% of my 1-repped max. To be about 15 pounds, we'll do 2 clusters of 4 sets each cluster. The cuff stay on for the entire cluster of 4 sets. After it's done, I'll take it off, rest, and then put it back on before the second cluster. The 4 sets of each cluster will go like this. 30 reps on the first set. 15 reps for each set afterwards. And the rest, 30 seconds between each set. One thing to point out is you should have some discomfort while you're lifting. You'll have a really painful pump. But if you're in pain before you start the exercise, it's likely that the wraps are too tight. Now, we recommend taking them off to rerapping. Another way to know if the wraps are too tight or the way to too heavy is if you can't complete the repetitions. If you're using a legitimate 20% of your 1-repped max and you can't complete the sets of 30, 15, 15, 15, 15. The wraps are too tight. Or you're over-restimating your 1-repped max. That was cluster number one we just finished. I'm going to take a minute, minute and a half, two minutes. That my beloved load overlise and I'll go back in for cluster number two. One of the things you're going to notice with love flow restriction. If you're doing it right, by the end, it's going to be a ridiculous pump. Well, here me say that and think I'm speaking in hyperbole, but I'm not. If you've ever done BFR, you know this. It's definitely very challenging from just a pain tolerance aspect because the pump becomes very painful. There should be some tightness, some discomfort, you'll feel a fluid shift, but make sure you're not in pain before the exercise. But the likelihood that you will be in pain during the exercise is pretty high. I'm going to take my time. Make sure I've got him in the right spot. Make sure they're about both equal tightness. Don't go into blood flow restriction trying to use as heavy as a load as you can. Make sure it's like make sure you can complete the reps and get the volume in. If you can go heavier and keep good form and keep good cadence, then that's fine. But make sure you're not overdoing it in terms of weight or how tight the wraps are. Let's talk about mechanisms. How does it actually work? I don't want to say anything has actually been shown to be the mechanism. But one of the proposed mechanisms is cellular swelling. When you do blood flow restriction training, you will feel a fluid shift and you put the cuff on it. And they've actually shown that you can get about 20% cellular swelling from blood flow restriction training. And that cellular swelling may be driving increases in muscle protein synthesis. There's some data to indicate that a hydrated cell is swallowed cell is an antibiotics cell. So we just finished up BFR for biceps. Now we're moving on to triceps. It's going to be the same wraps, the same reps, the same sets and the same rest. So we're doing cable tricep press downs. Another possible mechanism is targeting of type 2 fibers. Like trying to get my shirt under the wrap, otherwise it gets a little bit abrasive on your arm, but it doesn't have to be under the wrap. Typically your fibers are recruited in order. So your body will recruit your slow twitch, smaller fibers first. And as a weight gets heavier and heavier as you approach failure, it will start recruiting in immediate fibers and then your finally will recruit fast twitch heavy fibers. But blood flow restriction does by tricking up blood flow, it seems to pre-exhaust the type 1 slow twitch fibers. And you go right into stimulating the type 2 fibers. So you get a preferential stimulation of those type 2 fast twitch big potential growth fibers. Another possible mechanism for blood flow restriction is metabolic bipronic accumulation. There's actually some research to suggest that things like lactate, hydrogen, iodic humiliation, they actually may drive animal-accignally. But when you're a stricting blood flow, normally a lot of those metabolites would for lack of a better term be washed out of the muscle. But by a restricting blood flow, the venius return, they're staying in that area. That's one round down, and a rest of it or two, go back for the second round. What seems to make a big difference is the intrinsic growth factors within the muscle. So your muscle actually releases its own IGF1 in response to training. That can interact with receptors on the muscle to possibly drive growth. All right, time for round two. Well, when you are doing BFR, again by holding those metabolites in that area, perhaps you're giving those animal-accorn-mones that you're muscle-releases a greater opportunity to interact with those receptors and create more growth. One thing I do is I'm always trying to check my time. That takes me to complete a set because if it takes me much less time during one set, it means I was probably rushing. So I always like to make sure my sets are pretty consistent time-wise. I want to emphasize that blood flow restriction is not better than heavy training, but it seems to get about the same results. But again, this has merit for not only for power lifters who want to do some hypertrophy work like myself, but if you have an injury where you can't lift heavy, it's an X-Lift tool. And that is a wrap for arms. Now we're going to move on to calves. One thing you need to keep in mind with blood flow restriction for your limbs is you're going to wrap the same spot regardless of whether you're doing blood flow restriction for calves, quads, or hamstrings. You're going to wrap proximal to the limb. So as high on your leg as you possibly can, I like to use knee wraps. They're cheap and easy to use. Another good bit of people that it could be beneficial for is people who travel a lot. So a lot of times we have some of the new travels, they can't make it to a regular agenda. They just have a hotel in the gym that only goes up to 20 pound dumbbells. So it creates a lot more opportunities for you to get more sessions and create more growth. It also seems to cause a little bit less muscle damage than regular training, but again, you can recover a little bit faster from it and do more sessions possibly to create more growth. That's fun. We actually feel your heart rate go up because even in a short limb, like a calf, your body is working hard and are trying to get that venius return to the heart. So your heart rate actually increases just from blood flow restriction. So one more round of BFR and that's a wrap. Pun intended. You can find me on body space on the pontically.com forums or you can find me on Twitter at more videos articles and other great content from myself and other great contributors keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Lower-Body Dorm Room Workout ｜ Katie Chung Hua [edE8HDF5QIo].txt ===

I might be petite, but I'm still a badass. I grew up playing hockey and I've spent the last 10 years in the gym, building lean, sexy, muscle. You think I lift like a girl? I'll take that as a compliment. I'm Katie Chenwa. Today's workout I designed specifically for you using minimally equipment and minimal space. So if you're in college, it's great for your dorm room, it's great if you're out of college for an apartment workout. It's primarily for your lower body and it's going to take you about 18 minutes. For today's lower body circuit workout, you're going to be doing a total of 7 exercises. For each exercise you're going to be working out for 30 seconds with a 20 second rest in between each. You're going to be between each round of 3 rounds. You're going to be doing a 1 minute while sit to rest. Before you start, make sure you have a timer. I like to use my phone because I always have my phone with me. So just make sure you set it right where you can see it. The first exercise we're going to do is mountain climbers. It's a great warm-up. It targets your abs, your shoulders. Pretty much everything. So it's going to get your heart rate up immediately. Second exercise is your move squats. As you can see, I'm using weight plates. The reason why is because if you don't have weights, you can use your schoolbooks. History books are typically really big. So just grab your history book. It's going to be about 10 pounds. And then just make sure that you're squeezing your glutes at the top so that you hit not only your quads, but also your glutes. The next exercise is side lunges. I typically use a little bit lighter weight because it's a single leg exercise. So you're going to do 15 seconds for your right leg and 15 seconds for your left leg. It's going to target your glutes and your quads. The next exercise is alternating lung jumps. Now just in case your heart rate dropped a little bit, we throw these in here to shoot it back up. You're going to be doing basically lunges, shooting up and jumping in between. You want to get the full extension when you do jump so that you can hit your glutes just a little bit more. The next one you're going to do is place with a twist. This is a core exercise. We're going to be doing twisting and it's going to target mostly your obliques. The next exercise is split crunches. That's one of the more difficult exercises in my opinion. I think it's great. You just switch at 15 second marks. You do 15 seconds for your right, 15 seconds for your left. To wrap up your circuit, you're going to be doing a one minute while sit. You're going to be filling this in your quads, your hammies, your glutes. Pretty much everywhere in your lower body. This is going to be the only resting point that you get. Before you start your next round. So that concludes our lower body circuit workout that I designed for you. Remember, it's one of two workouts. If you want to find the upper body workout, check the link below. If you have any questions for me, you can find me on BodyStakes at Chung-Law, or you can find anywhere else Katie Chung-Law. For more videos and content like this, make sure to come back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Lunges - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [Wb8Yr3Nx7dE].txt ===

Back the bar across the back of your shoulders holding it with both hands. Arch your back and keep your chest and head up. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and step forward about two feet with your right leg. Your left foot should remain stationary as you lower your upper body down. Focus on maintaining your balance and keep your torso upright as you lower your hips. Make sure to keep your knee from bending forward past your toes as you come down. Now using mainly the heel of your foot, exhale and push upward, returning slowly to the starting position.

=== FILE: Lying Leg Curls - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [jxctD6fL_FQ].txt ===

I just the machine to fit your height and life face down. The pad of the lever should be on the back of your legs a couple inches under your calves. Keep your torso flat on the bench and ensure your legs are fully stretched. Now grab the side handles of the machine and position your toes straight. This will be your starting position. Exhale and curl your legs up as far as possible without lifting your upper legs from the pad. Once you reach the fully contracted position hold for a brief moment then inhale and bring the legs back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Lying T-Bar Row - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [w0KnlQ-b7jw].txt ===

Life face down on the pad and grab the handles with your upper chest at the top of the pad. Lift the bar off the rack and extend your arms in front of you. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and slowly pull the weight upward. Keep your arms close to your torso and squeeze your back at the top of the movement. Be sure to keep your upper body on the pad at all times and do not use your biceps to lift the weight. After holding the top contracted position for a brief moment, inhale and slowly lower the bar back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: MTV Makes Brooke Dragon Into A Bikini Model - Bodybuilding.com [hw5wPjDHAE8].txt ===

My name is Brooke Jaggan. I'm 19 years old. I'm from Prospect Connecticut. I currently attend the University of Connecticut and I am an aspiring bikini competitor and I'm basically doing this so that I can be relatable to people and try to show them how you start off because usually all UC is the end so I'm just trying to show them like the beginning and the journey because that's the most important part. I've never challenged myself physically with my body ever. I mean I'm academically I've challenged myself so I decided to do something a little extreme because I'd always be like all I'll lose a couple of pounds with a couple pounds. It just started off with one in the loose weight and then another big thing was I wanted to gain confidence Because when I look in the mirror I just be like yeah, I'm okay with my body but I don't like that part of that part and I would just you know kind of pick myself apart and it would bring my confidence I needed to do something for myself to I wanted to just be proud of something and to really know that I put you know time and effort into something My trainer is Tiana Tau. We have a pretty close bond and you know she out first, you know she's my trainer She's not supposed to be my friend. I've never had a trainer before so that was really hard for me to adjust to you know having someone on your back Telling you go hard or faster. Let's go. Let's go. I'm just like I felt like I wasn't good enough I tortured this girl. Let me tell you two hours a car to you a day weight training Six meals a day she's eating every two hours. So I used to work out it by myself without a trainer You stay in your comfort zone and it's easy to do that because you know you think you're pushing yourself and you're sweating so much But you're really not pushing yourself out of your comfort zone. There were a lot a lot a lot a lot of tears Less to add more tears. You're gonna feel like you can't do it And that's when your mind kicks in because when you're in the gym, it's all mindset the whole entire thing So you can come in here and be the strongest person, but if you think you can't do something you're not gonna do it That's the main thing that was holding me back. I would literally wake up in the morning Be like oh my god. I have to go train today. It's been a journey, but she said great so far. I'm really proud of her When my mind is set and my mind is clear. I'm good. So I came into the gym and Pretty sure it was a shoulder day that day and I was just going through the workout just going and she's like you cannot complain You're not, um, arguing with me. You're not complaining. You're not stopping and you just have to keep going with everything and You know that workout was great. When you push yourself out of your comfort zone and you succeed in doing that It's like you have no boundaries. You want to come back to the gym and seeing how far you can push the envelope My dad used to be a bodybuilder when he was about my age. My mom owns her own fitness studio So it's like my family is just around it all the time and I would be the last person to ever And anyone in my family to ever do this because you know, I'm the girl that you know, he says much as she wants whenever she wants And I'm just like, oh, I'll just work it off later and I actually walked in on her eating pizza and wings with her friends She was mid by she had a bunch of like finished wings on her plate and she had pizza on her plate and her friends Like that her plate right there and I was like, oh dear Lord. I weigh it broken and I'm like, hey, what did you eat last night? She's like, oh, last night. I had fried lobster, like, luck next to cheese, a burger fries, ice cream and soda And I'm like, you had all that in one sitting and she's like, yeah, and I'm like, oh my god I'm like, oh my god, I'm like, you didn't do how am I going to change its skills eating habits I'm studying nutritional sciences in school. I want to become a registered dietitian Things that I'm learning in school, it's sure they make perfect sense I mean like, if everyone ate the way they're supposed to eat all of these super models You know, but we're not and people don't do that and people have mental, like mental blocks And they need to get through them people have psychological things going on that also had to be taken into account So the fact that I'm doing this I can really relate to someone The things I'm learning in school plus this is just like the total package of what a nutritionist It's supposed to be like relatable and knowledgeable and like experience You know, I thought I was going to have a worse time with the food than with the workout But it ended up being flat-flopped When I arrived at the Olympia, I didn't know what to expect I was never been to a show. I've never, I only thought the only category that was was bodybuilding I didn't even know, I'm telling about my trainer that there was even other divisions So I'm walking around the meatfield and beans and I run into Nicole Negrani I didn't realize the ages of people When you look at someone, like, you know, they're age So I'm figuring this girl's like, wilds in the meat like mid-20s maybe She's like, my age in college, like pre-med, doing crazy things in school And she won the Olympia last year by the way Because in the beginning, I'm like, how am I going to go to school? Do this. You have a life. I was just like, no one does this This is crazy But then I met her and she's like, no, if you prioritize your time Go to the gym between classes, cook all your meals in the dorm, bring them with you to class and you're fine And I'm just like, you make it sound so easy She just really want, she wanted to help me She wasn't just like, yeah, well, I'm already the best So I'm not telling you my secrets, no, like she was very relatable And that's what I like because a lot of other people that I also I got to talk to feel like I got to talk to Nicole Wilkins I got to talk to a whole bunch of people And they just wanted to help, they wanted to just spread like wellness to everyone And like that's what I wanted to do too, so it's very welcoming Experience for me, it was just a huge eye opener to like the possibilities I have my first competition tomorrow on Saturday and I'm not really sure what to expect Because I can only prepare myself so much After that show is done, I would like to enter another show in the near future I want to be able to do the same thing I'm doing But, you know, on my own time, I want to be able to have, you know, not work out for three hours a day I want to be able to, you know, work out for one hour a day I keep all my eating habits the same and just get my body to where I want it to be And my own time because I just want to be the optimal version of myself She's been working so hard last five weeks I just can't wait for her whole package to come together Her friends are feeling like going to be there It's going to be so exciting and it's our first show man Like the first show is like you never forget your first show, you know So I'm excited They're the most proud of me, obviously, because they're my parents And I actually got my mom to enter a show Because she's always wanted to, you know, do something She wasn't, you know, she was always, if you, whether she wanted to do it She'd call me, I'm going to go, if you're my inspiration I entered the show and I was like, what? She's always been my inspiration Like I've always looked at my mom I always wanted to be as good as she was my mom And for her to say that she looks up to me, I'm just like, wait, what? Like, you want to be like me? And she's like, oh, I'm getting a emotional talk to her To fact that I inspired my mom to do something like with fitness Like, awesome. This is what they wanted me to do all along So, yeah, I don't know, it feels good Shooting this is obviously like the best way to get to people Because I'm gonna get to a whole bunch of people at one time But, you know, honestly, if I get to one person at a time And like, really hit home with someone And like, just get them to go to the gym Or get them to go eat to help me meal like, I'll be good I'm most proud of the way I'm a churn You know, the gluesing way I've lost Almost 12 pounds in five weeks. I mean, that's awesome But, to me, the most valuable thing is the way that I've grown on the inside And I think that it was really vital for me to do that Because, no, I've been sheltered and my whole life, my parents You know, wanted to keep me under the perfect little roof You know, now that I'm out and, you know, by myself and the world Like, you know, things are happening like, oh, we've got to call my mom Dad, no, like, I need a handle as by myself So, I'm definitely learning how to handle situations Be more mature, so that's the most valuable thing I've got on with us I'm Brooke Dragon and I'm really excited that I can, you know, get my story out there And start inspiring other people and getting them motivated And you guys can find me on body space And for more information, check out bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Marathon Training Reflections + Race Day Preparation ｜ 26.2 THE ROAD TO BERLIN EP 5 [Wwd_oxlAhGQ].txt ===

Alright, so this is going to be very different from any of the episodes we filmed over the last few weeks. This is my reflection week. A lot of hard work has gone into training for the last three months from my first ever running program to where we are, which is a week out from Berlin. 929, very important day, 26 miles, my first attempt at it. Today I'm going to kind of break down a little bit of reflecting as opposed to going over what I did this week, but also show you guys all the things that I'm bringing with me to Berlin. Some tips that I have for my coaches that I can give to you hopefully towards your first marathon. So first things first, the cloud boom strikes. I absolutely love these shoes. I did my first test in them last week and they are phenomenal. I compared them a lot to the echoes. I think what they have in common is that they're light carbon fiber. I think what makes them a little better for me is that they're just a little bigger. The echoes are really thin and they feel so low to the ground. I love the echoes from my half marathons. I think they are the perfect distance for that. But I'm really, really impressed with what on is done, especially with these cloud boom strikes. I also love the inside of these shoes are phenomenal. So they have this really nice inner cushion mesh area right here that has been great. No kind of like blisters or pain or discomfort inside the area that I was expecting. So very, very happy with these. These at once again are the on cloud boom strikes. Big win for me. There's the only thing wrong with this shoe. These laces on if you watch this, just not the best. They come apart almost every other mile. So I was influenced by a friend of mine, Josh Vernon, to get these, which are a cataropy. There are no Thai shoelaces. He said that these are the best ones to get. My friend keep knows recommended these. You can tuck them, you can hide them or you can leave them. I love how simple that is. Tuck, hide, leave. Next thing I'm using for the marathon is just this little running belt. My buddy Alphonse from on got me this and I'm really excited to use it. Tons of compartments just for my jails. So excited. I'm not going to bring a water bottle with me. I'm actually going to just use the water stations that are on the course, which is newer for me. But I think probably the best just in regards to pacing on my run and all that kind of good stuff. So going to be using just the belt, empty and hat. These came out awesome. These are running hats that drop on a topper fifth, which is super exciting. MTM store. It's coming soon. We'll do a whole new bodybuilding. We've got to get some MTM bodybuilding stuff together. But more than miles, which is a super important part of my life. And running throughout this year has changed my life a lot. And I'll go into that in just a second. It's also on this is our more than miles penny. This came out great. So shout out to the Reflesse guys, Danny, Andy, and Pam. Can I thank you guys enough? But not least, I got this sent to me about a week ago from their PR team. I was supposed to go to an event, but I was on set that day with light sports. So they were like, hey, just come over to the office and try them. My buddy Christian who I trust a ton, he's an ultra marathon runner, was like, these are phenomenal. So this is them dimmed all the way. If I move my finger, I can increase the shade 10. Lighter, darker, lighter, darker. So I am really excited to be wearing these during the marathon. And also I'm going to play some music real quick because this thing can bump. So this isn't even full volume. Bumping. Shades on, shades off. Alright, I'm going to stop, but they are super cool. And it makes me even more excited to run with these because they're going to solve all the problems. I don't need headphones. That'll be falling all the time. I did a run with them last week and they felt great. I felt like I was zoomed. So, bringing these to Berlin. Like I said in the beginning of this video, this isn't going to be a video where you see the highlights of my week. This is going to be a video where I sit down and I talk to you about how nervous I am. And how excited I am and how grateful I am that I have the opportunity to run this marathon. I've been saying this for the last two weeks, but I don't get to do anything. I don't got to run this marathon. I get the opportunity to run this marathon. And I just have been really, really lucky that a lot of good people along the way have been supporting me. And I cannot thank them enough for that. It's been a wonderful training process with a lot of love. The affirmations that I get through DM all the time are the reason why I keep doing this is because there's a lot of people out there who are on the fence who might want to start their running journey. And they, you know, maybe see one of my videos and they're like, oh, you know, maybe it is more approachable than I think. So, that's the goal with all of this is to make running approachable for all because I was terrified for a long time about getting into the running community. So I met, you know, my business partner outpods who, you know, really changed my scope of what running is and made it more community focused and more about battling through whatever you might be going through through these 26 miles. And this is also for still I run, right? We got an incredible 501c3 that I'm working with that. AIDS and assist people who are going through grief loss and more with run coaches to run marathons to work through the mental health battles are facing. And I think that's something that I haven't been able to vocalize on here enough, but like there's power in that. There's power in clarity through movement, which is our mission statement at more than miles is clarity through movements, everything's made. So, hopefully this marathon journey is inspiring you to start. I think what I cannot think bodybuilding.com enough for is holding me accountable to document this, right? To east into Daniel, to carry to the entire team like they, they keep me accountable. They check in on me weekly, they ask me how I'm doing. They're not just a brand that reaches out and says, alright, where's the video to live for? They're asking me. I get on calls with east and east and if you get to, you know, scroll back and watch us. He genuinely wants me to do well. And he takes time out of his day in the unscheduled meetings that we have to check in, same thing with carry, same thing with Danielle. So, to the bodybuilding.com team, thank you for allowing me to be a part of this journey, but also holding me accountable to continue this journey and not just stop. So, next time you see me, it's going to be in Berlin and after the marathon. So, we got a lot of travel coming up. We got a lot of exciting moments, but I want to look in this camera and thank you for being a part of this journey. Thank you for being with me throughout these last few weeks and getting to know my family, my network, my work, me and hopefully you continue to start your running journey, whichever formula it is. So, the person running their first 5K, so running the marathon, you are enough and I cannot wait to see what we all do. So, next time you see me, I'll be in Berlin, I'll be 26 miles down and we're going to celebrate.

=== FILE: Marc Megna's Lifting Lessons： Abdominal Crunch - Bodybuilding.com [wrZaAT_IvV4].txt ===

So our next exercise will be the crunch. The crunch is something that everyone feels they absolutely have down. Everyone says, oh man, I know the crunch is an easy one, but it is probably the exercise I see screwed up the most in the gym to be quite honest. It's actually a very advanced movement and I rarely see it done properly without compromising safety, health or your neck or your spine. So I'm going to get down there and show you what we see basically in daily basis. So I'm going to bend my legs, flat back position. So people get down in the mat. They think they go to do some crunches. They put their hands behind their head and they know they got to get a lot of crunches because if I do 500 crunches that means I'm going to be ripped, so I'm going to go here. And I didn't feel anything and not only that, but I'm compromising several different joints of my body and I'm actually wasting my time. So what I'd rather see is, you know, heels down, push your back into the mat, spread your hands. Pulling, I prefer your hands not to be even on the back of your neck more to the side. So what I have here is the pubic bone, the zipoid process and all I'm going to do is shorten those lines. As a matter of fact, you're probably not going to see too much movement. It's going to be minimal and what you see is a basic contraction within my abdomen. So I'm here. I come up, squeeze hole, shorten those lines, down slowly. Come up, squeeze hole, down slowly. Now I'm going to have curge it down here and I'm going to point some things out. So curge it, come on down. So curge pushes hands behind his head and then he slides into the side, it's called light fingertips. He's going to keep his elbows open. His feet are in the ground, bring his knees in a little bit right there. So he doesn't have to push his back into the ground. That's not necessary. He has a little bit of curge in his spine, there that's fine. He's going to lift up into my hand, wait a second. So he's think of it like this. This is the zipoid process, the pubic bone, there's a line there. He's going to try to shorten those two lines. He doesn't have to come up too high. What you're going to see from the side here is very little movement. That's all he needs, because his attention is to work his abdomen, not to do a full body rocker roll, not to pull on his neck, not to have his elbows come in. He's elbows open to work the abdomen and have a little bit of concentric pull here. So he's going to squeeze and then come back down. So come up, squeeze, hold it and then come back down. He has great control. He lets it all be back out. His elbows remain open. He's not pulling on his neck. Come up, shorten that line from the zipoid process, squeeze, hold it down slow. Really slow. Really the concentric and knee, he's actually the same speed. So he comes up, takes about two seconds. One, two, hold, one, two, let it out, one, two. That's it. He has great control. Come up, hold it. His elbows aren't coming in. He's not jerking or pulling on his neck. He's not compromising in the safety of his neck. There's no flex in there. He's actually elevating his chest. He's not rolling forward into his knees. Notice how you don't see his feet, his heels, his knees moving in and out. The ABADduction, he's actually just pulling up with his abdomen is doing all the work. So that's what it looks like when your abdomen does all the work. Now, if you want to manipulate your entire body, you do something else. That's fine. We just understand that that's what you're actually accomplishing. His intention is to work his abdomen and that's what he's doing here. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, admark, magnum, Facebook or my body space, admark magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Marc Megna's Lifting Lessons： Barbell Back Squat - Bodybuilding.com [Lql-QZMpu38].txt ===

So the first exercise we have is a squat. Kurt's going to help us out and he's going to go through the exercise with us. The reason we chose the squat is because it's one of the most popular exercises in the gym. And one of the exercises is that there's a lot of different beliefs around the squat. IE asked the grass, goes lowest possible. Let's see the only thing that matters. If you quarter squat at a half squat, it's wrong in your attempt. There's a lot of different reasons that someone may do those things that he's going to go over those things today. So first I want everyone to see the bar. The height of the bar, the curve walks over to the bar. You see the height of the bar here. I don't want Kurt to be on his tip. He toes to pull the bar off the rack, but I don't want extreme flexion in his knees to get under that bar. So this is perfect for him. I want him squat down on the knee, that bar. He's set it up on his shoulders, then I want to take the bar off the rack. Take your time. Okay. So we'll walk away from the rack a little bit more, Kurt. Set your feet up. So I want Kurt to spread his feet. So he has a nice strong base. His feet and his heel is going to be underneath his armpits. It may be a tad bit wider, so it's a brief feature a little bit more. So a few things going on with the squat. Now pay attention to the length of his femur. It's from here, till about here. So he has a pretty long femur. So he's already going to have more work. The primary joint axis point is going to be his hip. He's going to sink back into the squat. When he sinks back into it, he's going to have the weight distributed to his heels. He's going to pull his toes up to the top of his knee. And to understand that, we're going to keep an eye on this final flexion here or the bat that pelvic tilt rather. So as soon as this almost starts to round and he loses this flat back position, that's his end range. Anything other than that, he's compromising his health and his safety in his spinal health. So keep an eye on that. So I want you to sink back into the squat. Take three seconds on the way down. One, two, three, hold it. Look where he is. He looks pretty good there. Stand back up. Now we're going to keep an eye on that lower back here and we're going to see if anything happens. If he starts to round his back to achieve more range of motion. Keep back into it. Take your time. Take your time. Sink a little bit more. A little bit more. Right there. Stop. The CLE starts to have that tilt. We've gone too far. We're going to cover my health and safety. Stand back up. So I want you to do five more. I want you to take your time. I want you to keep an eye on a few other things here. So watch the knee. So the amount of shear in the force going through his knee cap. If he was to put all the weight and distribute that weight into his toes, he'd have all that force going through his bat. We call the significant amount of shear to opposing forces moving in different directions, working against each other. Now if he does that, you know, it's dangerous. She is not necessarily a bad thing, but repetitive belts of shear can be a very awful thing. So squat again, please, Kurt. Think into it. St. Down, sink down, hold it and back up. Now he may not be about 90, but he's darn close. And that's good for him. Now there's certainly ways that he can, you know, increase his range of motion to mobility. What we want to do is to increase mobility. We want to be a stable structure. And then we can load more weight. Don't ever use weight on the bar to acquire more range of motion. If he puts 135 on there, that weight is going to push him down into the ground. If we're using the weight as an aid to acquire more range of motion, we're certainly compromising safety. Be very careful of what you're doing and what your attention is. If someone says get your ass to the ground and get your ass to the ground by any needs necessary, that is not healthy. I don't care what program it's on, what philosophy it is. Scientifically, you are going to crush your lower back. Do it again, Kurt, please. St. Back into it. St. St. St. St. right there. Stop. You feel like her? Stand back up. Now I want to talk about the primary movement here, which is that hit movement. He's going to sink back into it when he stands up. He's going to push his hips to the front, this being the front, Kurt. So we'll sink back into it. One, two, three. Now watch the movement. Let's hit hip back and pull hips forward. Stand up. Pull hips forward. See, it's a primary hip movement. Now he's going to lengthen his hamstring. He gets into his quads there. But there's a lot of hip activity there. Strong hip, then I can develop the quads. So I want to talk forward and put that bar down. Actually, I want you to do that again. Get in the knee, please. Stand up. So when he walks forward to rack the bar, I want him to walk all the way in to the pillar of the rack. Now bend your legs. That's fine. Okay. So a few things to keep in mind. Your range, my range, Kurt's range is going to be different from everyone else's range. Don't everybody into the fact that you must go lower. That's merely someone's belief that was thrown on a bunch of other people. If you want to go lower, then put the work in. Do mobility activities and you will be able to go lower. It takes work to get there. There's not one way to squat. There are a thousand different ways to squat. Pay attention to what is your goal and what is your intention. And then once you have that down, you can know where and how to take the little steps to get there. Okay. Don't look to the left and look to the right and gym. Say, he's squatting 500 pounds. So I have to do that. Don't turn your squat into a modified good morning where you're just crushing your spine. Pay attention to what you need to do and what you want to achieve. You won't put yourself in a compromise position. You'll be in a safe position and you build a strong base to progress for the future. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, at Mark Magnum, Facebook or my body space at Mark Magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Marc Megna's Lifting Lessons： Barbell Biceps Curl - Bodybuilding.com [XrmznMhIKI4].txt ===

So our next exercise is going to be the Boroughville curl. The Boroughville curl is also one of the most popular exercise in the training facility or fitness center. You know, I see different ways this can be done. You know, I'm going to demonstrate the way I see it. And then I'm going to demonstrate the way I could be most effective. So I often see hairs on the borough. It's curling. And then they start to fatigue. So it might take a little bit of rest. And then they start to incorporate a little bit more hip, which this is actually nothing wrong with this. If you're trying to do a lower back extension, um, now I'm going to demonstrate how it can be most effective. So hands on the borough inside of mine. So Chris going to place the camera for a second. He's going to place his hands just outside his hips and his quads to slide your hands out a little bit more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more, more. Good. So now turn face me. So I want you to see something here. So what we're paying attention to is the length from basically his elbow to that curl. So the length of that amount of work is that's being done. So if he curls up, what I want you to do is I want you to curl up and I want this elbow to slide behind you as you curl. Let it out. Now as you curl, do this number. Okay. Now see, hold it there. Now see where his elbow is. See how much work is here. See the length. Call the moment arm. Let it back out. Now watch what happens. Now if he sits his elbow a little bit more in front of his body. I wasn't front right there. Now pin your elbow is not necessarily into your side, but don't let him move. Now curl up. Now look how long the moment arm is. You've increased the length before this will work. So already it's harder. Now I want you to pay attention and let it out. So if you slide your elbow in front a little bit more than your legs, take pressure up the lower back. Slide your elbow in front, slightly. That's fine. Now breathe up. Notice how much work. Now I want you to pay attention to something else. Let it out slow. Let it all away out. So he's letting the bar out. Now I want you to let the bar out of the exhaust from the full extension. Now pay attention to the way the force is. So the force is where it's in his hands. The force vector, which is the hour where the force is pointing to, is down. When he curls it up, watch where my hands simulate where the force is. Just pay attention to my hands. I want you to curl it all the way up to here. Okay. Curl it all the way up. This force, this force, this force. Now where's the force? Now there's no force. So from here to here there is no force. Right? Very interesting. So basically if you want to curl and you want it to be really hard. Curl it up. Curl it up. Curl it up. Stop right there. Let it back out. Now I want you to stop a little bit before there. Come on. Stop. That's where the most force is present right there. So he doesn't really have to go up there. He can go all the way up if he wants to rest. So if you want to rest, you want to make it easy. Go all the way up. You're not getting anything up there. Now letting it out when he's lengthening that's different. He's elongating the muscles, let it out, let it out, let it out. Now he can work some length to get that contraction. But bring it up. I would stop right here. Hold it and let it back out. Now I'm going to ask her, why don't you do the full rep slow and control manner. Bring it all the way up. It's hard. Now it gets easier right? Now it gets easier. So now he's getting a rest. Now he had him do a set of 10 and he would stop with the force completely changes. If pointed down, bring it up slowly. Now he's got a lot of force. Bring it up. Bring it up. Bring it up. A lot of force. A lot of force. It's gone. So let it out a little bit. I would stop right about there. Let it back down. So do a set of 10 where you come into that spot that we declared our position here. Good hold it back down. That's it. So really focused on squeezing your bicep back down. Now what I want you to do keep going. I want him to try to maintain tension on his bicep as he lets it out. So typically we get the concentric movement, then the eccentric, the lengthening. On the eccentric motion, he's going to really try to squeeze in maintain tension within his bicep as he lets it out which is completely changing everything. Bring it up. Squeeze hold it and let it out and maintain tension. So let it out. Bring it back up. Let it back out. Do eight more like that. Notice where his elbows are in front of his body so there's more work in the moment. It's only a 40 pound dumbbell and he's already getting crushed. If his elbow floats behind, he's shorn it, he's making it easier. Notice how he's not rocking his entire body. He hasn't even done 10 yet and he's already tired. So look, he's not rocking his whole body. He's not doing a lower back activity. All the focus, the primary focus is on his bicep. Notice there's no flexion in the wrist. His not curdling his wrist in and out. His wrist position is locked. He's squeezing and what you can't see but he's working hard to do. He's trying to maintain it as bicep as he lets it out. Do two more. Squeeze hold it. Let it back out. Keep your head in one position. Look straight. Straight. Let it back out. All the way out. One more. Squeeze hold it. Now I'll maintain tension. Let it all the way back out. Okay. Bend your legs with the board down. Nice job. What do you think? My arms are shot. So notice his elbow is not floating behind him. He's not showing it's shortening that moment arm. He's getting a lot of range there, which means it's more work present from the primary joint X point, which is elbow. Don't forget that muscles are joint managers. So your elbow is not necessarily one single joint. There are joint routine ur elbow, but this is the primary joint area being worked. The bicep is working that joint. It's manipulating that joint. His wrists are not flex. He has a lot of a long moment arm. He's not curling his back. He's not curling his wrist. There's no flexion. He's looking straight ahead. He's trying to maintain tension. His bicep is squeezing tight. Getting the concert. But as he lets it out, he's trying to maintain tension. He's not curling it up and just saying, okay rest. Curl it up and rest. He's curling it up. And then he's trying to maintain. And he's maintaining great control. Control is everything. Nice job. Thank you. Thank you. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, ad mark, magnum, or Facebook or my body space, ad mark, magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Marc Megna's Lifting Lessons： Lat Pull-Down - Bodybuilding.com [PfgnL5FaFLs].txt ===

So our next exercise will be the lap pull down. The lap pull down, you see different ways it can be manipulated. I'm going to demonstrate what I see and then we'll have Kirk get down here in a demonstrate the proper way to do it. So I'm going to put my hands wide, the wide grip lap pull down that is hands wide. I can close my grip. I'm going to take a seat. So what I often see is to get that way down it's heavy weight. Of course I don't want to go necessarily light. I want to put on as much weight as possible. And then to get it down, I can't really pull it straight down. So I'm going to throw my whole body into it and I'm going to rock my body back. I'm going to throw my upper back to the ground and I'm going to drive that bar in the low my chin. And as opposed to sitting up straight, working my lap that force that I'm shooting that resistance is getting into my straightest interior. I keep my trap pulled down. I tilt my head back slightly, not my body. I pull my elbows down to the ground, pull that bar to my chin. I'll let it out with great control. So you don't have a curt take a seat. A few things before he grabs the bar one who adjust the seat. Might be a little bit different. You want to raise that one. So he's fixed. I want to make sure he's on the seat. You can sit up a little bit on the seat and move forward a little bit on the seat slightly. So now his butt is completely on the seat. His shoulders are going to be pulled back. I'm going to hand him the bar. He can certainly grab the bar in his own, but just for the purpose of explanation, I'm going to hand him the bar. He's going to put his hands wide in the bar. Okay. So I want you to tilt your head back slightly. Now when you pull down, I don't want you to move your body. I want to keep his trap completely down. I do not want this to elevate here. It's going to stay shifted down. I want you to pull your elbows down to the ground and pull that bar to chin. Pull it slowly. Good. And back up. Notice how there's no movement really in his torso or his posterior chin. He's not throwing his body backwards. His feet are firmly on the ground. His body is tight. His torso. Everything is vertical. He's pulling that bar down, pull elbows down. Most importantly, what's going to happen here is when he starts to fatigue. When his lat start to fatigue, he's going to recruit his trap. You can let it out and it out with control. Just keep going, Kurt. So the trap is actually a huge area back here and a posterior chain. When his lat start to fatigue, he's going to start to incorporate his traps where his trap may elevate and start to jump in and do some of the work. The lats are hey man, I'm tired. I need some help. When it needs help, the trap is going to get involved. Pull straight down. Notice how he's not rocking his body back and forth. So he's actually working here from the serratus and the lap. Of course, there's a little bit of moving in the scapard thoracic. Absolutely. But he has great control of the movement, which is the most important thing. He's actually working his latin serratus. Now Kurt's doing such a great job here. We're only dealing with the certain amount of weight. It's certainly go up because he's proven that he can handle this weight with great control. Now let's stand up, stand up, Kurt. Put that weight down. Let's go to 115. Put the pay 115. All right, grab the bar. He's going to take a seat. Now I notice he doesn't lean backwards. Now if he leans backwards, he's going to turn this into almost a rhomboid activity. He's going to get away from the traps. So the more he is pulling down in the front, the more he's working the side part of his body, which is straightened in the lat. And the scapard thoracic area to pull down, pull that bar down. Slightly hold it, let it back out. That's it. With control, he's not rocking at all. There's no movement backing forth with this torso. So his intention is to work his latin. That's exactly what he's doing right here. Can he go up? Yeah, he could probably still go up. It's going to be harder to maintain great form, great control, but he can go up. He's earned it. Try to do five more. He's sitting up straight. He's feet affirmly on the ground. He's breathing, driving straight down to the ground. That's it. No trap elevation. Notice how his trap hasn't started to rise. He's doing a great job. Great form. Nice job, Kurt. You can put it down. So notice there was no rocking with his upper body. His torso remained vertical. He's working from the latinisturators. He had a little bit of scapard thoracic movement there. He's actually scapular, rather. His head is tilted back slightly, not his body. If you do more you tilt back, then you get away from a lat pole. You would probably get into more of a rhomboid activity. If you wanted to do that, that was fine. We just keep in mind once again what was your intention. And if you look at someone you seem rocking their whole body, chances are that they're doing that because their intention is to move as much way as possible. Now if someone's intention is to move as much way as possible, well that's what they're achieving. That's exactly what they're doing. We're trying to get more attention to actually work that lat area. You probably want to drop weight and pay attention to how the action is being done. His intention was to develop the lat and that's what he was doing. Nice job, Kurt. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, Ad Mark Magnum, Facebook or my body space at Mark Magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Marc Megna's Lifting Lessons： Single-Arm Dumbbell Row - Bodybuilding.com [G36XhWnHXmc].txt ===

So our second activity that we're going to focus on is the dumbbell row. Often in gym fitness facilities, I see people manipulating their whole body looks like a full body convulsion doing a dumbbell row. Once again you have to ask yourself, what is your intention? If your intention is to incorporate your entire body, most of the time that may be fine, I'm kind of against assessing someone from across the room and saying, oh, I know what he's doing. It's wrong. I really try to focus on what I'm doing within the gym and I want to make sure that whatever my intention is, I put all my power and energy and focus on exactly that. So if I'm doing a dumbbell row, I want to make sure that I'm using my arm to row the weight and I'm actually activating and using my rhomboid as I stay in retraction. What we typically see in the gym is that person's set up. It could be on a bench. I like to do my dumbbell rows prone into the racket self. So I try to take my lower body out of the activity, but my primary focus on the rowing itself. What we usually see in the gym, fitness facility, to really heavy weight and so on is using their entire body. I mean, once again, if there are intentions to use their whole body, that's fine. But always keep in mind that the less control you have, the more likely things will go wrong and you're compromising your health and your safety. So the way I want to set it up, you separate your feet, your parallel, you bend your legs, fall into the rack, notice I have a flat back position. I'm going to load my body so it's actually resistance here. I'm not going to be inflection. Okay, no flutching in my neck. I don't want to look up. I'm going to look straight down so everything is in alignment. The weight is underneath me. I'm going to keep my shoulder in retraction. I don't want to protract every time. Okay? My arm might come to full extension, but I'm not going to protract into it. And I'm going to demonstrate both. Okay? So falling into the rack, flat back position, bending my legs. If he's pressure off the lower back, I have a strong hand on the dumbbell. I'm here. I've rolled it up, hold it, let it out slowly. Hold it, let it out slowly. I'm not going to go into a protraction. I'm going to retraction, hold it, let it out with control. Hold it, let it out with control. Okay? So try to come over here. Here's going to separate his feet. That's fine. Bend your legs. You're going to fall into the rack with your right hand. Okay? Walk your feet backwards a little bit. Show me a flat back position. Pull your shoulders back more. More. No, no, that's flexion. Right there. Look down. Are you going to grab the weight? Pull your shoulder back. All right. So you're falling into the rack. Okay? Right there. So you're going to row it up, hold it. Let it back out as I keep his shoulders pull back. He's in retraction, pull it up, hold it, let it out slowly. Good. That's great control by Kurt. Notice how he's actually getting into his rhomboid row. Just keep going, hurt slowly. He's in retraction. He's a flat back position. There's no flexion in that. He's looking down. That's it. He's control both ways. He's doing a great job. Bend in the legs. He's pressure off the lower back. Take his low body, the other activity. Keep going. Do two more. Notice how he's having. He has a little bit of transverse movement here. But he's not rocking his entire body and manipulating the activity. Okay? You can put it down Kurt. Nice job. Okay? He's not rocking and manipulating his entire body to perform the activity. His primary focus is on his rhomboid and he's rowing. Okay? He has moving into shoulder, obviously. He's not using his low body. He's not bending and extending his legs to pull the weight up. He's focusing on what his intention is, the development of his back in his rhomboid. A shocker. Thanks. So if you guys have any questions on the things we've covered here today, you can find me on Twitter, Instagram, at Mark Magnum, Facebook or my body space at Mark Magnum. For more videos and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Marc Megna's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [nl0xkwQHxzk].txt ===

I am Mark Magna, a team muscle tech athlete, performance coach, and most or strengthening conditioning coach, and I'm also a former NFL line backer. When I was younger, I was very insecure, awkward, clumsy, and I was very lazy. I actually didn't like any part of exercising. I think when you're a bit overweight, you're very low, self-painting of yourself, then what happens is you want to stay away from those environments that might challenge you in a physical way. At one point, I think I got to such a low in my life, my childhood, that I really wanted to change things around, and I wanted to start participating, and I just be on the sidelines. So I asked my grandfather to help me out, and at that time, he was training bodybuilders, local bodybuilders, and he trained the first ever-missive universe winner. He took me aside. He gave me some very basic things to do, bench pressing, you know, curls, pushups, sit-ups, things like that, and I enjoyed it very much. He made me feel comfortable. I think that's everything, and that kind of started me on the path to health and fitness. I was raised in a single parent home, my mother raised two boys by herself. She had several jobs. She didn't have to much time in her hands, but she didn't make time for her, was, you know, paying attention to our needs and our feelings, our emotions, and she would always be there to support us. She was that person that told us, my brother and I, that, you know, you can do whatever you want to do. You're going to have to do the work, and she would always say it's not going to be easy, but it will be worth it someday, but you can do it. And I had a lot of tough times in my life when I went to high school, I had learning disabilities dyslexia, I had to go to a ton of tutoring, and athletically. I mean, I was just worried about making the team. I forget about playing starting, and I know that I'm probably the only kid that's really going to the gym every day, lifting every day, running every day. There's a lot of people did those things, but not every day, not all the time. But for me, because I wasn't an athlete, that got me in the game, not ahead of the curve. And then when I got there, there's a lot of parity. I wanted to be the very best at my position, than being the best at position, the best at defense of player, that being the best in the team. And I just had to work hard at the little steps along the way that she those big goals. I didn't even think about going to college. I wanted to join the sport Marines. That was my goal. Then a coach came up to me who was recruiting someone else and he said, you know, you can play college football. Did you realize that? You can get a free education if you keep showing people how important it is to you, and you give everything you have every single day. And when he said that to me, all of a sudden it was a reality. Now I know it's possible because someone else sees it, not just me. I went there because the head coach had such great energy that when he left their house and he was Jim Reed, when he left my home I said, I have to go to the University of Richmond. My mother looked at me and he goes to see where they don't have choice. You have to go there. And I didn't have choice because that was the only school that really wanted me. When I got to college, I was so bad at the school. I think I got a 1.6 GPA when I got there. I contemplated quitting, giving up a scholarship where school cost $50,000 a year to go to. I almost thought about quitting and my mother wrote me a long letter and the premise of that letter I saved it and I had that pick on my desktop computer and I said, dream big never quit. And she was telling me that you just got a hanging there. And if you hang in there, you give it everything. You're going to be surprised when you finish. I ended up turning around later on and actually graduated at like 3.0 and it was the hardest thing I ever did. And football wise man, when I walked in the door I think I weighed 219 pounds and he told me and I was a linebacker told me you're going to play defensive linemen and it wasn't like end or late. It was nose guard. Those are the guys we had 300 pounds. So I said, Coach, I can't do it. He said, I don't want to go anywhere without any mouth again. You can absolutely do it. Get out of my office. And every year it was 2.30 to 40 to 50 to 60. And I grew up when I lifted weights and I got stronger when I went in that bench, 300 pounds are left bent, 450, powerfully 450 pounds, quite a 700 pounds because he believed in me. And I said, I don't know if I could play defensive linemen and it felt like I don't care. I want to be the very best in the country at this position now. If that means tackles, if that means sacs, that means productivity, that means energy, whatever it is. And if L. Scouts came around and said, well, really not that big. Maybe he can't play defensive linemen but he can play linebacker. So, draft day I'm sitting around and I could call on my phone and I answer the phone and I say, hello, this is Mark Magna. He said, Mark, do you know who this is? And I knew who it was, I recognized the voice but I've never talked to this person in person or on the phone in my entire life. He says, this is Bill Parsell's from the New York Chets. And it was funny because I was a very serious, strict tough voice but I was crying. Obviously he could have seen me crying thank God. But, and I said, hello coach, how are you? He said, I'm pretty good with him. We're taking you with this next pick. How do you feel about that? I said, I feel amazing about that. He said, can you play linebacker for me? He said, coach, I can play linebacker. He said, can you play special teams? I said, yes sir, can you rush the pass with? Yes sir, he said, welcome to the New York Chets. Was that one of the greatest moments in my life? I worked my whole life just to hear that I was good enough to do it. I went into the New York Chets and I realized that not only was I playing a position that I hadn't played in four years but the guys that were playing my position in New York Chets, Marvin Jones, all pro, Mo Lewis, all pro, James Ferrier, all pro, Brian Cox, all pro. That's four on one team. I'm a nose guard from a division one double-day school, I haven't played the position in four years. So you can take that two years. That's a hell of a compliment from one of the best coaches that have a coach to play in the game but it's also a hell of a challenge. So I remember him bringing me into room and saying, you know what, you're here for a reason. You might not be an all pro on the New York Chets but you are here to work hard and you're here to push other people to be very best. He said, you might not end up playing here but you might end up playing for another team. In turns out I gave everything I had and he was right. I was with the Chets for a little bit and I was released and then I basically was miserable I cried for half a day and then later on that day, you go from worst to first I actually was called by the New England Patriots. Peacar was coached in. New England Patriots picking me up my hometown team. Three hours later I'm in the office, front office New England Patriots, I'm sending contracts, play for New England Patriots. And the next year, Peacar was let go and Bill Bellachick came in. Who was my defensive coordinator at the New York Chets. So I had a brief experience and I mean he liked to my game, he liked the way I worked and he had to very least that I wasn't going to embarrass anyone and I was going to be a solid component of his team. Even if it was his reserve player or a special team's player. So I played with them for a year and then I was released, I went to the Cincinnati Bengals and then back to New England Patriots from Bill Bellachick. And in between I was playing NFL Europe. My first year with the Barcelona Dragons in Spain, my second year with the Berlin Thunder. With my NFL career concluded I went up to playing Canada for the Montreal Allowets, played five years for the Montreal Allowets. So I fed a heck of a whirlwind in regards to a professional football. And now I'm doing more private and personal training for several years. They worked at a performance center, a bomb reader performance where we're working under Peacar and Rito. It's been a few years there, training being on a team where other who work with over 300 professional athletes from all sports football baseball. And very fortunate, blessed have a great group of clients and they love to choose. They like I think you're tracked which you are. They love to train just like I do. My general philosophy is that whatever I'm doing in regards to strength and conditioning, I want to make sure that I can do something with it. I don't want to be the person that looks like a superhero but can't do any kind of superhero things. I want to be a bit of a run. I want to be able to swim. I want to be able to do an obstacle course, do a race, jump in a five-care run under 18 minutes. That's important to me. I've done triathlon, I've done the courses, I did the in-part state building run in New York City, 86 flights of 1572 steps. And a week later I did this Spartan race. If you're 18 and a half miles, 25 obstacles, I'm never going to be the best bench pressure or the best squadter. Or the guy who wins the race, but I want to be good at many things. I train every day but I'm doing strengths four to five days a week. I'm a body part training, four to five days a week. I'll do hit training three days a week. I'll do two days, I do steady state, I might do a long run, I might do a swim. And I'll do one day where I do actually do an active recovery. So it's something that to me I don't want to say something that's fun. Because it's all fun to me. It wasn't fun, I wouldn't be doing it. But I also want to do things that give my body an opportunity to heal over cover. Because we know training in gym is very important, but your recovery is everything. I probably go to bed about 11.30, 12, wake up at 3.45 every day. I started my workout about four o'clock, 4.15 in the morning. I trained to a six, give my first client a six a.m. at 6.70, 9.10 transitions to the next place. Or I go 11 and 12, and then transition to the next place. And then I try to get maybe an hour break in there somewhere. Getting my workout in the morning, bang out of bunch of clients during the day, try to get when it's the end of the day midday. And these aren't long workouts there, usually an hour, and try to do two of those a day. I work strength, I work body parts, but I might start off my body part work out. If I'm doing legs, for example, with a floor clean or a hand cream or a deadlift, things like that. Compound movements, I'll throw an exotic compound movement or a kettlebell activity in with my body parts to make sure that I can apply the strength with movement. You have movements and you have the muscle. So if I strengthen the muscle, I want to be able to implement a usage of that muscle. So I try to go back and forth. When I say go back and forth, I mean if I'm working movement, I'm working movement, I'm working muscle, I'm working muscle. Sometimes I'll do an activity where I'll do a row, a slow control row. From my next might be a speed band row. So I'll do a speed band row which I can implement, a faster movement, and put that muscle into force production. Each person is very, very specific. And sometimes I get a kick out of people who say eat oatmeal. It's great for you. Or eat egg whites that's great for you. Well, it's not great for me if I'm a luch to eggs. And if I have a true sensitivity to oatmeal, probably it shouldn't be oatmeal. So you could be getting great information by that might not be information that's best suited for you. Still think it was still trying to prove our quality life. We talked about training and we're trying to prove our quality life to nutrition. How do we do that? If I put in those optimal ingredients in our bodies at the proper timing to make sure that we can take our bodies, minds and energy performance to the next level. Whatever that is and whatever our intention is. My A.F. six meals whole food meals a day. Those foods are animal proteins consisting of chicken, white fish, salmon, turkey, lean red meat, vison, greens, or kale, or arugula, broccoli, spinach, complex carbs consist of steel cut oats, sweet potatoes, quinoa, buckwheat, barley, millet, healthy fats, hamboil, flax seed oil, fish oil, and I go with some mutation, different vitamins, different minerals. I get probiotics, digestive enzymes, things like that, but they're all high quality foods that are put in a position to give me energy for the day for the workout for a covered. If your body has to work overtime in two, three, four, five, ten times as hard to break down food that are pouring substances in the body, well then that's less energy that can be used towards workouts, life, thinking, and recovery could it takes energy to do all those things. So if I put the more harsh toxic or chemically driven foods that are challenging to break down, my body is going to be under constant stress, it could raise cortisol, it could raise the information, and it's going to make sure that my body isn't efficient at recovering at the end of the day. You want to recover in the most efficient way possible. So you can train, recover, get back in there. The idea is to get back in. Put yourself in a position that beats just successful with the food you eat, with the training you do, and make sure that you're not compromising all your results by eating a poor diet. I mean you cannot train a poor diet. If it's going to stress you that much to follow specific diet, I don't suggest doing it. I suggest making small little improvements and curcaling your habits just a little bit. Start that way, and you'll feel much better, and it's more realistic. I don't want you to stay away from every single food. I want you to eat something green at every meal, for example, drink some mortar, drink more water, try not to eat too much at night, try to limit sugary foods, try to limit junk food, just take one of those and implement it in your diet. If you start to do that, it's going to be less stressful, it's going to be more realistic, and you're going to make proper revisions. Our job is to help you improve, improve your quality of life, improve your well-being, and I think that's how we should be done. Submitation for me, can't it make a break-you-training? Absolutely. I look at it as pre-during and post workout, to more you train, and more you stress your body, to more supplementation you need, to make sure that you put yourself in a position or recover properly, to make sure that you can endure the day. Never mind getting ready for the work next work out. I do use weight protein, it's a lost part of my diet, I think it's a huge, I also use Argentine, Betalan, Creatine, BCAs, good to me, but those are all things that I think are stable as of training, and then they put me in a wonderful place to feel good for my next workouts and recover. I do use those things, and I do encourage those things for anyone who's trying to improve in performance-based training or a muscle-high-predged free-and-body composition setting. If someone's trying to put on weight, they're going to need specific supplementation to put on weight. If someone wants to reduce body fat or improve body composition, they're going to need a certain panel of nutrients and supplementation to get them there. What am I trying to do? What's my intention? Am I bodybuilder? Am I powerlifter? Am I a strength-based athlete in dorm space-ethy performance-ethy and explosive short-burst athlete? Whatever it may be, and then from there, I know what's going to help me in regards to the supplementation. So that's all in my training, nutrition, supplementation. For more on MarcMagnet, you can find me at MarcMagnet or on Twitter or on my Facebook page at MarcMagnet. For more on the training and in-depth info, and the training tips we discussed today, you can look at the NFL Combine Trainer and bodybuilding.com. And for other news, training tips, articles, and peace and remission we can use for training supplementation, check back in at bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Mario Lopez - Extra Lean Family - Bodybuilding.com [gr-cVqo4S20].txt ===

Hey I'm Mario Lopez, the host of Extra Entertainment News Show and also a BMTV's America's Best Dance Crew and also did Dancing with the Stars and you may have seen me when I was a kid on show called Safe By The Ball and a whole bunch of other stuff and today we're going to focus on Extra Lean Family. Bring the family back to the dinner table together, focus on food, nutrition and an overall healthy lifestyle and getting kids most importantly off on the right foot, learning to love food to be smart about food. So let's get started. Fitness has always been a top priority in my life, growing up my family and coming from a big Mexican family obesity is prominently featured and I knew that if I didn't watch things, I could blow up and not exactly look the way I'm looking right now, it could go on another direction and it's the people that I love and the people that I'm closest to and I don't love them any less. But just from a health standpoint, I wanted to help my family, I wanted to help with them and that inspired me to want to help other families. And now that I'm the Boys and Girls Club of America's National Fitness Ambassador and on the Governor and President's Council of Physical Fitness, it's something that I embrace and it's something that I want to help people, especially families that may not know any better families that come from different cultures and these inner city kids and Latino families and African-American families where obesity is again featured throughout everybody has someone that they care about that they need a little weight and it may get to the point where it's not healthy law. I want to do something about it because you can help those you care about it. You can make a difference in their lives just by reaching out and educating them just a little bit. Just a little bit with a little effort can go a long way and that inspired me with my first book, Extra Lean and now having my own family and practicing where I preach for my daughter, Extra Lean family, that's what I want to do and I want to take to her next level and I want to have you be tasteier, easy to make recipes. So there's this belief that eating clean is tasteless or boring, you know, is not much variety. Well, I'm so happy and proud to say that in Extra Lean family, we've got delicious recipes that are quick, easy to make and that are very tasty because I love food. I'm race food and I want people to embrace food. They just kind of know the right balance of what to eat when to eat it and what to put in your body. There's all these diets out there, lose 20 pounds of 30 days and all these schemes to get you to drop weight quick but you know what diets don't work. And it starts at the home and I want people to start cooking at home because that seems to be a lost start. Cooking at home, eating at the dinner table together, celebrating with food, getting a little educated with food and making healthier, fun choices. I come from a family and a culture where I have obese people all around me that I love and I got inspired to want to help them and not only my family but your family and I I welcome that burden. I welcome that responsibility. I want to educate people. I want to show them that hey, you know, it starts at home first and you can do something about it and you can help people that you care about. And it's not that hard, you just kind of know what to do and with Extra Lean family, I want to spell it out and show them exactly what they need to do to lose that weight and to embrace food because I love food and especially tasty food but how they can do it in a smart way and a healthy way and in the right way for where they can maintain for lifestyle. So in conclusion, I know you guys are already health conscious because you're on bodybuilding.com. So if you're ready to really make a change, you really change your lifestyle for good than actually family is the way to do it. It's going to educate you, it's going to get you on the right foot and it's going to get you to love food to be smart about food and to know how to go about taking care of yourself, your family, your neighborhood, your community, your need people in your life to be held accountable and this is a team that for guys. It's not an individual thing, it's a team family effort. And hey, this isn't the last time you're going to see me. I am committed to help you through this journey to help you reach your goals and to help you change your lifestyle. From good, forever. The more content like this, be sure to check out Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Meal Prep For All Meals of The Day #recipes #mealprep [9HIV3f-EgaY].txt ===



=== FILE: Meet Bodybuilding.com Master Coach ｜ CRAIG BONGELLI, CPT [W9dBd-alZhI].txt ===

My name is Craig Bungelie and I am a bodybuilding.com master coach. I was pursuing my dream of becoming a professional athlete. I realized all the things I was learning to move myself forward, could help other people as well. And it was a natural transition for working as a coach. After seeing Scotland's strongest man when I was 17 years old and being a star, being a professional strong man was all I focused on. Becoming a coach, opening a gym, mentoring with some of the strongest athletes and coaches on the planet to learn as much as I possibly could. I build my body because I want to know what I'm capable of. For no other purpose in feeling what it's like to redline it and find out what I have. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com. Build your body. Build your mind. Build your life.

=== FILE: Meet Bodybuilding.com Master Coach ｜ KRISTEN LETTENBERGER, DPT, CSCS [HkSXHQRPzt0].txt ===

I'm Fristen Lentenberger, Dr. Physical Therapy, and I'm a bodybuilding.com master coach. I used to work for physical therapists, and I saw the impact that she could have on a client's life, so I became a personal trainer, and I started to see the same impact in my client's lives. I just love what I do. Movement has always been medicine for me. I always look to movement to sort of lift up my spirit, just bring me out of some kind of fog. My first interaction with bodybuilding was back in 2006. I was looking for some guidance on how to do a workout, and bodybuilding.com was the one place that I felt like they brought the best people, and the program was really approachable for me. There really is something for everyone there. Welcome to bodybuilding.com, build your body, build your mind, build your life.

=== FILE: Meet Your Trainers - Bodybuilding.com [2YJmbsyJZrM].txt ===

Strength of body means strength of mind. It's never too late to do something great. Train with intensity, drive and focus. So many things that you get out of body building that kind of feels over until the areas of your life. Stay passionate about your goals and you can achieve the body of your dreams. At bodybuilding.com, we're invested in your fitness success. That's why we're bringing you the best fitness experts, totally free. Chris Gethon and Jamie Eason, your body transformation experts, are here to show you the way. Chris Gethon is a lifetime natural drug free bodybuilder. For the last 10 years, he's used his experience to help average people achieve amazing results. Jamie Eason is the female face of fitness. She's a professional cover model and has her own column in Oxygen magazine. And in 2006 was crowned the world's fittest model. I decided to get into weight training mainly because I'd a curvature of my spine and there was a great deal of pain. I was actually advised maybe start weight training to put a lot of stress more onto my muscular system. So after doing that for about five, six weeks, I had really alleviated a lot of the pain. So I decided for me to stick to this. I need to have a goal and I'd go was about a year and a half later to compete as a bodybuilder being a hooked epicence. I was an NFL cheerleader in 2001 and I'd luck with have it. I found a cancerous tumor in my breast. In 2008, I had another rear current. Still at that moment, I really didn't grasp the situation that I wasn't living a healthy lifestyle. I was referred to an nutritionist. I mean, basically, said how healthy you are is what we're eating. And he encouraged me to exercise. It was like my epiphany literally in six months, my body transformed. Pretty significantly. If you're ready, Chris and Jamie will share their knowledge on training, nutrition, supplementation, and motivation. They'll show you the path to your best body so you can walk it successfully. Go out, make time and make it happen. You'll get the results you deserve.

=== FILE: Meet the Bodybuilding.com Master Coaches ｜ GABE SNOW, CPT [tB2X07ExVrM].txt ===

My name is Gabriel Snow, and I have a bodybuilding.com Master Coach. Fitness allows me to use my body in each and every way that I see fit. My first experience with bodybuilding.com is through my father training and supplementation was a part of every single day without his guidance. I don't think I would be sitting here today. My discipline allows me to keep my mind sharp and keep my heart full. Being able to share that with other people has really been the purpose of my life and makes me make up every day. I'm just to be here for a very long time because I work really hard to make sure of it. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com, Build Your Body, Build Your Mind, Build Your Life.

=== FILE: Meet the Bodybuilding.com Master Coaches ｜ HARRY VARGAS, CPT [UJQFN3U1BdQ].txt ===

I need him as Harry Vargas and I'm a bodybuilder with a dot com master coach. I'm a certified personal trainer and I focus on running and string-think conditioning. I was a delivery guy and the active part of the job, that was the only part of the job that like I liked. Movement is how I connect with people and how I connect with myself. Everything else felt like work, fitness just came naturally to me. Bodybuilding.com is a community that just really wants to help people become better versus themselves and I'm excited to be part of this next chapter. I built my body in order to develop the mental fortitude and discipline that it takes to be successful in life. I want to be ready for whatever life throws at me. I like to keep the bar eyes. All the bodybuilding.com build your body, build your mind, build your life.

=== FILE: Meet the Bodybuilding.com Master Coaches ｜ KEN YU, CPT [4bolDk1spLI].txt ===

My name is Ken Yu and I'm a bodybuilding.com master coach. I used to be in a journey and for 10 years I sat at my desk, poured over the old documents, I started prioritizing work over my own health and then I decided to join a future finisher. I still love the pit. I wanted to do that every hour of every day. I went from feeding my body down to building my body up and then became a coach and I never looked back. I love how bodybuilding.com has evolved over time. It used to be only about big muscles and now it's so much more. It's parallel to my fitness training. But I first started out all I wanted to do was get really big. I went from 125 to 150 pounds and then I even wanted to do strength and I pulled off the website of 5.5 program and did that until I was really strong. And now I'm looking for more wellness. I want to be prepared to take on any challenge. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com. Build your body. Build your mind. Build your life.

=== FILE: Meet the Bodybuilding.com Master Coaches ｜ YADIRA ＂YAYA＂ VARGAS, CPT [gDTB2fAg89Y].txt ===

My name is Isira Vargas and I am a bodybuilding.com master coach. I am an NASM CPT, a pre-postnatal certified coach and a pain-free performance specialist. I really feel like fitness chose me. I wanted to help people in need and so I joined different nonprofit organizations to help areas that were affected by natural disasters. The work was very rewarding, it was also very physical. Coming back home, missing being active every day, I started taking classes all around New York City and was surrounded by coaches who inspired me to look into becoming a coach as a career. Movement makes me feel empowered. It allows me to be the best version of myself around the people that I love the most. Welcome to bodybuilding.com. Build your body, build your mind, build your life.

=== FILE: Meet the Newest Bodybuilding.com Coaches ｜ Workout with them in the new fitness app [daQIE-ZMZGk].txt ===

My name is Gabriel Snow. My name is Chris Martinberger. Hi, I'm Kenyou. My name is Jadira Vargas. Craig Bond, Jully. My name is Harry Vargas. And I am a bodybuilding.com master coach. I've built my body. I build my body. I build my body to be able to show up for myself every single day. It allows me to be the best version of myself because I love to see the potential that it can have. I want to be ready for whatever life throws at me. I want to know what I'm capable of. That's what drives me. Welcome to Bodybuilding.com. Go to Body. Go to Mind. Go to your life. Go to your life.

=== FILE: Mike O'Hearn's Back Workout ｜ Power Bodybuilding Training Program [t7Y-zXkPQVQ].txt ===

In every generation, only a few are worthy of being called an ultimate athlete. A hero. Don't be... be better than me. Are you doing a Michael Hurn and this is Power Bodybuilding? We're going to train back today, starting off with some crazy ass deadlifts. Oh yeah, it doesn't end up being a deadlifts, I sure do. We're going to do a lot of warm upsets, but those do not count. When I'm talking about this, I only count the work set. Seven sets of two today. Then we do secondary work. We're in two other exercises after that. We're going to do some one arm rows and some pull-downs just to give it that beautiful shape. And I know that you guys are going to go away in a minute. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Just two exercises. But after you deadlift, what you see here, that's all you're going to have. Left in the tank, trust me. So when you're on stage, what? You look scary, good? I'm telling you. Alright, this is what I want you guys to do. Because you're just starting this program. I want you guys just to come into the gym. Let's say you deadlift 315, alright? Just warm up with 135, 225, do a couple sets each, and take your time. You don't rush through this. I got to put blood into my body before I start moving around. Trying to keep all the energy I can for the heavy weights. On the way there, I'll do depending on how I feel. One, two, maybe three reps per warm up. Wait till you get to your work and set, then do your reps. I didn't come in and stretch for an hour before I did this. This is how I get loosened up. Deadlift managed the superhero lift, the beast lift, the man lift. My favorite of the three lifts. The deadlift is a completely mental lift. You can cheat a squat by not going deep, but deadlift is so cheating. Just grab a little bit of that bar and rip it from the ground. Best lift there is weightlifting. I'll stay double over on the hand placement, up till, you know, four, 500 pounds, and then I'll start with verse dripper. Reverse grip obviously is, you know, a powerlifting grip. I don't use straps. You know, you can't use straps and powerlifting meats, and you can't use a misogladiated soul. Why using it here? What I do is I'll reverse my grip per set. Take a big deep breath before I pull and just hold on to everything. All the energy keep it inside. Rip it from the ground and then get to the top and let it out. When I did let all either go barefoot or I'll do something that's, like these shoes somewhat flat. I won't use all these new type of shoes that are like, got the springs and all that. This is, I just think that's crazy to deadlift in those. Wrestling shoes are great, you know, a Tomix, old school of Tomix, shoes are great. I don't listen to music. I don't need that to get safe. I like the noise of the weight. I like going heavy. I'm going to tear down those fibers. Go to the strength. And again, you got a full body exercise here. This is what can everything. You do deadlift right, man. You go heavy enough. That next to you feel everything hurt. But it good hurt. With this, I'm ripping it from the ground. It's not a slow pull for me. I rip it. People like, I actually can hurt your back or anything. I don't know why people think that way. You know, they're already walking in half feet. I don't get hurt. I don't worry about things. I just destroy the weight. It's not the other way around. It's that whole approach that the weight ain't going to beat me. It's a fight between me and the weight. Same thing you think when you're going into a battle or she'll against one other thing and you can move that thing. I started lifting when I was, you know, 11, 12, 13 years old. You know, I always wanted to be stronger than my big brothers. Here in that weight, this man's made it all for us, training together in a steel of days. You'll never see me at a fitness center. This kind of training doesn't work for that. All right. Talk to you about the secondary work, the bodybuilding part. Today we're doing one arm rows. Now I do five sets of 10. I just love one arm rows because it gets the lower lat, the outer lat. When I do deadlift, I'm already getting the mid back, the thickness, the density. Now let's shape it up a bit. When arm rows are beautiful, exercise is a good nice wingspan. So five sets of 10 for one arm rows. You're going to love to feel of it, the power, the strength, the shape. Now remember, just because your back is pumped, doesn't mean you're having the best workout. I just like a gym blood. I want you to rip down the fibers. So still take a little time. Next thing is pull down. You got to get even wider. Take a wider grip, pull down of the chest. You know how to do pull down is right? If you don't, I'm going to come through that and slap you. Pull down to the chest, I recommend instead of behind the neck. You get a longer pull down to the chest. More squeeze for me. Three sets of eight there. Just taking it down, finishing off that back, finishing details. That final detail that you want. So when you're on stage, judges are just kind of giving the trophy. All right. That's power bodybuilding. I seriously want you guys to try this out. Now I came up with this because I see so many people working harder, not smarter. The new generation, I see so much potential in you guys. I really do. I don't want you to be me. I want you to be better than me. And I see that in you guys. Now go up and be great, all right? And if you need an information, you gotta get ahold of me. Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Mike O'Hearn's Chest Workout ｜ Power Bodybuilding Training Program [YR7qswt8aPo].txt ===

In every generation, only a few are worthy of being called an ultimate athlete. A hero, don't be me. Be better than me. You guys do a Michael here. I'm up here with bodybuilding.com. We might know him as Titan from the American Lab Yators. They wanted me to talk to you guys about a little thing I call Power Bodybuilding. How you can power this in bodybuilding all together. So we're going to show you that today. I'm going to start out with a little chest here, a little incline press. I recommend you guys warm up, though, alright? Alright, so you stopped by a bread there. This is my little trick. What I do is low reps, but a lot of sets. I'm going to stay here for about six sets of five. Now, the reason why I do that is I like the poundage. I don't go 10 to 12s, like a lot of people do, because I accommodate two things together. Powerlifting and bodybuilding. So that is a little trick I want you guys to try both on bench press, squat and deadlift. So get up to that match weight that you want to do. Hit five reps and hit it six sets of five reps. Key points. If you can get cowbell when the shirt comes up, that's good too. But one of the big things is rest. I take about three to five minutes rest. Reason why is I want to recover completely for the power and the strength. The shape and the size just come in right now. I feel it. Oh, wow. Oh, help. Spop, oh, I'm just kidding. You can't fall for that. I don't take spots. But you should, alright? Yeah, we're doing good. We feel good. Alright, so we just finished doing climbs. The reason I start with an in-cline is to develop more of my upper chest. You know, I'm still creating that physique that I want. You know, you can either start with flat bench or in-cline. But I start with that heavy, you know, power movement to start with. And then we're going to come over to date flats now. Now, when you do the in-clines though, key points is, you know, don't arch too much. You know, taking down to the chest nice and controlled and explode up. You know, get through that exercise. Power through it. Now for the dumbbells here today, we're going to do about 10 reps. Alright? We're going to basically just, you know, get a spider to help you throw them up there. That way you can save your back if you want. And just watch the form here, right? Watch the form. You don't swing it. You don't bounce it. Take it down nice and slow and, uh, just pop this up. It's easy enough, right? Let's go, grub. So, I stay with, I'm going to do this. Obviously, you can see more free weights than machines. Now, that's just my take. I like to do free weights relative to machines. Bring them more of the whole body. And I also power lift. So, um, you can use machines, you know, same kind of thing. Go heavy. Five to six reps, you know. On this exercise, obviously, you can go more. Six to ten, even 12 if you want. I don't change it up, getting ready for a bodybuilding show. Now, a lot of people might go, do high, high reps. I let the diet control that. Um, and I just keep the heavy weights. I'm a natural bodybuilder and always have been. And so, the one thing I noticed is when I go light, I fade away. So, keep the heavy weights in there if you're a natural bodybuilder, and you want to just build that exercise. Now, this is me a week out from the guest posing. Now, I still still lift heavy. And I just recommend it. It's one of those things. You can try it, but again, it works for me. I may not work for everybody. My acting can pass. That's it, isn't it? You guys in me. So, what I did was the incline, flat dumbbells, and I'm going to finish off with some incline flies again. Just because it's a bodybuilding phase right now. But I'm going to keep it heavy. Now, here, I'm going to go about ten reps, three sets. Same thing on the flat bench, on the dumbbells. You have about four sets there, okay? We already did that huge six sets to start with. So, let's finish this out. Now, any incline flies? Same thing. You watch the form. You see what I'm doing. Take the arms out. Stretch the chest. That's what you want to see. It's good working it out. That pump's already there. Even though I take long breaks in between that pump is there, even though I'm curbed the plate and two, it's because it's at pound it. It's tearing down the chest. The fibers get torn up right now. In a good way. Trust me. Alright, so let's recap. Basically, heavy on the incline or flat bench, a lot of sets, six sets, three to five, to eight reps if you have to go eight, but I say, go ahead and go ahead and be made. Then, went over to flat bench, dumbbells, again, good form, go up to ten reps, you know? And if you go four, even five sets there, I'm okay with that. Again, heavy on. And then, we're going to step with nice stretch, flies incline flies today, three sets, eight ten reps, and that's it. Now, understand, this is what I do for chest. But I also do this for back, and I also do this for legs, but after doing about six sets of squats, go up to leg press, leg extension, with my same philosophy applies here. Go heavy, heavy, heavy, heavy, and just, you're going to love this man. You're going to love to have that strength. That's how you build the muscle, tear down those fibers. Alright, I got a balance.

=== FILE: Mike O'Hearn's Power Bodybuilding Training Program [xm1rqhyKRPc].txt ===

Power body belt, what is it? I developed this by putting together power and the physique of a body belt. In the old days, they used to do a power lifting meat one day and the next day of those guys would have to show their physique. So that means these guys were strong but looked good. And in today's day and age, I don't see it. I still want to be that superhero. I don't want to be just show and no go. So I developed power body belt. You know, it's something where I can continuously, as strong as I am, but as developed as a body belter. I'm here. You focus hardcore on a power movement. Just keep that strength up. Then afterwards only two exercises. That's it for your body belt. You just do it once a week. You're only training that body heart at one time for you humans. I would say do it for 12 weeks all. I do it year round, but I just want you to try it for 12 weeks. And trust me. You give this a couple of months. You can see such a change. First of all, you're going to put on so much more size than just body belt. And you're going to get a better physique than the power of this. Combined with two worlds, it's a superhero. Kind of sounds fun, doesn't it? I hope you're excited. I got to go train. You've got to put that alter ego on now. And slam some weights. Let's do this. We're going to go train with Michael here right now. Yeah.

=== FILE: Military Challenge 2011 [cN3JTf9tlys].txt ===

Boom gentlemen, we ain't got a whole day, let's go, let's go, let's go! Begin! 1, 2, 3, 1, 1, 2, 3, 2, 1, go, go, go... Real good, real good!

=== FILE: Military Mindset in The Gym ｜ Ep. 25 ｜ Harry Vargas [1QeX1ca1MFo].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Body Billing.com listeners. My name is Daniel Bits and welcome back to the BBCon podcast. Today we continue with our meet the coach series where we introduce our newest roster of coaches debuting in the Body Billing.com app in 2025. Coach Harry is a certified personal trainer and Body Billing.com master coach. Harry pushes the limits in and out of the gym. Injecting creative movements into his programming, his tough love and no nonsense approach challenges you to work hard while having fun in the process. In Av and Marathon runner, a casual 315 in the 2024 New York City Marathon, Harry specializes in training for endurance, hybrid, and body recomp. He believes every goal can be accomplished with a good coach, a consistent program, and the willingness to push past discomfort. Whether you're new to the gym, want to get shredded or hit the pavement for your first run, coach, Harry's got your back. Harry Vargas, master coach, welcome to the BBCon podcast and welcome to Body Billing.com. Thank you for having me. We're going to jump right in so that you guys can learn a little bit more about Coach Harry. So tell us about what brought you to becoming a coach and the purpose behind that journey. Yeah, I'll say it's um, it was quite the journey. Coming out of high school, I didn't know what I wanted to do in terms of like work. College didn't really seem like it was for me, just because I saw like how I was doing in high school. So I was heavily considering the military. My brother was also going to join at the time. And so we just started training together. We did all our paperwork. I literally got every piece of paper that needed to be signed. Signed, I got all the vaccines. I did all the the the the the the pre boot camp workouts and stuff. And literally the day before our bus was set to leave to boot camp. I called up the guy who was in charge of my paperwork. Whatever. And I was like, yeah, I'm so sorry. I don't think this is for me. I'm I'm gonna actually hang back. But I'll let you know if I changed my mind in the future. So after calling it quits on the military, I was just hopping from job to job to job. No sense of stability just because again, I didn't know what I wanted to do. So I was just trying to live life one day at a time until I found something that stuck. Then the pandemic happened. And like most of the people I went through the pandemic, you know, coming off of the pandemic, I was in a really negative headspace. And my sister was hopping was gym hopping. Going to all the gyms in New York City. And she found one that really stuck with her. And she was telling, oh, why don't you come with me? It'll make you probably feel better. Get out of this rut that you seem to find yourself in. And after a very long time, it just continues, I know, no, no, that's not for me. I don't really like it. All that sounds boring. I hopped on. And then I was just hooked. I saw the impact that the class had on me mentally. And after that, after that one class, I knew that I wanted to help give that feeling to other people. People who didn't either feel good about themselves or lost or wanted to make some improvements, whether it was from a mental perspective and prove their mental health or a virus from a physical perspective. If you want to look different, so that you can feel good about yourself, I know automatically that's something that I wanted to do. So after that class, just started getting into the gym scene via working there if it wasn't front desk that I was just helping clean and then eventually started working on my shirt and then the rest of the history. Thanks for sharing. How would you describe your coaching style? I would say intent. And I like it to be like that for a certain reason. I feel like there's enough coaches to go around for you to have a certain style at any gym you go to. And I personally feel like that intense style of coaching resonates with why I wanted to become a coach in the first place. And I feel like it helped me when I was in that negative head space. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with all the other coaching styles. I'm just saying for me in particular, I feel like that's the one that really got me out of that rut. Like going in there, getting uncomfortable, becoming uncomfortable with being uncomfortable. Yeah, and I just tried to translate that in all my classes. Yeah, that's that no BS approach. We're here to work. We're here to get it done and add all costs, right? And I think to your point, I think the best coaches are aware enough to understand my coaching style isn't going to be for everybody, but it's going to be for somebody, right? And I think to your point, when we were bringing this group together, we said exactly that, right? Our goal is to find somebody for everybody, but not every single coach is going to be that for everybody. So all that to say, you do a phenomenal job of bringing that no BS approach to the forefront of your programming and your coaching style. Thank you. How do you want people to feel when finishing a workout with you? Something along the lines of getting a glimpse into what you're actually capable of. So I feel like when you're coming into a class, whether for a guard of where you are on the spectrum of fitness, whether you're on the beginner side of the spectrum, or you're on the advanced side of the spectrum, I want you to come into class and then by the time those 60 minutes are up, I want you to have caught a glimpse of what that part of you that's past the advanced side of the spectrum kind of looks like. Now, are you going to be there for all 60 minutes? No, that's not sustainable. But I definitely want you to leave class me and like, damn, I tapped into that version of me that I eventually want to be every single day and tapping into it for just a glimpse is more than enough to give you hope that you can be that person. And then obviously, I feel like mental fortitude is at the forefront of at least my training style and with being having a strong mind all the other aspects of fitness just come as a byproduct. So yeah. In a way, we want the class, the workout, the one-on-one experience, where the group experience to be the hardest part of the day, right? Because if we can get through that, whether it's in the morning or at night, regardless of time, we can get through that piece. It sort of makes the rest of the day in the rest of life a lot more tolerable, right? If you kind of go into the 60 minutes and you're on the ground, hands and knees, you're on puddle and then you go and you have an altercation, you have a stressful call. It all becomes a little less daunting. Yeah, now I could definitely speak from experience ever since I started training. And it does not every, I don't want to give the impression that I'm saying every single time you're in the gym has to be 10 out of 10 intensity and you're dying your on your knees. But you should visit that at least once a week and by doing so. Anytime something in your everyday life, that would usually cause you either anxiety or stress or any kind of other negative emotion, you just find yourself in a position where you can just brush it off a lot more easier than it would have been otherwise. I agree. So strength is at the core of your teaching principles. Why is strength so important to you? Yeah, I would say mental strength is definitely at the core of my principles just because of what I mentioned earlier. A lot of people like to get caught up in the, oh, I want the six pack. I want the biceps. I want the quads. I want the back. And all of that is cool. I'm not saying that that's, there's anything wrong with that. But I'm saying the last thing you want is to become a bigger, strong version of yourself, but in terms of mental strength, they're still the same. I think it'll be very hard to find someone who's mentally strong and not fit. So by fortifying what's in between the years first, the abs will come later. The quads will come later. The back will come later. It's just, it's literally like a downman off-back. Once you get that mental fortitude down, everything else is just coming. I love that. What's your favorite movement and why? I get asked this so much either by other trainers or by people that come into my class. And I feel like it's not a movement in particular. It's more of a tool. I just really love kettlebells. And the reason I love kettlebells, because it's kind of like, for me, there's nothing better than a good kettlebell complex. Because I feel like it's a dance. You're going from one movement into the other. Like if you're doing a clean, to an overhead press for verse lunge, down, clean it again, and then onto the other side. Yeah, it's like a dance. And that's coming from someone who has two left feet. Like I can't actually dance. I'm Hispanic. But unfortunately, that dancing gene just skipped right on over me. But yeah, I love me a good kettlebell complex. Anything with a kettlebell, I'm going to have fun. There's so much fluidity that goes into a kettlebell flow. And there's so much body control that is required. That you really, those who maybe aren't familiar with it, there's such a transferable feeling into stepping off of that corner block, or moving out of the way of that car, or taking that random step to get out of the way quickly. A lot of that will transfer over into understanding how to control your body. Yeah. I feel like I get a lot of that out of kettlebells as well, whether it's a swing and just really having that control, and that activation to control the downward portion of it, etc. Yeah. Yeah. I get why that's why that's your choice. Yeah, no, it's a good way to also just work on strength and conditioning at the same time. I mean, you'll definitely get stronger, but your heart rate will also definitely shoot up pretty easily. Absolutely. Stay on the lookout for some kettlebell workouts with coach here. Sure, sure. What's your advice for somebody who's just getting started? Good question. I feel like you have to have a solid why. If your why isn't solid, you're going to find it really easy to fall off of the train. And by train, I mean, whatever moment of it is you're carrying it to the next workout. A lot of people get caught up into like, momentary goals and what I mean by that is like, for example, let's say somebody's getting ready for a wedding, whether you're the one getting married or you're just attending a wedding of somebody else. You say, I want to lose a couple pounds because I want to fit into this dress. And there's absolutely nothing wrong with that, but the wedding does have a date. And then there's going to be a day where the weddings over. And so what did you just only exercise because you wanted to fit into this dress? Now that the wedding's over is like, what are you doing now? I feel like unless you have a solid why to hold as your foundation, then you're going to find it really hard to keep going into the gym. So I feel like once you have a solid why, that'll just keep you going into the next session. So whether you want to be, but a version of yourself, you want to improve your health for your family, you're going up an age and you feel like you want to start moving around with a little bit more fluidity. Yeah, solid why. What about, let's say a bit more of an advance individual on their fitness journey. They're hitting a plateau. They can't reach the one-ret backs that they've been chasing for a little bit now. And they're just not really seeing the performance they want to see. What's your advice for somebody like that? Yeah. I feel like I could definitely relate to that to a certain extent. I think this is my third week after the marathon. And now looking at hindsight, it's always 2020, but looking at hindsight, I could definitely see that right before the marathon approached. I was definitely redlining a little bit. I was a little bit over-trained. Usually when you're hitting a plateau, you're usually doing probably a little too much. I would say take a step back, look at what you're doing. Maybe take some time off. Sometimes you just need to reset mentally and physically, give your body a little break, and then jump on, jump back on when you're feeling a little bit better. As you know, we're redabuing our signature line here at BB-com. What's your favorite signature that you use on the daily? A creatine. Yeah, I mean, I can't speak highly enough of creatine. I know what my body looked like before I was taking creatine, and then post-taking creatine, and it's black and white. Yeah, always have a creatine. Always carrying creatine with me literally in my gym bag, just in case I can't afford to take it at home, or on the road, always have it with me. Coach Harry says, get your creatine everybody. Yeah. How do you feel your day? Tell us about your nutrition plan. Yeah, so I'm going to be completely honest. I'm not as consistent with my meal prepping, as I should be. I fortunately live with somebody who's a massive meal prepress. So I just hop off of, you know, I steal from her meals every now and then. I am burning anywhere around from 2,000 to 2,500 calories a day. So I have the fortune to be able to eat as much as I want, just because I need that fuel. I'm running five days a week, I'm lifting four days a week on top of that. I also just naturally have a very fast metabolism, so I can afford to just eat as much as I want. I have a massive sweet tooth. So I'm not going to lie and say that my diet is 100% healthy. I like to enjoy myself. So I partake in, you know, your casual sweet every now and then, but yeah, for the most part, shout out to Coach Yaya for holding the time at the kitchen because I'm definitely just dealing from her meals most of the time. Well, I'll take away here, but it is like you can still have abs and have the sweets. Yeah, for sure, for sure, for sure, for sure. Harry, what does recovery look like for you? Um, so if I'm not in the sauna, I have a pair of normal tech boots that I'm using all the time. And if I'm not doing sauna, normal tech boots, I'm literally just giving myself a really deep tissue massage. Mostly in the legs because of how much I run. And on top of the running, I have those lower body workouts to supplement my running. So most of my soreness and recovery does come from my legs. So either it's some CBD oil or some just regular cream just really get in there in the calves and quads for the most part. Nice. All right, you ready for your rapid fire Q&A? Yeah, let's get it. Let's do it. Number one, upper body or lower body. Lower. Push or pull. Push. Deadlift or squat. It's squat. Biceps or triceps. Biceps. Morning or night workout. Ah, that's really hard. Foot morning. Favorite book? Uh, the alchemist. Favorite food. Oh, favorite food. Um, probably Greek. Everybody's stumbling on this one. We all love food here. It's hard to choose. Yeah, it's hard to choose. Favorite music. Favorite music? Oh man, that's so hard. Um, I'm gonna just say rock in general. There's so many sub-genres. I'm not gonna get into which one's better than the other. But just rock. Whoa, that's well-added. The broadness. Well, one word to describe you. I'm pretty quiet for the most part. Um, just because I'm quiet, this means I don't have much to say. Actually, I have a lot to say. It's why I'm quiet. Just because I get overwhelmed with like, I'm trying to funnel all these words into a trying to string them into a sentence. But um, yeah, quiet. Quiet and disciplined. I think I think that's a different phrase. Yeah, I'll take it. One word to describe your workouts. Um, empowering. Love that. Yeah. Harry, thanks so much for stopping by today. Thank you. It was awesome to have you on and for you to connect with our users. And we're so excited to work out with you on the bodybuilding.com app. Yeah, I can't wait to work out with you guys. Stay tuned as we gear up to launch the bodybuilding.com app where you can work out with our coaches in 2025.

=== FILE: Milk Thistle Guide - Bodybuilding.com [vtpCEEZhJxI].txt ===

Music Mockfussel extract is taken from a plant. In the plant seeds, one extracted have three key ingredients called flavonoids. And that comprises a complex called cilimerine or cilimerine. That complex is the presumed or primary active ingredient found in Mockfussel extract. Mockfussel extract has some positive notable antioxidant effects. It also can support liver health and liver metabolism. People often use it when they actually are trying to rebuild or strengthen the liver function in support liver function, or as an a clinically researched and validated plant extract for antioxidant support. What you can expect from our benefits you would get from using Mockfussel is that it could improve your liver health and also improve any antioxidant needs in the body. Perhaps it could be coming from intensive training or climbing or training or working altitude. Dosing is typically 200 milligrams, one to three times a day. You can take that anytime that you want to, it doesn't appear to be important time to take it. When you're trying, we're considering combining Mockfussel extract with anything else for stacking. If you focus on antioxidant support, you can think of any other antioxidants that could be botanical and green tea. There is any types of fruits that are present in constate form, antioxidant vitamins like C or E. If you're thinking about actual liver support, perhaps the best way to combine it with would be an unsuitable sustain or an AC. That's something you'll ask that when taken up by liver, converts itself into or is converted into glut of fion. And that can help support liver metabolism and liver function. Especially if you're consuming Tylenol or the active ingredient Tylenol, acedaminophen frequently, or or and if you're consuming alcohol frequently. That combination of Mockfussel extract and an AC can support liver health very effectively.

=== FILE: Movement for Pregnancy & Postpartum ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 16 ｜ Kristen Lettenberger [7J3CXV0rFzw].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and welcome back to the BB Com podcast. Today I'm joined by Kristen Lettenberger. We're no stranger to Kristen here at BB Com. Everyone she's been on the pod before educating us on all things pelvic floor and instilling the proper breath work into our lifting routines. If you miss that one head back to episode eight to check it out. Kristen Lettenberger core recovery postpartum playlist on the body fit app that helps thousands of women online prepare for motherhood and beyond through movement. She's a doctor of physical therapy certified shandard condition in coach and director of a spoke women part of a spoke physical therapy here in New York City. She specializes in women's health along with general orthopedic conditions and injuries. Kristen's goal is to help women restore function and fitness through safe and effective movement. Kristen, welcome back to the pod. Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm happy to be back again. Today is all about the moms or moms to be and rightfully so as this episode debuts on Mother's Day. Kristen, you yourself are expecting your first and less than two months now. So we're not only going to have a professional insight but real life personal insight here based on what you've experienced in experience yourself these last seven months or so. So team today we're walking through movement guidance for all three trimesters. The do's, the don'ts, the cautionaries as well as returning to exercise postpartum. This is exciting one for us. This is definitely a gap in the educational field that we're looking to fill. So I'm excited to jump in Kristen and I want to kick it off with topic one which is trimester one. So you find out your pregnant right and where do we go from here? Oh boy. Yes. So trimester one. I mean when you're early on in that first time so it's like one to 12 weeks is trimester one. You don't really have to change too much of your exercises. You can keep pretty much your same routine. But that being said usually women are hit pretty hard with nausea. You get lots of different hormones kind of coming in fluctuating so your energy levels are going to be definitely different. And if you're working out too on top of that you need to be able to fuel yourself appropriately to kind of recover from this thing. So you may not need to change too much of your exercises but you kind of want to take into account your changing energy levels and start a mind shift of okay I'm pregnant now. I'm going to have to kind of step away from what I've been maybe used to doing and start taking like different steps for each of the trimesters. So honor your energy systems if you're really nauseous you're not able to get enough food in probably like tone it down those first 12 weeks of your pregnancy and then the second trimester is okay and do and that usually feels a little bit better. So in terms of explicit movements you know are there things we should be avoiding? Are there you know kind of risk factors that we should be decreasing now that you know we're starting our pregnancy journey? Yeah I mean the major one is risk of falls and the injury to the uterus so like high impact sports boxing kind of things that would maybe cause some injury in that area can be detrimental to the pregnancy. So we just want to limit those things so if it's a high risk factor we can kind of just take that down. So obviously you know we want to consult with our doctors and we're going to treat this as a case by case basis but for you specifically Kristen you know give us an insight give us insight into maybe what your program look like you know prior versus what changes you made when you had it to try master one. Yeah so when I was pregnant I was still training kind of power lifting style and I was doing heavy deadlifts heavy backscrot heavy bench press I was actually going into a strength block so I was looking really forward to lifting really heavy and I could do that up until six weeks and then my nausea hit so bad that I was living on white race and soy sauce and I would go to the gym I would do some movements but I just could not output the same amount of strength that I was before so I had to take that strength block and had to like really tone it down and honestly do warm upsets just to get my body moving and kind of motor planning still and making me feel better but if I needed to rest that day I took a rest day. Yeah and how are we kind of you know meeting ourselves where we are right as you said earlier in the intro you know how can we still get the blood moving what are some low impact low stress activities that we can do we're not feeling the best we're not able to get our full new tritian and we don't have the energy levels to expand we don't want to set ourselves up for injury you know what does that look like yeah I mean that could look like some people are doing yoga some people are doing Pilates if you're a weight lifter like myself that's going in the gym in doing maybe body weight versions of it or instead of loading the barbell to even like 60% in your loading it to maybe 20 to 30% and you're just taking more rest breaks in there so you're just taking your time with each movement to kind of check in with yourself really trying to get that core activation and really good warm ups so you're spending a lot of time doing mobility you're spending a lot of time activating your core and so those are some ways that you can kind of meet yourself where you are. Yeah decreasing that intensity factor and just yeah 100% matching the energy so let's head into the second trimester all the same questions apply here you know maybe as you said maybe that nauseous decreasing you're overall feeling a lot better but when it comes to movement what are kind of the the bumpers that we're looking to instill here yeah although like you are feeling better and you're like oh I can go after it now you do need to kind of check yourself a little bit you won't we when you get pregnant you got to leave your ego at the door so you can't be like ego lifting during pregnancy it's not about this we're trying to create a nice foundation for your postpartum recovery and also a lifetime of athleticism so in that second trimester what you can do is definitely sorry I'm out of breath it's like pregnant everybody very pregnant is very hot but during that second trimester what you if you're starting to feel better you can start adding in some more load and more intensity you're just you're dialing back just a little bit from what you used to do in the first trimester or before pregnancy another recommendation is to your body is also changing so that baby is probably now bigger and your center of gravity is going to be changing and you may feel some heaviness coming into the pelvic floor and so we start looking into pelvic floor considerations during our second trimester even in our first so we're looking for signs of diastasis or like a coining in the front which is too much pressure into that linear alba we're looking for pressure down into the pelvic floor if you're experiencing your anary or fecal incontinence or you're just having musculoskeletal pain so this is kind of when peak relaxin happens is between 12 think to 15 weeks of your pregnancy so you can imagine your ligaments and your bones are just starting to shift to allow for this pregnancy to progress and for that baby to grow bigger so you're going to feel things more than you used to and you might be experiencing pain that you didn't experience before so this is a great time to just kind of like dial back seek help from a physical therapist I would usually recommend in the second and third trimester's kind of setting up the pelvic floor PT so you can have continued care throughout your pregnancy and postpartum where how can we start to understand kind of what the level of pain is well maybe I just need to move my body a little bit more during this time or hey maybe I need to back off right we know kind of a lot of the common complaints live in that low back during pregnancy and around the general core area where this is happening kind of we've got a self gauge then how do we know when it's time to reach out for help I mean if you're experiencing pain for more than a week I would say you should reach out for someone to help because during pregnancy your body's only going to keep changing so if you can kind of get on top of that beforehand you can mitigate a lot of those issues later on in your pregnancy so if you're experiencing low back pain excuse me in your second trimester already that's a great time to check in with a PT see if you're actually engaging through your core properly and you're still maintaining nice hip stability and for you how did your program evolve adapt etc during the second trimester well I really started writing my own program is at this point so I added in instead of more heavy barbell work it was more like kettlebell work so I was trying to get some conditioning of myself through there so in my second trimester what I was doing I tipped back on barbell I added more kettlebell I was doing like kettlebell swings I kept some of my main movements but I brought my intensity down to about between 60 and 70% of my red maxes and I just monitored for those symptoms so any mesquids go to pain any pressure into my pelvic four any dyes dases are cony which I do experience so I have to be extremely mindful of it and then I'm looking for just like overall how am I feeling day to day yeah I want to talk about cardio for a brief second here and this this isn't specific to you know for a second a third or really applies to all I think a lot of people you know we've seen the videos of of pregnant women running we've seen them deadlifting 400 pounds off the ground and we see the comments that come along with that but you and I have had the conversation of if this is something that you have been doing for a number of years at this point you know it is okay to continue to agree this act during your pregnancy so kind of where do we start to understand you know someone who's been doing this for a very long time versus somebody picking up running for the very first time in their second trimester let's talk about that a little bit yeah I mean if you were able to run through your first trimester amazing what if you're able to run through your second trimester and your body is feeling good and you're feeling really stable and you're not having any pubic synthesis pain any urinary continents you can continue those movements it's great for like your mental health and mental well being too but when you see these outliers of these women who are trained athletes and so they know their bodies really intuitively they're also probably have a team behind them being like okay yeah let's try this today this looks good your form looks amazing you're not showing any changes in your biomechanics and so let's continue doing these things but for the majority of women they you usually do have to kind of step back and take it down and if you're asking yourself can I yes you can should I maybe not like what's the reason behind why you're choosing to do these things and so what do you expect to do also postpartum right yeah maybe your second trimester is in the best time to do your first crossfit classes probably not anything that one but if you're an avid runner for the past eight years and you want to keep running you feel good and you get that clearance from your doctor then all the more power to you absolutely third trimester and let's break that down okay third trimester is fun that's where I am right now you can I'm pretty much my training program is to do the same I'm just kind of toning down the weights and I'm seeing how my body is feeling on the day today if I'm feeling a little bit more fatigue so sometimes you just start to slow down the baby gets like real heavy and you start to feel kind of bogged a little bit more what we want to focus on in the third trimester though is really learning how to connect to your pelvic floor because we want to yes have that contraction support our pelvic floor kind of get those kiggles and things like that but it's more important in this stage to find that lengthening aspect because when you go into labor your pelvic floor needs to move out of the way it needs to not be contracted it needs to lengthen and stretch and move out of the way for the baby so understanding how to get that contraction and then full relaxation and third trimester is really important so we're adding a lot more mobility into this area so we're doing a lot more hip mobility we're doing a lot more pelvic floor mobility just to help engage that baby into the pelvis and we're learning mechanics on how to push which is a little bit it's not intuitive for a lot of people so belly big belly hard use your diaphragm to push down and you're thinking about opening your rectum and so that that type of almost like a bearing down but release that we practice throughout the third trimester but you can keep your exercises going he may be more winded in your third trimester so you just may need more breaks and we're also looking at probably you're changing your squat because the belly you need to accommodate more space for the belly so if you're doing dead lifts I moved from conventional to sumo because I couldn't get past my stomach and then I moved from a regular back squat to a box squat because it wasn't able to maintain my pelvic control like as well as I was doing more pelvic tilting and then you also want to think about if you're putting too much pressure into that linear alba so doing like a bench press on flat my back was seeing more co-neing so I just elevated it I noticed it with planks kind of elevating my planks and my pushups and modifying there so we're reducing too much tension into the front here to kind of decrease our risk of a continued die status and to postpartum yeah and Chris has been putting out a lot of great pregnancy modification content on her Instagram which will share at the back end of this episode but really helpful tangible takeaways for users so Chris and we're going to spend most of our time here this is postpartum so we've we've gotten to it we've gotten to the the the big day you're it's coming up for you right so this is the neck of today's discussion because there's a huge gap in terms of how women can safely return to exercise post birth obviously we're going to have to navigate this differently again based off of a type of birth vaginal verse sees actions so let's consider both options and to let's talk about recommended timeframes order of events progressive overlords and things of that nature so I mean let's start day off right babies here I want to start right there and progressively work ourselves up into the weeks and months that would follow amazing and I have my patience and clients start day zero with some movement and some breathing techniques so you set up a great foundation during your pregnancy we practice all these skills during pregnancy so that you know how they should feel postpartum because now that that baby that was inside you creating all this tension like in your abdomen is now outside of you and that is feeling a little bit loose and a little bit more squishy and so harder for you to engage so day zero what is happening regardless of birth regardless of a cesarean or a vaginal birth regardless of tearing um what you're going to be doing is diaphragmatic breathing so you're going to be taking nice deep breaths trying to expand through your abdomen 360 degrees around and then you're trying to just gently engage through your transverse abdominis which is your deepest core and your pelvic floor now you may not feel it the same way you did during your pregnancy and even before pregnancy you got to trust the process that when you do that exhale you're getting those gentle lifts and so you just progressively do that over the first two weeks how are we navigating cesarean versus vaginal birth obviously to completely disruptions here so kind of breakdown both yeah so if you happen to have is cesarean birth that's a major abdominal surgery so they go through seven layers to get to that baby and then they'd suture you back up and we have to be now mindful of a surgical wound during that time so usually the timetable gets pushed about two to four weeks depending on how you are doing during that recovery so instead of a vaginal birth we'll be just a little bit more time maybe in that first phase of rehab during a seaside section okay and how does that impact returning to sport returning to movement I want to say not everybody's returning to a specific sport but they do want to return to an active lifestyle what considerations are taken into place in terms of rehabbing there based off of type yeah so we have to be a little bit more mindful early on with movements when it comes to a cesarean because of that surgical site we want to sort of preserve any sutures that have occurred there and so we don't want to we want to avoid like excessive we don't want the wound to open so we need to be more mindful of rotation load and recovery during that time opposed to a vaginal birth let's talk about when we start reintroducing movement so maybe we're doing things on the table on the floor except our learning how to reengage our core our our patience is lacking mom wants to get back to the gym or the road over whatever it is for her when do we start reintroducing some of those movement patterns standing them up on the floor and getting some strength back yeah I mean you're doing a lot already with the baby so you're picking them up you're squatting down you're bathing them in the tub you're doing tons of laundry you are doing a lot of the movements that you would be doing in the gym now you're just doing them in real life so what we want to think about is we use exercise to complement the things that you're doing throughout the day so that you feel more stable and more controlled in those positions and have less pain so what we're doing the breathing in the transursive dominance and the key goals kind of in that first half of the like the first two weeks you should start to start feeling a little bit more connected to your body and then we're moving into body weight exercises so these are going to be movements that you're really familiar with this is including bridges squats and we're also adding some postural movements because in those early weeks my main complaint is actually from breastfeeding so it's like that hunched over neck position so we do a lot more postural work lot more mobility in the stage and we're adding in banded work here and so you'll get back to doing movements that you're familiar with just body weight versions within the third and fourth week postpartum and then from there it's just we progressively overload it. What is the general timeline Kristen this is again I say general general general here it's going to be case by case and you have to get this clearance with your with your care team but let's say day one to 90 or maybe day zero to 90 as you put it right those first three months how are we bringing new moms new parents back to a consistent workout routine when are we picking up weights I mean it's it's very similar to a recovery protocol from surgeries and injuries right that's how we're approaching this yeah I mean you can be really systematic about it and then you can modify as needed for each person so really the first two weeks is that early rehab stage and then weeks three through six we're kind of adding in more of those movement patterns are really familiar with doing body weight six to eight weeks is usually when you get doctors clearance to resume activity and what does that mean it means your tissue is a field so if you had any tearing with a vaginal birth your c-section scars is healed so you're able to go through the movements you are not at a point where you can take on the same amount of low that you did during pregnancy because the postpartum body is more vulnerable than it than a pregnant body and that is because fatigue and now you you're breastfeeding or if you choose not to breastfeeding you're so recovering from those nine ten months that you were pregnant so that takes a little bit longer than the six weeks that the doctor is recommend but six weeks is when your tissues are healed so we can start adding load them and this is like small amount load so baby cannabels yeah like let's add a goblet squat let's do some lunges let's do a step up or step down and so that's in our six week around eight weeks is when I start to try introducing just some plyometrics really light plyometrics so like pogo jumps static mountain climbers just so we can get more core engagement more hip movement and then at like that eight weeks to about eleven weeks were progressively adding more plyometrics into it so if you want to return to a higher impact activity like running jumping anything that involves you kind of sprinting on one foot we I usually say we we eat till twelve weeks to kind of really introduce that but we're building up strength from day zero to those twelve weeks and so it's really systematic about that in the night twelve weeks we do like a return to run program and so you're back that's already three months there at your twelve weeks if we're just getting back to baseline over you were pre pregnancy probably you've been feeling stronger because you've been really slow and committed and intentional about your movements and how you build your foundation you'll be able to get back to most full sport probably around between twelve to twenty four weeks now Chris and you're an outlier and the sense of everything you've continued to do you know throughout this time let's talk about motivation for expecting moms and then new moms to you know speaking real for a moment movement isn't in the top of their head I mean their lives have been turned upside down for the better right but then there are also things like postpartum depression just thing through and more the mental health aspect of it so I mean one you know how do we find the commitment to stay movement stay moving during a pregnancy and then the second part to this question is you know how do we motivate new moms to you know put their health in their bodies first again as they're adjusting to new life I always say movement is medicine and it's like the analogy when you're on a plane and you have to put on your mask first and then help someone else so if you're not taking care of yourself you're you're not going to be showing up for your baby a hundred percent and so there's a lot of mom guilt sometimes when I'm like talking to people and they're taking that hour to to work out or get some movement in and but at the end of the day I'm like that makes you a better mom because now you can show up more fully and so I think moms just need a reminder of that a lot of times of like you can't take this time for yourself because this is what's going to make your time more more valuable in the in later points but the easy way of like adding movement back in kind of working through either baby blues or if you're dealing with postpartum depression of course we need to seek help for for that and you need to talk to someone but I love movement snacks so like exercise snacks throughout the day because you don't necessarily have to do the 45 minute workout you can do the 45 minute workout 10 minutes throughout the day and that's like four to five points of your day that you're doing some kind of intentional movement and you're getting the same volume and load that you would if you just did it straight through but it's more manageable so adding things like a band next to your breastfeeding or wherever you are feeding your baby like on the stand or in the diaper bag and just doing like a couple banded pull parts when you finish putting a diaper on that and putting them down so just making it more accessible throughout your day I think makes it a lot easier for moms to start creating a program and being more consistent for some you are about a month and a half out from me near little one not two months right so seven weeks seven weeks yeah what's been the biggest learning lesson for you during this period oh boy I mean I really did have the tone it back and so I had to check my ego a few times and it's fascinating because I feel like I've I've coached pregnant and postpartum moms for years now and now going through it myself I'm like I have a whole new appreciation of what that fatigue feels like like your body feels like how sleeping just sucks so bad it's like a cruel joke of you having insomnia during pregnancy and then knowing that you're not going to be sleeping postpartum it's like oh god so I feel like I've learned a lot going through it myself and I just I I like to think of it when I'm in the gym and I'm moving myself intentionally and I'm working out that this is a real privilege that I can do this for myself and I'm doing this for my baby so I'm like setting up a good foundation for her so that I am hopefully going to recover a little bit faster so I can show it for her every day you said a public gender reveal on the baby's home podcast excited to be having a girl Kristen we were thrilled to have you back on today thanks for all you do for women seeking more education around pelvic pregnancy and postpartum health please remind the listeners how they can follow along for more content and education yeah so I have a ton of information on my Instagram that's at Kristen let and burger dpt I'm sure it'll be in the show notes because it's a very long name but you can also find me at bespoke treatments in midtown in New York City I love treating prenatal and postpartum moms and helping them get back into exercise a lot with pregnancy and postpartum is individualized advice is always best so if you're unsure just seek the help we're here to help you and there's a lot of individual recommendations so you're never alone keep moving it does help and yeah thank you so much for having me yeah thanks for coming by again Kristen happy mother's day to all of the baby comm moms out there and thanks for tuning into another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: Multivitamins & Vitamins Guide - Bodybuilding.com [4-p2z5xnSds].txt ===

Music Multivitemans are combinations of different vitamins. A vitamin A-finition is something that is essential to life. Even though a balanced diet can provide you with nutrients, sometimes you need more that you can't typically obtain from foods like vitamin D. With a multivitem because the X-y are essential nutrients, food or beverage or a dietary supplement will have a nutrition-fax panel or a supplement-fax panel. And on the right-com, you'll see a percent DV or daily value. That tells you from that serving size or portion size, what percentage of your daily value of that need for that vitamin is present. Very few vitamins are needed above that to sustain or support metabolic performance. Exceptions to that would be perhaps vitamin C, vitamin D, maybe vitamin E. Those are needed perhaps in certain states or conditions in higher amounts. When you have a multivitemund product, it's almost always present your fine vitamins A, D, E, and K combined or at least A, D, and E. And those are all fat-scival vitamins. And because they're fat-scival, you need to consume them with a modest amount of fat at the same time to increase the amount of absorbed.

=== FILE: Muscle Building Supplements - Bodybuilding.com [sdqEiOW8a5Q].txt ===

The early-ever client of Drain has questions about supplementation. And my answer is always the same. If you don't take him, you're not going to get your results as quickly or as dramatically, but the list of supplements out there seem endless. So picking a right one can be tough. But we've amassed the best of the best to make sure that you reach your goals as fast as possible. Protein is essential for growth. A weight protein is easily absorbed on low and fat and sugars. Try to get about 40 grams postwork out and you can also have it throughout the day to make sure that you have one gram per pound of body weight. When choosing a weight protein, we list the nutritional label on every product page to make sure that you get one low and cholesterol, low and carbohydrates and low and sugars and fats. In order to build muscle, I have to be taking protein. Now I take a protein powder because it's a fast, easy community way to do that without it. I wouldn't reach my goals. A multivitamin ensures that nutrients are missing from your diet. So your body can just focus on what it wants most. Building more muscle. Now buying a cheap multivitamin off the value match shelf just won't cut it. That's good for the sedentary individual. But for an active individual, you need to get the best if you want to be the best. Essential fatty acids. They call the central because your body can't produce them. You need to get them through your diet or through supplementation. And Omega 3 is a particularly helpful because they help with brain function, joint mobility and increase testosterone levels. When you train intensely amino acids which are essential for muscle growth, like a pleating, BCA's or branch chain amino acids are essential for this growth and best taken before and after your workout. Take about 5 to 10 grams, pre and post workout to get your maximum results. When I was working out in the gym, I was getting really, really sore, but I wasn't recovering fast enough for the next workout. And when I incorporated branch chain amino acids, I realized that, hey, I'm not as sore as I was, I can get the next workout. The best pre-workout supplement is going to contain creatine, citrally, and adgeny. And these together will help you get a better blood flow, better pump and better nutrient delivery to the muscles. Pre-workouts coming several forms, pills are great for convenience, but powders will provide you the fastest absorption. After demolished the weights, your body is an immediate need of nutrients to jumpstart growth and repair. Experts refer to this 15 to 30 minutes as the anaepolic window. Take advantage of this window before closes by downing a postworkout shake with 3 key ingredients. Fast digesting carbs, weight protein and creatine. You now have a supplement stack to get massive and muscular. From your foundational supplements to your heavy hitters, what a buildup commons got you covered. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: Muscle-Building Shoulder Workout + Abs： Day 3 ｜ Kris Gethin's 12-Week Muscle-Building Trainer [WfTJabJL1-w].txt ===

Good morning on this very early third day of the muscle building trainer. Today you're probably feeling quite sore from your chest and tricep workouts on OIM, which is a good thing because of the weight that I was using yesterday. I didn't really know if I was going to be sore but by focusing on the contraction of the muscle and the negative was able to break down that muscle tissue. One of the things that's going to help prevent that soarness is obviously rebuilding that tissue. So branch chain amino acids, BCA's, they're coming various forms whether it be capsule, whether it be in a liquid or in a powder form is an essential. So it's a third day of our muscle building workout. We are going to be hitting shoulders and abs today. Second time that we've hit abs this week. We did lower abs at the beginning of the week. Now we're going to hit the upper abs. It's going to be a tough workout. shoulders not being a large muscle group but you know we have to hit it from many different angles to really target it and it can be a muscle group that is hard for people to isolate. So I'm going to break that down to ensure that you do isolate it to make sure that we get everything that we want out of every single day over these next 12 weeks. On a way to the gym because the gym is about an hour away at least from where I reside. So it's quite a track so it gives me plenty of time to digest the food, mentally stimulate myself for the workouts. The soon we walked into the gym was warmed up the shoulder girdle and then we did a standing shoulder press with the dumbbells. So we raised up, used our rotator cups and our tracts to bring the weight up and then our outer and front belts to plow with the weight up. We reached failure at around 10 repetitions. Once we reached failure couldn't do any more you'll notice that you're still able to push out a few. Until even you're just moving a couple of inches just to ensure that there is nothing left in the time for whatever you should be running on vapours, you know even after your first set. We did that four times. When you do that make sure that you keep the tension on your traps. I've all time when you're holding the dumbbell at the bottom don't let your arms relax. Keep your body in your torso tight. We went straight onto the side raises. Now you will notice that my form may look a little bit loose to you but to me it feels very good. So that little bit of leverage and that little bit of suspension works well for me. However for you I would do recommend use a little bit of a tighter form. So I just did side raises and this is our front bar bell raise. So we were at a medium grip and when I say medium that's about shoulder width apart. We re-raised up over the eye level and then slowly came down again. I was using a little bit of control cheating here to get the movement up and again reach failure to around nine ten repetitions and then did our rest cause principle just to get out that 12 repetitions and we did three sets there. Our final exercise for delts was the bent over re-a raises. You will notice with the grip my hands were pronated you know my palms were facing behind me as opposed to neutral facing each other. The reason why I do that and with all the weights on the outside of my hands is I do believe that it isolates the rear delts that much more. So again reach failure at around eight repetitions I stood up, took a few deep breaths and then went down, did another one or two stood up until I reached my 12 repetitions. Up at abs was using a resistance to make sure that we stay within the realms of the Y3T rep principle of around eight to 12 repetitions so I wanted to make sure that we reach failure within those reps. If you do not have a decline bench within your facility just do it flat on a floor however make sure that your arms are vertical the whole time to add assisted resistance upon your upper abs. So we really worked the negative there, exploded a little bit more at the top and paused at the top and then come back down and we did about 10 repetitions there and we did four sets. Rest period was for about one minute but then when we finished our shoulder workout we rested for about four five minutes. Once we did that we moved on to barbell rollouts so you'll notice again I rolled out very very slowly came in nice and slowly as soon as you feel the tension release away from your abs that's when you know you've got to go out again. Don't come all the way in and have a breather left to rease it you'll probably end up doing 20 reps we need a reach failure within about 10 so I think I reached failure at around eight and then rest paused until I got 10 and again we did three sets on that one and I really felt depleted during this workout. Today we did 15 minutes on a bike you'll notice I did three minutes lower intensity so I didn't have that much resistance I always had a high cadence on the bike and then I increased the resistance so I had to stand up and pedal for one minute and then I came back down I did that for three cycles totaling 15 minutes. So three days in a road tomorrow is going to be four days in a row even though it's my first quick back in a gym it feels good it feels like I'm growing already I'm adding more sodium into my diet some holding a little bit more fluid same with the creatin I've added a little bit of weight already I'm 91 kilos I was 89 on Monday 89.9 feels good that I'm adding weight already and I'm growing because I know I'm going to fill this out. I was very nervous at the beginning thinking that I'm in too much of a deficit of all the muscle that I've lost but I'm confident now that we can do it we will do it. Unaccountable to you now I'm being transparent you be transparent to me lay all your goals out there online on body space let us know exactly what you want to attain and put your sincerity on the line and we will help as your account of body to allow you to achieve that. I've had my post-workout shake so remember as soon as you finish your workout that's when you have your protein isolate immediately following and then you do your cardio so that's it for today I'm going to go home now and on the way home it's another meal just remember if you've got your nutrition your supplementation your rest your recovery on track you're going to be right there alongside with me so now as soon as I've got in the car here I am having more egg whites and oats and some plain apple there get some antioxidants in my carbohydrates and obviously my protein so egg whites have a very high BV you know by availability that is my food of choice right now

=== FILE: MuscleTech Fit Squad Fitness Challenge： Week 1 Video - Marc Megna, Bodybuilding.com [vWfxVoMICnc].txt ===

Hi, I'm Mark Magnum, Muscle Tech Athlete and Performance Coach. I got a question for you. If you've got a very one-spot you in history, who would it be? Post on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook. Hashtag Mike Fitsquad, tag bodybuilding.com, tag Muscle Tech for a chance to win a Muscle Tech prize pack.

=== FILE: MuscleTech Fit Squad Fitness Challenge： Week 2 Video - Marc Megna, Bodybuilding.com [QYrW3rtsBic].txt ===

One week down in the food may have lost its punch. Get creative and show your best healthy recipes to help your teammates and others find great new trees. Post on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. Hashtag myfysquad, tag bodybuilding.com, tag muscle tech for a chance to win a muscle tech prize pack.

=== FILE: Myron Mielkes 2010 Mr. Olympia Preview - Bodybuilding.com [7IY4QJwlOc4].txt ===

The biggest surprise was the condition that Jay Copmer was in. He was coming out doing fist pumps and he had this extreme confidence and he did the quad stop and I turned to my wife and I said I've never seen Jay like this before. He's got a good, very good chance of winning this show back and it's getting to be who's going to take second through last place. Branch Warren was also surprised last year. He came in looking phenomenal, best conditioning that he's ever shown. There are a few guys that did look as good as they had in the past. Dennis Wolfe, he didn't even place last year. He came in, he was looking very smooth, his conditioning was way off and the crowd knew it as soon as he walked out of his dead silence and people knew something was wrong. Like I said, he did make the final cut, he did make the top 15. Ty Green and Phil Heath were both a little off last year. Phil had a bow with food poisoning and just time things a little wrong. I think he and Oscar probably spent a little bit too long and Vegas before the show last year with their prep. They came out a couple months early. It's probably a little bit too long so they're staying out of New York a little bit longer this year and trying to correct things. But those are the big surprises for last year's show. The guys who were in the top six places last year probably be in the top six places again this year. I'll talk mostly about those guys and then a few of the guys that are probably like seven, eight and nine that I think the dark horse is a technique up to possibly the top six spots. Jake Kotler as everybody knows he came back last year, one is titled back. The first time someone had one their title back after they were defeated and that was the first time in the Mr. Lemby history that was done. And he looked great, he was in phenomenal conditions, his best night ever seen him like the center of the earth. And if J comes in looking that way again this year there's a very strong possibility he will win his fourth Mr. Lemby title. Branch Warren last year who came in second, there's no one could have predicted the way he looked last year. I don't think anyone predicted that he would have came in second place and placed ahead of Dexter Jackson, the guy that won it in 2008. Still debatable whether or not he deserved second place and was very close between him and Dexter Jackson if he would have taken third I don't think anyone would have complained is very close but he was in great condition last year in the judges awarding it for. Dexter Jackson the blade took third last year at the Mr. Lemby and he would like to win his title back. There's no doubt in my mind he wants to win his title back. He's been training with Charles Glass for a while out here in California and I think Dexter is a little hungry this year and he wants his title back and he's training hard and I think he's going to just step it up a little bit more and he looked good last year. He didn't look bad but I think he wants it. I think he stepped up his training a little bit trying to try to win his title back. Kai Green was in fourth place last year and he again won the Arnold Classic in March this year defeating Phil Heath. I don't think he was as sharp at the 2010 Arnold Classic as he was at the 2009 Arnold Classic but a week or two later after the Arnold this year he traveled to Australia for the Australian Pro and his conditioning was much improved and as Kai said he thought that was the best shape that he'd ever been in and judging for the photographs I'd have to agree he looked really really good. If Jay's off this year then we could have an in Mr. Olympia Kai Green could potentially be the new Mr. Olympia. Last year I had predicted Phil Heath was going to win the Mr. Olympia. But I know that he was going to get overcome by food poisoning the night before the judging I didn't know Jay Cutler was going to come in the most fantastic shape of his life. So Phil took fifth last year Jay wanted Phil took second at the Arnold Classic this year. Just about six months ago he was defeated by Kai Green. It was close I could have seen and I thought Phil had it one but apparently Kai sharpened up just enough at night and was able to gun her the first place trophy. Phil always makes great progress between each show he says healthy this year. I see him in a top three spot this year and if Kai and Jay are both off he could step in and actually win the Mr. Olympia title too. Victor Martinez was able to get six place last year despite having a horrible, horrible personal life last year. He had a lot of things happening. Probably the worst was a sister being murder without having his head in mindset at 100% he was able to take six place in the world's biggest professional bodybuilding championship. I don't know if his leg is going to be up to the caliber of Mr. Olympia status yet after his injury in 2008 that he required surgery for. We'll see. I don't think we've seen the best picture Martinez yet. I still think we will see the best Victor Martinez in the years to come. We haven't seen it yet. Ronnie Rockle was 7th last year. He took six at the Arnold Classic. I could have seen Ronnie a couple places higher at the Arnold Classic. I could have actually seen him in fourth place. Ronnie has established himself as one of the better bodybuilders out there. Kind of flies under the radar. He needs a little bit more back development, a little bit more width, a little bit more thickness, a little bit more detail. But all in all he's got good proportions, good symmetry, he's got enough muscle mass. And I think that with a little bit of fine tuning he could break into the top six this year. Tony Freeman is one of those guys that is inconsistent. You don't know which Tony Freeman is going to walk on the stage. He's going he could be super ripped and shredded and flat. He could be full and a little smooth. He can put a winning combination together like he has a couple times. I think his best showing was a 2008 Mr. Olympia or the 2007 Iron Man. If Tony can put it together with a winning combination, he's got a top position also. If not, I see him somewhere 7 through 10 this year. He's over 40. So it's going to be a little bit more difficult for him than some of the other guys to give in the type of condition that he needs to be at to place really well to Mr. Olympia. Dennis Wolf is a guy that everyone says has a lot of potential and I agree he does. His breakout show is the 2007 Mr. Olympia. A lot of people thought he should have wanted that year. A lot of people thought he was going to win it the following year. Again, he's another guy that's been inconsistent with his contest prop. And if he comes in at 100% the way everyone wants Dennis to look, he's going to be in the top six. But he's struggling with getting to look that Dennis needs to get. Last year he was way too smooth. He came into the New York pro to requalify. He took third and did qualify this year. But he was flat. He was depleted and he wasn't the normal bold Dennis Wolf that we've seen. And I think if he can put it together, he's going to be a threat. But until he does that, he's looking to make the top 10. But if he does put it together, he's top six. And it's all to Dennis and see where he wants to actually place this year. Really winkler is one of those guys that it was amazing. I saw him at the Arnold Classic in the pump up room. And I was shocked. I mean, in my previous article for the Arnold Classic, I picked him to be dead last. You know, the new kid on the block always takes last in the Arnold Classic. So I thought that was pretty safe. I'd seen his pictures online from last year's Arnold amateur win. And he looked okay. But I didn't see him having a top spot against the best professionals. Boy, I was shocked. And I think a lot of people were. Really after that show had a pretty big fan base established. He came back qualified at the Mr. Olympia, the Australian Pro, by taking third behind Kai and Dexter. And a few months later, he came back and he won the New York Pro against guys like Tony Freeman and his Wolf, he did Tate Yamagishi. So, really is one of those guys that you got to watch out for. He could easily sneak into the top six this year if some of the other guys are off. He's got, like I said, he's got a huge fan base. I've been reading on thebodybuilding.com message boards. And there was a debate who's got the best all time tricep. I think it was. Rul, there was a really winkler. It was a fill-heath. And you had guys going back and forth saying, no, it's Rul, he has her his or her better. And then there's another guy saying it's fill-heath. And they're comparing the, you know, the long head of the tricep in the shape and the amount of striations. It was pretty, it was pretty entertaining. So, I enjoy reading that stuff guys. Keep it up. I love reading it. So, who has the best triceps fill or Rulie? I'm hoping they're standing side by side. I'm hoping the guys in the message boards get to see him standing side by side this year also because I think everyone wants to see that. That'll be a good match up between Rulie and Phil Heath. I hope Rulie gets some comparisons in there and they all come in at a really, really good shape. As far as predictions last year, I predicted Dexter Jackson to come in third and that was about the only thing that I got right. There wasn't a whole lot of people that predicted the outcome last year. And this year, it's hard to say, but I'll stick my neck out. I'm going to say Jay Coller is going to win. Ky Green in second, Phil Heath in third, Dexter Jackson in fourth, Victor Martinez in fifth and I'm say Branch Warren in sixth place. Rulie win cleared seventh. So, there you have it. Those are my predictions. I am really looking forward to being there again this year. I'll be there with my wife and we'll have a good time in Vegas and we will be keeping up with a hectic schedule, but it's a lot of fun and I'm really looking forward to again.

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer - Bodybuilding.com [e7tB7NCykYY].txt ===

What time is that getting on? What time is that getting on? The NFL Combine is the elite benchmark of football performance. This all-nothing event can chatter dreams or make them come true. Just six tests, stand between you and greatness. This is where the elite train. Stated y'all facilities of full-time staff of coaches, trainers and medical personnel. On Pete Bomb Rito, and I make champions. Today you're working out in my house. Two time-oil American athlete, former linebacker from the New England Patriots, certified strength and conditioning coach. I'm Mark Magnum, and I make champions. We're giving you complete workouts designed for you to increase your performance for each of the main NFL Combine tips. 40-yard dash, 2-25 bench press, vertical jump, pro shuttle, pro jump, and three cone drill. Plus, we're hooking you up in nutrition and supplementation plans used by the pros. Train, eat and supplement. Just like the top athletes at Bomb Rito Performance Systems. Be stronger, be faster, be better than anyone else.

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer： 225 Bench Press - Bodybuilding.com [jKEsxyMokCw].txt ===

The 225 test in Rutgers down at Calcombine can be simply stated it's just strengthened endurance. You know, it's obviously looking for maximal strength that's looking for endurance strength over time. So I think a 225 is just a number of that kind of pick that was safe. That was easy to kind of gauge in a pair from the year to year in terms of the overall strength endurance, which is an important factor of football. Because the actual test itself on bench is a rapid action with that stretch reflex, you want to enhance the motion and eventually over time. So I think that it's important to get speed, but also have that reverse strength and a DT-celleratoric component down towards the chest. So if you're looking at a one-one-star tempo, it's one second down, one second isometric pause and the X or the star does the nates exploding up to the end range of motion. Get your set position, you want to get a good arch in the back, glutes your tight on the bench, speed or tight on the floor, shoulder blade squeeze together, heads down. Good. Hey, and rack. Now if you're looking at star one star, you had that high speed, centric load with an isometric pause, then a complete explosion up to a star one star. Same exact setup, same grip. Hey, hey, and rack. Chain slash band same thing, it just varies the load. So at the bottom of the rep, the ball will be lighter at the top, the rep of ball will be heavier. So you had that acceleration component, the n-range emotions. We like to use chains to wear when you're fully extended, you still have a couple of links on the ground. I mean, you know, these are football players that are powerleters, so in order to just kind of bounce at ball or stabilization, if you have all the links off the ground, it's a little bit tougher at the top. Okay, next tempo is going to be star star star star. So you're going to be no isometric pause where I see if we can actually reflex down and up at the same time. It's not going to be a bounce off the chest. It's going to be a rapid acceleration downward. Right before the bar hits the chest, it's a rapid deceleration, then a re-acceleration, a reversal strength, up into the concentric action. The only difference is now it's going to be a little more challenging in terms of the pressing. So bench press for me to get the mentality that you're pressing out away for you towards your feet. Now, the final one is at exact star star star. It's simple. The only difference is no pause at the top. So eliminate the isometric down here. Look at the stretch reflex, but at the same time, can you accelerate all the way through the end range of motion, then pull back down and re-accelerate back down into the next rep. The star star star tempo, no pause at the top. Okay, racket. So the tempo again, one one star star, star one star star star star. Hammer grip bench is basically going to be here. What we want to do is try to get a little bit wider than the chest. I want to try to get a good stretch down and it's deep as possible. And I want to go for endurance. So we're going to go as fast as he possibly can. The tempo is going to be star star star, fast down with no pause, fast up. Raves of dumbbells get to the exact same stance. He did on the bench press in terms of the 5 point system. So lay back. feet, glutes, back, chest, let's go. We're going to good heavy weights. So he's coming all the way down, like I'll a little more at the top. That's it. All the way down. Clear the chest, all the way up, lock it out. I like to hammer grip because it's just changed. This stimulus a little bit from just in a forward benching. All thuring the rotation of the upper arm will change the stimulus. So I like to come out a little bit wider than the chest and get a real, real deep contraction. Just to put a little bit of a different stimulus across all the muscles and bow than the press. We're trying to get as deep as possible. It's fast as possible if it was made reps as possible. And good, doop it. What he's going to do is going to separate his feet here. Put his feet flat in the platform. A little more to his weight than his toes there. He's going to reach down. He's going to grab the spider grip right here. Clear properly. Once he pulls it off, he's going to pull his shoulders back into position. His arms are going to be locked. He's going to be engaged. He's going to rep in one time. Hold. Yeah, the row isometric wave tempo is very. Okay, so for each rep it's going to be a different tempo. So if you're looking at again concentric isometric eccentric on a row, the first rep of that series will be 161 or one second up, six second pause, one second down. Then you do a rep. Then when you come back up for the next one, it's one second up, five second hold, one second down. Then you do another rep of one-o-one tempo. Then you come back up, one second up, four second hold, one second down, do a rep. One second up, three second hold, one second down, all round of the two second hold to the one second hold. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Bring it down. He's going to do two repetitions. Nice controlled reps. Squeeze hold, five, four, three, two, one, two reps. I like to do a lot of isometrics for a number of reasons. I think that isometric strength in all of your scapular retractors and all the muscles and biomed in that wrong action are very, very important. Four, three, two, one, two reps. Nice control. Three, two, one. It's head is neutral, two reps. If you look in specifically for a performance on the bench press, you have to be able to maintain that isometric position for, you know, possibly up to 35 or even 60 seconds, in terms of you just be able to maintain it as you're reping it out. So what better way than train isometric strength than to actually do isometric weight loading in terms of the rows. The race is going to work is that he's going to stand inside. First he's going to start off with the green band. He's going to do as many reps as he can. He's going to start with his elbows tight, slightly lean forward. Elbows facing front, he's going to continue to start reps. Go. He's doing nice speed reps. Still maintaining control. He's going to force that band down, keep pushing, keep pushing. Get a good traction with the strike, working it. Try to push down with the band. I like to use the variable resistance because one thing about the triceps, the triceps contribution into bench press, what you're doing, a maximal bench press or even a dynamic bench press or even an endurance bench press. The triceps contribution is often neglected and extremely underrated. He's going to go to failure. He's going to use many reps as he can. He really wants to burn out those trice. He's going to keep pushing, keep pushing, keep pushing, maintain control. When he fails, I'm going to take this green band away. He's going to continue on. He's going to reverse his grip. I was going to do speed reps, reverse grip, push down. He's going to keep going, keeping elbows on the side, maintaining that fully lean. So, to keep pushing down, he's going to go to failure once again. Once you actually get the bar off your chest, he's going to start pressing the bar out towards your feet. The contribution of the tricep or the elbow extensor, so to speak, is tremendous. I think that's definitely a weak link. We see in a lot of athletes coming in. It's something we really overload. Rep it out. As many reps as it can, keep cranking them out the last two reps at the end of the most important. We're closing, recruiting that's it. More fires, that's it pushing it down. One more rep, that's it feet. Way to go. Every single upper body day that we do has got some type of elbow extensor type work. And we band almost all of it because we like that acceleration component. If you look at typical, you know, a T-bar row or a dumbbell row, it's going to be slow and controlled. With the sled, it's just a great motion to be able to hit that power in turns of those muscles over a distance. So when I say power endurance, obviously we've got a 40 yard sled row, you might get in a good 20 to 30 reps. Brendan's going to help us out again. He's going to keep going, doing consecutive reps. We're usually set it up at about a 40 yard distance. He's going to do as many reps as he can with the net 40 yard range. Okay. Brendan's going to pick up the handles, get his feet set, speed a little bit wider than the shoulders. Shoulders are back as butt is down. He's a nice flat back, head is neutral. He's not going to avoid all four lean. He does not want to lean and expose the lower back. Okay. Perfect posture. Squat down a little bit more. Shoulders back. Turn and row. Stand up. That's it. A nice pull is driving his elbows back violently. Squat. Turn and that's it. Nice strong base shoulders back, flat back. Safety. That's it. Shoulders back. Thumbs are down. Turn and row. Tage, drive the elbows back. Really working those round boys. That's it. One more rep. Drive the elbows back. The bench press itself is a power endurance strength in the run side of exercise. We're moving fast and moving very very powerfully and maintaining that strength. I think that you have to reverse that motion sometimes and that's why we have such good success with the sled row. Once again, we'll set up at about a 40 yard distance and he wants to try to work the entire length of that area. So you're going to work for the whole 40 yards. He's going to continue to try to drive reps for his main possible. Let's get the set up. There's one foot in front, one foot in back. He's going to try to keep his elbows in front. His hands can be separate a little bit. There you go. And he's going to try to rep it out, lean forward and drive snap it out. Get full extension. That's it. As he keeps walking, be continuous. Walk, push. That's it. Another step. Lock it out. He's going to try to keep his elbows facing front. He maintains that forward lean. Keep walking. When he try to make it as though that sled won't stop, he's going to keep reping it out. That's it. Nice job. Different stimulus across the tricep to be able to have that same type of elbow extensor strength at very, very powerful actions. And the same type of thing is it's just endurance over time. Four lean. Hands fall behind the head. Lock it out full extension. That's it. Slightly lean forward. His back is flat. He's neutral driving that sled away. I'm going to tell obviously, no is five position by how big you are. Your number should be as long as you consistently lift weights. I think that's what it does. You're looking at some guys. It's not afraid to lift weights. It's not afraid to take care of his body. You don't have to be like a weight you're in free. But you look at the average numbers. You know, the good number for linements in the 30s, the middle level guys, the tight ends line back is 25, running backs 20, DBs, wide receivers around that 15 range. As long as you can get that baseline number, you're looking at a guy's not going to be a consistent problem with the proper strength in getting a shing program for the team. These exercises we just showed you will help you perform it to the 225 reps test. Be sure to check out the entire boundary performance systems for fall training tiers here on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer： Broad Jump - Bodybuilding.com [l0tGYysNYXI].txt ===

The broad jump has been explained me by a lot of personnel that has probably the most specific test there is. Horizontal power relates to so many things in football and that's really all it does. It's a true expression of horizontal power. The only rule really is when you go through the descent or the ascent of the jump before you're feet leaving ground, you can't shuffle your feet to get our main planet. And then once you jump out and your feet stick, you have to stick to land and you cannot fall backwards and you cannot fall forward either. The box broad jump, the broad jump just to get that pure expression of horizontal power, but at the same time, soft in the landing. The landing does go through an excessive joint load that you don't want to repeat over and over again. You want to be able to actually execute the form on a broad jump without the impact and the joint load of the landing. So what better way than the soft land by jumping up on the box is that simple. It's identical to the exercise we did for the vertical jump in terms of linear box jump. And for now we're going to take the box height down a little bit about this height and we're going to stand further back. So it's going to technically be a broad jump with height up onto the box. So a box this height, we're going to back up anywhere between three and five feet. So Mark has to have it going to demonstrate this one. Approximately three to four feet away. The position being about hip width apart, the arm starting up at the body fully erect in terms of the hips, the knees and the ankles have no bend in it. It's going to be a rapid arm action down with the hands clearing the hip. Then at the bottom of the deep knee bend you drive your arms forward. The hips will follow. Then you're going to be jumping up and on to the box. The only difference in the arm action is now after you come out of your D-cent and into your A-cent you're going to kind of put your arms out and up a little bit and let your hips just follow your arms up onto the box. Remember the arms will always lead the hips on the D-cent and up into the jumping action. Good. You know how his forward projection of his hips. So it's not necessarily just a vertical. Now we're looking for more horizontal plus vertical power. There's no correct progression. It's micro progression within what that person is able to do at that particular moment. So if they can safely land on a box, that is the proper distance. The I'd say on average we typically start people out about three feet away from the box and up onto about a 35 to 40 inch box. Then we micro-progress the box up and their distance back. Again arm action will lead the hips. Jump up and on to the box. Try to do it a couple times a week because you're going to soften the load of the body joint loading. Be great for technique. You know keep the reference between one and three. The Lambeine Linder Jammer definitely have a favorite exercise of mine because it's a great way to load and be able to micro-progress through an external load of horizontal power. If you look at the Lambeine Linder Jammer itself and you look at Mark's X to the song film. When he drops his knee down it looks very very similar to the base of the jump. You know the full hip knee and ankle flexion of the jump itself before he explodes into his jump. The Lambeine is this sleeve here we have actually have attached to the rack but they can also be at that sleeve that fits into the bar can also be on a ground plate. And a combat handle attached here which is a very very inexpensive easy way to train linear power. Okay. So at the bar fitting into the Lambeine sleeve we have the plate. Now when we do our linear jammer we obviously need a little bit of room in between the plate and the combat handle. We just fit a simple PVC pipe. So in terms of the setup Mark's going to pick up the combat handle put it right on his shoulders. Okay. Then you want to find a good lean in order to get that linear position. So notice how the combat handles, we're in his hands, sets up on his shoulders. He's going to back up about 45 to 60 degrees. Then when I say set he's going to drop down into a squat position getting the knees is closely brown as possible. When I say hit he's going to explode board just like the broad jump or the box broad jump we just demonstrated and the acceleration of his hips is going to pop his hands out into an extension. So perfect start position, set, hit, good. So I like a lot because you can overload the system. And the energy transfer that is created from the hips can be extended out and transferred to the arms. It's very similar to when you do a broad jump you're trying to hold your arms up and out as long as you can even into the decent before you land. So I think it's great for the joint loads, it's great to micro-progress an external load and it's phenomenal for the energy transfer from the hips all the way through the upper body extending out. Walk back with the handles on the shoulders, good 45 degree lean, hit. I like to hit that about once a week and I like to keep the rep range. Again, about that four to five is maybe even six range because I really want to try to micro-progress and load it up as much as possible over the course of the overall program. I do one more rep, bring it to the shoulders, get the lean, set, hit. And relax. But for the specifics of the broad jump, that loaded horizontal power cannot be under stated in terms of its importance. Another exercise great for the broad jump is the elevated back once. I think it's just a great single-late strengthening exercise. There's a lot of single-late strengthening exercises that you can do that would help you in the broad jump or any other athletic motion. The elevated back lunge is definitely a favorite of mine because from the back of the position, you're actually selling your hips forward number one. The other thing is the joint load on the back leg is extremely important. I like that reflex and that stretch you get through the ankle joint on the back leg. And if you elevated, you can actually drop your back knee below the front foot. What's going to happen is piece going to stand up on the plate both feet together. It's going to set himself under that bar. It's going to lock his elbows here. Once that bar is secure, both feet on a plate. Make sure he's on a plate so we can drop that foot that knees going to be below the front foot. So if he's going to step back full of air, step back, absorb the blow tap and accelerate forward. As he accelerates forward, he's going to make sure that the chest doesn't sink. Okay? Exorve the blow, lock the ankle, lock the ankle, absorb the blow tap the knee, accelerate it forward. Accelerated forward, make sure his shoulders do not come forward. He does not class the chest. That's it. So the elevated back lunge is great for just pure single leg strengthening, which is very very important. Plus I like that reflex. You get through the hip and the ankle because you're forced to drop into a back lunge. It's easy to micro-progress in terms of the external load, which is the weight in your back. First lunge, tap, lock the ankle, step forward. That's it. Tap the knees, step all the way forward. Come more. So lock the ankle, absorb the blow, accelerate forward. I like to keep out rep range from you know, five down to three, you know, really try to load it up and build pure maximal strength. The seated band hamstring curl was an exercise that we chose to demonstrate for this video series because it's very simplistic and it's easy to control. But at the same time, you have to be able to control pure knee flexion without a lot of external things like hip flexion, hip extension, getting in the way of what you're trying to accomplish. So a piece going to sit up straight on this bench right here, which is going to lock his hands. He's in a perfect aerodynamic position. He's going to curl that band in. He's going to have absolutely no pelvic tilt whatsoever. He's going to squeeze that band in in a controlled manner. Squeeze, he lets it out in a controlled manner. He locks the ankle or all the way out full extension. It comes all the way back in. He's going to try to minimize knee lift. It is very, very easy to set up. You just take the band, wrap it around or loop it around any type of a post like the outside of the rack like we were doing. Then micro progression would just be limiting the distance where you go. You can even move the band up or down. When you move the band down, you're creating a different type of moment on which could add some more resistance. But, you know, typically we like to set the band up about hip level because it's easy to control. Loop the band around your leg. Then as you come back, you're actually varying the load because you're coming into more band resistance as you're getting into more and more knee flexion. All the way in, all the way out, full extension, no pelvic tilt. He's sitting up straight, great posture. All the way in, squeeze. This exercise can be done prone on a machine or prone with a partner. We chose the band because it's, you don't need a lot of equipment. Anybody can buy a very inexpensive band and just set it up. As long as they're in the proper ergonomic position, as long as they understand it's all about, I symmetrically controlling your pelvis because you don't want the pelvis to shift which would be taking away from what you're really trying to accomplish with the goal of the exercises and that is just to strengthen your knee flexures. That's great all the way in all the way out, couple more reps. Squeeze hold. You see, it might only be getting like six to eight even ten reps, but your tempo might be two, three, two, like two seconds in. A three second pause and two seconds out. Anything that's going to increase the time under tension within a particular workout. Blood jump is very simple. It's horizontal power expression. And horizontal power is more specific to motions in football than vertical power. Vertical power is very general. Horses are horizontal power is very specific. If you look at just a pure acceleration step, that is an expression of horizontal power. There's no rhyme or reason on, can your broad jump increase draft stock? It may or may not. But the way I look at it is why not just go ahead and train for it because you might be neck and neck with another player and every single category when it comes down to athleticism, that might nudge you up. If it nudge as you up, that might be one draft spot, it might be two full rounds depending on all the teams picking behind you. So you never know how the drafts gun folds, you might as well get every single question answered and pure athleticism is just one of those questions. These exercises we do down here at Bommery Performance Sisters will definitely help you make massive gains in terms of your broad jump. You can be sure to check out the rest of the football training series on Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer： Cone Drill - Bodybuilding.com [MxvSr20JAUM].txt ===

The 3-coin drill in terms of the NFL combine is a linear start position at 3.5 and it is a power drill, not linear speed. Because the distance is so short it's only 5 yards it's more of a bound into the drill and a linear bound out of that 5 yards. After that then it becomes a speed motion because you're looking on it at circular speed which is very specific to a number of athletes. The easiest examples are you'll pass rushing, coming around the corner or a wide receiver and coming across a middle and turning on the drill. You know those type of circular cuts are very important and football so what gets better way to demonstrate your ability to navigate those turns than to put a 5-yard radius on the turn itself. We're going to do this thing together when standing a line, feet together, step. I'm going to bring my left foot back toe to ankle bone, right foot back 4-6 inches. I'm going to drop my right hand right to the edge of that line, put my left hand down in front. I'm going to load the left knee, nose to knee, lock the right tricep, left hand up, 1,000 1,000, 2,1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 5, 2. You're not necessarily going to be running out of the start, you're going to be bounding out of the start. So you notice that Mark was putting Brennan in position, identical to our teaching philosophy on the 40-yard start itself. Now at the same time once you come out of your start it's not going to be a run, it's going to be a 3-step bound. It's very, very similar to a triple jump and track and feel. What? Two-hiss step touch? What? Two-hiss touch? Come on, I'm action fire out. So you're gonna jump out of the start, not run out, and hit a bound, and then a bound hit step stop. When you come back, it's the same three step technique where you're literally trying to throw your legs up and out as high as you can, and gain as much distance on every step. So it becomes a power bound not a run. So the key points to remember is our proper progression leading up to the three point stance. Our one, two, his step touch, our two-hiss step back touch, and our double arm action fire, take us into the acceleration phase. The significance of the five-yard radius arc run is real simple. It's circular speed. Circular speed is used so much in football. That obviously, that's why I, my opinion, it's put into the three cones real because the demonstration of that type of speed relates to so many positions and so many instances in the game itself. We're gonna start three yards away from this first orange cone here. I'm gonna demonstrate first here. I'm gonna put my basically my right foot back, my right arm forward, I'm gonna two point stance. I'm gonna start firing my arms. I throw my head towards these cones. I'm leaning, I ensure lean. My tilting my head towards these cones are a matching keeping it as tight as possible. Tight as possible. Pumpin' my arms, arm action, hand clear in the hip. It's fast as possible. Finish strong through the line, through the white cone. I keep it as sharp and it's tight as possible. So Brandon's gonna give us a live run through here. He's gonna back up. He's gonna be three yards away from this first orange cone. You're gonna start off with this left foot forward, right foot back, two point stance, right arm forward. Ready? Go! That's it. Nice job. Nice arm action. The five-yard radius is obviously just means that the cones replace five yard of parts if you're running around a circle. The radius is going to be five yards, which is identical to the drill. So what we do with athletes, they might do great in terms of the first five yards, the second five yards, then when they come out of the second stop, they navigate that first turn. They might square this and pose around you. So a lot of times we'll just use the preparation of that five-yard arc radius just in itself, because it's gonna help you navigate the first turn and the last turn of the drill. You just have to throw the head towards the imaginary center of the circle at the same time as just keep your arms pumping. That's good. That's good. Remember the legs follow the arms in every instance of walking, sprinting, jogging, whatever. So if you wanna maximize your circular speed and your head is in position, which means you're body-leaning the position, you just want to follow up with rapid rapid arm action. So we just will do arc runs itself, just like Mark and Brennan were doing, and that in itself will make you more efficient in circular running than when you put it in the three cone, it just happens naturally. Now the arc runs are extremely, extremely taxing. So you wanna minimize the overall volume of the arc runs that you do. You might say we do one to the left, one to the right, take a rest period, getting some three-point training. And this is one of those things that's very, very easy to feel for athletes. They'll come out of a squared turn by gay, and I square that turn, they can feel it. So it's very easy to self-coach. The importance of the single cone sprint drills is very, very simple. You're coming to a complete stop at having to change directions at the same time of navigate around the cone without it falling over. So the desoloration components are already kind of built into the previous drills. Once you desolorated, I wanna make sure that they're able to accelerate as quickly as possible. So my opinion you do that by just consistently chopping the feet and keeping the arms moving. It just teaches that quick put action of pop-up hoppup and you re-excelerate. Violin arms, lots of choppy steps. We're gonna stand in that line. We're on our back one on forward here. Choppy feet, you're gonna have violet feet. NeacTION, knees up, that's it. Choppy and the speed, that's one trip. Arm action, two trips, one more. Arm action, three trips. We're gonna have a great choppy feet. He had lots of knee drive. Arm action. In terms of that single cone sprendrill, that is probably the one you should do the least. Okay, and again, only three revolutions, that's it. Don't do any more than that, cause you're gonna get dizzy, it's gonna come a worthless drill. But again, if you have problem, if you feel coming out of that turn clean, you wanna do three quick revolutions, that can rest here, go right back into the three cone drill. My philosophy is that strength is the key. That strength and that speed strength in a power potential can relate to anything. As long as that is set, I don't feel the need to consistently beat up the joints. The one drill I think, that's kind of a combination. Everything, that's got the power, it's got the linear power, it's got the circular, multi-directional speed, it's got the breaking, everything. So I've talked with some scouts that think that that's one of the most important drills that the combine, because it has everything you need. The overall reps and volume of a three cone approach, that all is very minimal. You know, we might actually have three of the four days straight in your speed. We might get to the end of that type of training session and just throw in a good 10 to 15 minute block of three cones and shuttles. You know, we don't practice it a lot, we really don't. Expect a good time, I always say the bench block is you have to break seven, just have to. You know, and I believe that across more of our aimless dial alignment. When you get into typical speed positions, like wide receiver and defensive back, I strive for six, six, seven, I really do. Lime in the odd berries, I'd say, where between like a seven three range is kind of what we shoot for in terms of the elite. I'm going to try to get everybody in the seven, five's or below. Be sure to check out the entire series of drills for the three cone on the page below. I mean, entire Bomberator Performance Systems football training series program is available here on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer： Nutrition - Bodybuilding.com [PZwav9S-OGg].txt ===

So basically a barmed-up performance that actually comes in, we have to figure out how many the multi-zeeding a day. A lot of times we want it to, if that, and just pull the time to meals and pull the comprised meals from there. You start to understand and break down how many calories are going to be in each meal. When those high calorie, a low calorie meal is going to be in the exact specific timing and break down, when they will take place through the entire day of each meal. Three solid meals a day, two snacks, maybe one evening meal as well, so it's anywhere from five to six meals and that sometimes includes pre-imposed work out nutrition as well. Also a part of step one is the body composition test, which is also known as the body fat test. We use the body fat calipers to do a nine point test. There's several ways to test your body fat. We feel most comfortable doing that. Most efficient for us. Once you know your body fat, you know where you are, you're starting point is very important. You know where we want to go with that is, because if they get fat, I mean if you run a program where you're consuming mass calories, because you're trying to put on weight, well then of course we want them to get that person's body fat up a little bit because they come into a little bit too lean and that season is long. They're going to wear and tear up wear and tear up during the season. They're going to be able to take care of the body so we're going to have to have a little bit higher body confidence. They're incredibly lean person and lean gainer. If they're a little bit too heavy, they also need to be a little bit light so they're not over taxing their body. So if they're 350 pounds and they're incredibly soft, maybe they could be about 305 pounds, 308 pounds and they could just lean up and gain a little bit of muscle reduced the body fat. Every meal is actually made up with an assortment of micro nutrients and different vitamins. Micro nutrients because it's just thing, oh vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E and health effects, vitamin A, it would be, uh, carinoids. You get that from carrots, vitamin C would be citrus fruits. You get that in any vegetable as well. And vitamin E and healthy fats get from nuts. So we can add any healthy fats to it. I mean you can add flacks, fish, coconut oil, things like that. I mean those are the things that we really want to keep an eye on because of an athletes pushing yourself and grind themselves down. You can wear an athlete out if you're not getting the proper micro nutrients he needs, but probably we cover within he's not going to heal properly. It revolves for how wonderful the work out is. We try to day person buying the sources that they come from. I'm a benefits or a proper recovery, regeneration, shortening the time in between workouts. When we talk about recovery, we make sure that we can keep a close watch on what the way those micro nutrients come from. I mean we get them from food, we get them from supplementation. We essentially use both. Step three, cover hydrates, bomber phones, we follow the glycemic index. glycemic index, the simplify it is basically the number placed on each cover hydrate food based on the higher the number, the more quickly distributed it is to the energy usage, the lower the number it is, the slow distribution it is for energy throughout your body. You want to basically stick to complex or low glycemic index number foods. You can actually use that energy throughout the entire day and not ready energy. First we make sure that the athlete gets a good variety of those combat cover hydrates here is a multiple of choices from you know, a whole grain rice to kinua, millet, barley, things like sweet potatoes, oatmeal, you know, combat cover hydrates are basically our main source of energy. The training is not the average person goes into a weightroom for 40 minutes. They're out here doing drills, agility. They need proper fuel all day. We keep referring to our main source of energy, keeping that athlete fueled up so that athletes in a position to be successful throughout the day and throughout the whole training block. Every athlete needs carbohydrates, irregularities to be trying to gain or lose if we have a very large athlete and often it's a lie in a defensive lineman. He's still going to get accomplished, cover hydrates even if he's a smaller athlete, D.B. or speed athlete. He's going to get lower glycemic foods as well. I don't think it necessarily has to apply to the position or the size so much as for the proper fuel that athlete. We try to give the athlete an opportunity rather to choose different sources of animal protein. We do go organic and we try to keep everything as clean and it's the most natural state as possible. We go anywhere from organic wild salmon, organic turkey. We go tuna, chicken, hormone free, antibiotic free, chicken. Anything with the body doesn't recognize simply put will be stored as fat. So we make it as efficient as possible. No preservatives, very clean food, hormone free, antibiotic free. We try to get them at least two grams per pound. But if it athletes 150 pounds, if he's getting 300 grams, he can be put in himself in a position to be successful and he's in a part of the state in regards to being an antibiotics state throughout the day during his training box. The definition of antibiotics is keep the body in a muscle building state. Keep the muscle tissue healing and recovering properly and basically giving it everything it needs to keep producing healthy muscle tissue. An athlete that's catabolic is an athlete that a body has turned to using that muscle for fuel and we want to stay away from that at all costs. If you're trying to gain weight or lose weight, you still want to stay in the antibiotics state. You know, you're primary source of energy would not be muscle. Our athletes are very susceptible to falling into catabolic. They based on the amount of the workload we're placing on them and regards to the field work. A agility speed work can also spend time in the weight room. That's the general breakdown for what we've followed here in Bomba-Reheat-O-Four-Formation System. To get a more specific breakdown to help you get closer to your goals, check out the page below and welcome to the Revolution.

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer： Overview - Bodybuilding.com [TosVUaofKJs].txt ===

The NFL Combine is the elite benchmark of football performance. We're giving you complete workouts designed for you to increase your performance for each of the main NFL Combine test. 40-yard dash, 225 Benz press, vertical jump, pro shuttle, broad jump, and three cone drill. Plus we're hoping you open nutrition and supplementation plans used by the pros. The numerator performance system is not only a training system, but I also think it's an educational system. We like to think ourselves as the ultimate resource for any athlete at any age, any level, and you teach athletes how to truly maximize our genetic potential. We're out to change the world. Deep Bummerido, I have a Master's Green Nutrients Science, I have a specialization in clinical sports biomechanics, I've been working with NFL athletes now for many, many years. San Juan Bolton, Chateau Chocenco, Tony Romo, Eli Manning, Vernon Davis, Greg Olson, Morris Jones, Drew Fred Taylor, Matt Forte, John Abraham, Jolly Evans, Michael Orr. Now I'm Mark Magnum, certified strength and conditioning coach, I work at Bomb Readable Performance Systems and Average Tour of Florida. I'm also a sponsored athlete for Fulmus Coates for Muscle Tech. I also played in the NFL. I was drafted by the New York Jets, played through the New England Patriots since in any Bengals. I also played in NFL Europe, I also played in Canada. It's not just about coming down and getting rehabilitated or getting trained or getting stronger is about information, learning how to take care of your body. It's not like you can always exactly get a specific motion of power that's going to be specific and football in terms of tackling or blocking or cutting or changing directions or accelerating or decelerating. Everything you're doing, you football requires power output and then you build off of that and get it a little bit more sports-specific. You might be neck and neck with another player and every single category when it comes down that flutters is of that might nudge you up. If it nudges you up that might be one dress by the might be two full rounds depending on all the teams picking behind you. So you never know how the drafts gone, full of you might as well get every single question answered and pure athleticism is just one of those questions. If you display tremendous athleticism across the board, you're in the top category every single drill. You're going to force these people to go back to why you're taking. We've teamed up with bodybuilding.com to bring you the most exclusive NFL Combine content anywhere and you're getting it all for free. So last yourself, what kind of athlete can I become? Welcome to the Revolution!

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer： Shuttle Run - Bodybuilding.com [mEefpeCL1ks].txt ===

The show along with the NFL Combine is based on a couple of different concepts. Number one from the start is Lattle Coward. Take the into Lattle Speed and you have a full change in direction 180 degrees from Lattle Speed back in the linear speed. Then you have a pretty good acceleration through 10 yards and then you have a linear speed into a full change direction 180 degrees back in the linear speed and you have a finish. The start standing long jump is real simple. The main concept is the position. You have to get your hips as low as possible without sitting your center mass back too far that you can't get out of the stance. So that's to be a pretty good way to distribution between the front and the back of the foot and what your head position to be down with your neck muscles completely relaxed in order to not throw yourself back too soon but the truly use your legs and your hips which is the power muscles in order to get that Lattle power on the start. So the first drill we're going to work on, a size standing long jump, Brennan's going to straddle that line. You're going to make sure he's right in the middle of that line. And then he's going to be down to the side. He's opening up too. Very lightweight as you can see. His butt's down a little bit. Shows rough slightly. His arms off his knees. Nice and relaxed. He's going to explode all simultaneously to the right. Ready? Hick! Nice job. See we cover his a lot of ground. His hand lifted and his feet move at the same time. Nice job, Brennan. I'm not a big proponent of lifting the heels off the ground. I think the feet should be flat in order to get a true jump. The other thing is this got to be a two foot jump. This is where most people fail. It's your more powerful off two feet than one foot. A lot of people air in picking the foot up and trying to turn it as opposed to getting a weight shift from the left foot more over the right foot and using that right foot to propel yourself off two feet later. That's really how you maximize your power potential. So you want to keep the reps short and increase more sets. You might want to do, but say two to three jumps, the right two to three jumps, the left, do some pro-shuddles. Then come back and do it again. That way you really maximize your power because you don't want to defeat the nervous system. What to do it one more time, ready? Hit! That's it. Give a quick demonstration here. You're going to start if he's moving to his right. He's going to have his left arm up here. He's going to relax that athletic position. He's going to quick step behind. Then he's going to pull that knee over. When he pulls that knee over, he's going to fire his arms back up. You're going to be sure that he actually crosses over with his knees. He's going to come straight up and straight down and fire it. He's going to carry Oklahoma back again. He's going to move over here. All right, the left arm's up. He's going to relax that athletic position. He's going to quick step behind. Drive his knee up and down. Fire his arms. Whip his arms quickly. Ready? Go. Whip. That's it. Whip. That's it. Come back. Nice job. Notice that he ran a quickly moves his feet. He's going to carry Oklahoma behind. Then the quick step. He whips his hands. Then fires it back quickly. He's going to stomp his index finger together. He's going to use a lot of nice and easy. Carry Oklahoma. Then the quick step. The knee comes up. Drive with the arms. Drive it back down. Caraca quick step is trying to simulate after you come out of that lateral power motion that you're not actually going to be jumping into the run. You're going to be accelerating at high speed similar to the start of the side standing long jump. And then you actually have to start your lateral run. If you run laterally, which means you're running to the side and you're not necessarily looking what you're going. You have the tendency to turn the feet. You don't necessarily want to turn the feet because it's going to be harder to come out of your change in direction. And it's really only a five yard radius you have to run. So the Caraca quick step is a great drill just to get the comfort level of accelerating off the edges of the feet. The other thing is the arms. Basic, track and field from foul mechanics is the arms will lead the legs. So there's a component of motion that the faster more fish than the arms are, the faster more fish than the legs you're going to be. So if you notice the Caraca quick step, we're really, really over emphasizing the arm action of clearing the hip on the backside and then resetting up the hand punch forward. The benefits of perfecting this exercise will make that first five yards lateral run quicker and more fish. But at the same time, the Caraca quick step is because that arm action and because of the comfort level of the edges, we'll make you more fish in any change in direction and football or specifically in the shuttle. The Caraca quick step even though it looks like a pretty simplistic drill is very taxing on the nervous system. We're going to do to the right side, we want to keep the reps about six to eight perfects. Not do character quick stuff or say 50 yards. You want to keep it very, very short and very, very perfect and very explosive. And then take a rest period and repeat again and take a rest period and be again. Go back to some coach, all right. The left arm move to the right once again. His left arm is up. He's in a relaxed athletic position small bend in the legs. Ready? Go! Hand whip. That's it. Fire it back. That's it. Fire it back. That's it. The basic form and technique of the line-bounding series is you want to try to maximize the lateral distance. So if you have a line that you're founding across, you're going to say you want to focus more on forward distance, you want to focus on lateral distance. Latter-o-moving. Cover distance on that four step. Stack the feet. Tap the outside edge and then split his hands. Fire it's being quick step karaoke if taken through. Ready? One, two, three, four stack the feet touch. Drag your hands. That's it. Nice job. You really want to whip those hands. Take it into the acceleration phase. I'd say on average we try to dictate that you should be able to minimize your ground contact maximize your height time and try to get about a yard across the line. So about a two yard distance on each bound. And once you complete your third bound and you're jumping in your fourth bound, which is where you're going to try to accelerate out of. You want to hit that edge down and then drop in your squat very very fast. Now the eccentric loading component of the hips will definitely dictate how much power pretends you have, which dictates how quickly you come out of those change directions. And obviously the final component is arm action. As soon as your finger tips touch that blade of grass, you want a powerful do a double arm pump. Just like character quick step. And again, it's not always just about strength and deceleration components. A lot of times just a comfort level with the edges of the feet. So when you go into any full change of direction, you're going to have a two step stop. The inside leg is going to have to deselect off the outside edge. So you got to get that comfort level and you got to get those deceleration components. So the components of deceleration is going to be maximized through the bound. Obviously, you also have to simulate that stop because the rules of the pro shuttle dictate that you have to touch one hand down not the other one. So if you can get the athlete to touch the hand back down by the heel, like Mark was demonstrating with Brennan today, then you're going to just naturally keep the other hand off the ground, which is going to fall into the rules of the actual drill. The same time is that's actually going to get you into a position where you're able to re-accelerate very, very quickly. Latter emotion, touch on the four steps, split his arms. One, two, three, four, touch. Split his arms drive. Nice job. Way to go, Brennan. All three of these drills will basically take care of every aspect of athleticism within the pro shuttle. The interesting thing though is, is general athleticism is needed for anything in football. I think a lot of our NFL veterans are very, very surprised how much a line-bounding drill and serious and the care of quixthep is just filtered within their natural training. And as we're doing like simulation training, it's specific to the training of football players, we definitely complex those drills as well. So it builds overall, athleticism for anything, but specifically we'll focus on the pro shuttle itself. I look at these as a great transfer of weight-room strength into pure athleticism across the board. Any athlete, any sport, any position. These exercises we do at Bomberger Performance Systems will help your shuttle run performance. To check out the entire drill series for the shuttle run, check out the page below. And the entire football training series of Bomberger Performance Systems is available on Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: NFL Combine Trainer： Vertical Jump - Bodybuilding.com [9kSTJKMT_d0].txt ===

Well, the vertical jump is a measure of vertical power. So you had the two jumps that jumping in the vents of the combine, broad jump versus vertical jump. The vertical jump will measure vertical power, the broad jump will measure horizontal power. So vertical power, I guess, is the most basic form of power expression. Everything you're doing in football requires power output. So again, I mean, it's not like you can always exactly get a specific motion of power that's going to be specific in football in terms of tackling or blocking. It's all expressions of power. So I think that you have to have expressions of power in a very, very general basic sense, and then you build off with that and get it a little bit more sports-specific. So a few things you want to pay attention to. We have a nice wide base. P wants an insurey pushes knees out when he squats and when he comes back up, he's going to pull full fill of air on the way down. He's going to release that breath of air when he's almost to the top. We have tempos as well. The first number is how long the eccentric is going to take us. The second number is how long the pause is going to be in the third. He's going to be how fast he's going to come up. So our first progression is we two one-exth eccentric. Two seconds in a way down, a one second pause, fast in the way up. Okay, piece of get onto that bar. So we're full full of air. So you're going to unlock his hips for him, locks his knees. The band tension itself will vary the load. It won't vary the resistance. It will vary the load on the bar. So if I have 135 pounds of my back, it's 135 pounds right now. And if I squat down and come up, it's still 135 pounds on that bar. I want to vary the load through band or chains or whatever. So if I have so much band tension when I stand up, it's not only 135 pounds in the bar. Now it could be 135 pounds plus over band tension I have. Reach back in the box. For the air, pause. Hit. Nice job. Now when I go down through the squat, the band tension is released and the bar becomes lighter at the bottom and heavier at the top. That variable load will allow for me to get the acceleratory component of the concentric power we were just discussing. That's really what it's all about is to try to make the bar heavier as I come up from a squatting position to a standing position. I want to make sure it has a nice pause on that box for I give him the hit command. The second progression is going to be one second the way down, one second pause, fasten the way up. Spread your feet. You're going to reach back or lock a hit for me like the knee. Pause. Hit. That's it. Nice job. Reach back. Hit. Nice job. Always remember you want lock a hit before you're going to lock the knee. The variable load speed box squat series will only do once a week. And a lot of times you want to do it once every 10 days. That is a very very taxing type of exercise. It's such a highly neural activation exercise that you're doing yourself with this service to be trying to execute those dynamic box squats for many reps that is set. The last one is going to be star one X. This is dive bombing. He's going to go down as fast as possible. Still pause on that box. Fasten the way up. Hit. Nice job. Nice and explosive. That was star one X. Fasten the way down, one second pause, fasten the way up. We don't ever go more than two reps per set. So don't give me wrong. We might put multiple sets in there. So we might be doing eight or ten or twelve or even fourteen sets of two reps with about a 45 to 60 second rest period. So you know, allow the nervous system regenerate a little bit. Not maybe fully recovered because you're keeping the rest period short. But allow that regeneration so you can execute the same power potential for the next set and try to build up that power and turn it over time. Just like running your arms will need your hips when you jump. So a great way to teach that is to jump up onto a box for two reasons. Number one, when you're trying to go for a maximum jump on a vertex, you might not land exactly properly. And you don't want to continue to slow those joints by landing on the ground. So if you jump up onto a box, you're going to soften the blow of the land. Now we've already taken care of the building blocks in terms of speed. We want to actually get the foot position, the arm action with regards to the vertical jump. So feet about hip with the part and you want your arms off to act as levers. So when you're dropping down as fast as you can, you want the arms to actually leave the legs. So you throw the arms back first. So it's going to clear the hip and you're going to drive the arms up forward and the hips are going to fall. So the faster you go down, the faster your hips move. The faster you recoil and punch your arms up, the faster your hips will move through, which will dictate the height of your jump. So we typically start this tip teaching of a vertical jump on a box such as this. If you get your feet set, toes pointing straight ahead. By hip with the part, arms up. This high as you can, it's going to be fully standing up. So no bend at all on the shoulders, the knees or the hips. With the down through the hip, drive the arms through. So again, if you notice, the barcus actually getting full hip extension, full knee extension, full door to planar flexion, all the way through, this hip's knees and ankles. And everything is being dictated on the speed of his arms. So drive back a little bit faster, drive it up. We like to put the box jumps almost on every lower body day. You're training a crash course for NFL combining. You might only have six right weeks to get right. That technique of jumping is just too valuable. And again, keep the reps really short. Maybe one to two to no more than three jumps per set. And the jumps could be in terms of the total sets, could be anywhere between three and ten sets. As long as you can execute a perfect jump, again, that means that you're not shuffling your feet or anything like that to the decent of the ascent week by week, you just try to make sure that you're not a micro-progressed little bit higher as you can control it. Dumbbell seated box jump and you can say from up general principle standpoint, it's very similar to a box jump. The only difference is now we're looking at a little bit more concentric power, pure concentric power because there's not a lot of eccentric loading components. So on a jump, I'm starting fully erected. I'm dropping down into my eccentric load and the stretch reflex is a huge component. Dumbbell seated box jump, going straight through flex you have is because you're lifting your feet off the ground and slamming it down into like a baseline problem at your action, getting that easy centered loading component into the concentric power. Same feet position, by hip width apart, same knee position straight ahead, you're going to hold the dumbbell up but not too high up that its maximum is how when he comes up. Lift the feet up slow, driving down fast and complete the box jump. And again, safely just step down, come back, reset the position. So it's still a little bit of a stretch reflex but not nearly as much so it works on concentric power from a little bit more of a standpoint. And I like to weight that type of jump. Again, my co-progress, the height of the jump but also my co-progress, the weight of your hand. Same drill. Deep hip width apart, toe straight, knee straight, dumbbell up, reset, recoil. By adding weight, you are definitely just making the power expression more challenging. It's just overloading that stimulus. And again, there's no real rhyme or reason behind this athlete has to start at this height with this weight. It's whatever you can safely execute a jump. The dumbbell seat of box jump we never go over two to three and we usually keep it like singles. To try to execute one perfect jump and then repeat it again on another set. If we're looking for something really to top it out all off, just make those massive gains at the end. I would say the dumbbell seat of box jump definitely achieves that. He's going to fall 12 inches off the box onto the ground and as he's falling, he's going to be driving his arms into that position. The concept is as soon as his feet make contact with the ground, he's already in the maximal jumping position with the arms back and the hands clearing the hips. And he want to try to limit the ground context with the feet of hip. You punch the arms forward the same jumping action as a box jump landing up onto the box. So start with your arms up. When you fall he's going to go through a powerful whip back then bound up onto the box. The depth jump just introduces a little bit of a baseline plow metric. The plow metric of getting more into like a bounding technique in trying to limit the ground context. It does a good job of just introducing basic plow metric actions into a jumping action. That's why I like it. It's definitely safe and not a lot of joint loading. As long as you have a competent, based strength of all of the muscles in the hips and the quads and handstrings and so on. So for a thick and be very effectively done. I'd say it's a very, very good transfer. Kind of like the dumbbell seated box jump to tie everything together and top it all off. And you really have a good opportunity for tying that arm with. And that arm with timing in terms of the arms leading legs under jump from a technique standpoint. It's very important and all types of jumps. The depth jump definitely needs to be only put at the later phases when you know that you built up a solid base foundation throughout the beginning of the program. So we only put the depth jumps and maybe the last one or two weeks before we start tapering down for our event. Four good hand braids is just a really, really good exercise to strengthen the knee flexors. It's very simple, it's very easy and you can actually perform it with no equipment. When you can just have a partner hold your ankle down. So if he's going to come inside here, he's going to lock his ankle. He's going to remain tall. He's going to have a slight anterior tilt for. But once that tilt there, he's not going to bend anymore. He's going to bring his hips with this hole up her body. He's going to slowly lower his upper body. Come down forward, almost try to tap and pull himself way back up. He's going to remain tall. If he needs the use of his hands, he's going to put his hands out. If he needs to, he's going to give him a light tap to the ground. He'll push himself all the way back. If you can really do a good job of eccentrically loading that exercise, it's good control and the pelvis. The one thing about strengthening the knee flexors is you want to watch excessive hip flexion. If you start on a leg curl machine or you're doing the glueed hammer as you have to start with a little bit of hip flexion as you saw me demonstrate. But you want to be able to maintain that slight hip flexion as you're going to do the extension, the flexion exercise. He keeps me as glue already engaged before he gets there. Lights out, push up. Your main stall is a small tilt. Forward lean, very small, very small. Reign his upper body with him. His ankle is locked. His glutes are engaged before he goes down. I think that type of control is very, very important. It's pretty easy to control that because you can almost use your self as resistance. It's a great way for people to kind of micro-progress themselves to the exercise. The knee flexion strength can be, obviously related to almost every athletic motion. But it's extremely important when we're talking about jumping ability. It terms of actually performing a vertical jump as is with the test with the vertex. I think it's overrated. I think that building all the base foundations and making more powerful is important. Then obviously you want a little bit of the technique of we stand underneath the vertex getting a feel for where you stand. Also getting a feel for, obviously reaching up at the top of your jump to be able to actually express your true power potential and not leaning back and not swatting at it. But those things are very easy to teach. We just do it at the very end-after we've built the base foundation. We love to use potentialiation, potentialiation in terms of power development. I think we like to potentially that power by doing very, very heavy, loaded, lower body exercise like a split squat, like a elevated back lunge. Immediately once we've got that neural activation go right into power potential exercises. So it's almost like a complex super set. We'll do a very, very heavy set and immediately file by one of those power exercises and then take our rest period and repeat. These exercises, we at Bombry Performance System recommend and increase your vertical jump. Check out the entire football training series on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Natural Ways To Boost Testosterone [oBZ6QH7vGw8].txt ===

Today we're going to discuss the natural ways to boost testosterone. Testosterone is crucial in muscle development and a couple of bodily functions, so if we look at the optimized hormone levels, this video is for you. Get enough sleep, sleep is critical for testosterone production. Studies from the American Medical Association show that sleep deprivation can decrease testosterone levels. So, prioritize sleep and try to get about 7-9 hours every night. Next, make sure you're getting adequate amounts of protein. High protein diets have been associated with high levels of testosterone. So make sure you're picking high quality sources and make sure you get a variety of sources such as chicken, beef, turkey, and egg whites. Now, since we're on the topic of supplementation, let's talk about fenugreek. fenugreek has been shown in the fight of therapy, research journal, to increase levels of testosterone and improve sexual function in men. So we can't talk about estrogen management. So one of the ways that we can do that is by incorporating dim and indole three carbonyl which have been shown to keep estrogen to a favorable level. Alright guys, the sum it up. The best way to increase your testosterone naturally is going to be to make some lifestyle changes, optimize your diet, and optimize your supplement protocol. A bodybuilding.com, we have all of the supplements we mentioned in this video. And one easy, convenient package. It's going to be the elite testosterone booster. Check it out at bodybuilding.com. If you like this content, you found it valuable. Hit that subscribe button. Hit the like button. Show it all your friends. I let us know down in the comments what you think. And if you have any ideas for some topics that you guys want to see. That's coachK from Bodybuilding.com signing out.

=== FILE: New Workout Clothes - B-Elite Series from Bodybuilding.com [0BDVHoSA4QM].txt ===

antwortLAB THANK YOUR app

=== FILE: Nicole Moneer Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [KRPcPkUZYUg].txt ===

Hi, I'm Nicole Monier Guerrero and I'm proud and honored to be a part of the first ever team bodybuilding.com athlete. I'm also an IFBD bikini pro and believe it or not, I'm 38 years y'all. I'm going to share with you today a little bit of my training program, nutrition and supplementation. So you can see what it takes to be like me. I actually have an active and dancing VH4. I was on POMS and High School in college and then I am a former NBA cheerleader I cheered for the bulls during the Jordan years. I basically did want to grow up. I wanted to continue my passion for being on stage and being active and dancing. So I started competing almost 10 years ago and so that's actually kind of what led me into modeling. People don't understand the power of steel and I started out, I've danced my whole life part of it, you see my thing and as I've got an older I changed smarter. I'm a lot more efficient, I don't do a lot of cardio. I've also learned to eat right, I eat right for life and it's taking me time. I didn't learn it overnight, it's taking me years and so steel is my deal. I love him the way and that's actually what has called my body and there's so many miss out there a lot of people men and women think they're going to get big and bulky. My male clients have been all in time, always pushing them to get towards that way training and also the nutrition to get the whole package. My approach to training is I make way training fun by throwing in body weight. It's harder and again it gives me great results because it's fun. You got those sexy exercises as we call them. They look difficult, they look you know really cool, plyos, drills, jumps, it's fun and I love it but it's also very hard on my body. And everybody should be doing it unless they're under the guidance of a trainer or somebody like that. Way training I do probably like five to six times a week. I hit every major muscle group. A lot of times I'll do upper body twice a week just because I'm a dancer. My bottom half I've had from all leg work I've done. I will do legs but again I love to do plials for legs, body weight has really shaped my lower half. My upper half when I started competing I didn't have these shoulders in arms so it's worked for me is twice a week with shoulders and arms doing a lot of body weight even a lot of plyometrics with my upper body has his health. Blending it up mixing it up you know I'll do three sets four sets five sets heavy weight. Sometimes time under tension when you're always changing things up you're confusing the body. My rep range typically if I'm doing heavier weights six, eight reps lighter weight 10, 12. I mean sometimes I will do 15. I'd love to do drop sets giant sets to get like a real good you know pumping burn especially in my arms and my shoulders cardio twice a week you do have to work the heart I tell people that it's important to do cardio actually the cardio I do is in the classes I teach I teach about two cardio classes a week it's cardio kick boxing every now and then I'll do some interval training and even some stuff from when I started as a fitness competitor but again a lot of people think they need to do all this cardio and initially some people do rest I tell everybody they have to rest I usually take two days some days I take more but again that's my body I know what works best and rest is actually going to help you grow and make those changes and you're going to come back stronger I don't believe in doing drastic things to the body you know I'm going to point where it's all about maintenance and you become your own scientist I know my body I know what works for me and it's the same thing with my clients I work with them until we find out you know where we can get them at a maintenance program and keep them there the key is finding out what works for you nutrition is a huge part of my life I take my food with me almost anywhere I'm eating clean pretty much 98% of the time it started out yes competing and having to have a certain look but as I've gotten older it's more about healing the body and feeling well and people don't realize that food also has the power to heal I was super about 20 years and had a plethora of conditions and food and supplementation has really helped me heal in so many ways okay so typically my meal breakdown for the day approaching it every meal you know there's so many people out there that don't have protein and when I look at their meal plans that that's a huge thing you need to have protein in every meal carbohydrates I usually have like I've like served in the morning we need more veggies in general so I try to eat a lot of veggies like don't do a lot of fruit that's a work for me for me as more of a cheat not to say it's a bad thing I eat typically five times a day sometimes six do a lot of salads with you know different sprouts and ingredients and stuff like that mixing it up between eggs chicken turkey, lean beef, fish I'm not good at cooking fish so usually by a fish it's went about you know there's a few things that I tighten up typically pulling out some of the fats I definitely need those complex carbs so for me pulling out the fat is what works best I treat just a little there's a couple things I take out even the things I take out are very healthy not butters, almonds, stuff like that there's just a couple things that that I take out to get a little bit tighter I'm usually three to five pounds away from being photoshoot right here contest ready I do believe in cheat meals I mean that's this life and I do you know I do enjoy food and moderation but again I know that when I am going to eat that way I'm going to feel at the next day if I eat too much I'm going to feel rocky and sluggish I'm pretty particular about where I am you know eating out and stuff like that you know when I'm out in public or with friends or family they look at me cross I because I'm eating clean and you know they think it's more like about vanity and I'm like you know you don't know my health you know what I went through in the past I've seen the light at works it's hard anything in life pretty much as hard but it works for me and I feel great supplements are very important supplements to have helped me reach my goal as far as feeling good and then also looking good they help me you know get dialed in for stuff it's top with my overall health and well being which is important you want to have good energy you want to feel good you always mix up your workout you got to mix up your supplements you don't want to take the same thing all the times but I also make sure I'm taking top quality brands mixing it up have supplements that everybody should take are probiotics calcium magnesium vitamin D complex and then a fish oil probiotics everybody needs to be on a probiotic the power of probiotic is amazing it's actually really helped with all the conditions I've had people don't understand that you have more in your God and that's 75% of your immune system and that that's that's better than a multi-vide of an environment vitamin C calcium magnesium and vitamin D complex very important I have a lot of people who complain to me about cramping and stuff like that and even ask you a process look people don't get enough oils are very important for your brain for your mood for your skin for your blood like everything people don't understand the importance of having your own make it through six nines there is no one super pill and there is no one super food it's there is no one super exercise but you got to build a build a package build a program find out what works for you I just want to give people hope there is no age to this sport and that eating rights and exercising for pretty much over 34 years of my life has been my anti-aging serum anything is possible and there are so many women now in this sport that are getting into it at 40 and 50 and even senior citizens and so just letting people know that you can do it just believe in yourself I'm Nicole and today we talked about my workout nutrition and supplementation program which you can check out on the page below to ask me more questions visit me on body space at the full on your hero and come more content like this be sure to check out the rest of bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Not Hungry After Workout #nutrition #hunger [vSGqMmN5CbA].txt ===

Have you ever gone for a long intense run and by the time you got home, you were exhausted, not hungry and maybe even a little bit nauseous? If so, this video's for you. If you workout long enough at a high enough intensity, your workout can alter your hunger cues and leave you as for yourself, why am I not hungry the day I workout? This can happen for a couple of reasons. In increase in stomach acidity, particularly for those who have a history of acid reflux. A decrease in blood flow to the stomach as the blood is traveling to the muscle that's being used. And perhaps even a decrease in your hunger hormone. This small study found that growing your hunger hormone was lower in athletes who had exercise at a moderate to high intensity level compared to those who were sedentary. Therefore, causing these athletes to feel less hungry after their workout, which can then impact recovery time as most individuals will wait until their hungry to eat. My suggestion, take your closer look at how you're fueling your body. Are you eating enough carbs before your workout? If not, try to have some simple carbohydrates that just fruit 30 minutes before your workout. Is your high intensity workout longer than 60 minutes? If so, then you might need to supplement with carbohydrates during your workout, such as gel packs. And lastly, eat carbs and protein, post workout, emphasis on the carbohydrates. For example, you can have Greek yogurt with honey and chia seeds or maybe a protein shake with banana and oats. Try using trialan error to fuel your body during your workouts and monitor your progress through performance as well as hunger cues.

=== FILE: Nourish + Bloom ｜ A Plant-Based Supplement Line by Bodybuilding.com [LdDp90jZ6Q0].txt ===



=== FILE: Nutrition & Shopping ｜ Day 3_12-Week Hardcore Daily Video Trainer With Kris Gethin [qeL2H-DdAPk].txt ===

So today is your first rest day, it's the Wednesday of week one and you should be feeling really sore from the workout. But that's totally normal. This weight training program will be a shock to your body. Today I'm going to speak to you about nutrition and how to shop and what you should be shopping for and how to prepare those foods. I'm very strict with my diet to make sure that I get the best results possible at the end of this transformation. So you should be eating exactly what I eat. Today we're going to go to the supermarket to come along with me so you can see exactly what foods that you should be eating and foods you need to stay away from. Eating healthy does take a commitment and although it may not necessarily be cheap to buy healthy it can be affordable and it's definitely well worth it in the long run. Okay we're here at the sweet potatoes. We've also got the yams here that you can have on its transformation or in the UK it call them suites. It's good to mix up your carbohydrate sources like the main source for me comes from brown rice but I also like to mix it up with some sweet potatoes and some oatmeal as well. It stays very basic with a carbohydrate source. This is a slightly slow digesting carb along with the brown rice and oats. Okay another form of carbohydrates that I recommend on its program is brown rice. So a lot of people are carbohydrates when doing a program such as this I'm a carb freak. I like to have my carbs. Keep some metabolism fire and provide that you get in a right carb a high jr. You're going to get the results that you want and provide in that your stick it's a nutrition training program and frequency of those meals. So we like to go for the short grain. I've been told by my life that they are a lot more moist than a long grain brown rice. One of the tips that I like to pass on to clients is to eat before you actually come to the supermarket so you'll prevent less amount of cravings in your less likely to pick up foods that you shouldn't eat in. It's just because you're on this transformation doesn't mean you need to exclude other people like friends or family that are on this transformation when you're going shopping. So my wife just poured some almond butter here which is fine she needs a healthy fats but when you're doing this transformation you don't need those healthy fats so much. You need to be burning off the fats that you're storing not the fats that you're ingested. Okay the next carb hydrochop for us is the quick oats. So we get a big bag like this for convenience because we'll go through one of these in a month between having this for breakfast with the egg whites and using it as a meal of placement with protein powder it's very easy to go through the the oats and I never cut this out at all junior entire 12 weeks and the next thing on my shopping list is steak. So the macronutrients that we're really focusing on on this transformation are your protein and your carbohydrate sources. So obviously not going too much for the fat we need to keep meat sources very lean. So for that reason I like to go for the eye of round steak which is a very lean source so we can just throw that on the grill or on the barbecue another one that I like to get is the eye of round roast so I've actually got a meat grinder at home this is great to put through the grinder and have it like ground beef and one more but I get is a tender loin. Now it looks a little bit fatty on your head so that's okay you can trim that off but throughout the rest of it is very soft very moist and very lean. Another lean protein source that I like to include in this program is fish so I like to go to for to laugh you personally it's very tasteless I don't like anything it's too fishy and it's cheap. Don't go too much for like the daily meat or anything like that or anything that's going to be this is going to have a lot of preservatives so I know that lean forms of steak and fish and stuff like that I know exactly what I'm going to get into my body because it's listed on the ingredients list on the back. Next protein form that we're taking or eggs so we separate the egg whites from the yolks because the yolks is what contains all the fat and cholesterol between myself and my wife we go through 24 egg whites just a breakfast hence we're getting them in bulk like this sometimes we do water and from bodybuilder farm and just get the egg white formula for convenience other times when we're at the supermarket we'll just grab them like this. So the last stop for protein I like to grab the poultry so here I'm just picking up the turkey breasts is very lean always go for the breast as opposed to the leg or the wing you know you're going to get a lean a cut of the bird so I've got loads of chicken at home so no need to get any more chicken just turkey and that's it. So another five risk carb that I like to utilize within my diet especially as I'm cutting out the carbohydrates in the latter meals I like to replace it with a five risk carbohydrates to replace the complex carbs like in your brown rice or in your potatoes. So it's very important to have fiber within your diet so make sure that you're regular to keep me metabolism firing as well. I don't eat a huge amount of vegetables but that's okay you can eat as many vegetables as you want. A lot of it is water so you're probably burn off as many calories digest in it as the amount that's in it. I personally just like to have it in a last couple when I cut out my complex carbohydrates. Although coffee isn't an essential part of this transformation it's essential to my transformation because I really feel like I need this in the morning and before my workout it's just to give me that extra boost of energy as a stimulant especially in the morning when I really don't want to do my cardio and in the afternoon when I'm having that the mid-afternoon kind of crash. So the coffee really gives me a stimulant to get a more intense workout so that's why I have my coffee black and just with a natural sweetener. So we're here at the sweetener slash sugar section. Obviously you can't have sugar while you're on a program so what I like to use is it's like a stevia extract. It's from the stevia leaf so you're not going to have anything that's like any additive or any additional calories. This is calorie free. This is great to have any black coffee because you can't have milk on this program, not every supermarket sells it so you can actually get this on bodybuilding.com as well. So on this transformation fact is a big no-no especially saturated fat. So here you've got your core oil, your olive oil. You shouldn't be frying your foods anyway on this transformation. So what I like to use if I'm going to use a fat is just a spray so it gives me a very thin laddron. I'll put that like on my barbecue grill so my food doesn't stick to it. So if you're going to use a fat use something along the lines of a spray. An essential tool on this 12-week transformation are your top-of-work containers. So I eat nearly every single one of my meals out of these top-of-work containers and as my training partner you should be too. So I like to get the larger containers just to store my chicken and my tilapia and my rice in just to keep them a fridge and I get the smaller containers just to put in my cool bag to take to work to eat my single meals out of. So water is a huge part of your transformation performance during these 12 weeks. The body is made up around 70% fluid. I'll drink about a gallon which is about this amount during a day and I'll add my BCAA extend formula within here as well so if I've got a grape or an orange flavor the chances are I'm going to drink more of it. So yes the upfront cost of stocking up on healthy foods were grocery shopping may seem like a lot at the checkout station but actually you'll most likely be saving money on a weekly basis. So now that you've bought all the foods that you need let me give you some tips on preparing those foods. So I always like to make my foods in bulk so I'll cook a couple of days worth of chicken breasts and fish and stuff like that so I just have to get it out of the fridge and just cut it up per meal. But I'll always make sure that I prepare my meals for the following day the previous even so when I wake up I've got no distractions I can just get my meals put them in my cool bag and off I go to work. And I also make sure that I grill or boil all my foods as well. I don't like to fry them too much I need to drain out all the fat that's actually in the meat sources. So I always use a griller like a form in grill or a barbecue grill and measure all my meals with a scale just to make sure that I get accurate portions. But what you can also do is measure your food portions up against a size of your fist. Just to make sure that these fruits aren't getting too bland and too boring I also like to add various things to it like some ginger, cayenne pepper, some spices, garlic and things like that. I even add salt on it just to make sure that my body is holding enough fluid so I can push a little bit more weight in the gym. The only time I'll cut the salt out is like a couple of days before my afterfroids. So don't worry about the salt at this stage as well. Remember you've got to make sure this diet is part of your life whether it's at work where the atrublim at social gatherings at school. You've got to stick on this plan. So you'll notice throughout this transformation I travel quite a bit but I never wave it off my nutrition plan ever and neither should you. So tomorrow's going to be a training day we've got back and by-seps but today I'm going to be doing cardio but done at this morning I'm doing it again this evening. Are you whining already? Come back to mode and I'll get you thinking differently.

=== FILE: Nutrition Overview ｜ Jim Stoppani's Shortcut to Shred Training Program [Uw5sZTlP9Xg].txt ===

When it comes to nutrition, I rely heavily on the research that's been published in journals and then by scientists over the world, but just because something's been discovered in the lab does not mean that it's necessary to carry over into the real world. So I tested on myself and thousands of people who follow my advice. So with all that data, I'm able to sort of bring it all together into the best nutrition advice that's out there. With the nutrition program for Shorke to Shredd, it's all based on mechronutrients getting a protein to complement the recovery from the training helps you to build more strength and muscle that's going to keep you also burning more body fat. When the Shorke got to Shredd program, the macronutrients are ranked protein first, fat is actually second and then carbs come in third place. Protein is the most critical macronutrient on the Shorke to Shredd program for the simple fact that muscle is made out of protein. So to build more muscle, you need more protein. Protein is also critical for energy. The amino acids that protein is broken down into are actually used by the muscles as an energy source. Plus, research shows that higher protein diets that are lower in carbohydrate actually work very well for fat loss, especially when we're trying to maintain your build. The muscle. There's a simple fact that it's very difficult for the body to take protein and then convert it into body fat. It's not impossible, but out of the three micronutrients, your body has to work much harder to take protein and convert that into body fat. That's going to either go to build muscle or be used as energy, especially when you're eating fewer calories. So focusing on protein is a home run as far as dropping body fat and building muscle in the Shredd. The protein sources that you want to focus on during the Shorke to Shredd program are your lean cuts of meat like top, sirloin, flank steak, those are very lean sources of beef. You can even get ground beef, that's 97%. Lean, anything in 95% of the body lean is great. Obviously chicken breasts, but even chicken thighs, people think all the dark meat, that's so fatty. It does have a bit more fat than a chicken breast, the white meat, but it's not going to ruin your program. It's a small amount of extra fat, the same thing with turkey or any poultry. Fish is always a great source and we have both lean fish, like halibut, soul and then we have fatty fish, like salmon, obviously eggs, eggs are a very high quality protein source. And then we've also have dairy. Dairy is a very critical protein source on the Shorke at the Shredd program and any of my diet because the simple fact that dairy has been shown to be critical for building muscle and it's because it's composed of the two main proteins, weigh, in case in which complement each other nicely for promoting muscle growth. So how much protein do you need to consume while your following Shorke is the Shredd? Research shows that anyone who is training intensely need at least one gram of protein was put on at least. There is research showing that going as high as one in a half grams of protein, proponent body weight, was very effective for promoting muscle growth and strengthens. And that's basically what you're going to be eating when you're following the Shorke at the Shredd program. Now that's not just what's been shown to work in research studies, that's actually what I've found with thousands and thousands of people eating these higher protein diets while following my programs. Getting in one and a half grams of protein to the pound of body weight is critical not only for growing muscle, building strength, but also helping to shed body fat while you're on the Shorke at the Shredd program. So that's our rank as the second most critical macronutrient in the Shorke at the Shredd program for several reasons. Now a lot of people are kind of surprised at the fact that you're eating so much fat, but fat is not the end. Just because you're eating fat doesn't mean you're going to get fat. In the fats that we're going to be focusing on are the very critical omega-3 fats. These actually have been shown to enhance that loss. So omega-3 fats actually work in the body to turn on genes that increase fat burning and they turn off genes that decrease fat storage. And they also produce very beneficial pros to glandens that help to decrease inflammation which provides most of the health benefits. Plus omega-3 fats have now been found to actually aid muscle recovery and muscle growth. So we're going to use the most of the critical fat. Saturated fats are actually not a fat you need to avoid. Especially for males, saturated fats have been found to enhance testosterone levels. And this is going to be critical when you're training as hard as you're going to be training and trick it to Shredd. You want to maintain those testosterone levels. That's going to help you build muscle and strength. Train harder and actually lose more fat. So even saturated fat is not the end. Mono-insaturated fats are another health effect. And rib-saturated fats they've been found to promote higher testosterone levels. The omega-3 fats in mono-insaturated fats have been shown to be preferentially used as an energy source, especially during exercise. But also when you're just sitting around, you're mainly burning fat as your main fuel source. The only bad fat is trans fats. Those are the ones you want to avoid. These have been altered in the lab so it provides better shelf life. This sort of tweaks the molecule the fat and the body really doesn't recognize. What it is, it doesn't really know what to do and how to process it. So it gets into your cells and causes have that's why it's been found increase in risk of heart disease and certain cancers. So there's one fat you want to avoid is trans fats. The problem with fats are the fact that they are chlorically dense. When you look at protein and carbohydrates, a gram of protein or a gram of carbs spreads out four calories. Now when you look at a gram of fat, it's more than double that. It's around 8 to 9 depending on the fat and even up to 10 calories per gram of fat. And people think oh well that's going to push me over my calorie limit and it can. You do need to be cautious of how much fat you're taking in. But as long as you're hitting that 0.5 grams that I have in the diet, your calories will stay in check. And you'll be in that fat burning zone. Calories are an important factor, especially when trying to lose body fat. The calories really aren't the only factor here. Macronutrients are actually more critical. And as long as you have your macronutrients broken down properly, then the calories will fall in the place. Good fats are as the focus on while falling short at the shred program are nuts, which you can throw at the monocytrated fats. Olive oil, peanut butter is a great one. When you're dining, nothing's better than peanut butter. Another great source of mono is saturated fats. When we talk about the essential omega-3 fats, you're going to be focusing on fatty fish. That's one of the best sources. Sam is a great source also some fatty or cuts of tuna. If you're going to get canned tuna, actually get the white albacore instead of the chunk light. It has more of the omega-3 fats. Even sardines are a great source of omega-3 fats. And then egg yolks are a great source. I actually recommend gaining at least three egg yolks per day. And that's based on research showing that when subjects followed away training programs, those who were getting three yolks actually gained almost twice as much muscle mass and strength. As those not eating the yolks, and they believe that's due to the fat as well as the cholesterol content. Cluster oil is actually important. You do need some cholesterol to maintain the integrity of the membranes of cell such as muscle cells. So make sure you eat enough fat on this diet, especially as your carbs dropped throughout the face. Cards provide very little benefit other than an energy source. And if you can realize that out of the three macronutrients, carbohydrates are the only ones that are not essential by the body. Protein? There are essential amino acids. Those are amino acids your body can't build that has to get the amino diet. Fats? There's essential fats. You'll make a three fats. You'll make a six fats. These are essential. I mean your body cannot produce them and has to get it from your diet. There's no essential carbohydrate. None. You know why? Because the body can produce enough carbohydrates mainly in the liver from the protein and the fat that you consume. Doesn't mean the carbohydrates are a demon or anything. But when you're trying to lose body fat while building muscle and strength, you want to make sure that you're getting adequate amounts of protein in fat. The two main type of carbohydrates are your high glycemic or fast-adjusting carbohydrates. And then your low glycemic or slow digestive carbohydrates. And the reason that they're called high glycemic or low glycemic is the way that the body responds to them when you consume them. High glycemic carbs, like I said, sugars, white potatoes. When you eat them, your body processes them very rapidly. So they basically get broken down in the body and then absorbed by your intestines and get right into your bloodstream. And that raises your blood sugar levels, your blood glucose levels. They shoot up in the spikes in the levels. So those are your high glycemic carbs. That's not a great thing. It is at certain times that get to workouts which we'll talk about later. Then you have your low glycemic or slower digestive carbohydrates. And those are low glycemic because when you eat them, they don't get rapidly digested in the absorb. They take longer, it's a slower process. And that way your blood glucose levels are blood sugar levels stay steady or so-do your insulin levels. So good examples of low glycemic or slow digestion carbs are most fruits, whole grains. And we're talking about oatmeal here, whole wheat bread, whole wheat pasta. Other good examples are sweet potatoes and it comes to potatoes. A sweet potatoes tend to be on the more slower side or lower glycemic side. Whereas your white potatoes are actually on the higher glycemic side of the corn. During the workout, you're mainly burning carbohydrates as your main fuel source. And this comes from mainly the muscles. You store your carbohydrates in your muscles in the form of glycogen. As the workout proceeds, those muscles that you're using burn up more and more. And that glycogen, which is your stored from your carbohydrate. After you work out, you want to replenish that glycogen so that you have energy for the next workout. And research shows that the best way to make sure you are restoring this muscle glycogen levels is to get high glycemic or fast digestive carbs. So that's why I recommend getting things like gummy bears or pwanka pixie sticks. Now, when we talk about sugars, you have the main type of sugars like table sugar, which is sucrose, called the dye saccharide. It's two different sugar molecules. Blue goes and fruit dose. A lot of those two fruit doses actually are slower by justing carbohydrates because it has to go to the liver and then the liver has to convert it into glucose. That's what your blood sugar is. That's what your body is going to use to store as glycogen. So the reason I recommend gummy bears and pixie sticks are they pretty much have either no fruit dose or very little fruit dose. They're mainly a source of pure glucose. It's almost like injecting glucose into your bloodstream. You digest them. They literally get absorbed by the intestines. Go right into your bloodstream and then get delivered right to your muscle. And that helps you to replenish that muscle glycogen immediately. And that's what's been shown to enhance glycogen levels, which is going to give you more energy for that next workout. Plus, they spike insulin. Remember what I said about insulin is that insulin is an anabolic hormone. It gets to the muscle. And it triggers a process of protein synthesis. And that's just the chemical steps that lead to building muscle protein, which leads to building muscle growth. Plus insulin is going to help all that glucose from those carbs and drive them right into the muscle. You're also going to be getting protein shake right after you workout. You want to make sure those amino acids get into the muscle. Insulin also helps drive those amino acids into the muscle. And this is all going to help with better repair, better recovery, and better muscle growth. On the shortcut to short program, the diet goes through three different phases. You'll be changing your carbohydrate intake based on the phase of the diet. Phase one last a week long. You'll be eating about 1.5 grams of carbohydrates per pound of body weight. Phase two, less two weeks. You'll be dropping carbs down to 1 gram per pound of body weight. In the final phase phase three, which will be the final three weeks of the program, you'll be dropping carbs down to just 0.5 grams of carbs per pound of body weight. Or about half of your body weight. Through all three phases, you're protein and fat stays the same. By your carbohydrate's drop, each phase, you're just who drops your calories. In phase is one in two, you're caloric intake, and even you're your carbohydrate intake. And protein intake to some degree are going to be different on those training days first that one. You'll be able to get one rest day because on workout days, you also have that pre and post workout. Meals that you're adding to the diet. That's going to give you the extra carbs primarily in the fast digesting carbs that you want. Post workout is also going to give you a little bit of extra protein on those days. Now, in phase three on the other hands, on your rest day, you're actually going to be getting even more calories than on your workout days. And a lot of people think, well, that doesn't make very much sense. And it does because when you're dropping your carbohydrates in that third phase, all the way down to just 0.5 grams of carbs per pound of body weight, that's very little carbohydrate. Now, what can happen when you're eating so few carbohydrates and calories is that let the levels can drop when you're getting in so little carbohydrates and calories. Now, left in is a critical hormone for maintaining your metabolic rate. So, if left in levels drop to low, your metabolic rate can come down. What we found is that by giving your body this high carb day, it can sort of reset your left in levels, and that keeps your metabolism burning. It also makes the light easier to get through the diet when you've got that day, and that just helps with your sanity on this program. So, remember food is just one part of the shortcut to shred nutrition plants. And it's also played a critical role. So, be sure to check out the sub-location video as well as the training overview video and the workout examples. And for a full breakdown of the nutrition program, be sure to check out the page below.

=== FILE: Nutrition Plan and Supplementation Guide ｜ Clutch Life： Ashley Conrad's 24⧸7 Fitness Trainer [ooRY_6rEDcI].txt ===

So the clutch body shop nutrition and supplementation, methodology, really revolves around fueling your body with foods that are easily digestible and have a high thermogenic effect on the body and what that means is foods that your body can receive in, your body can process them very quickly and it can boost your metabolism. So the way that I set up every single nutrition program is I give you the serving size that you need to be having and then you get to choose what you want to eat. It's very, very, very simple. That makes it so that whether you're cooking at home or whether you're eating in a restaurant or ordering room service, you can find something that fits within this program. So one of the biggest mistakes that I see people make especially females is that they decide that in order to lose weight or in order to get the body I want, I'm going to really deplete and to pride myself of calories. And eventually what ends up happening is the body gets upset. And that is really, really due to the fact that they've gone through a long period of dieting and they've never replenished what they've kind of burned through. And so one of the things that I've recommended my entire career and especially as a part of this program is that you do have one cheat day per week that's a very, very high, horrible hydrate meal. By doing this, it affects your left and left levels and left in is a hormone that is released that tells the brain I'm full. Well, when you basically diet for long periods of time, there's interference. It doesn't work properly. And so that's another reason why I recommend this high calorie, high carb cheat meal every week because I want to make sure that we're keeping those levels up. With the clutch life 24, 7 fitness trainer nutrition program, we've made it so easy for you to basically choose the exact goal that you want. So there's two goals, shred and build. With the shred nutrition program, obviously it's going to shred body fat, but you're also going to see an improvement in lean muscle definition. With the build program, you're going to obviously build lean muscle and you will see a slight reduction in body fat, but the goal is really to pack on size. And so with the shred program, you're doing four meals per day, plus a postwork out shake and a postwork out meal. So on the build nutrition program, you're doing five core meals a day, plus a postwork out shake, a postwork out meal. And then there is also one additional shake that you can take at bedtime. So with the clutch life 24, 7 fitness trainer, the nutrition program and the supplementation program are closely tied. But let's kind of go through how that breaks down throughout the day. Your first meal the day is going to be pancakes or waffles using the clutch baking mix. Then before you work out, you're going to be taking the clutch fat burner and the clutch workout powder. And because these workouts are intense, I want to make sure your body has exactly what it needs to push through the workout. Some burn as many calories as possible. And really have as much strength as possible. Because as we know, the harder you push the better results, you're going to get. And then as we've already covered, after you work out, you're going to dive right it and have your postwork out shake using the clutch protein powder. So on this program, there are a ton of foods for you to choose from. On the lean protein, you can choose from all different sorts of fish, organic chicken, organic eggs, your protein powders. Even your clutch baking mix can be used as an alternative vegan protein shake. With your carbohydrates, make sure that you load your fridge up with things like sweet potato, rice, quinoa. On the carbohydrate side, we really stick very, very closely to things that you literally could go out into the field and pick it. Or not going after things that are highly processed or that come out of a box that have kind of been made by a manufacturer into a carbohydrate source. So, and the reason for that is I want the fiber to stay intact with the carbohydrate. On the side of fats, you can go through tons of raw nuts, coconut oil, all of oil, pumpkin seed oil, avocado. And then finally with your seasoning, you don't have to necessarily stay away from salt, but you definitely don't want to go overboard because it's going to make you bloated and nobody wants that. But there are a ton of different seasonings that we've also listed that can spice your food up and make things taste delicious without adding a bunch of high calorie sauces and such. And then on the hydration side, definitely want to make sure that you're taking it at least 100 ounces of water a day. You can knock yourself out with as much herbal teas you want, but please again, I really want you to keep your caffeine in take kind of wrangle-dinned. So, please limit yourself to two cups of coffee or green tea per day. Maybe three, but that's really, really pushing it. So by now you've watched the clutch life intro video, the program overview video, and the nutrition video. Next up is to go the training day one video. If you haven't watched all these videos yet, make sure that you go back and watch them before checking out the day one of the training video. Again, every single thing that you need for your nutrition program and your supplement plan is broken down on the page below right here on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Olympia 2011 Backstage Pass - Bodybuilding.com [FjHZ4j5LDfQ].txt ===

XD

=== FILE: Olympian Shoulder Workout ｜ Nicole Wilkins, 4x Figure Olympia [9RsBXZYtBu8].txt ===

I was a gymnast for 13 years. I've always been competitive. I've always been trying to push myself. I started doing my first competition my first career in college. So I knew I wanted to do something but competitive and that was a great outlet for me. Started doing fitness first and it allowed me to utilize my gymnastics background into the routines and then when figure came about which was right around the time that I started I crossed over and was ended up being more successful in the figure division which is why I still did today. All right so this is the first exercise the shoulder workout we're going to start with military press with the barbell. For the warm-up sets I tend to go a little bit faster just want to get the blood flow to that area that I'm working. I usually go down to my chin I don't really go whole lot lower than that and I keep my hands so that my middle fingers would at this line right here in the bar. Presses are one of the compound shoulder exercises and then it requires the most energy so I do that right in the beginning when I'm the most when I'm freshest to carry start of the workout. All right so first working set. I'm going to stick with about 10 to 12. I generally keep my repetitions no less than 10. My repetitions may go off to 20 to steep ends on the exercise I'm doing. I challenge myself so I do lift as heavy as I can so less be repetitions I'm really struggling. Second set I'm going to add another 10 and eight sides so bar is 45 and we've got 40 so we're going to 85 second set. Okay so I only did eight so I'm going to do a drop set so what I'm going to do is take off the turn on each side and do as many as I can. Usually if you have a partner they can help speed this drop set up a little bit so you don't have a whole lot of time in between to recover. What's today? I'm on my own. I think if I did the same thing every single week when I went into the gym I would be so bored it wouldn't really motivate me to get to the gym. We're planning on how I feel I may add in a drop set or a superset or so I may do five sets instead of three or it's constantly just changing it up. All right so my shoulders are on fire now. We really did two sets so I'm going to do one more set. This is the last set I'm going to go up another five and each side probably only get about four and that's all right so I'm going to do another drop so I'll probably just take off both 25s and just wrap out the bar. I'm the larger muscle groups shoulders, back legs I have training partner. I have few girlfriends that I train with it back in Michigan. I think it's important to have a spider if necessary when you're lifting heavy you're just to make sure that you don't injure yourself. I usually train with girls but I wouldn't be opposed to training with guys. It's going to feel heavy. All right for sexercise in. After a compound exercise I like to hit each area of the shoulder individually so the meal del creates that rounded shoulder when you're doing your front pose and figure and I like to do the lateral raise on the cable because there's resistance on the way up and the way down so content tension on that area. Shoulder's definitely always been my favorite to train and I think throughout the years they have gotten better and better. This year probably have made the most improvements on my shoulders and so I would say that they're probably one of my best body parts now. And what you do on one side must be really up. So my left arm tends to be a little bit weaker than my right and then go up a more than exact. Probably won't get 15 or probably get more to 10 to 12 but when I do these I go a little bit slower and it's really important to get that elbow up. You don't want your hand to be like this. I don't lift heavy to the point where my form is sacrifice so I think if you're trying to lift too heavy and exercises where you're holding the weight out far from your body that's a great way to get injured. So you can have to go a little bit lighter when you do lateral raises or front raises where the weight is further away from your body. It's a good song. It's gonna be a good set. Well I just got the new Rihanna CD so that's been kind of on the replay. Upon the replay you know. That's really fast upbeat so I listen to that kind of blur my radio and so anything with a good beat. You're five moment. Press ball. Olympia shoulder right there baby. I'm still kind of fresh toward the beginning of the training so I'll throw in a upright row. I don't really go super heavy. I do these more slow and controlled again. This is kind of hitting more of the medial delt when I do upright row so that's why I do it right after no lateral raise. I don't go really heavy on this because I don't want my traps to play a huge role. We really want to feel it in the shoulder. All blows are going to go up higher than the shoulder. Chest up. Knees slightly bent. Almost that time I fit my workout in between clients. It keeps me focused and it helps me not mess around between beds so I think an hour for me is plenty enough time to get a good workout in. Okay so I'm about to start the third side. I'm going to leave the weight the same. I want to make sure that my form stays good. My shoulders are pretty fatigued from everything else I did so far. And again I don't want to go too heavy. I want to really just focus on the shoulder here and not let my traps take over. All right so one of the last exercises we're going to do on this shoulder workout is for the rear deltoy. This is one of the most neglected body parts when training shoulders. It really gives that finishing touch to your back toes especially for me when I compete in figure. So it's this muscle right back here and this is going to be a cable reverse fly. This is an area on the body that a lot of men and women neglect because you can't see it. It's a weaker area for me so sometimes I'll throw this at the very beginning of my shoulder workout but today I'm doing at the end and I always do two exercises for rear delts. It's that area that kind of finished just off and it gives a little bit more of a rounded effect to the shoulder in the rear pose. Okay so when I do these I want to make sure that my arms pretty much stay out at a T. You don't want to pull them back too much. Don't go heavy because again you're pulling it away from your body and on the cable it's a lot harder than doing it with a dumbbell. It's used to make sure both cables stay even. Make sure you stand right in the middle here and I like to put one foot behind so that it helps with my balance. When it comes to shoulder training I rest a little bit longer between sets but I try not to rest longer than it takes me to do the actual set. So if it takes me 45 seconds to complete the set it'll take me a 45 second than a 45 second break in between. I have other body parts that I'm trying to just maintain out my rest will be a lot shorter. So I only get 10 reps at time barely. Sometimes I'll stretch between sets so put one arm in front of your body, kind of pull it across your chest it'll stretch out the back of the shoulder. Okay this last set I'm going to drop it. Kind of embarrassing. The last plate. Okay so the last exercise for this workout is another rear belt exercise you use the dumbbells for a rear belt fly. Use 15s. I like to lay on the bench with my knees up so that way I have more support again bring your arms straight out to the side so that it's like a T. Here we go. I would consider myself pretty extreme when it comes to the whole training and diet and just living the fitness lifestyle 100% of the time. I live at I breathe it I want to practice what I breach to my client so it's a lifestyle for me. Usually I try to rest as long as it takes me to do the set. It's trying to evolve a lot longer than that. I'm going to stick with 15s pretty good weight for me. Sometimes I go up to 20 but pretty good shoulder workout today so I'm going to stick with 15s where they focus on my form again. I don't always train a failure. I think if you train a failure all the time it's a great way to increase your risk for injury but I do like the feeling of not being able to go out anymore because they get makes you stronger mentally and physically to do that sometimes. All right, less so. I'm Nicole Wilkins. I'm I could be a pro figure Olympia champion and this was my shoulder I do this twice a week one day heavier one day lighter. I can check me out on body space or on my website at colwellsons.com and for more content like this check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: One Arm Dumbbell Preacher Curls - Biceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [WK5yZMlgMb4].txt ===

As UDA designer remove every center 100 genreill aula

=== FILE: One Arm Dumbbell Row - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [PgpQ4-jHiq4].txt ===

To the flat bench, place a dumbbell on each side of it. Next place your right leg at the end of the bench and bend your torso forward from the waist until your upper body is parallel to the floor. Place your right hand on the other end of the bench for support. Now use your left hand to pick up the dumbbell and hold the weight while keeping your lower back straight. The palm of your hand should be facing your torso. This will be your starting position. From here, breathe out and pull the weight straight up to the side of your chest, keeping your upper arm close to your side while your torso is stationary. Focus on the back muscles when you reach the contracted position of this exercise. Also, make sure the lift is performed with the back muscles and not the arms. The forearms should do no other work besides holding the dumbbell. Now lower the weight back down to the starting position, breathing in as you perform this step. Place the switch sides and repeat the movement with the other arm.

=== FILE: One-Arm Dumbbell Row - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [cpI-Q3VQrEA].txt ===

To the flat bench, place a dumbbell on each side of it. Next place your right leg at the end of the bench and bend your torso forward from the waist until your upper body is parallel to the floor. Place your right hand on the other end of the bench for support. Now I hold the weight while keeping your lower back straight. The palm of your hand should be facing your torso. This will be your starting position. From here, breathe out and pull the weight straight up to the side of your chest, keeping your upper arm close to your side while your torso is stationary. Focus on the back muscles when you reach the contracted position of this exercise. Also, make sure the lift is performed with the back muscles and not the arms. The forearms should do no other work besides holding the dumbbell. Now lower the weight back down to the starting position, breathing in as you perform the step.

=== FILE: One-Legged Cable Kickback - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [xO5WVJGVJ2w].txt ===

Hook an ankle cuff to a low pulley and attach the cuff to your ankle. Face the waist deck and stand a couple feet away. You'll want to grasp the steel frame of the machine for support. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your knees and hips bent slightly, exhale and contract your glutes to slowly move your working leg back in a semi-circular arc. Raise it back as high as you can comfortably. Now full extension, squeeze your glutes for a brief moment to maximize the contraction. Then slowly return your working leg to the starting position.

=== FILE: Optimum Back： Daniel Banks' Lat Workout [zfyXVALi2T8].txt ===

I'm pleased to chief Daniel Banks. My life is busy and stressful, but the gym is my sanctuary. The matter will happen this day. The iron helps me through it. Daniel Banks, for your sponsor Ashley with Otter Nutrition, today I'm going to take you through my back workout. The goal today's back workout is to build muscle and to plead it through three or four heavy sets and then break it down to drop sets of 30 to 50 reps. First exercise we'll start today with is white grip pull ups. Follow by, seat it, cable rolls, using the V bar, then switching over to a lap pull down, then dumbbell row, then move on to reverse lap pull down, super set it with behind the neck pull down, going over to barbell row, next we move on to single arm pull down, superset with straight arm pull down. Then we'll finish off with ice and measure pull ups. Between each set, I like the rest between a minute and a half. Hopefully this workout lasts me about two hours, but if you really hustle through it, the last you'll be able to finish it by the hour and a half. Let's go to work. First exercise we'll start with is the pull ups. I typically start my back workouts with pull ups, it's warm up, quarter-five sets, 20 reps. The reason why I use straps is it helps me maximize my bag muscles and not my form. I don't use full extension, I like to keep constant tension on my bag. After bodyweight pull ups, we'll head over to the cable rows. Here we're going to do four to five sets of 12 and then mainly do two down sets of 30 and 30. When doing cable rows, once again just like to pull up, I don't want full extension. I want to keep tension on the back at all times. After working sets, we'll move it to the drop sets, 30-50. That's when you totally deplete them also by just wrapping out. After cable rows, we're going to move it to the lap pull downs. The lap pull downs, it's got a mimic that cable rows with this before five sets of 15. Just like the pull ups are the last, I'm not full extension, and you want to keep constant tension on the lap to get maximum blood flow. Then drop down to 30-50 sets per drop set. After that pull downs move to the dumbbell row. This is being another working set for five sets of 12-15. It's just a straight working set, no drop sets with this one. There's why I don't drain drop sets because I go immediately heavy on these, that I feel I don't need a drop set based on the weight that I pull on this exercise. Just like the cable row, I keep the muscle tight, then I level it to the rep, I'll just stretch it out and then squeeze that 12th rep in. Our first exercise is reverse lap pull downs, super set with behind the neck pull downs. You start out with 11 reverse lap pull downs, super set with 22 behind the neck pull downs. When you go on behind the neck, you want to go real light because it's going real heavy, I hope a lot of pressure I rotate it got. We're going to do the barbell row. Here we're going to do four or five sets of working sets, followed by two drop sets at 30-50. Put the barbell row, you want to focus on form. We're going to form and take your time through exercise, you'll reap more out of the exercise. I'm not wearing a belt today, but if you have a lower back prom, how do you suggest you use a belt on this exercise? Our seven exercises go be single and pulled down, super set with straight on pull downs. Typically, 12 to 15 reps for four or five sets. With single and pull downs, I like to twist as I come down and squeeze with each rep. Also with the twist on a single and pull downs, it also engages your biceps to get your small bicep workout. Followed by with the straight on pull downs, I like to do it exactly the same. As I come down towards my hips, I like to do the same thing with a nice short squeeze and release. Last we're going to finish out with ice and metric pull ups. I do this exercise to totally deplete my back and my biceps. With this exercise, you want to pull yourself up to the bar and pull your back up to the bar and squeeze the hole for as long as you can. You want to do this for three to four sets. One hole at the top is one set. The full breakdown of this workout is an arcable though. This is typically my back workout every week. I do switch it up between reps with my working sets or my drop sets, but I suggest you know take what you learn, add it to your workout and then how it works for you. If you have any questions on this workout, you can reach me here on body space, disco banks, Instagram, also disco banks or Daniel Banks on Facebook. For more free videos on articles like this, continue to come back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Orange Almond Biscotti Cookies Recipe ｜ Jamie Eason [IwYqWMoGHPQ].txt ===

Hi, this is Jamie East and I'm in the bodybuilding.com kitchen today and I'm excited to show you one of my favorite healthy desserts. This is Orange Almond Biscotti. Let's see. We need two bowls. We've got a large bowl and a smaller bowl. And we've got all our ingredients here. I'm using oat flour. This is essentially just ground up oatmeal. You can get it at any grocery store pretty much because now they have the little healthy section. But if you need to, you can also grind your own oatmeal and a blender. Just know that you usually can't get it quite as fine as this. So you might need a little bit more. This is too cup-serie. You might need more like two to two and a third or two and a half even. So dump that in the bowl. Next, dry ingredients that we need is our baking powder. Baking powder is the leavening. You've got baking soda, baking powder. Usually when you use something like baking powder, it keeps it like baking soda, think, cake, baking powder, think a little more dense. So that's what we're using as baking powder. So we've dumped that in. We've got, I think that was a teaspoon of baking powder. We've got a fourth of a teaspoon of salt. Normally you need salt because it's going to help your leavening ingredient like your baking powder react. So then we've got to get our whisk. These are our dry ingredients pretty basic. Okay, we'll set that to the side. And now we've got our wet ingredients. We need four egg whites. Kind of hard to break it on this little bowl. And you're going to separate the yolk from the whites. And you can throw that away or save it if you want to. So that away. Number two. Number three. That would get any shell in there. That's pretty important. And if you ever happen to drop the yolk in like this. It's pretty easy. You can actually fish it out with the same one and pretty much get all of the yolk out. You have a little stray here. Oops. You can use the other side. Simple. Let's get the last one. By the way, make sure you preheat your oven to 350 which we've already done. So we're ready to go. Once the pan is off. All right, then we're going to use our cup of Splenda. Now, Splenda is the sweetener that I chose, but you can choose any sweetener of your choice. I like the no calorie stuff and some people only use in the natural sweeteners and that works too. So just whatever you like. I'm going to mix that out. It's a little frothy. Okay, once that's incorporated, we're going to add our extracts, which is what gives the the Scotty cookies they're flavored. So we've got almond extract here. Almonds is pretty strong. So we're actually going to put a little more orange than we will the almond. But so for this one, we're going to do about a half a tablespoon of the almond. And this is pure almonds. There's artificial or imitation. You can use those as a work, but I personally prefer the pure because I think they have sort of a little bit of an alcohol kind of smell and flavor. And then we've got our orange extract. And for the orange, because we really want to, that's really the main flavor of the cookie. We're going to do full tablespoon. Let's see. Let's mix this together. Start this smell really good. Okay, once you have that incorporated, we're going to add our odd ingredient, which is our baby food. This is apple sauce. The reason I like to use apple sauce is it really, actually replaces the butter and oil in your ingredients. You can use lots of different types of baby food to do the same thing. There's all kinds of fruit versions. Like a berry, you would enhance chocolate. Apple's are good for anything that's, you know, spice or actually like in this one. Because of the orange in the almond, it sort of just disappears. You don't really taste any apple at all. So then that's about it. Got it, got it all cleaned out. And by the way, there is sugar in the baby food, the apple sauce. But it's about, I think it's about 11 grams in that one. You want to look for one that's, you know, as low sugar as possible. But it makes so many cookies that really it's negligible that amount of sugar that ends up in this. So we've got that incorporated. And so that's all of our ingredients. Now we're going to add our wet ingredients to our dry ingredients. So I'm going to get my little nifty spatula here. It helps me scrape the sides. You can use a whisk to mix this all together. Sometimes it gets a little bit thick or you can just keep using this spatula that you have. We'll try this spatula. This is supposed to be kind of thick. If you've never made biscotti before, you actually bake it a few times. Like this one, we're going to put it in the oven and I'm going to end up baking it for about 20 minutes. And then when you take it out, you're going to cut it and actually bake it again. You can continue to bake it until it's as hard as you want. So you can see it's starting to really thicken up, which is what we want. Get all the good stuff off the sides. It's more doughy than like a cake batter or anything. Okay, so we've about got that mixed. Smells really good. Another option for this is when you've got your dry ingredients, you might want to actually add protein, which I'll do sometimes just to add a few macros to it that are good for me, that I need anyway. So we've got that all incorporated and you're going to get an aluminum baking sheet. The reason you need aluminum is we really want you to get brown. If you use anything like glass or anything like that, it really doesn't get as crispy as you want. So we'll do a light spray, just so it doesn't stick on sticks spray. I always use the butter flavor just because it's better for baking, or the taste won't really interfere with the bait good. See, I'm just like I have a little extra dry stuff on the bottom there. So I'm going to dump this. It's a little sticky. dump it on and then you're going to actually sort of just spread it out. Can you use your hands too, which is often what I do? I think I'm going to do it, so push that off. And you just sort of want to make it, push it around until it ends up about maybe about an inch and a half thickness. And you actually are looking to sort of make a rectangle out of it. That's about good enough probably. It doesn't have to be perfect and pretty. It'll taste the same. So, right. And it's ready for the oven. You want to make sure that your oven is, or the rack is about in the middle, make sure it's not too close to the heating element, which is on the bottom. And we'll set the timer for about 20 minutes. And we're good to go. So, 20 minutes later, we'll be able to cut them and bake them again. Okay, maybe turn our timer off. Let's see. It's been oven about 20 minutes to see what we have. Looks just slightly brown, which is what we want to relate on the edges. It's about the same as when we first put it in. So, now we've just needed to set it aside for a little while. Probably about 10 or 15 minutes, let it cool enough so that we can cut it into our whisked out of cookies and put it back in the oven for about 15 minutes. Alright. Now, our cookies are about cold at least the first step. So, it looks almost like it's not even done yet, but that's really because it's not. But it should at this point be pretty easy to transfer from here to a cutting board. So, we're going to move it over. And you want to get a knife. This is a good serrated knife. It doesn't have to be serrated. You can use a regular butcher's knife, just whatever. But the goal is to make these as uniform in size as we can. So, the first thing I like to do is cut it straight down the middle. So, this one's perfectly and factually. So, if you can see, you've got kind of the beginning of your cookie in there. So, I'm going to push it back together. And I'm going to start making my slices. And you can probably, I like to do the very first one, really, really close to edge. And these are my eat them right now, cookies. But, they're not really done. They're too small to really make an actual cookie at it, so that's my excuse. So, that's the first one. Now, we want to make about 13 cookies. Or about 13 slices. And you can do as thin as thick as you want to. That's totally up to you. Okay, and again, got the ends that it's snack on now. So, I'll put those to the side. Okay, now what we want to do is we actually want to put them back on our baking sheet. You can spray it or actually don't even need to spray it. They don't really stick, so we're just not even going to spray it. But now the cookies will look like this. So, we're going to just place them all on their side. I'm going to spray it out. They're a little bit crumbly at this point, but when we're done with them, they won't be. So, our oven at this point is still on 350 degrees, because we're going to put them back in. Let them continue to bake 15-20 minutes, however long. And then when we take them out, it's up to you at that point if you want to continue baking them to make them a little bit criss-pear. Or if you're done at that point, I like mine pretty hard because I like to have them with my coffee, so I will usually put them in a several times actually. So they're ready to go. We'll set it for 15 minutes. Cook it through done. Let's see. Let's do this up. Alright, they look brown, pretty brown on both sides. You can actually do it one more time if you want. If you like your cookies, you can harder. But one cookie is only about like 30-31 calories. It's got less than a gram of fat in there. You've got four carbs and about a gram and a half of protein. Thanks for joining me in the kitchen. Please check back off in at BodyBillin.com for future recipes. Thank you.

=== FILE: PRO MMA RADIO with Urijah Faber - UFC FAN EXPO - Bodybuilding.com [GINOeDgYI0E].txt ===

Alright, Larry Peppy here with the Aurei of Faber for Pro and May Radio on bodybuilding.com with the UFC fan expo. Aurei, of course, first question. How you feeling and how's the leg? It's much better, you know, it got a real big for a little bit and then it's gotten a lot smaller, even smaller than it was before the fight. So we're working on building some muscle back there and kind of getting a game plan or what I'm going to fight again. So not 100% sure when, but it's going to be fairly soon. So you feel like you're ready to get back to training and get back in the cage? Yeah, I've been doing something, you know, proactive the whole time. It's just a matter of, you know, when I'm going to be 100% and it shouldn't be too long. So a question. The other big question is 135, 145. Where do you want to be in this next fight? Well, from the sound of things, it sounds like they're going to want me to go down on 35s. It's something I've wanted to do for a long time, good on it. It has some bites down there. So I'll probably have a couple of bites down there, maybe go back up to 45s. We're not real sure yet. So do you think the time off, you said the leg got a little smaller, maybe you lost a little bit of that muscle that you put on, maybe that helps you make 135? Well, I mean, I'm a small 45-bounder. So all through college, I was 133 pounds. It wasn't like a, you know, it's been a hard cut for 45. So I'm probably a natural 35-bounder won't be difficult for me. But I like to get the muscle back and still make 35s. All right. So we're breaking news. It looks like 135 for the next fight. Most likely. Okay. Before I let you go, hometown take down, talk about that program with the WEC and AM. It's an awesome promotion. We're basically giving folks at home the opportunity to tune in, be active and get the WEC brought to their hometown. So whoever has the most activity out of their hometown is going to get the WEC there. And unless you've been living under a rock, yes, this is the same to your eye of a baby you've been seeing in AM commercial after AM commercial. Are you getting more recognized because an AM commercial is going to run constantly? Uh, probably I did cut the hair. But you know, I think it's just been over the years I've been getting recognized more and more and all this stuff helps. Awesome. You're right. Hey, we know you're really busy at the fan expo. Thanks for taking the time and good luck in that next fight at 35. Thanks. And thanks guys. Energy. My manager's ever made incorporated and formatfletx.com. Check us out. Alright, check out pro MMA Radio Monday night 6 p.m. Pacific 9 p.m. Eastern.

=== FILE: Palloff Press - Shoulder ⧸ Core Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [pgYNSUWUJOs].txt ===

Connect the standard handle to a tower and if possible position the cable to shoulder height. If not, a low pulley will suffice. With your side to the cable, grab the handle with both hands and step away from the tower. You should be approximately arms length away from the pulley, with the tension of the weight on the cable. With your feet positioned, hip width apart and knees slightly bend. Hold the cable to the middle of your chest. This will be your starting position. Press the cable away from your chest, fully extending both arms. Your core should be tight and engaged. Hold the repetition for several seconds before returning to the starting position. At the conclusion of the set, repeat facing the other direction.

=== FILE: Parker Cote - 'Lift Life' Bodybuilding.com Ad Campaign Interview [em0OL6Gg0Dk].txt ===

Alright, what's up guys and Parker Cody my body space profile is clutch 401 and I first just want to talk a little bit about how bodybuilding.com and body space has helped me improve my physique and honestly my life in the past eight years So I mean first off I started when I was 15 Um, with the insight and then we're on to articles that literally read hundreds. I'm not kidding I read hundreds of articles that was like so into it So obsessed with it and and I would you know late night on you know It didn't matter. I would just like learn as much as I can and kind of combine that with what I was doing myself Actually in the way room and in the kitchen with my diet To come up with a plan that worked well for me and then a few years later body space came along and I joined shortly shortly thereafter and Things people were really inspired by my transformation of my original picture with with where I am today that Really I think it just helps it makes me feel amazing that knowing that there's people that are like 15 and 16 and 17 and just emailing me and messaging me saying hey man like I really I can relate to you and you know, what do you what do you do and then the real secret is just like It's hard work and dedication and just keep Just keep at it and I'd be be patient too But yeah, and I also want to get to the lift-life campaign just why I'm right now in Boysy Idaho. I'm so excited Shooting this campaign for bodybuilding calm of Jamie Eason and Ashley and just a whole great crew of people and Yeah, so the campaign I think it's gonna be really Honestly like revolutionary it's gonna be the sickest campaign. We had the meeting last night with the With the agency and just the way they're gonna go bad is really gonna Turn things around for my little calm in a good way so I Can't wait I'm Spring I'm excited it's static to be a part of it and I can't wait to see other shots turnout even though this morning With the weight thing that was a little hard I got a little scared about the rest of the day. It was gonna be like we've had some downtime Sort of lags and hang out so it's been a blast and I'm looking forward to it That's a test

=== FILE: Peanut Butter Protein Pancakes ｜ Lais DeLeon [MNEcboL0gvw].txt ===

Hey everyone, I'm Lai Stallion, NLA for her athlete and today I'm going to show you how to make my favorite peanut butter banana protein pancake. So to start we're going to mix all of our dry ingredients. First half a cup of oat flour, half a cup of any gluten-free pancake mix, and one scoop of NLA for her vanilla cupcake flavored protein powder. Next we'll mix our wet ingredients. First we'll add half a cup of almond milk, one whole egg, and one tablespoon of coconut oil. Next we'll blend the ingredients into a pancake batter consistency. This will heat a nonstick pan and spray it lightly with coconut oil spread. Now we can pour in the batter. This recipe should make about 3 pancakes. Once your pancakes are fully cooked, serve them and top with one tablespoon of peanut butter and half a banana. What I love about these pancakes is you can top them with pretty much any topping you like. The step I step guide and macronutrient breakdown for this recipe can be found in the article below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, you can find me on Instagram at Lai's Dillion or my website Lai's DillionFitness.com. And for more free recipes and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Perfect Booty Home Workout ｜ Lais DeLeon [jeNHGz3pGsU].txt ===

Hi guys, I'm Lai Stilion and I'll leave for her athlete and today I'm going to be taking you through my 21-minute at Home Leg Workout. I structured the circuit to give you a great leg workout that you can do anywhere with no equipment, but as a bonus you're also going to get a great cardio workout. This workout is structured as a circuit. We have six exercises and you'll be completing each exercise back to back for a minute total. That's one round and you'll be completing three rounds. With a minute rest between each round. Alright, so let's get to work. So the first exercise is the pop squat. Now remember you're going to be doing each exercise for one minute. To perform a pop squat, go down into a squat, tapping both hands to the floor. Jump up, bringing your feet together, and perform this continuously at a moderate pace for the full minutes. Reset and we're going to move into our second exercise with the Bulgarian split squats. We'll be performing this exercise all to four one minute, so that's 30 seconds on one leg and 30 seconds on the other. To perform the Bulgarian split squats, you'll need a platform to place your foot on, like a couch. Start by placing one foot behind you onto the platform. It may take you one or two reps to figure out where your foot placement is most comfortable. Try to keep all your weight on your front leg, push off of your heels and make sure you're keeping your knees in line with your ankles. As soon as you've completed 30 seconds with one leg, you immediately switch over to the other leg. The third exercise is a variation of the same exercise we just did. The plyometric Bulgarian split squat. The difference here is that when you're performing the exercise, instead of coming up slow and controlled, you want to explode up and actually come off the floor with one foot. And make sure when you come down, you land softly on your toes. And just like the previous exercise, when you're done completing 30 seconds on one leg, immediately switch over to the other leg. And the fourth exercise is what I like to call a one and a half squat. To perform a one and a half squat, squat all the way down, then come up halfway before squatting back down and coming all the way back down. The main reason I like to do them this way is to increase time under tension. Exercise 5 is the glute bridge. Just like all the other exercises in the circuit will be performing the glute bridge for a total of 1 minutes. To perform a glute bridge, lay on your back with your feet flat on the ground. Drag your hips up as you squeeze your glutes at the top. Pause for a second, then go back down and repeat. This is a great exercise for isolating your glutes. And we're wrapping up the circuit with the jump squat. For the jump squat, you're going to come down just like a bodyweight squat, but instead of coming up slow and controlled, you want to explode up, making sure your feet come off the ground. This is a great exercise to finish off the circuit because it not only burns out your legs, but gets your heart rate way up. Now remember, you're performing each round a total of three times. I would recommend you do this workout anytime you either can't make it to the gym, your short on time, or your traveling. The full workout breakdown is in the article below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, you can find me on Instagram at lieystylion, or on my website at lieystylionfitness.com. And for more free workouts and articles like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com. Lieyst, home workout, content, take one. Oh my God. This is my job. This is what I do. Okay.

=== FILE: Ph3： Layne Norton's Power And Hypertrophy Trainer ｜ Promo [qkUTDTL1o_Q].txt ===

... Squat, bench, dead. Think you've outgrown them? You're wrong. I've created the perfect balance of intensity. What? Recovery. That's a growth. Oh God. And performance nutrition to make you a master of the barbell. Come on. I'm Lane Norton, and I want you to go heavy. With me.

=== FILE: Picture Your Perfect Body： Melody Wyatt Fitness 360 - Bodybuilding.com [I839YhIr_zA].txt ===

I'm Melody DeSena Wyatt. I'm a bodybuilding.com and optimum nutrition sponsored athlete. I'm in the Army National Guard and a mother of one. I've always been active growing up. My parents always had me in like ballet, gymnastics, martial arts. It wasn't until I went to basic training for the Army where I truly discovered my physical potential. Going to airborne and aerosol training, I kind of strived to prove myself that I could hold my own. After I had my daughter, I remember a lot of people would tell me, like, oh, you'll never have your body back how you used to have it. She was delivered by C-section and, you know, if they cut through your muscle, you're never going to have abs again. So that kind of mess with my mind, like, I think kiss my good body days goodbye. I was a complete cardio bunny. I would run seven to 10 miles a day and it helped me shed the weight, but then I was just scrawny and skinny. I had no muscle tone. I was actually on bodybuilding.com. I'm trying to look for things that could work for me and it was there when I really got inspired because I had seen a picture of Jamie Easton for the first time. And I was like, wow, I mean, I show my boyfriend and I was like, I got to get a body like this. This is this is awesome. Like, she has a going on. So that's when he told me he's like, look, if you want a body like that, you're going to have to give up the treadmill and you're going to have to start lifting heavy and intense. I started seeing muscle definition forming in my legs when I used to just have like toothpicks for legs. It was motivating to see that. Then I remember a friend at the gym approached me and she's like, there's a fitness show coming up. You should compete and all's like, yeah, right. Neon stage in a bikini like there's no way I didn't think I was good enough for whatever and I thought what the heck I'll try it. I didn't know what I was doing. I was just winging it. I didn't even know if I should do bikini or figure. I didn't even know where I would fit in. So I was like, well, I'll just do both and see. I ended up placing first in both divisions and then I was just in love with a whole sport. Through my journey and being able to share it on body space or social media, I was inspiring other moms. That was also my motivation whenever I would hear it from people like all your transformations inspired me to want to start. That really gave me some drive to to see what that was doing to other people and that the motivations can take. I'm on a five day split. I do a whole day dedicated to chest, a whole back day, an arm day, which is bisoned tries and then a whole day for shoulders and a whole day for legs. Every other day, I do abs or calves. The 60 I'll rest and then I'll start back all over again. When it comes to cardio, if I'm not prepping or trying to cut down for something, honestly, I don't do cardio. Maybe once or twice for 20, 30 minutes if that high intensity definitely is the way to go for me. If you're an avid runner and you love running the power to you, but I'm all about saving time and getting in there and doing what I need to do. I'm sweating. I'm doing intervals. I'm doing sprints. I'm all in just the stairmaster or all even go to the park and well my daughters on the playground. I'll do sprints on the field and with active rest periods of pushups or bench jumps. Don't just jump into it right away. Properly warm up, stretch, even two warm upsets with lighter weight and then start gradually going up. I see a lot of people going right away and they're like, oh, I got to get this heavy weight up. When you're on stage, they're not asking you what your bench presses or how much do you squat or what's your PR. Sometimes I'll put on some angry, mad at your dad music or some really like a V-e-d-m. Something crazy that just gets me pumping. Even my boyfriend got me into motivational videos while you're lifting to hear those words. It's just so epic and profound. And using the power of visualization and the power of the mind is such a strong thing and that's what you have to overcome is the mental part of it. So just listening and hearing those words, it really pushes you. I am like any other normal person. I love food. I'm a big foodie. I love cheeseburgers and pizza and cheese cake. I love it all. I like having cookouts and going camping and not having to worry about trekking my macros or whatnot. I believe that there's a time to work in a time to play and I love enjoying food but I know that if I'm not on top of my nutrition, I'm not really going to see results. I try to keep it to white meats, like chicken and fish and egg whites, but I'm always switching up what I do with it so I don't get tired of it and I think that that's what the key is. You don't want to burn yourself out eating the same boring thing every day. You need to enjoy what you're eating. Otherwise it's going to be miserable for you. There's healthy alternatives to so many things. TheBodyBinding.com healthy recipe database has tons of awesome recipes. Just last week I was going through a cookie craving so I made protein cookies. I don't count calories or anything like that. I do try to eat 1.2 to 1.5 grams of protein per pounded lean body weight and I'll tweak my carbs and fats as I'm nearing a shell or trying to prep for something. That's another thing that I tell a lot of people because you know they ask me what your meal plan or you should make me a meal plan. But what is going to work for me is going to be the same macros as you and everybody's body's different. It responds to different foods differently. I love directing people to all the fitness plans on bodybuilding.com. A lot of them have a macro nutrient calculators in it. You can just eat according to your weight, age, activity level. This lifestyle is like a big ol' science experiment and you gotta find what works for you. All my life I was always raised taking my vitamins and supplements. My mom used it or spilled down her throat and we hated it at the time where she'd grind it up and sneak it into her morning orange juice being raised around that kind of like rubbed off on me. So I've always taken vitamins and supplements my whole life and I believe that it's not just to attain the dream physique but it's gonna help what's going on inside of your body and take care of you. The all year round I'm taking a multivitamin and my make of threes and iron calcium, biotin, all those are are always important to me. I feel like I'd rather eat my protein powder like bake with it and make treats than to drink it and I'll just have a simple casing cheek before I go to bed and I always have glutamine before I go to bed or after my evening workout. I'll usually mix that in into my shake. I've always taken creatine monohydrate. I believe that it's helped me with my endurance or my stamina or my strength. I always take a pre-workout tool and I always like to rotate those because the body adapts to pretty much anything you're doing to it so switch those out and take different ones or I try new things all the time and that brings me to branch chain amino acids. I think those are really important and I recommend those to anybody. Whether you're prepping or not those are the essential amino acids that's really going to help you recover from those intense workouts. If I'm prepping for a competition that's only time then I'll take a fat burner. Sometimes if I do take a fat burner that kind of has stimulants, I don't need a pre-workout because it kind of already gives me that like crazy energy. I love what I do and being an example to other women or inspiring other people. A title or a pro-card or a trophy. They're nice and all but it's not what I'm only living my life to do. It's about the whole journey and enjoying it and really truly discovering my mental and physical strength. You can find me on body space and Instagram and my Facebook Melody Dissina. For more content like this, come back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Plank ⧸ Planking - Ab Exercises - Bodybuilding.com [tgbrMdfuGJA].txt ===

This is an important abdominal exercise. Get into a prone position on the floor, supporting your weight on your toes and your forearms. Your elbows should be bent and directly below the shoulder. Keep your body straight at all times and hold this position as long as possible. To increase difficulty, one arm or leg can be raised.

=== FILE: Playboy Model Ready - Heidi Montag - Part 1 - Bodybuilding.com [th52WDCXkFk].txt ===

Energy Smash is a new high-performance drink designed in Chris Energy for both your body and my energy smash by ultimate nutrition is a potent blend of natural herbs, vitamins and caffeine that supply a burst of energy whenever you need it. Energy smash is designed to compliment the lifestyle of today's active man or woman. Energy smash is the perfect pick me up for people experiencing lack of energy. Get your energy smash today. My I'm Chris Gatton from Bodybuilding.com and we're in beautiful Malibu California and today we're meeting up with Heidi Montag and a trainer Chad Waterbury to find out how they prepared her for a playboy cover shoot for the Miss Universe after a new season of the hills. So we're gonna head on down to the beach and find out what they have to say. Heidi how did he get in such good shape for your playboy cover shoot? I worked my butt off. I worked harder than I've ever worked in my life. I was training five days a week with my trainer Chad Waterbury. Her plan of course is based on the look that she wanted for the playboy cover and she didn't want to be too muscular. She didn't want to be too big. She wanted to be too skinny. She kind of just wanted that what I call the bikini body. She wanted more shapely thighs and hips. She wanted her butt to be a little bit curbier. She wanted to show some athleticism and strength in her upper body without adding too much mass. So I put together a program that would give her that. Now I understand that you didn't like the fact that previously you had a flat bum. Is that correct? Yeah, before I was slimmer. I was a little bit skinny or a little bit scrawny or I had no butt. It was completely flat and I really wanted powerful sexy curves. I wanted to feel strong also at the same time. I didn't want that skinny look. Can you provide us a routine along with some tips and advice on how you've got more curves to your body? A lot of sprinting, sprinting running is great for it. Head of Bell, my favorite lift that I did to get my butt really strong is called a dead lift. And I can lift my body weight which is a hundred pounds on a dead lift and that really helps all your leg muscles and your butt muscles to really grow and get to come stronger. And to get those powerful sexy curves that I really want to achieve. I hear that you didn't use many machines and you didn't do excessive amounts of cardio. Well, one is well, to get the best results you want to train the body the way it's naturally designed to work and machines take the body out of its natural element. Besides that though, with athletes like I don't do long duration low intensity cardio anyway. I do short, very high intensity and energy system training and since I wanted to turn her into more of an athlete that's what I had her do. So a lot of girls that are looking up to you, I'm sure a lot of them would assume to get a great figure like yours that they that have to stop themselves. So this is in fact false isn't it really? Starting yourself is the worst thing and the most unattractive love you could possibly do. And I think that's a big misconception that women have to be skinny, as attractive. And that's the opposite to be strong and to be athletic and to have powerful sexy curves. That's what men like to and that's what makes me feel better and that's what makes me feel more confident. But eating is very, very important to your health. Did you find that you had to eat more than what you normally eat? Yes, actually my metabolism was set up from eating, from working out so hard. But I cut down on carbs when the shoe came closer. I cut down on that and I cut down on sugar. But I ate more protein and vegetables and fruits. Okay, so after the playboy shoes, do you find that you still have to watch what you eat in order to stay slim or can you have a few shoes days here and there? That's funny, mention that. I get two cheat meals a week. So two meals, whatever I want. But that's only twice a week. In the rest of the time, I just monitor more of what I'm eating. Okay, you're eating more. You'd be an exercise in five days a week. What about supplements? Do you take supplements? I do take fish oil. I take that twice a day, two teaspoons a day, a fish oil. That really helps everything. That helps my skin. That helps my hair. That helps everything. That helps my immune system. So that would be the main supplement that I take. Many women think they're going to get bulky if they work out with weights. Now what advice do you have for women who have this assumption? Well, you know, I understand their fear because certain women, if they're genetically predisposed to having big legs or big shoulders or something like that, they can get too big. But it doesn't have to be that way. The key is to control the volume. That's the first thing. You don't want to do excessive amounts of volume of any one exercise because that will overdevelop one area of the body. The second thing is not allow yourself too much rest. So you keep that athleticism up and you're pushing the energy system training which helps upregulate the metabolism. But it doesn't allow you to recover fully which will, you know, then make you want to lift a heavier weight than maybe you should. You control in that volume. Is there a certain repetition range that you would recommend? Yeah, well, I like to focus on time. 10 second sets is really a great place to start with short rest periods. If you're looking at reps, you know, anywhere from five to 15 reps per set usually works well because you know, you could actually get 15 15 reps done in 10 seconds. If it's a light load, like you do a kettlebell swing 15 times a little light weight in 10 seconds or if it's a heavier weight, you know, as the smoothness can be a little slower, so maybe five or six reps to get the same, you know, 10 second time frame. Now unfortunately, Spencer isn't here today. I know, I know. But I didn't want to ask, do you have a train with Spencer? I train every day with Spencer. So Spencer and I trained together. So Spencer and I are doing the same workout in different variations. Yeah. So we're not just talking about cardio between your and Spencer now. We're talking about proper training on the beach. Right. We train here every day together. He does more than male, a little bit more male geared for his muscles. And I do more of the sexy curves tone plan. But we race on the beach together. It makes me more competitive. It pushes me a little bit harder. I know, I'm sure brings you closer together as well. It's my favorite time of day when we're here on the beach in the morning. I mean, you couldn't get better a little competition in the morning to start the day off right now. I understand all your exercise and nutrition secrets now are going to be available in ebook format. So why did you decide to let all these secrets out of the bag? I wanted to let all these secrets out of the bag to really help people. I really changed my life. It changed my confidence. It changed every area and every aspect of my life. So I really wanted to be able to share that with other women. Because like you said earlier, there's so many misconceptions of being skinny and that's the right look and I really want to help people get that sexy powerful look that they don't know how to get. The Heidi Montag workout ebook, it's fantastic. It outlines the program that I put her through to prepare her for the Playboy shoot. It's a six-week training nutrition program and there's really no stone left-hand turn. I mean, there's all every exercise has high resolution picks and descriptions and I lay out the key principles of my nutrition plan and give sample diets and you can go to the Heidi Montag workout.com and pick that up. Just to finish off, how are you keeping yourself busy now and what's next on I've arrived and for Heidi Montag? So much, I am so busy. I have the ebook, the Heidi Montag workout. I have that coming out. That's one of my main focuses. I really want to help women to achieve that body, the powerful sexy curve. That is, it changed my life so I really want to help other women. That I might album coming out, October 13. So I have that coming out. I just did my first performance from the University of Philly and I's building people watched it. I have the hills coming out this fall coming out instead of Kemmer and I have a hair product coming out. I have a bunch of things in the works. So I'm very busy. I feel very blessed every day. Good job. You've got chas, I keep you disciplined. Oh, if I didn't have a chad in my life, every morning keeping me disciplined, it'd be chaos. Okay, once again, thank you very much. I'm so much pleasure. Thank you. Thanks for joining us at the Beach in Malibu. We you found out exactly how Heidi prepared for a playboy cover shoes, how she got prepared for the Miss Universe and for the new season of the hills. Remember you can get more in-depth exercise and tips on HeidiMontagworkout.com. So until next time, we'll see you again.

=== FILE: Playboy Model Ready - Heidi Montag - Part 2 - Bodybuilding.com [BFI0mXWjjFo].txt ===

Energy Smash is a new high-performance drink designed in Chris Energy for both your body and my energy smash by ultimate nutrition is a potent blend of natural herbs, vitamins and caffeine that supply a burst of energy whenever you need it. Energy smash is designed to compliment the lifestyle of today's active man or woman. Energy smash is the perfect pick me up for people experiencing lack of energy. Get your energy smash today. Hi I'm Chris Gathin from Bodybuilding.com and we're in beautiful Malibu California and today we're meeting up with Heidi Montag and a train that Chad Waterbury, the fine nights is how they prepare for playboy coverage shoots for the miss universe after a new season of the hills. So we're going to head on down to the beach and find out what they have to say. Okay on Chad Waterbury here showing you a couple pieces out of the Heidi Montag workout and when I train Heidi or when I train any athlete I like to focus on full body explosive exercises and one way I really make sure the people are doing it right is that given exercises that can't do slowly and two of my favorites are the swing the kettlebell swing and then a medicine ball slam so Heidi's going to demonstrate here so we're going to start off with the kettlebell swing to stand with a slightly wider shoulder width stance. You'll push your hips back and squat down keep your abs tight bend your knees, grab the kettlebell pull the kettlebell back start the swing so when she comes up she's locking her hips out squeezing her glutes as hard as she can at the top one more and drop it good now she's going to go to the medicine ball you're going to hold it up overhead and with as much force she can slam it to the ground it's going to grab it do it again good three and two more and one excellent excellent so those two exercises together makes for a great combination to work every muscle group in the body you can do it slowly and it'll really help reshape your body so for the Heidi Montag workout I like to combine two or more exercises together full body exercises with minimal rest in between so we're going to demonstrate one of my favorite combinations which is the dead lip of the kettlebell and a squat for us with the medicine ball so Heidi's going to start off here to stand with slightly wider than shoulder width stance she's going to squat down through the kettlebell go ahead squat down keep your abs tight keep good posture back flat she's going to do five reps it's fast as she can so go ahead to Heidi squeeze the glutes hard at the top it's really helps develop the butt muscles great exercise to make the lower back strong I'm sure most of you are familiar with this which will do one more rep and then she'll sprint down and get the ball this is about a 15 pound medicine ball you can use kind of 15 pounds to set it right here it's a piece of jumper feedback stand up press it overhead this is a squat for us with an overhead press works every muscle group in your body and you can make this even more challenging by jumping up in the air at the top so Heidi's last two reps she'll jump up in the air good one more excellent so you can do about five to ten reps of each exercise do that four or five times and then rest about a minute and repeat and you will burn a lot of fat and reshape your body thanks for joining us at the beach in Malibu we you found that it's exactly how Heidi prepared for a playboy cover shoot how she got prepared for the Miss Universe and for the new season of the hills remember you can get more in-depth exercise and tips on HeidiMonthagworkout.com so until next time we'll see you again

=== FILE: Power Clean - Back & Legs Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [zCEj0d3TatI].txt ===

With a barbell on the floor close to the shins, take an overhand grip just outside the legs. Lower your hips with the weight focused on the heels, back straight, head facing forward, chest up with your shoulders just in front of the bar. This will be your starting position. Begin the first pull by driving through the heels, extending your knees. Your back angle should stay the same and your arms should remain straight. Move the weight with control as you continue to above the knees. Next comes the second pull. The main source of acceleration for the clean. As the bar approaches the mid-pack position, begin extending through the hips. In a jumping motion, accelerate by extending the hips, knees and ankles, using speed to move the bar upward. There should be no need to actively pull through the arms to accelerate the weight. At the end of the second pull, the body should be fully extended, leaning slightly back with the arms still extended. As full extension is achieved, transition into the third pull by aggressively shrugging and flexing the arms with the elbows up and out. At peak extension, pull yourself under the bar far enough that it can be racked onto the shoulders, rotating your elbows under the bars you do so. The bar should be racked onto the protracted shoulders lightly touching the throat with the hands relaxed. Immediately recover by driving through the heels, keeping the torso upright and elbows up. Continue until you have risen to a standing position.

=== FILE: Preacher Curl - Biceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [RgN216Cumtw].txt ===

Position yourself on a preacher bench and grab the easy bar from the front barrest. Grab the easy bar at the close inner handle with the palms of your hands facing forward. They should also be slightly tilted inward due to the shape of the bar. With your upper arms and chest positioned against the preacher bench pad, hold the easy bar at shoulder level. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar until your upper arms are extended and your biceps are fully stretched. Then exhale and use your biceps to curl the weight back up until your biceps are fully contracted at the starting position. Squeeze the biceps and hold for a brief moment at the top contracted position to get the maximum benefit from this exercise.

=== FILE: Pro MMA Radio Interview with Chael Sonnen at UFC FAN EXPO - Bodybuilding.com [FSqJESKeILw].txt ===

Alright, Larry Peppy here at the UFC Fan Expo for pro MMA radio and bodybuilding.com. This man probably needs no introduction, Kale Sondon. He will be taking on Anderson Silva for the middleweight title. And Kale, understand we might have gotten almost a little preview last night. What happened? Because Twitter is a buzz with a little negative interaction between you and the champ. You know, I was really trying to be helpful. Anderson was signing a group of autographs. He looked like he didn't want to be signing them. And I let him know that in two months he won't have to sign anymore because nobody will care about him again. And then it escalated though, because at some point I guess somebody translated it and you guys had a little interaction in the lobby I heard. Is that what happened to somebody translate? I didn't know. I was going down the hallway with my manager, Jeff. And he came up. I heard somebody saying my name. I thought, gosh, is that Anderson? I looked back. Well, it was Anderson. Sure enough. I don't know how much of an interaction it was. I thought there was going to be, but that really it was really quite un-eventful frankly. Well, when he came up, did he say anything to you? Did he seem upset? Well, give us a little more detail. Well, yeah, a little bit. It was hard to say because there were so many people and there was cameras and there was a lot of noise. I'm sorry for not giving more detail. But he caught me off guard too. And when he called my name, I stopped and looked. I didn't know where it was going. He was telling me to relax. He kept saying, chill, relax, chill, relax. That was truly, I mean, that was about the extent of it. There was people everywhere. I can't fully remember because I was a little bit on edge myself when he tracked me down. I didn't know where that was going to go. But you know, all's well, it ended well. So this has been kind of an ongoing theme for you. You've been kneading him a lot. You did it before the fight was announced. Talk about how important it is from the business side. Yes, you won three huge fights to earn this title shot. And earn the title shot is the way to put it. But you also understand the business side. You've been kind of marketing this fight for a while. Yeah, I mean, that's true. You're never going to get a fight that nobody wants to see. You know, the first thing you have to do is have people that want to see the fight in addition. This one's, you know, this one's an easy one because we really do want to fight. I had to fight with a guy named Dan Miller who's a friend of mine who's going to cheese. We'll go out there and compete as hard as we can. But I don't want to fight Dan Miller. I will fight Dan Miller. I don't want to fight. There's a big difference. I want to fight Daners instead of I wanted to fight for four years. I've been sticking my finger in his chest. I told him for four years to stay away from me. For four years he has and for whatever reason he decided in the hallway yesterday was a good idea to break that streak. There was a lot of people in it in WELP on an August 7th. There won't be a lot of people and it's not going to end well. Why have you wanted this fight for so long? I understand he's the champion. Is it just about the title or is there something about him? You know, it's a large part about the title. It is a large part about him. He's not my kind of guy. We're not going to be friends in real life or just not. But on top of that, it's truly also a point to prove to everybody else in the division. One guy is challenged and still in four years. One guy, me. You can't find a challenge anywhere by any other athlete in this company except me because every 85 pound or every 205 pound or everybody else in the UFC is a bunch of cowards except me. One guy wants to fight the champion. One guy is willing to be the best. That's why I have this fight because nobody else will do it. And, Chale, I remember you telling me that when your dad was passing the last thing that you guys spoke about was that you promised you would bring home a World Championship. Is that a big driving factor in all this as well? Oh, yeah. That's the only promise I ever made in my having kept. I told my is going to beat Tito Ortiz and win the championship. Tito was the champion at the time. So, I'm sure Anderson will soon just find. So, before I let you go, congratulations on the primary. Thank you very much. And now, when does the actual election come up for you and how could that impact your training for Anderson? I don't know. This is uncharted waters for me. The actual election is in November. We do it in Oregon the same day. The whole nation will be voting on that. Senate and congressmen from every other state. And as far as training, I don't know. It's like I said, this is new to me. But whether I train for Anderson or I don't train for Anderson, on August 7, I'm going to walk out there and beat up Anderson. Fair enough. Before I get you out, you have C1-14. Rashad versus rampage. Does the rest of it? You know, I think he sure does. I would bet on Rashad. You know, you look at rampage because he's, I don't know what skill this guy brings to the table. But he sure does win a lot of fights. Rampage is, you know, if you look at his resumes, it's impressive as anybody in the sports ever. I don't know how he wins. I can't imagine he wins tonight, but he keeps surprising me. And you mentioned Dan Miller being a friend of yours. He fights bisming. Dan gets back in the win column. You know, that's a really good fight. I'm cheering for Dan. I hope that he does. But that's a good match. And Bisming's a hard guy to beat. He goes really hard the whole time. So you got to show up. You got to be in shape. Dan can beat him. But Bisming, Bisming can win that fight too. Well, another guy that shows up in shape is Chaelson and expect him to be in shape when he takes on Anderson Silva. August 7th to get that title. August 7th Oakland, California, 7pm. All right. Thanks a lot, Chaels. Thanks, Lear. You got it. Appreciate it.

=== FILE: Program Overview ｜ 12-Week Hardcore Daily Video Trainer With Kris Gethin [jtrltr-uIvw].txt ===

Hello and welcome to Bodybuilder.com's daily video trainer. This video series will be a 12 week diet and exercise program. You'll have a video to watch every day for the entire 12 weeks. Work out plans, nutrition advice, motivation and supplementation. You'll get it all right here. So what's unique about this program? I'll be doing it right alongside with you. My name's Chris Gethin and over the next 12 weeks I'm going to be training with you. You'll see the exact program that I follow to get an amazing transformation. This program is not going to be easy. If it was easy then everybody would be walking around with their physique that they desired. But if I can do it, you can do it. There's a thousand excuses that you can choose from and if you're that kind of person and walk the other way, if you want it bad enough then follow me. So let's jump into training. The training split that we're going to be following is chest and triceps, back and biceps, legs and shoulders, calves and abs. I like to train with the two days on and one day off training split for rest. So you're going to be doing cardio twice a day and 20 minutes per session. There's some days that you won't want to do it but you have to do it every day because it will keep you in metabolism firing. It'll help digest your foods and it'll help utilize your stored fat as energy. Now I'm going to tell you how I eat, what I eat and how often I eat and this is exactly how you're going to eat as well. So to start with, I don't count calories. I don't want to complicate things I want to keep it simple. I just count my portions. So if I start eyeballing my food, then looking at my protein I normally go for about a fist size which for me, when I weigh it out it's about 200 grams and I go for a fist size of complex carbohydrates as well and normally that adds up to a better cup. Now I'll eat every two to three hours which adds up to around six or seven meals per day. The main food sources that will both be eaten on this transformation is protein, carbohydrates and then naturally occurring fats. So the protein sources that we're going to be eating are fish, poultry, steak, egg whites and obviously you're protein powders. The carbohydrates sources, they can be sweet potato, brown rice, whole wheat pasta and you can also have oats as well. And lastly, fats. I don't take in many additional fats when I'm on a diet. When I'm not dieting, of course I'll have my almonds and I'll have some olive oil and peanut butter. But when I'm dieting I don't want those additional calories. But throughout the day it's just the naturally occurring fats like in my steak. There is some in the in your fish as well. So that's all the fat that you need when you're on a transformation like this. Now let's cover what you can drink. Obviously number one, water is fine. I like to add extent so I have some flavor and I'll drink around a gallon per day. Other fluids I like to have tea. I like to have coffee but these are black. The reason being is because you're not allowed to have milk on its program. It's got lactose in it which is a form of sugar. The same was so you can't have any soy milk. You've got to stay away from the sugars on the program. And the sweetener of my choice is stevia. That's what I like to have as it's a natural source of sweetener. And lastly, no booze on this program at all. Obviously beer has a lot of empty calories that pretty much useless to you. And I don't care if like red wine has a lot of antioxidants in it. Dark chocolate does too but you can't have either on this program. On this program there are no cheat days. Some programs will recommend that you have a cheat day just to take a rest or to speed up your metabolism. You don't take a day off from your training or from your cardio. So why should you take a day off from your diet? If you cheat on your diet, don't just put that behind you. You have to dwell on that and feel really bad about exactly what you've done. Because if you put it behind you the next week, you might do it again. And if you do cheat, you're only going to get exposed. When people who haven't cheated will look amazing at the end of the 12 weeks. And at the end of the 12 weeks, you'll be wondering what went wrong. Supplements. As supplements aren't a magic pill, although I wish they were, that will replace a nutrition or training program. I'm not going to give you all the intricate details on every single supplement right now. I will later on in a series and you can read more about them on bodybuilding.com. But let's just go into the basics and what you're going to need to get through this program to give you the best results and the fastest results possible. So, supplements that you'll be taking every day and I take every day. It's number one, a multivitamin. So, a multivitamin will help provide you with all the vitamins that you're going to need throughout this program, help with your recovery. Also has calcium, magnesium as well, all your minerals that you'll need. So, I like to take that morning and night. Another thing that I like to take in the morning and at night are my omega fats. So, this helps to create growth hormone, helps with brain function along with the many other health benefits too. I like to take digestive enzymes too so go out and get some digestive enzymes. A lot of the food that you'll be taking, especially the protein can be hard to absorb. It's not about the amount of protein that you eat. It's about the amount that you absorb as well. A pH balance set is something that you should be taking as well. This will help with your alkalinity levels. Glutamin. So, this is something that I'll take every day also as well. It's an anti-cadabolic agent so it helps prevent the breakdown of muscle tissue. The protein powders I like to use are a couple of different kinds. I like to use isolate, immediately following my workout because this is a very fast digesting protein that'll shut all straight into my muscles for recovery. If I have an ameliplysement, I'll go for a slower protein so for that reason, I like to go for the CNP, pro peptide kind because it's a blend of different proteins so I'm getting my fast, slow, amedian chain amino acids. Moving on to carbohydrates. The form that I like to take is the targo. I'll take that immediately following my workout because this is a fast digesting carbohydrate I can put into my body to replenish those depleted glycogen stores and lastly, I like to have BCAA's branch chain amino acids. This helps with recovery. I like to take it in the extended powder formula because I add that to my water and it gives my water a nice flavor. So now let's move on to the performance supplements. There's a trifector of fat burn in supplements that I like to take. I'm riding with green tea. The reason being it helps increase my metabolism and it's slightly suppresses my appetite because I get very hungry during the 12 weeks. Elcarnity is the next supplement that I like to take. It helps me utilize fats as energy and lastly I like to use your himby. The reason being is because it's a bloodvast related so it helps push blood into the adiposterias that you may hold fat for me. It's going to be my lower back and my ab region. Another performance supplement that I take is creatin. The reason being is that it'll help me push a few more reps in the gym so it helps increase the intensity and the density of my muscles. So it doesn't matter if you're trying to build muscle or burn fat because it helps with both. So that's your entire supplement shopping list. So make sure you go on to bodybuilding.com now and order that stack before you start your next 12 week assault. Let's talk about tracking your transformation. To start with, you need to take before pictures. Please do this against a plain background so you can see the silhouette of your physique. You need to take a front shot, a side shot and a back shot. Make sure it's in good lighting and that camera is steady so it's not going to be a blurred image. Put them up on your body space and when you get in good comments from other people, it'll certainly encourage you to get through to the end. Just in body fat with calipers can give you an accurate indication of what your current body fat and lean muscle mass percentages are. Make sure you have it taken in the same place by the same person every time where you can have conflicting measurements. So way yourself, I like to do it on a Monday morning before breakfast just in my underwear on the same scales. Don't weigh yourself on different scales you will get conflicting measurements. Make sure that you track your training as well. I like to log down my training every single day in my body blog. So I can see from day to day in week to week if I'm progressing with my weights, my reps or my intensity. But just make sure that you write it down because studies do suggest that you're more likely to see through these goals once they're written down. So now I've given you a basic overview of everything that you need to know about nutrition, training and supplementation and the tools to get you through this transformation. To start up a body space now, it's free of charge and join the transformation body group so you can follow along with other people doing this transformation with you. All the info that you need is below on this page as well. So if you need a recap of that supplement stack and also we'll be the workout log on every training day. So you can take that to the gym, print it out and log your workouts as your training. Remember I'm going to be there with you every step of the day in the gym and on the non training days giving you all the info that you need to have a successful transformation and be a winner at the end. To mow is going to be our first day and it's going to be a training day. We're going to start off with a hard one. We'll be training legs. But that's good because everyone else will be doing chest in the gym so you'll have all the leg equipment to yourself.

=== FILE: Program Overview ｜ Cory Gregory's Squat Every Day Training Program [LoxV1FR0IKg].txt ===

We'll need all the talk, many times, about what makes a champion a champion. In a truly its its mindset, but there are certain types of people that would challenge themselves every day in life, and they don't have to be driven. Those are kind of good need to be held back and those are good things with the leaders. And there's kind of people that are just the followers that just go with what people say, just kind of fall along and just to tell them what they're like. You know, this is why we chose way lifting or body building or whatever we choose. When people take the path of least resistance, it doesn't really ever make sense to me. I mean, a whole idea for doing it is to challenge yourself to be better, to be stronger in every way possible. So, swan the every day is just another way to challenge yourself. You know, I literally believe that swan every day is not really going to build character, but it's going to reveal your character. Like you're truly going to find out what you're made of. Can you get up? Can you go to the show? Can you get on to the bar? You'll get tired if it's teeing, then you'll be so hard to work. But guess what? Here's to live. You get up to next day, you do it again. And if you see things in your life from a point of necessity, not a point of desire, you'll be way more successful. The people have become wheelchair-pensive at the mindset. You can't beat those people. I think you've got some something no option for filling. Most people try to squat once a week, with them to try to squat once a week. I see it in the gym, guys going quarter way down, halfway down, skipping sets, talking a lot in between. So I built this squat every day trainer on that every day you've got to challenge yourself like going to squat first. You're going to squat for 20 to 30 minutes, but then fit your normal splits and after that. The key is that you're bringing intensity right out the gate to the squat rack to really freak out your body. Put some real weight on the bar and let's set the tone for the rest of the workout right out the gate. And I want people to walk over you and say, did you squat yesterday? And you say, yeah, I squat every day. Three main goals in this program, one, to get stronger and become freak. Two to add muscle mass with that hormone profile, your raising on a regular basis, and three to really become just more of an expert in the squat in general. If you've ever trained in any hardcore gyms, there's always an old guy that'll say, if you want your bench to go up, make sure your squat goes up. And that's true because what happens is that sets the tone for your hormone profile for your testosterone and your natural GH in the body. So if you're squatting on a daily basis, in theory, you're raising all the other lifts that go up also. So the way this program originated was, in March of this year, I had a powerlifting meat that I bombed out of it. So I decided I needed to do something crazy to increase my squat to another level, so I started reading online. I come across an article by a guy named John Bros. who's an Olympic lifting coach on bass. After reading about John's concept of squatting every day, I kind of mixed and matched a couple different things that I've done in the past two. I took some of the west side, conjugate methods I learned from Coach Louis Simmons, and also took some of John's stuff from the squat every day and kind of mixed them together. So a lot of people are going to look at this to say, man, that's overtraining. They're going to call it, but do you really know what overtraining is? Do you know the definition of overtraining is that your sick, your immune system's hit? Do you even take yourself to that level? Because most people don't even know what that is. The thing is, nobody's built with an orange mat. Like people don't know what to capable of. You why can't you squat every day? Have you tried it? How do you know? To me, that was incentive to want to do it more. It's like seeing that I can't walk to work today because I walked yesterday. So I believe that anybody can adapt to this program and eventually over time he builds intensity and weight and continue to make progress and PRs in all different ways. You know, I had three kids all started this same time. They all had different starting points where they started when they came into the gym. And when you're later ironically they all made identical gains. They all went up almost 200 pounds in their squat in a year, but they all started with the different starting points. So we're girls of where you start or where you are, everybody can make progress. I mean, no one has a monopoly on strength. Anybody can get stronger. Don't you fucking quit! There's always two main goals for people either to drop body fat or to gain muscle or maybe a little bit of both. This plan is set up to where you can really dictate which way you want to go. Because I've built out two specific nutrition plans to pick your goal. On the squat every day trainer, we're giving you a 30 day template for your workouts, nutrition and your supplementation. So this program doesn't discriminate. It's for men, it's for women. It's just for somebody with the hardcore mindset that wants to challenge themselves. So on Mondays, you're going to squat, then hit your chest. On Tuesdays, you're going to squat and then pull and then hit upper back. On Wednesdays, you're going to go ahead and squat, hit your shoulders, Thursdays, obviously you're going to squat, and then hit your arms. Friday, you're going to squat, then touch on chest and back one more time. And then Saturday and Sunday is a little bit less volume. You're just going to squat both days and hit a little bit posterior chain work. So you might be thinking when you're listening to this, that you're going to be in the gym for like three or four hours, but that's not the case. Your squat is to take you around a half hour and the other workout will take you from 30 to 45 minutes. So you're looking at an hour and 15 minutes. So no texting on your phone, no staying at the drinking fountain for 15 minutes and seeing what your boys do when get to work. Don't try to alternate the program with leg press or Smith machine squats. That will not work. I need you to get a real barbell in a squat rack. Take it out and free squatting. That's why this program works so good. It's got to be difficult. Do not use a Smith machine and don't use the leg press or you're defeating the purpose completely. I'm going to teach you 11 different squat variations to test yourself against. So each time you're going to squat, you're going to be doing something different and trying to beat your old record. I'm not going to go in to each variation right now because I've provided for you videos how to perform each one of these squats. What I believe you need to be doing is post the video of that squat variation max rep each day to your body space. So you can stay accountable to everybody on body space and yourself. Squatting every day is uncomfortable. Getting out of bed early is uncomfortable. I believe you should get up out of bed early and go right to the squat rack. Set your day up in an uncomfortable frame of mind. I'm not telling you what the rest of day will be a breeze. You're going to see a lot of results. You know not just physically but mentally. You know I truly believe that squatting every day is not really going to build character. But it's going to reveal your character. Like you're truly going to find out what you're made of. You know it's going to be very difficult and you're going to challenge yourself. And after a while it's not even about a physical challenge anymore. Because your body will adapt to that. It's about mentally. Can you get up? Can you go to the gym? Can you get on to the bar? Even just to get up and go to the gym after time is half the battle. So I think up by squatting every day. Now that you're going to see phenomenal results in your strength. You're overall size, mass, how you feel. Everything but mentally you're going to grow stronger. After that period of time everything else will see easy. It's a mindset. You got to go after it. You want to be a freak in the gym. It'll carry over to every different muscle group. It'll carry over in your deadlift and your clean and your overhead press. You want to be physically stronger than you should tackle in this program. The next video you need to watch right after this is the squat history video. So you can see why squatting so important and where it all got started. It's time to step up your game. Turn into a freak. Upload those videos on your body space. And let's see what you got.

=== FILE: Promo ｜ Kris Gethin's 12-Week Muscle-Building Trainer [vUK1B9wCGko].txt ===

MUSIC Live reporting from Mumbai. We're on the way to the gym right now. Meals already prepared here. If I go to the gym, I'm going to fucking walk. That's enough to talk for now. Let's have some action. For the next three months, we're going to control our environments, hold each other accountable and become training partners. But you have to do exactly what I tell you to do. We'll eat, train, travel and grow together. I'm going to be your personal trainer who will be with you every rep, set and step away across 84 daily videos on bodybuilding.com. All for free, but you need to commit. Other screw around, so don't screw me around. Every meal, every rep can't smell. Fuck it genetics and fuck it busy lifestyle. Kill your excuses. This knee was fucking killing me. I don't cheat. I'll never quit. I'll only roll. I should be doing at least four flights aside there. Grow with me. 92.8. I'm nearly three kilos. And we won. I can definitely feel it this week. That was just a work out of form hell. Really fucked up today. I've done some serious damage. I had an MRI yesterday and whatever the outcome, it does with the matter. I can't stop. I don't have the luxury of stopping. You've got to embrace that pain this pleasure. I said it was going to finish strong, didn't I? Night night.

=== FILE: Pullups -  Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [WXMKjV11lAk].txt ===

Grab the pull-up bar with the palms of your hands facing forward. For a medium grip, your hands should be spaced as shoulder width. Both arms should be extended in front of you while holding the bar at the chosen grip. You'll want to bring your torso back about 30 degrees while creating a curvature in your lower back and sticking your chest out. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and pour your torso up until your head is above your hands. Retreat on squeezing your shoulder blades back and down as you reach the top contracted position. After a brief moment at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower your torso back to the starting position with your arms extended and your lats fully stretched.

=== FILE: Push Press - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [ChTn_TLDA5o].txt ===

Clean the bar to shoulder height. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and lower your legs by bending your knees slightly. Then exhale and push through the heels of your feet to help propel the barbell upward. Simultaneously press up until your arms are fully extended and your legs are also straight. Finally inhale and lower the barbell back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Push Your Strength Chest Workout ｜ Jim Stoppani [-EwCdPfHziw].txt ===

When you span your life bringing the lab to the gym, there's no such thing as bro science. Hundreds of studies conducted thousands of articles written and techniques continuously tested. There are no variables, just results. I'm Dr. Jimst the Pani. Today's test workout is workout one, week one, and phase one of my 532 strength training program. Now this is a super heavy program that's going to take you to 10 weeks of very heavy way on the main exercises and will leave you stronger than you've ever been before. Now I'm about to start the test workout, but I want to remind you that heavy is just a relative term. A lot of people take when they hear heavy, it means they have to be bench pressing 350 and 400 foot up. Heavy is what's heavy to you. And during this workout, I'm not even going to be going that heavy just to show you that it's not about impressing anyone. It's about finding the proper weight that's going to allow you to get 5 reps for 5 sets. The first exercise is going to be the bench press. Here it's absolutely critical that you're hitting all 5 reps for all 5 sets. So that means on the first set, you're not going to go to absolute failure. You want to save something. The rest period is going to be somewhere in the 2 to 3 minute range, but the real heat to doing the bench press properly and safely is your upper arm position. You don't want your arms straight out forming a T. That's going to lead to shoulder problems. One thing that you can kind of visualize to do this is to think about holding grape fruits in your armpits. So you're actually going to be squeezing with your lats as you lower that bar down and keeping your arms in that proper position. Now the second exercise in this chest program is the incline bench press. Here you're going to be doing 3 sets of 6 to 8 reps. You're going to take an overhand grip a bit wider than shoulder width apart. What's different is where you lower the weight. Because the body is on an incline, now you're going to lower the weight more towards the upper or middle chest. You can't really go too low on the chest due to the incline of your upper body. So lower it down nice and slow to the upper chest. And again, you still want to explode the weight up nice and explosively back up over your upper chest. The third exercise in this chest workout is the flat dumbbell bench press. Here you're going to be doing 3 sets against 6 to 8 reps per set. Like with the incline bench press, this is an assistant exercise that is going to help you increase your strength on the barbell bench press. But also help the focus on muscle growth mainly the middle and lower peck area. Now with the dumbbell bench press, obviously you're using dumbbells which means each hand is moving independently of the other one. That's going to help increase the use of stabilizer muscles in the shoulder girdle that help. And that's going to help increase overall muscle strength when you get to that barbell bench press which you're using as your parometer of your upper strength on the chest for this program over the full 10 weeks. Incline dumbbell fly. This is an assistant exercise so you're doing 3 sets of 8 to 10 reps. Unlike the previous 3 exercises which will protect your joint exercises, this is a single joint exercise. Sometimes called an isolation exercise being on an incline helps the focus a bit more on the upper peck. Muscle fibers. Now to do the incline dumbbell fly, you're going to hold the dumbbells over your chest. Close together. You're going to keep a slight bend in the elbows. Bring your arms down as well as possible. Main chain is just that slight bend in the elbows. You're going to focus on using your chest to bring your arms back up and together in the top position. After the incline dumbbell fly, we move into abs. And the first ab exercise is your standard crunch. You're going to be doing 3 sets to muscle failure. One of the things about abs in reps speed is that most people think you need to really focus on slow and controlled reps. But with the crunch, research is shown that the faster and more explosive you do your crunches, the more of not only the abdominal muscles, but also the obliques that are used. You can rest as little as a minute to two minutes at the most for most of these ab exercises. The second ab exercise is the reverse crunch. This helps to focus more on the lower abs. You're going to do 3 sets to failure just like you did with the crunch. You're going to place your hands at your side to support your body or if you're using a bench, you could hold out for the bench. Start with your hips and your knees bent at 90 degrees. Then what you're going to do is use your lower abs to curl your hips up off the floor, bringing your knees toward your head. Then you're going to slowly lower it reverse to motion to lower your hips back to the floor. The third and final ab exercise is the obliques crunch. Here you're going to be doing 3 sets to failure just like with the other ab exercises. Here obviously is the name implies the focus is the obliques muscles. Then once you've done all reps to failure on one side, you're going to swing your knees over to the other side and then complete the reps just in the same manner. But on that side, again till muscle failure. So that's it for this chest workout. Now if you have any other questions on this workout or any of the workouts, you could reach me on my body space, my Twitter or on my Facebook page. And for more programs and tips like this from me, you should have come back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Pushup - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [E4-IJANv_84].txt ===

Lye on the floor face down and place your hands about three feet apart while holding your torso up at arms length. Next, lower yourself downward until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale. Now breathe out on press your upper body back up to the starting position while squeezing your chest. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, you can begin to lower yourself downward again for as many repetitions as needed.

=== FILE: Pushups  - Chest Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [XIHO5t_VBPQ].txt ===

Lye on the floor face down and place your hands about three feet apart while holding your torso up at arms length. Next, lower yourself downward until your chest almost touches the floor as you inhale. Now breathe out on press your upper body back up to the starting position while squeezing your chest. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, you can begin to lower yourself downward again for as many repetitions as needed.

=== FILE: Putting Community First & The Rise of Run Clubs ｜ Ep. 24 ｜ Anthony Crouchelli [o8bj9zPhqrk].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and welcome back to the BB Compaqcast. Today I'm joined by Anthony Krisheli. Anthony is the founder of More Than Miles. He's a VP of talent and content at LightSport, partner of Rebel Union and Alpha Fit Club and a founding trainer at Gritboxing. Soccer player turned top fitness expert Anthony has transformed the traditional workout into a holistic transformation of mental and physical growth, dubbing his motto as one rep at a time, and ultimately creating the one method. Previously working at top fitness studios such as rumble, various boot camp, performance house, and more Anthony is now transforming failing gym franchises into some of the nation's top performance studios with his consulting business gym rescue. He has 10 plus years of boxing experience and has various certifications inside the fitness space including CFSC, USA boxing and NCSF. He's been featured in USA today, the view, GMA, NBC, people magazine, shape magazine, and readers digest. Anthony, welcome to the BB Compaqcast. Thanks for having me, a little five paragraph intro. We love that. We're not, you know, surprisingly it's a brief one, so thanks for keeping it short and sweet on you. Guys, today we're going to jump into no surprise learning a bit about our guests. We were talking about topic one building Anthony. So, start out by telling us how you got here. What's your background and health and fitness tells about the journey that brought you here today professionally, personally, and beyond. Yeah, so the fitness journey started kind of as a kid playing soccer competitively, started in my local hometown, and then moved into club ball, club ball, playing academy ball, and then from academy ball into college. And I think once I kind of saw the cusp of my college career coming to an end, I feel like all the athletes out there, you kind of know when you know. I was like, oh, what do I do post-grad? And that was the biggest thing that I was struggling with because I didn't know what that exit was going to be. And you know how it is if you're an athlete, you exit college and you're like, well, what else do I have to offer? So, move to the city, like every single fitness person I worked at Equinox, which I think everybody normally does way back in the day. And I started my career as a trainer, but then I would sell a class there called Abla. And I think it's now called like best abs ever, whatever it is. But I did that for like three months, and then I had a friend who worked at berries who was like, hey, you should come and work at berries. And I was like, I don't know anything about group fitness, but let me go try this. Fell in love with the culture of berries. I think what I loved about it there was it was super accepting and welcoming, but also right in my energy source of like fun engaging group fitness. So I departed Equinox and took on this challenge of berries, or this next step at berries per se. And then I think it was like four months later, rumble was opening. I met with somebody there and they were like, hey, we're opening this gym. You've got great energy and you boxed. Would you be interested in potentially coming onto the team? We're looking to add like two more trainers to kind of this like founding after the founding five this kind of like next wave of people. And I was like, yeah, sure. So that was madness. If you know the rumble OG days from like 2015, you got like just the Bieber coming in and Jason Derulo and David Beckham and young Anthony, I'm like, I'm from a small town in Jersey, so I'd post in my Facebook and people would lose it. They'd be like, I photo with David Beckham and his kid and people would be like, who are you? What are you doing? And I took a moment for those like, I would say that three-year gap there where I was meeting so many individuals because so many celebrities were coming through that door that I was like, this is craziness. And then I took a moment to reset because I kind of burned out from the group fitness space. I actually worked at WeWork at Brise by WeWork for a little while. I was working on more of their consulting of their group fitness opportunities they had there. So they had a bunch of different studios and I would kind of go in, teach, take and then kind of review and see like how can we build out these class models to be a little stronger so that the people upstairs were going to soul or berries or other studios. They could just kind of stay in the building and use that rise by WeWork space. And then I met a great guy named there, Kurt Ellis, Kurt Ellis shout out, if you guys don't Kurt Ellis, he's a rock star and he was at performance house and he was like, hey man, I think you would do great here, you have a good following, you have a lot of clients, you might want to explore looking to go into that space. So I met with Eric and Matt and Devon back in that day, popped in there and then of course I feel like it just happens in these stages like the next year like, it came around and they were like, hey, you have all this experience we're building a gym and then pandemic hit. I feel like I'm going a little bit of a tangent of a pandemic hit and then from there I kind of built out my connections and that's where I was able to work with other brands like Aqua bag, got him with light sport and then got him with Aqua Fit Club and because I had this background experience that kind of led me to a place where I could consult and then invest and then grow with those brands. I feel like every story starts at Equinox within this city specifically and I've been there, you've been there multiple of our guests have been there, that's that seems like the starting line of the New York City fitness scene and it's cool to see. You've essentially been a part of every major, let's call it boutique, you know, fitness, class, gym, franchise, etc. in New York City. Do you think that there was a synergy between all of them and what kept drawing you from one to the other that you, you know, were really excited about being a part of? Yeah, community. I think I would walk in and take class and see how connected people were from the start and I'm an empath so I was like, oh, I resonate with these people right away. I think what always struck me as a kid, I kind of noticed it's too before the podcast that, you know, I was one of the first people in my family to graduate college. So I come from a very like empath, we're all family, we want to grind, we want to grow but I also come from a place of wanting to learn and I think that's what kind of got me from Studio Studio Studio was like there was a new spark, there was this new kind of creative twist on fitness that I was like, oh, I can learn something new from each of these different studios and that's where I kind of got to where I was exploring these, you know, Studio Studio. Yeah, I mean, you mentioned a blue collar background as well and just kind of being able to get your hands dirty and the want of getting your hands dirty, if it's a founding trainer, that's not, that sounds glamorous but that's typically difficult no matter what brand your founding trainer is nice and theory but usually means you're creating something from the ground up so do you think there's correlation to your personal background and to the willingness to have that in your professional life? Yeah, I think even at light sport, I give them like the biggest credit, I've been with them for about four years and I'm like a cowboy there and that's what I love about being a founding trainer or being a part of those like starting from the ground is that you have this energy to win because you have this underdog mentality the whole time and I think the synergies there because every single time I walked into a space outside of berries, I had that kind of like I got to prove myself, I got to prove myself and that's a little spark that lets that like small impact have intentions behind it. I love that. What's been the why behind movement becoming the epicenter of your life and now career? Well I think I found a lot of clarity through movement, I think like we know it before with soccer and stuff and when that came to a close, I kind of lived in that like I don't know what to do next. I think I come from a home that is a little more, I would say, stoic from time to time with emotions and feelings and so forth so I think movement was that ability to find release so I think that's why I became my why because I'd be able to vocalize about it and then I would see somebody in class do it and I'd be like oh you're putting in the same effort in this class into your relationships and your friendships and your family and I was like this is the science is that like if you put the same effort that you're putting into punching a bag into your relationships you're going to find progress. That's great you know I feel like you've now you've now been the athlete you've helped people become more athletic in multiple modalities across New York City and beyond especially with the digital explosion that occurred during 2020 and beyond you're able to reach so many more people during that time. How did you instill an inject community during that timeframe specifically? I feel like we all and I was in the health and wellness event business during that time as well. It kind of turned us all on our heads a little bit and made us think differently so how did you how did you deem yourself as successful in terms of building community through a screen and through a through a digital platform? I this story is kind of crazy so I will try and keep it as short as I can but it was while the day that the world shut down the next day I went on Instagram live and there was like 10,000 people on an IG live workout and I was like I've never seen numbers like this. Yeah it's usually like 82 on a good day 50 on a good day. This is like pre IG live being anything. So everybody was home and I did this like hour long workout on Instagram and everybody was like oh my god oh my god oh my god oh my god oh my god I do this from all that day I hit up seven people who taught different modalities I was like here is my Instagram login and they taught different classes that were 30 minutes each so there was a dance class a Pilates class a yoga class a strength class a boxing class everything and I ran there for three months and that's what grew my social out was I just gave people options all in one place and then from there we kind of were like do we want to do this on a platform and so forth but then also at that point it was like music copyrighting was like they were getting strict on that things were gently starting to open so you could do distance based workouts with masks on and stuff so I wrote that first wave hard of like the first three months during the lockdown I was running probably eight classes a day on IG live that moved to zoom and then from zoom to in person and then obviously with light box or light sport I started moving into that space where they had hardware and that was where the audience could go to as well but that space was I mean you probably know that she would like go on Instagram there was like 20 people doing an Instagram live it was wild yeah no it was a wild time for sure and I feel like we're now we've talked about this in the podcast before as well with previous guests or now entering this era where it's awesome to see that stone that was flipped over during the time period and help people connect and move their bodies and get healthier through the digital format and that exists today at the same time we're now in this aggressive other side of the spectrum where people want to connect in real life again and this has been a huge part of our dialogue it's part of our strategy going to 2025 as a brand as well getting people together in real life how are you how are you doing that in your career and bringing people together how are you doing in the brands that you work with Tesla a bit about that so more than miles has been the easiest part of it so I started this race collective is what I like to call because we we don't want to be just another track club or another run club we say that we're race collective so what we do is we have these unsingcion races like go on throughout the year and we use the funds that we raise from that to allow people who can't afford the ability to race the ability to race people show up just for that because I just want to support somebody who might need it we have a race tonight funny enough but through these races people have kind of been flooding out because they want to meet people they want to connect with people it's not necessarily like you have the son of for a 5k a 10k or a marathon we have races that are run the hill right so you run directly up a hill and then we grab a beer or not alcohol beer after whatever people prefer and that amount of social link I think is great for people community runs that are not super heavy at a super fast pace we allow walkers and runners who come out and then group fitness classes like I've been back in that space I think what the digital space has done in a great way is provided options right Mike our client at light sport is jack in the back with three kids right works a long day he's about to go out the door to go get his work out in and then he's got a cook dinner or he's got to help his partner out or whatever it might be so can they pick up and do something at home that gives him some kind of accountability data and so forth that they have that option you are now transforming gym franchises into studios I feel like I could be seen as a level up I'm sure it's seen as a level but it's also a whole another layer of work added to the whole different yeah so tell us more about that how it started what feels the success and more about the spatey book spaces that you're building yeah so gym rescue started with my business partner Aaron in Montreal with rebel union Aaron and Lessa they are the absolute best humans I know and I met Aaron through aquabag so when the world kind of shut down aquabag was planning on going into this digital space so what I would do is people be like I want to box at home and I would be like cool I'm going to essentially part of with aquabag you can buy an aquabag with a sensor in it and you can track your punches it was just really cool format that we built with them the technology never kind of took off to the masses but I did meet Aaron through that and what I started doing with Aaron on a small scale was consult he'd be like hey man I have no music I need music to like when he comes to New York he's like this is the greatest fitness experience I get to have and then he goes to Montreal and he's like it's almost there but I need something help wise so I consulted for a while and then I was like why don't why don't we just partner up on this like why don't I come in and start doing fractional work and see if I can use my knowledge of musicality in the room to training trainers but then also like how do we retain members on different membership packages the big thing they were doing in Montreal was they had packs they were selling five packs and ten packs can we bundle a membership that gives people enough that they feel like they're getting a true value so I started with rebel union and we've been now working together for almost two and a half years and that's been great they have been skyrocketing in Montreal they've added a string studio there've been talks about expanding from there into another brick and mortar and then I kind of crossed out of that into consulting for different franchises that were opening up through something like an exponential right so somebody would be like hey you worked at that gym back in the day we have one in the suburbs can you come in and Anthony Phi the trainers or can you come in and just give us perspective on what is a client success journey from the first 30 days to 90 days and how are you tracking their progress how many classes are they taking per week how are you following up how are you hitting their touch points and then with alpha that was me coming in as a franchise owner and that's when I learned build out costs L.O.I.s I learned H.V.X which are a beast inside of itself but I learned all the nitty gritty side that I didn't get from before which is front facing right it's talent it's music it's membership now I'm doing the other side where it's like build out labor costs overhead P&L all that kind of stuff so I'm grateful that I had the opportunity I'll say in the last year to really get a full perspective because next year that's going to be a little more of the pushes really leaning into that space of hey if your gym is going to a tough time let's create a roadmap for it it's not me coming in and like John taffering it it could be but I think more the goal is a lot of people have the dream and the vision they're just too busy and what I can do is kind of offload those hours and concentrate them so you can find success so essentially partnering with the owners the managers the team that exists there not only on customer engagement though it seems like that's our member engagement rather seems like that's the course in which it started to fall on reimagining what the space can look like feel like right because I think we're entering we've already been in this era for the last couple years as people have returned to gyms and whatnot they are looking for a very uniquely different type of experience as of in comparison to what we saw years prior so the classic big box gyms they're dying in a way right and we are seeing the rise of boutique fitness and one off locations that maybe have the potential to franchise but maybe also that's not their goal yes I'll speak to I'll speak I'll give a shout out to a never in Long Island city which is our home home great fantastic there are home gym where we're shooting with our founding trainers right now and it was just there was thought and love put into the build out of that gym and the way they continue to run that is the community first mindset so I think the big players in the games I won't call anybody out on the podcast but the big players are starting to realize you know what they are missing and comparative to some of these one off gyms and you know this too once you sell to the masses right you sell your company then they can franchise it out loses the value right and I mean that respectfully but it loses the value because not saying the name of it but like ten years ago right it was a crime telecrime and then when they sell and then there's hundreds of them they lose that little spark of what they had and then I think what happens more less is you've got these privately own gyms that are franchising out but they're still private so they still hold the core values and they still kind of maintain this brand presence throughout so there's never that like things slip through the cracks I think what they're doing in Long Island city that's really great is that you could tell they put a lot of TLC into it but every single time I go on their page and they're doing events everybody's engaged from the wellness side of it to the strength side of it to the conditioning side of it that gym is packed in a great way yeah I totally agree I hope we continue to see more of it yeah I think that's really where the masses are starting to to flock to yeah let's talk about modality flexibility so you yourself going into topic topic too Anthony you yourself have have explored and continue to explore a variety of modalities so boxing running soccer consistent string training throughout all of those how do you feel you benefit from a classic cross-training regimen and versus going all in on one specific movement well it's a funny question because right now I'm doing it right like I'm in for everybody watching I just ran the Berlin marathon I run New York City in three weeks and then I do hierarchy Kaggle right after that so you think about it though it's like very different it's similar but it's different training I'm struggling right now because I'm running so much that my strength I feel like it's taking a back seat even though I'm prioritizing unilateral work it's still at that point where I'm like oh I don't know if I'm going to be strong enough for this hierarchy competition that's come up I know conditioning wise I'll fly but strength wise you got to push that's let you got to have that posterior chain to pull that weight as well I think cross-training has been super beneficial I came from when I was in that boxing lane that's all I was doing I was boxing four five days a week and I think there's pros and cons of it right when you're in it so dialed in you fall in love with the sport because it's all you know and that's all you're doing but at the same time I go to lift the weight in class and but that doesn't move the same way as it used to I think we talked about marathon training as well right I started my marathon training probably like 15 weeks ago for Berlin is when my first my first wave went out and I've lost 18 pounds in 15 weeks and I'm eating everything in sight so I think cross-training is super beneficial I think where I'm finding the hardship right now is you want to pour everything into this one modality because you want to find success in it and it's really about being smart with how you attack that because if you're not you're going to put so much load on your joints and then in return you're going to do more harm the good yeah and that really is the fast follow question here how can something like a well-rounded routine really lower the risk of injury that we say it's so often here there is no such thing as 100% injury prevention but we can certainly lower the risk of obtaining those injuries so you know how do you say you know when you're training for your marathon you're training for a high-rexor whatever event that you have on the schedule because we we do preach here it's important to have something on that schedule to work towards but how do you work towards that while keeping cross-training in mind and you know keeping your pre-hab routine alive stretch sleep recover I like I use that simple but that's it it isn't it isn't I mean I'm I'm the prime example right I work a nine to five and then I screwed out to all the different gyms that I have to fill in the gaps so I have a nine to five and then a five to nine what I found really successful was I do these 15 minute routines in the morning where it's going on my foam roller just gently get my you know body moving I'll do a little bit of trigger point stuff with a lacrosse ball and then I just actively stretch your out the day until night I will tell you this my body has never felt better since I started stretching and prioritizing stretching so I think leaning into as you're going through these moments of how do you improve your body how do you feel strong how do you continue to grow if you prioritize the recovery side as well that the possibilities are endless because you know this as well I used to be 22 years old Anthony in the city I was trying to be in the thousand pound club I looked like this I looked crazy and I think at 33 years old I am now I feel like I'm the best shape model I agree I'm with you I think there's a maturity that comes into play when it just starts to click mentally and you start to just take a step back to understand what makes you feel your best like right today ups and salt that's a really helpful for me they just draw out toxins they help my muscles feel really good sauna is huge for me and sauna on coal plunge I know it sounds cliche but these small things on a consistent basis add up stretching the same thing like throw tiana night I sent on my floor with my cat and my dog and we're catching up and playing fetch but in the middle I'm doing just like some yin yin yin yin type of flows and just like holding them for two three minutes just stretching out the fascia that really hasn't gotten that love so all these things are just a kind of a culmination of definitely learning lessons let's say over the last 10 or so years you know I've had the the fractures I've had the overuse injuries we all have so I think with with each of those you know hopefully you don't have to go through an injury to learn the lesson and you can kind of just understand that your body needs rest your body needs physical care you know sometimes you need a hands-on body massage just to get into some of those places and then sleep is huge how do you balance sleep with such a crazy schedule and having your hands and so many things you schedule it right like my my whole day is Google meetings like I schedule my lunch breaks everything inside of that so I think I hyper prioritized sleep because if I didn't I wouldn't know what to do my also thing is like you know there's like I work in talent development but I also do a lot of production stuff so sometimes I'm editing late at night and I know that I have to log off at a certain time because if I don't that can go into the wee hours of the night to circle back really quick though with recovery I think one thing to note is the accessibility to recovery that's something that's not talked about a lot I ran with a lot of people in Berlin and a lot I talked about my journey they were like I saw you going to get dry needleing and and massaging and stuff like that like that looks super expensive and I had to take a moment to be like yeah like that is an investment inside of itself so I think what I would love to see more of is either educating people on making recovery accessible or finding alternate options right like if you can't afford a place I'm making this up but like the cold punch lounge or the sauna lounge how do you find that at home you talk about absence of that so right so like giving people alternatives I think is something huge hopefully can happen down the line it's like making recovery accessible for all I totally agree something that we're actually debuting in our new fitness app that's coming out later this year or slash early next year we'll have a whole accessories tab whole accessories library or snacks as we call them and they'll essentially be pre pre or post accessories that you can do just for that purpose I mean some of our coaches are going to be walking you through foam roller just for your thoracic spine or upper body taking you through foam roller lower body sessions taking you through you know a tech neck you know series where if you were on your computer all day what is something that I can do you know to loosen up my cervical spine to get my shoulders out of that rounded position to loosen up those those wrists so that we don't have carpal tunnel at 30 something years old but we we purposely and strategically injected this into the app with a specific emphasis on people just taking the 10 to 15 minutes even if it's not both by the way these don't have to be before or after you work out this could be at two clock in the afternoon when you come an hour in between calls or you're on the go etc you just drove for a while whatever the case may be but just holding people accountable and helping show how truly seamless it can be by just taking 10 minutes I'm giving your body some love yeah I think I it's funny you talked about the word snacks I gotta give him a small shout out if I can I think with Joe Holder did with exercise snacks and what he did just in the community of allowing people to get information at an accessible point or provide assets and these like you know kitchens and stuff that he does and these like shops that he puts up with the I think it's like the vegan kitchen or vegan whatever he does he does this incredible thing where he pops up into different pantries and essentially puts you know fresh food for people who might not be able to afford it and that's what I talk about accessibility in this industry a lot is I think I didn't even realize it until I started running outside of this country of like wow a lot of these things that we are doing are not accessible to a lot of people so I'm excited to hear that you guys are doing that because you're going to provide a lot of information and and give people a lot of accessories that they can use to you know improve their performance yeah absolutely and we're excited to have you involved in the future as well going to the 2025 and I couldn't agree more I'm we're not going to go down the health care conversation here because we only have a limited time this studio here ladies and gentlemen but fitness should be accessible just just plain plain flat fitness should be accessible we're on a mission to do just that you know you you don't need a $300 gym membership every month to just gain the basic necessities of how to take care of your body and how to live a longer and healthier life 100% I want to talk about more than miles this feels I feel like this is your baby right now I feel like so so I it was definitely deemed worthy of having its own topic today so you are the founder of more than miles breakdown how the idea came to fruition what the mission behind it is just give us some context of what this is yeah so my co-founder Alfonso Spoli we met in October of last year he works for on he's an incredible human he was going through a really tough spot in his life I was going through a really tough spot in my life and he funny enough for a while could not run because he was going through a medical condition that was limiting him movement wise of what he could do so he was doing with all this pent up energy through a really rough time I was kind of working in a parallel at the same time of not being able to do something and we when we were able to be cleared to run we went on our first run and we excelled and we said wow that felt good we got everything we need to get off our chest and we did that by just going on a jog and having conversation and kind of like naturally venting and then our other two co-founders Mike Riley and Muhammad Bader came with us on this run and we kind of all started clicking and we all come from different backgrounds right very diverse founding group but I think the conversations that just started happening from it I was like oh there's something here and we started just running and it wasn't for time it was just like hey let's just like run and have a conversation so I would for people then 10 then 15 then 20 and 30 and 40 and now sometimes 50 60 people but what we do is every corner mile on our community runs you switch where you are on the run so you have to meet somebody do and have a conversation with somebody who you might know or not know and it kind of forces you in a great way to being a place where it's not that deep but just be able to find clarity through movement and it's been this really great thing because like we talked about before it's like we are the no time run club or the new time movement collective like we could care less about time we care that people are not sitting at home and they're moving their body like the demographic for anybody out there who might be listening to this is like if you're a couch to 5k person or you've run 10 marathons it doesn't matter there's a place for you at more than miles because we just want people to be people through movement I feel like we need t-shirts that say no time run club no time run club I want to be the first one I get satisher that's good so you now hold the vents regular events for this where you hold in them how many people are coming to them how did this grow over time on a run we like I blocked out I literally was like I had no idea how to happen we in Hoboken we ran on one of our community runs we passed the hill at Stevens College and I was like huh imagine we sprinted up this hill today so we did got to the top and I was like hoof I'm exhausted and I'll fawns is like okay do it again and I was like all right so we started doing it we're like there's something here and then our friend Mike if you ever see Mike right like he's like this tall very buff man who's like Nick bear 2.0 shout out Mike he ran it and he was like oh I got to get somebody we got to compete and I was like okay so we started doing this with our internal group which was just more of our community and then kids from Stevens College would like hop the fence and be like hey man can I run and we're like yeah sure and then it's sort of becoming this thing where people would show up and then from there brands wanted to get involved and we really I say this all the time more than the miles we are not like a brand focused run club we do these events and like if you want to pop up and have some cool stuff they're great like at the end of the day the whole mission is always anything that comes in we kind of put into the small fun to be able to allow people who can't afford to run the ability to run so the race is kind of took off this year because run the hill did well and then me as a creative I was like great I want to do this mid-day mile where it's like your fastest mile in Hoboken this will come out on October 27th but we're doing a race called Pintapin which I think will be the most unique race we do it's 20 people five teams of four each person is driven to an undisclosed location they're given an envelope that has a pin and they have to run two miles so their teammate everybody is running to different pins and they all finish at the same pin so it's just really cool kind of like capture the flag obstacle course kind of set up but that's where we started thinking differently outside the box of like we are this like unsanctioned movement collective and that's where the race came from yeah gave me a fun game of finding I mean it's like school yard recess again right exact that I'm I'm having the time my life seen some of these newer run clubs pop up but you know you guys and many others bendest run club comes to mind they're doing gosh I don't even know how many they I think they had four clubs to like 400 500 people should open and given nine the need of police escort the the important thing here this is not just runners these are people who have never run a mile in their life this is bodybuilders you know quote unquote bodybuilders are people maybe who just spend most their time on hypertrophy lifts these are people from all different walks of fitness in life who are just so desperately seeking the connection in the community and these run clubs are making it one accessible to your point but two fun yeah like you game though you just give the perfect example of how you're game of finding making this something enjoyable versus just okay we're gonna go out every Tuesday night and run the west side highway and do the same out and back every single time whereas I feel like our on clubs are evolving so quickly at that point where even that type of style is already it's in the past it's not yet well I think you got three sectors in it right you got your track clubs which are really dialed in runners like I first seen comes a mind is like Manhattan track club Brooklyn track club whip it's all those like premier run clubs I would say track clubs and you got run clubs who are more of kind of like the social hey we got a couple friends together and we're gonna build this out and it's gonna kind of just be like out and back and we run marathons but it's kind of like whenever we feel like it varied that middle ground and they have training cycles we're okay this New York City marathon crew we're gonna meet et cetera so they're kind of working towards these goals but a little less serious than the first group and then I would say you have this kind of separate sector that we're nowhere near OSR but I always shot them out I think OSR 100% and Darcy from take the bridge like those people paved the way for what we do I think there's this other sector though of people who are community for us I'm gonna give a quick guy shout out named Dar Sean from Chill Town in Jersey City I think what he's done so well over the last five years is his motto is why can't we all get along I know it sounds so cliche but in this running community it can sometimes get really either time heavy or like you ran here last week and now you're running there like that's the last thing we want but that's why I think our demographic is different our demographic is could be the bodybuilder could be the first that first time ever running our mile midnight mile quick little example fastest time was at 4449 and then we had people who were running over a time in a mile and everyone stayed to support and that person around the 4449 runs in a track club in the city he could have left but he stayed and supported and sheared people on and I think that was the moment where I was like oh this is something different this isn't just like when your money and get out it's people are coming together yeah it's non-alietice and I think there's a time in a place for the elitist that's fine because there is a demographic for that and it's the no BS people who just want to get in crush miles get out right there's this there's one particular that comes into mind I see them out where I run almost every weekend and they are just they got the sunglasses on the hats are real low and they are charging forward and they don't care if there's a stroller in their way that's it right and then there's you know the ones out there similar to what you guys are doing more than miles and like the pace is easy the conversation is light they're laughing they're dealing they're having fun so I think it's a really cool time for running I think it's exploding I don't think running is as exclusive as it used to be I think it's much more accessible and I think you're seeing a very diverse group of people participating and run clubs across the country yeah I think you can note this too I think the creative space in running is also exploded where stories are getting told that weren't and I think now you're finding another shout out we run up town like Hector you're watching this massive shout out he's built community over like 10 years in the heights and like those stories are getting told and those people are getting their flowers with which they very well deserve circa 92 those guys over there like miles miles miles miles in the Bronx boogie down Bronx like those run authentic run communities that weren't highlighted because they didn't have X accessibility are now getting highlighted by these major brands and it's refreshing because now you're seeing all different types of people at the forefront of these campaigns you know I agree and you know obviously Nike has been doing this since the 80s and 90s probably earlier but I'm gonna recount what I remember as a kid too I mean sitting there watching YouTube video it's just getting goosebumps and chills because of how compelling their copyrighting was on the commercials that they made but now they're along with many others both being in small the brands are putting story telling at the front of their strategy I think tracks met those are really great job not only gorgeous imagery and photography and content altogether but injecting those stories if I think more locally I think band it does a really great job right like so all of this to say we're gonna stop geeking out for a second on run clubs to say running's having a moment it's not just for quote unquote runners and I think it's here to stay I think it's good to continue growing yeah who is your dream guest for more than miles this is this is like the question if you could choose a dinner party dead or live who do you have this is your version personalized for you yeah I got to go with Ned Brockman we talked about him before the pod I recently stumbled across him and I'm shining him out because Renethous Miles ran raise 2.6 million dollars for charity I think what I fall in love with more than anything with people through these more than Miles docs that we do is their why like why do you do this why do you take these feats of strength per se to do it and there's nothing for them in the reward it's not like they're winning first place they're doing it at the kindness of their heart so Ned sticks out I think I'll go back like I think Hector from we run uptown is another person I'll give to really quick but I think Hector does something with community that is undescribable and I think what he's done for so long is he's just been a great listener for people and from that he's built so much trust and I think those stories and somebody like Hector I would love to run with Hector if you're watching this I'd love to run with you and be able to share his story a little more awesome stay tuned in the coming weeks after this comes out we will be releasing some more than miles episodes with our own BB com coaches Anthony will take them out and various places throughout New York City and help you all get to know them a little bit better so stay tuned for more on that last question Anthony favor place to run it's two-part or fair place to one location wise and then also favor interview so far I would say my favorite place to run is the palisades in New Jersey underneath the GWB because it's a lot of rolling hills favor person I've interviewed David Kilbur he's the coolest guy in the world and I would have had him as my dream guest but I was lucky enough to have him already as a dream guest seven marathon seven continents seven days all sub three and I truly mean this he is one of the kindest individuals you ever meet in your life awesome well Anthony thanks so much for stopping by today tell the audience how they can fall along in the rest of your journey yeah you can just follow along at more than miles TC on Instagram or Anthony Grishelli on Instagram great thanks for stopping by today thanks for having me thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: RSP Chiseled Trainer： Promo - Bodybuilding.com [P2RnxsT6j-E].txt ===

I'm Fisito EGEM, finish model and bodybuilding.com athlete. But what I'm most known for is being shredded 365 days a year. I designed this program to keep my body in shape all year round. And I've put it all together in this 8-week program, absolutely free for you here on Bodybuilding.

=== FILE: Race for the Cure 2011 News Clip - Bodybuilding.com [vLxXsGs08hk].txt ===

We say less than five testic right now because we've got the answer from bodybuilding.com. This is the number one fundraising group and alongside this Jamie, how much money did you get for a kid? We raised over eight thousand dollars. That's his awesome and how many people are on your team. We have over 60 people on our team and we just claim that it's hopefully the 5000 bucks. So we have a couple of guys like Son O'Neigh that agreed to go and the two team care. We're not a fish dog. We're not a fish dog. Come over here in the middle of here. Son, how much money did you bring by saying you were at the team? I like to know the same thing. Do you know? I think I'm doing this for three. But it's for a cause and obviously you wouldn't do this being a bodybuilding.com guy. You wouldn't do this for anything. Would you? I do it for friends and a good cause. All right. There you go. You know. We're going to congratulate your responsibility for the $5 billion. The number one fundraising group here and you guys, what's the use for a proposed? I need everybody to strike a proposed. Come on. There you go. That's what we were looking for. You know, we're going to be back here. You're just joining us. If you want to make sure that I'm trying to try to blend in with these guys. But you don't have to keep doing this. No, I don't. That's the reason. I'm going to take another break. But we're going to be back here. If you're just joining us, if you want to contribute to the race for the viewers, you can do that. Look at the bottom of this screen. Seven here. Five here. Six here.

=== FILE: Rachel Flint's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [j31E3DlbdIA].txt ===

My name is Rachel Flint. I am a captain in the International Guard and winner of 2012 Military Transformation Challenge for bodybuilding.com. I was never athletic in high school, middle school. I just went to class and hung out with my friends and really had no desire to be athletic because I thought it was beyond the realm of possibility for me. It didn't even occur to me that I could be athletic. When I decided to join the military is when I knew that if I was going to survive, they were training. I was going to have to get fit. At that point I was a smoker and so I gave that up and started running. When I was about 23, I went on deployment to Saudi Arabia and was there for about four months. There was somebody over there that showed me the basics of weight training. It was very beginner level stuff. I just built on that and at that point I didn't really do much with it. My natural shape is a pair. I was always very small, had very narrow shoulders and bigger hips. I thought, okay, well if I get fit then I'll probably just be a smaller version of that. I was probably about 140 pounds and I'm 5.7. I'm some of my body fat was in the low 20s which is still healthy but it wasn't something I was comfortable with and so I decided to try to build some muscle and reduce my body fat and see what was underneath. As I started lifting weights and really challenging myself from the gym I started to see that shape change. I was astonished at what I looked like. It's been incredible to see I'm not genetically determined to always have the same body shape. It's incredible. It really can change your whole body. I'm now staying at home, other than my one week in the month in the International Guard. I'm busy with two little girls, I just four and one and a half. I want to set a good example for them and healthy eating is really part of our everyday lifestyle. I got to a point where I knew I just had gotten kind of complacent with my workouts and was ready to kick it up a notch. I've always worked really well with deadlines, this challenge gave me an excellent opportunity to have a 12 week goal and just really hit it hard for those 12 weeks to make the most of it that I could. I used the machines when I very first started because I wasn't real sure about my form and I made the machines took away that guess for me. I think at this point I've gotten through a lot of the trial and error and I know what works well for my body. I'll lift heavy for a while to see how far I could get with that and then I'll switch over to lighter weights with more reps for a while and do that to see what my results are with that. So I tried to always change things that keep an interesting. I do prefer the traditional body building movements. I work out at the same gym every day and the same equipment is there every day so there's now to be some repetition there but whenever I'm working in particular body part I'll change up the exercise to target that particular body part after a while. I work out six days and so I lift weights on all six of those days that I do a five day split and then usually hit my twice in one week usually on on two days or and Thursdays or two days in Fridays. I make sure to give myself a couple days of break between when I hit legs again. I like to do back and my steps together and chest and tie steps together and then shoulders and abs on their own. I tied two cardio two or three times a week. If I have time, if I finish it work out early I'll use the rest of that time to do some cardio. The rest day for me is starts off with church because it's on Sunday so I've got church with my family and we go out to eat and it's a nice day. We'll go to the park and still try to do something slightly active but I really try to just do as little as possible on that day to get me ready for the coming. I take progress pictures every two to three weeks and compare them side by side with previous weeks and not really helps. Helps me know if I am making progress and it works either way if I'm not seeing the progress that I want to see then I push harder at the gym and if my am seeing progress, it could take side it and I still push harder at the gym. The most important thing I could tell people who are a little intimidated and not sure if they can do this would be to just start gathering information, start reading. I think that's the most important thing to get all the information that you plan before you even step foot in the gym. There are so many free programs available on bodybuilding.com. Pick one of those and get going. I think that I was really happy to learn is that you don't have to start yourself to get fit. There's a lot of bad information out there about calorie restriction. Not that you can eat everything that you want to. You can eat and be full and you have a lot of healthy foods and you don't have to always be hungry. When my husband and I first got married we would buy cheap pizza and hamburger helper and a lot of the quick and easy stuff. Over the years we got away from that but we still weren't even quite as well as as we should. There are a lot of clean foods that I eat that I never even tried growing up. I didn't know the benefits of eating them. Things like avocado, some spare, I guess, sweet potatoes. Those are some of my favorite foods now. I eat six or seven meals a day. Usually every two to two and a half hours. For my sources of protein I really like chicken and lots of carbohydrates. I really like sweet potatoes, brown rice and I like getting a lot of my carbs from vegetables. As far as for my healthy fat I did just recently discover home and butter and it's amazing so I don't buy it very often because I have issues with portion control on that. But I love peanut butter and so peanuts, almonds, avocados, a lot of those that this is the source of my feedback. I have a sweet tooth and I've discovered that sugar can really derail me for quite a while. So I've tried to go more towards savory teeth like pizza or beans. For me I tried to just have one cheap meal a month. I tried to do a cheap meal once a week and for me it didn't work because I wouldn't do a lot of the progress that I had made earlier in that week. On the claims we prepare the same way most of the time because it makes it easier for our daughters to see familiar things. Since they're used to eating those same foods over and over every once in a while I'll change that but for the most part we just need to keep it the same for them. I really think that when you start when they're little they learn what you need to introduce to them. So they do love broccoli. They love sweet potatoes. They love chicken. All the foods that we eat, they eat. When we go to a restaurant I usually pull up the menu before we go and take a look at what they have and make sure that there's a healthy option. Once I get to the restaurant I can make it in forms, decision on what I'm ordering and asking until we go. The butter and oils that there may be on common food. My definitely think that supplements are a vital part of my overall success in fitness. I don't think you have to have them to get in shape that I think they are so helpful. I really like to keep it simple with supplementation. I don't think it's necessary to go overboard in everything that's out there. So I just think the things that I know are going to help me meet my goals and leave it at that. I like to use a pre-workout and BCAA, CLA, EFA and a protein-counter. As far as pre-workout I get a bit of a forecloth in the morning and so the caffeine in a pre-workout really helps me wake up and get going. I've just, I've had a lot of success with those. They help me feel strong. I get the most out of my workouts when I take them and I know some of these different when I go out. CLA is one that I first started out a few years ago. I read that it's something that occurs naturally in foods and helps you break down fat in your body. Just like that, the idea is nice, easy thing to add just to give me a little bit of the mixture edge and that loss. Our family is not consumed a lot of dairy and so I prefer ed protein but when I'm out, I need a quick meal replacement. I keep packets of way protein handy and those are great to help me feel full and go on with my errands and do the right thing to do. I think the best thing for people to do is to start off simple and maybe a pre-workout supplement and a protein counter and maybe a multi-biagment. To start reading up on the other ones and see what they do, what they're intended for for this is. And match that up with what their personal goals are and see if that's something that they might need. I've had a lot of people whether it be an military member, family member, some friends, all tell me that they're willing to give it a shot because I did and they've seen that you don't have to have a personal trainer. It doesn't have to be expensive, you just have to have the discipline to do it. My mom is the most recent example. She's signed up for a transformation challenge on how to go to the Win.com and is going to hit R for 12 weeks so I can't wait to see if it happens. So if anyone has any questions for me and you need words of encouragement or with likes and more details, then they can look for me on my body space which is RDF in zero three. So for more content and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: Rack Pulls - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [u7NE34Vw81w].txt ===

Set up in a power rack with a bar on the pins. The pin should be set to the desired point, just below the knees, just above or in mid-thigh position. Position yourself against the bar in proper deadlifting position. Your feet should be under your hips, your grip shoulder width, back arched, and hips back to engage the hamstrings. Since the weight is typically heavy, you may use a mixed grip or a hook grip or use straps to aid holding the weight. With your head looking forward, extend through the hips and knees, pulling the weight up and back until lock out. Be sure to pull your shoulders back as you complete the movement. Return the weight to the pins and repeat.

=== FILE: Randy Couture Expendables Training [RZUGu47m1E4].txt ===

Our manager could tour and head with bodybuilding.com. This is the action movie of all action movies. If you're into that genre of film, you're going to love this. I really really anticipate this movie coming out. I just saw it for the first time in a screening and was very pleased. It lives up to its billing and there's a remarkable group of guys that came together to make this movie. I was excited about the opportunity and I like the character I read the script and like the tone-roader. I thought he was interesting and in some ways he captured some of who I am or a combatant. It was a little bit different since it worked but it caused the educated guy to fight for it. It would be working with guys like Jason Stiff and he was at Leigh and Nicky or if you tear you cruise and golf on there. It was ridiculous to guys. All the guys got along well with this kind of a particular electricity when all the expendables came together on a set for scenes and stuff, especially the first couple times. We had fun telling jokes and being silly on set to a background still on to be very very intense. I mean he's wearing a lot of hats, he's really directing it plus he was in front of the camera for it. I don't know how he was still standing. It's a lot of fun. I'm going to enjoy it. I'm going to go through one of the expendable workouts and he's one of the workouts that helps me peak for fights and puts me in the kind of shape that you'll see him in the movie. This is all more straightforward and because we're still 10-11 weeks away. As we get closer, we'll start adding more cardio stuff. I think the biggest thing that I learned is especially as I transitioned from wrestling and I started out with a national team to fighting is that I was continually overtrained. It wasn't me lying my body, trying to take my lying my body, trying to recover, I eat my hungry and I tried to eat a lot, tried to eat greens a lot because they're very out flying. They counted the rest of the media that we build up between him and stressing everything else in our bodies. The carbs, earlier in the day to go meals and the past is in the rice. It didn't think they'd get earlier in the day and later in the day it brought teams to help recover after you look at it. It's fine in those partners that share those goals. It's easy when you're just to you to just get an entire day going this morning. But when I know that other guy's going to show up, maybe he isn't going to show up, but you think he's going to show up. Then a lot less likely to let him down. You'll come up with a reason to lay yourself down and talk yourself out. It's fine in those partners that you don't want to let down. You're going to show up for this before. And then again, keeping it simple, more complicated and cumbersome it is. The harder it's going to be to sting. It has to be alive stuff. It's fine. The diets are dirty with you. Those are all temporary minds that can incorporate things. Change your eating habits. Forget the diet. Change your eating habits. It first gets hard, but after a couple of weeks, you've been pretty soon for them to eat greens, try to get the bag and to be growing them down. The plate and the dressing and all that stuff. Occasionally, you'll fall off the wagon. It's okay. You'll have the ice cream, and you'll have the cookies and you'll probably feel hung over the next day. I'm going to put you get right back up and keep going and it's okay. You don't get away with it because you're doing it. Let's see what it does. Experience is where you just keep pitching yourself. I grew up on Rock and Ram Bowen and then to now be working with the guy. I am the rest of that cast for that matter. It was pretty remarkable. It was a great experience. So, the movie comes up 13th of August. I've got to fight on the 28th of August. So I'm just now ramping up, peaking phase, you're the ripping of the jade and great shape for that fight. At first, you have seen Boston, you have seen one 18 and the welcoming Mr. James Tony, the former old champion in boxing to the mixed martial arts, so it should be a lot of fun as well. Thanks for taking the time with me today. For more content like this, check out Bodybuilding.com. I'll see you soon.

=== FILE: Remix Nutrition, by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Gaming Supplement Line for Focus, Energy and Sleep [S01AmL7CZAs].txt ===

— Here is.

=== FILE: Revel by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Weight Loss and Wellness Supplement Line [p1VhzExKp3I].txt ===



=== FILE: Reverse Crunch - Abs ⧸ Core Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [lmSP-c1X_iY].txt ===

Line your back on a mat with your knees bent and your hands to your side. Lift your legs and bend your knees to 90 degrees. This will be your starting position. Now pull your knees in toward your chest and hold as you exhale. Slowly lower your legs back to the starting position as you inhale. Remember, don't use momentum to swing your legs up. And it keep the motion controlled by your abdominals.

=== FILE: Reverse Flyes - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [WCvRMULhUVU].txt ===

Lion and incline bench with your chest and stomach pressed against the incline. Have dumbbells in each hand with the palms of your hands facing each other. Extend your arms in front of you so they are perpendicular to the angle of the bench. Your legs should be stationary while applying pressure with the balls of your feet. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise the weights away from each other and to the sides while keeping a slight bend in your elbow. Try to squeeze your shoulder blades together to get the most effect from the sexier size. Your arms should raise until they are parallel to the floor. Once you've reached the top contracted position hold for a brief moment, then exhale and slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: Rich Froning CrossFit Workout ｜ WOD [UTNh6jU1lE0].txt ===

Hey, buddybuilding.com. This is Rich Frowning, two-time CrossFit Games Champion, BSN Athlete, Rogue Fitness Athlete, and we're here at Rogue Fitness Headquarters, about show you guys a workout. Alright guys, the workout today we're going to do is 15-12-9-6-3 of shoulder to overhead pull-ups and 30 double-unders in between each set. So the 15-12-9-6-3 you're actually going to do 15 shoulder to overhead and 15 pull-ups. Then you're going to do your double-unders and 12-12-12-12-9-9 all the way down to the free. Now before we do the workout I'm going to bring Ben in and we're going to show you actually how to do the movements and then also how to scale the movements. If you're not, you can't do the exact weight we've described or the exact movement, we'll show you a few different options to do this workout. Alright, so the first movement we're going to show you is the shoulder to overhead. There's a few different variations you can actually do with this. You can just shoulder press, push press or push jerk. So I'm going to show you all three options. Push jerk, you're going to use, it's probably going to be the most efficient, especially when it gets heavier. You're going to use the most muscular jerk. You can start with the bar on the ground or you can start with it in the rack. You kind of up to you. What Ben's going to do is his feet are going to be right underneath his hips. Hands just outside the shoulders. So he's going to, for this, he's going to act like he's taking it from the ground. He's actually going to clean it up, making sure he's got a good flat back. The bar is actually going to rest here on his shoulders. His elbows are going to be up slightly, but not too far up, not like he's in a front squat down just a little bit, but they're not going to be behind the bar because what happens with behind the bar, then you're pushing the bar out. We want this bar to go straight up and down as possible. The whole time Ben is doing this movement. We're going to start with the shoulder press with the shoulder press. He's just going to press it up. He's going to tuck his chin, shave his face. He's got good active shoulders at the top. He's going to pull his ribcage down, good tight core. Protect that spine. We got good support all the way through the movement. Coming back down to the same exact bar path. The more straight up and down we can go, the more efficient it is, the better it is, the safer it is. So from the shoulder press, we'll move to the push press. So now we're going to add just a little bit of velocity. You start getting tired out. You want to save your shoulders a little bit, use the legs. He's going to just quick little dip of his knees. He's going to drive it up. Using the momentum, he gets from that dip from his hip. He's not actually, so bring it back down. He's actually going to use that little drive. He gets little momentum on the bar and then just continue the press. Just like the shoulder press. But he's just going to add a little bit of dip with his knee, keeping his chest good enough right. One thing he's not going to do is dip his chest forward because then the bar is going to go out once again. We want to keep this bar over his center of mass the whole time. If we can, safer, more efficient, easier. The final movement will be the push jerk. Basically the same exact dip is the push press. This is the same press as the shoulder press. All he's going to do is retreat just slightly under the bar and receive it when he goes to catch it. So go ahead and drive it up. He's caught it here. What he's going to do to finish the movement though, he's going to go ahead and stand all the way up. Every time we do the movement, we want lock knees, shoulders all the way up, torso, good and tight. Bar all the way overhead. We don't want that bar too far back when we're over extending the shoulders. We don't want that bar out in front of us because that's not a full rep. We want to make sure it's a full rep every time. You can bring back down to his shoulders. He's going to do a few, four-year cycle. If he does widen his feet out, he's going to bring his feet in. He's going to bring his feet in. There you go. In between reps. All right, so the next movement we're going to show you is the pull-up. Everybody knows how to do a pull-up. The first variation will be a strict pull-up. Just like the shoulder presses, the, I guess, the dumbed down version. You just pull up chin all the way over the bar. Fully locked out at the bottom. Still has active shoulders at the bottom. He's not just letting himself fall down and letting those shoulders fall out of joint there. So he's still active here, but he's fully locked out at the bottom. Next what we'll do is we will add a little bit of velocity to it. Just a kipping pull-up. So he's actually a lot of people get the negative, oh, they're just flailing around on the pull-up bar, but we're the whole point of the kipping pull-up is to increase the work done in short and amount of the shorter amount of time. What he's actually going to do is it's not really a foot-driven movement or a leg-driven movement. It's more right here in the core. He's actually going to go ahead and get a little swing and he's going to kip himself up there. chin still over the bar. Shoulder still locked out. Still active shoulder. That's a regular kipping pull-up right there. So we'll move kind of like we did. The shoulder press to the push press to the push shirt. He did a regular kip right there. The next is what they call the butterfly kip. It's a little bit different of a kip and it's a little faster so you can get a little bit more work done even faster. So here's a jim or butterfly kip. chin still over the bar. Still active shoulders. Safe movement. Now if you have to just like the shoulder press where you can take weight off, what you can do with the pull-up is you can either do it on a pull-up assisted pull-up machine. You can use a band, hook your foot in the band to assist you. You can do jumping pull-ups from the box. You can do inverted rows if you need to. For however challenging you want to make it. All right the final move into the workout double-unders. A lot of people hate these. So there's a couple of things. The rope's going to go around twice for every jump. One of the common faults that we see is a lot of people when their hands are out. We can bring your hands out. What they'll do is they start bringing their hands out with shortens the rope so then you start bustling yourself in the shins. We want to keep those hands pretty close to you. Slightly in front of you. Try not to go too far behind. Don't let them come up. You want to try to keep them just. Arms bent, relaxed. A lot of people get frustrated. They try to it turns into more of a painful experience than a positive experience. So when we have been to a double-unders for you, it's more of a timing issue than anything. All right so the way we can scale that movement is single-unders. A regular single-jumpel seat bend can do that. We don't do many singles often. For this particular workout what we'll have you do is if you're going to scale it to single-unders just double the single-unders. So instead of doing 30 you're doing 60 singles. So bend's going to do try to do a few single-unders as he looks like a little schoolgirl. So he's good. Another way you can scale this is you can also do plate jumps. You can get a little plate. Just have the person jump up to the plate. Or you can actually take the barbell have somebody do a lateral hop over the barbell. A few different options. If you can't do more than five or ten double-unders without whipping yourself or kicking the double-unders, don't do double-unders because you're kind of missing the point of the workout. It's wanted to be hard going to be fast. All right so now I'm going to show you what this workout actually looks like. This workout really for anybody. It's a more of a pure crossfit workout you know it's a metabolic conditioning circuit so there's no special group. It was targeted towards this just a null around just a good little workout. There's a push-up hole. As soon as the press starts to become an issue you switch to a pulling movement. So then when the pulling movement becomes an issue then this is the double-unders and then you know so it's just a good keep you moving. Good fast quick little burner. Nothing fancy just just get some work out. I was never a show body builder but I mean I did the body building type the chest and back by try legs. It started doing crossfit and then just kind of as a supplement type thing then just fell in love with it and haven't looked back sense. I want 35 for 45 reps. It's a little heavy you know it's not a strength. What it's say it's going to help you with your strength. It'll help you a little bit muscular endurance. It's going to help you cardiovascular endurance wise. Help you with grip. It's going to help you with coordination. I mean it's a lot of reps to get some practice on the movements. You know like I said once you start getting fatigued with the press switched to a pull after the pull the double-unders just just get you out of breath. You know tax of form just a little bit enough to make the pull-ups not as easy. So it's pretty good little you know like I said just keep you moving. No real breaks in there. The only break is the transition time so. You know we say it's infinitely scalable and it really is. We talked about how you could take each of the movements the press and you could back it down to however your your skill level. You know if you don't have the coordination to push jerk just shoulder press you know you don't you don't need that velocity on there you're still getting the work done you're still doing the movement. We're not really changing the movement. We're just you know adding a little bit of speed to it you know, recruiting a little bit one last year. Let's do that type of thing. Same thing with the pull-up and the double-unders. I mean you could really take this down to the to a basic level to where anybody could literally do it. Even if they have a shoulder issue they could do it with a PVC pipe they could do it with five pound dumbbells. Something like that and that's what's great about CrossFit is anybody can do it. Yeah so into this workout probably five minutes under is probably your elite or you know those movements are good for you. It's a fast time. Five to seven minutes maybe a little over seven minutes is is real good and then you know just kind of maybe two or three minute increments from there take it up. It kind of really depends too as how you're scaling it. You know the target is to be within that five to seven minute range of scale appropriately you know scale to where you can get it in that five to seven minute range once you get over that seven minute range you kind of miss the purpose of why we did the workout you know if it's over seven minutes not hard and fast that's long and not slow but you're you're kind of losing the the whole point of why we're doing it. So the CrossFit workouts you could add you know would it's could be your cardio day or you know whatever you you feel like you need to work on or incorporate them into the different lifts into to your body building routine but I honestly think that anybody can benefit from doing CrossFit and I think once you start doing it it's a lot more fun it's a lot less meninas it's it's interesting there's you know so many different things to do. For more information more work out similar to this for bodybuilding.com you

=== FILE: Rodney Razor's Training, Diet, and Nutrition Program - Bodybuilding.com [xCcPV5As6cE].txt ===

I'm Ronny Razor, 2014 Body Space Sports Fin winner. I am a IRDB Pro Mancer Z competitor, GM Manager and my personal friends. This play sports growing up, I grew up running racing no shoes on them streets with friends and playing basketball, football and all through high school, playing basketball football and ranch racquet. So I got a really athletic background. When I was younger, I was just slim and skinny. Light way, blowing the wind, tie a guy. And the wild thought I could never put on pounds. I was also thinking that working out, eating and I wasn't gaining anything. I was at one, I was complaining to a GM, like, man, I can't put on those pounds. I wasn't consistent working out, I'm at that. I was consistent, I'm workout, not start. But what was consistent as I ate a lot of food all the time? That just went back and forth and eventually I went from filing breaking 200 to stop getting weight. Working out in local gyms where I live and a buddy of mine is a trainer. Tell me how should look at him in a trainer. I don't know, I enjoy working out sometimes, but I don't know if we have the lifestyle or leave your knee burgers, man. I'd come on to be out there and be a trainer. He'd do just get certified for a trainer to try it. So I took his word on it and looked at some sort of occasions. He came a trainer. And even in the first couple years of your trainer, I wasn't still dead the same stuff. I trained at clients, things like that. And kind of do as I say. And how does that do? At this point where I woke up and realized that I wanted to change my life. And it was because I had ran across Mississippi, which is a IVBNPC category. So I feel so much better. Obviously, I look great. When you look great and feel great, it shines. People see that. It's contagious. It's a difference between cockiness and being confident. And I feel like you naturally show confidence and positivity when you're in me. When you feel good about yourself. I'm a slow rep, lightweight kind of trainer. I use this lip heavy and it's trying to so much joints. And I appreciate that concept. Go heavy, that's fine. But new clients come in into the gym and don't know a lot about weight training. And things like that were wearing two forecount downs, floating up, control movements. 30 seconds breaks in between. I believe in their cardio and disguise type theory. That's what I call it. It's that if you work out a high intensity, you're getting a cardio in. cardio is getting your heart rate up, whether it's you running, or whether you're weight training, your heart rate still up. That's still a cardio. Monday, I just started a new program. So I'm on reflect of now. So I do chest and back. I'm a Tuesday, it's legs and shoulders. Wednesday, our arms. And in Thursday, I'll go back into my chest and back again. And then I always don't even calves, traps, abs, kind of just whenever, always mix and hit. So that's kind of just all the time, after a workout. So I do cardio every day pretty much. And I play basketball three, four times a week. So, you know, I am not your distance runner. I'm not your 12 mile guide. I'm a sprinter and basketball player and then I'm a football player. Those are a spurred exercises where you're boom and then you're stopped. So you boom, so that's how I tailor my training. I'll get done with a head with a nice workout. I finish it off with 25 burpees, 30 second break. One minute jump and jacks, 30 seconds break. And then I'm intense. If you see me in a trail meal, I'm doing sprint drills. So in a short amount of time, I feel like I get the same workout. If not, to me, more intense than you would just run into 12 miles in a trip. You know, I switch it up. I always keep in a fresh, you're all resource. I'm a farm believer, it doesn't matter what you choose to do in the gym. People come with me all the time. Do you believe only in free weights or do you only believe in? Okay, well, I'm like, hey man, believe it. Where do you believe? Do everything. And even if I did, I ate the 12 reps. Next time I might do a 15 to 20. Or if I do incline dumbbell first, I'll, that might be third next time. You keep that theory always fresh, which in the order, switching the rep count, things like that, that's how you get results. People think I do abs all the time. I don't. I probably do abs a couple times a week. But it's proof and it's, I love it because when people talk me about that, that's a great transition that talk about nutrition. Because abs don't come from the gym. They don't. They come from what you be. They don't look great and look good and get results in the gym. And you want those to shine and reflect on your body. Starts nutrition. Are you small, man? So I actually post that on my gym. That's my never more in-class than spreading them out. And we're from two to four hours. You should never be eating to a point where you're stuffed a car cycle. So I do like a 3-1 theory. I do a 3-Low Carb Days, which is, I've usually under 50s range in carbs. But I'm getting more broccoli, as a spirit, as green beans, more of the green source carbs in. And I replace the higher car with higher good fats, like almonds, the con, walnuts, things like that. And now I flip it on that fourth day. I'm incorporating more carbs, sweet potatoes, you know, brown rice, those some oatmeal in. And I'm warm, I'm good fat. So if technically, if you look at the calorie intake, it's about even a drink a lot to water. You know, help regulate the sodium potassium intake in your body. You're going to have a cheat meal, conservative. Once a week, use it as a treat to yourself. You celebrate the greatness you did all week in the gym and nutrition. Go have that burger. Get right back to your hard work again. Yeah. Yeah. Burger pizza. Pizza pie, my weakness. You know, the problem with a diet, quote unquote diet, it's a short-term fix. That means that you're specifically going to do this four time. And it's no longevity in it. A nutritional plan, a structure, a lifestyle, supports everything you love. When I put a plan together for someone, it's not to say, hey, you must eat to lobby it. I don't like to lobby it. We're eating it anyways. That's not where it should be. Hey, I enjoy tuna. We're perfect. I enjoy pizza. Awesome. But let's go home. Let's get a week rest. Let's get a low saturated fat. Cheese. It's going to help your toppings. So what I do, my theory is I'll take what you enjoy. And I'll re-rap before you get back to you to a defeat what you like. And you'll stick with this forever. I guarantee you. I believe in all the using things that work. People hate to eat. They're about to already make a video. Okay, so the question is, do you not want to use something about your support? You see, there's that make people have more right to teach in the other. Yeah, with me, I don't get a lot of attention taking care of you. You would make possible do. But everybody's different. So I believe in it's not magic. It's not magic peel. But if you're already doing the right things, those things will help you. So assistance, I believe in assistance all day long. Way protein. It's awesome. If you're not wanting to calorie intake from the protein, maybe you might just want to do an alicart, which is the amino's only. So all depends on where I am and my nutrition. If I'm looking too low on my calorie intake, I won't do the protein power. I'll just do the amino's. I still get the same benefit from the same sources. I do a hearty vitamin, fish oil. I do love proteins that have more of an overall base to slow the fast, the egg, the way and the casing, all mixed in and one. So your release of your protein goes to after by throughout the day. I am a firm believer in that. But not necessarily barge me to only take those kind of protein. So, read, read, don't believe the hype. Don't fall into a brand name. You gotta take a brand name. You can't make your own supplements. There is brand name support everything. So you can't do it with that. What I mean is don't just do something because you heard it works. Do some research. Some things might work for you. My preach carbs slightly. I might say how do three-one carbs. I cut the carbs out of my diet for three days straight. I don't come down to everybody doing that. Maybe your body responds to carbs differently. So those are things you should figure it out first. Trailing air. I've used my own body as a test to have a trial and air. It really what it comes out to. The things I've talked about today are things I've firmly, firmly believe in. And man, I really love spreading the word. I'm not that, when you come here and ask me questions, I love it. I really want to do my part in helping every person understand what they're doing. You have any questions for me at all, any advice, anything you need for me. Find me more body space, Rodney Razor. And for more video content like this, keep coming back to BodyBillin.com.

=== FILE: Romanian Deadlift - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [e1pFg9Rz55k].txt ===

With a barbell in front of you on the ground, reach down and grab it with a shoulder width over hand grip. Now stand with the barbell. This will be your starting position. Keep your head up in your back straight and begin to lower the barbell by pushing your hips back as far as you possibly can. Your hamstrings should feel very tight as you do so. Lower the bar slowly to a point just below the knees. Your chin should be up, your butt should be back and your chin should be vertical. The knees should be only slightly bent. After a brief pause, drive through your heels as you return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Ronnie Coleman Upset by Jay Cutler ｜ The Undiscovered Footage [qVXfu9Vx7ug].txt ===

BSM. Finish first. He is the eight-time Mr. Olivia, the cornerstone of Team BSM, and the winningist IFBB for a bodybuilder of all time. He is the legendary Ronnie Coleman. In 2006, Camerochrom has followed Ronnie for nearly a year for an unprecedented look at the day-to-day life of this remarkable athlete. Since then, footage has been unseen and unreleased. Until now, this is Ronnie Coleman, the undiscovered footage. In 2006, you competed for your ninth consecutive Mr. Olivia, finishing second to J. Cutler. Now someone say you never should have lost that night. He's nothing away from J. I know you respect J. But do you still feel you were the better man that night? As far as 2000s it goes, the guy that won that night, if you want my opinion of it, the guy that won that night, I shouldn't have won. I think I should have won that night. That's always been my view on that. Probably I would be my view on that. I won the eight-and-a-ro and hadn't too much change with my physique. Maybe I'll just maybe a tad bit not as sharp as I was a year before, but I was still my same old self. There's no doubt in my mind, I was a far better man than night. Far better than the man than night in 2006. Can you take a specter to the 2006 Mr. Olivia? 2006, okay. Awesome. Why do you think the judge placed him second? That's amazing. The 2006 Mr. Olympia. That's the very first Mr. Olympia I've ever been to. I'm sitting in the weder booth, you know, enjoying myself. I call do some joint-making a little bit eating, you know. Looking down, saw Ronnie come out as Moses, it's like, oh man, this is all him. Then when a call came, you know, I was like, whoa, did I just see that? That kind of inspired me to be a bodybuilder in a lot of ways, motivated me because when you see somebody that's so great and so magnificent, actually, you know, not doing what you expecting new, I'm not saying that he should have lost. My no means. I thought he should probably should have won that night. But just to see that, that was like, what? Any day is possible. Do I have a favorite Ronnie moment? I like Ronnie in the gym. That's my favorite Ronnie moments. Anytime Ronnie is in the gym he's enjoying it. He's being a quirky, you know, he got all this saying. Yeah buddy, live with you know. Yeah buddy. You know, all that kind of stuff, you know. I like Ronnie's in his element, you know, he could just be Ronnie. So, you know, he keeps you laughing, you know. For this town, it was $proachhouse in South America. The 2018 campus that got coming to how it's getting to light.

=== FILE: Ronnie Milo's MVP Leg Workout [rOxlw2VMSDw].txt ===

Training is about paying it forward. The biggest guy in the gym, ship it in nicest, most helpful guy in the gym. I'm muscle militia captain Ronnie Milo, an IPA at forward. What we're training today is legs. We're going to start with calves and roll into our hamstrings and our quads. The goal is to get a good volume based workout, to get a good contraction in the muscle, and be sacrificed in a little bit of the weight today for more of a form. When you concentrate a little bit more form, I think you really get down to an inedity grid of breaking down your muscle to build some out. So today's workout is eight exercises, starting off with calves, rolling into hamstrings and then quads. So today we're moving on a fast pace. Should take no more than 60 minutes. So the first exercise today is going to be seated calf raises. I like to typically warm up a little bit, anywhere from rep range, 15 to 20 reps. You get to kind of blood in the muscle a little bit. Then when I feel a little bit more comfortable, then I start loading up the weight. I like to work backwards, heavy to light. You want to kind of concentrate on the balls of your feet. You're pushing off your big toe more than that rest of your toe. Just to give that concentration the right on that medial head. So I go into the standing calf raise because I like the variation of the different angle or the muscle. Now for the rep range, I do a good warm up set. Then I can go right into the heavy weight or three sets. The first one, you know, eight to ten and then drop ten percent of the weight. And then go from ten to twelve, drop ten percent of the weight. Just go as much as you possibly can. And I don't use any kind of platform to pull my feet on or any kind of a plate or anything like that because I feel that. If you go past ninety degrees that you put a lot of stress on your killie's tendon. But also to it doesn't really take a lot of stress off that muscle. So you can work out harder and longer. So we're done with a calf from the roll into some hamstring exercises. And the first exercise we're going to do is some seated hamstring curls. We're pretty much going to do three sets. We have a good warm up set. But then we're going to work heavy to light. You know, dropping ten percent of the weight. You know, rep range we're going to go obviously first set with the heavy set. We're going to go from eight to ten and then we're going to go from ten to twelve. And then we're going to drop ten percent again from twelve to pretty much failure. If you're going at a fast rate you're not going to feel it as much as possible. So a nice slow steady tempo and just pretty much concentrate on the exercise and that, you know, contraction. This one's going to be using the late press machine. But we're going to do a variation of it. We're going to keep our feet very high on the platform almost to your heels or just the only thing on the platform. At that time, we're going to come down to 90 degrees and then we're going to actually push on our heels. And that's going to actually engage the most of your hamstrings. Definitely get a good warm up set with it. And then, you know, we're going to go as heavy as possible depending on your weight or what you're comfortable with. You know, to get a good set between six to eight reps. Then we're going to go from ten reps to twelve. And then the next set we're going to drop ten percent. We're going to go, you know, we're going to finish now twelve to failure. So we're going to roll into now is the stiff leg of that left. You could do two different variations. You could use the barbell. You could use the dumbbells. I choose the dumbbells because I feel that you can control the weight a little bit better. But we're going to do three sets. You're pretty much should been warmed up by now. So we can go right into a comfortable weight. Nothing too heavy that you're really going to, you know, hurt yourself on. You can go six to eight reps again. Drop ten percent. You know, we're going to go ten to twelve. Drop ten percent for the third one. And then we're going to go from twelve to failure. I like to keep the dumbbells close to my body to, you know, drive from the heel. And then come all the way down to get a good stretch. You know, it's where it's not painful, but it's where it feels comfortable. And then start this rep again. So we're going to roll into the quads now. Our first exercise is going to be forming in the leg extension. So I like to do singles first for a little warm up and then obviously roll into a heavy set. We're going to be doing three sets. The first one's going to be at a pretty heavy weight, but comfortable enough that, you know, you're not putting too much stress on the knees. So we're going to be forming six to eight reps with that one. The second set we're going to drop ten percent. And we're going to be forming a ten to twelve reps. And then for the third one, for the set, we're going to drop ten percent. And then we're going to finish it out 12 to maybe failure. Back in the day, I used a gym that the legs led was inverted. So I'm trying to replicate it here with this Smith machine. Not every gym has a Smith machine or not every gym has it inverted leg press, but you know, you could be creative on your own. To set it up, I mean, it all depending on your gym and what you guys have. Today we're using the box, but you want to obviously set it up underneath that, you know, you're going to be almost at a 90 degree angle from the bar. We definitely recommend you put the stops up just in case. Safety first. So we're going to do three sets. The first set obviously is going to be your heaviest. Tips on this one is really to concentrate on that quad that's going to help me build out some outer sweep and some inner thigh and thumb on stage. I can look more three-dimensional with that with L.A. exercise. So now we roll into what I like to do is a finisher. I can do some walking lunges. You can do a stationary if you'd like, but I like to do walking lunges. Obviously to get some momentum going and it makes it up a little bit. So I do probably two sets. What I like to try to do is take a weight that's comfortable that could do, you know, ten reps each leg. Take a little bit of break and then repeat the process. Yeah, this one, it's a wake-up call. It takes a lot of adiah, you know, to do them. You've got really concentrated on your form of this and a lot of people say don't put your knees past your toes. It all depending on, you know, on what you feel comfortable with if you want to go halfway down, if you want to go all the way down, but you want to really make sure that you're putting that emphasis on that quad, that hamstring and that glue. The details of this workout are broken down on this page below. If you guys want to follow me, you can see me on Instagram, body space or Facebook. For more videos like this from the Muslim militia, come back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ross Bowman ｜ Hellraiser Training Testimonial [qPeZAJjkFMg].txt ===

I'm Ross Bowman, I'm one of the HRT contest winners and I'm here to tell you about my experience with the HRT program. Well, Stephen I had already been doing the program prior to the contest actually beginning. We were talking at Tom and a lot of the other animal representatives on the forums and it was announced through there so that's where we originally found out about it. Initially I was actually very skeptical the program. It's very low volume which is not something I had done before and I was pretty close. I've always been pretty close-minded about my training techniques. I always just stuck to old school training principles and that's all I would ever do. I just felt like it worked then and we're working out. So this was a new thing for me. The program was laid out very thoroughly on bodybuilding background which also made me skeptical because whenever I tend to look at a workout program see the lifts and just go by that. Nutrition supplements are usually things that I just kind of throw to the wayside. It HRT that was not the case. It couldn't be the case. I needed to know what I should be eating. I needed to know how much I should be resting. I needed to know about stretches and injury prevention because this is definitely one of the most difficult training styles I have ever done and the article really laid that out very well. And the first time in the gym with HRT it was miserable. Actually it was pretty embarrassing. I had to lower a lot of my weights. I had never done something that was so challenging for me to do because the form is it's a difficult program and the reps are a health centric reps are actually very difficult to do. I would say it took us about three or four weeks to really get the technique down. We started to learn each other's training styles and Steve and I reached motivated different ways in the gym and we started to really learn that about each other and really be able to communicate and talk while we were lifting and the spotter would guide whoever was lifting at the time but it took us about three to four weeks to really get the technique down. I was definitely stuck at 150 pounds for most of my lifting career. I hit that plateau and I never was able to break through it for probably about a year. I was stuck at 150 and HRT was something that was completely different for me but it really helped me to bust through that because not only was I lifting at an intensity that I had never done before. I was also eating six meals a day and following the strict diet laid out for me by Tom and there's a lot of tips on the nutritional page on the HRT article and it was it was definitely something that it really taught me the importance of diet because it's absolutely necessary in this program where you might pass out when you're mentioned. True. But I would just say that I broke I went from 150 to 165 even though I originally just wanted to get to 160 that was my goal. My back has always been one of my strongest body parts so that's where I see always the most dramatic change. Now everything increased. From the beginning of HRT to the end of HRT all of my lifts were noticeably higher than where they were before I started doing the program. For example on my T-bar rows I used to do T-bars at 75 you know for a working set which is pathetic but then you're the individual of T I had 135 for my fourth working set. There was no problem. I saw a growth that I never seen myself before. I would recommend this program to anyone who's looking to make a noticeable visible physical transformation. You will be really hungry and really tired on your rest days if you're doing it right. That's my experience I could barely move. I would say read as the articles thoroughly as you can go into forums talk to the animal representatives and get information. Really know what you're doing when you go in there and check your ego at the door because you're going to lower weight that you're not going to be doing anything close to what you would normally rep it first. At least at first you're not and so if anyone you know if you get embarrassed by that kind of thing just lift the no one else is there because you will be dropping your pound of this. I would say for anyone who is skeptical about actually working with these guys and that will they pay attention to me and you know they actually contribute times to my success in this program. They absolutely do. They got back to me every single time I had a question and they would always answer relatively quickly and you're very helpful and time would post video explanations if we need them to and it really worked out pretty well.

=== FILE: Running 20 Miles + Recovery ｜ 26.2 THE ROAD TO BERLIN EP 2 [MHAu2GTfYPw].txt ===

Chasing the dream. Chasing the dream. Chasing the dream. It's incredible. 10 out of 10. That is the Mill with Beating. We too. Let's get after it this week. Today I've got my easy run. Five miles of conversational pace. So I'm going to try and live in that 7.45 world. Once we got track night once again which has been really really nice, I feel like on the track I've been finding my best strides. We now start racing for more than miles which is really exciting. We got four races that are coming up. On the hill, pinned to pin midnight mile and four by one by four. So stay tuned for all that information. So I've been going on a light sport so I've been busy and tired of that. I'll take you and kind of my editing flow and what I've been doing at work on the day today. And yeah, the coming into my nine to five this week. We've seen me teaching class and sub-studios on the partner at and more or less just coming to my day today. Alright, so we are on set today at LightSport. We had trained our Jill and Lisa come in today. I've been with LightSport for now almost four years and it's been an incredible ride. I love my job. I love working in the space. We are a augmented reality fitness product. We have a ton of different workouts from strength to boxing and a total body and more. And I run the talent and production side. My job is making sure that the footage goes from the green screen room through our editors through QC passing and then into the app. My job can be a lot sometimes but it's the best job in the world and I truly mean that. So yeah, today you're at work with me. You're ready to meet some of our trainers. I'm feeling energized, ready to go, set up for the rest of my day. I'm feeling good. Yeah, that's a wrap. Okay, a few reps in. It's hot, a few minutes but I got the work done. We are six, 600 meters down. So we're doing them in A, B, switch rolling 600 today. A tempo, B tempo. A tempo is about our 90% threshold. B tempo is our 70. So we started with that B600 meter. Did about 10 to 15 seconds of recovery that went into that A and then we're taking about a 30 second walk in between each set. So they're wrapping up their first set. Now we're going to have a little bit of fun. We're doing a little bit of 600 rolling relays and just get people encouraged and moving together and have fun and really take those breaks in between to connect with people. I'm chasing the dream. She's chasing the dream. She's incredible. She's 10 out of 10. It's what he tickles. Not a fraudulent. Oh, well. I feel like fraud. Well, he's actually. I don't know. I don't know what I can hear from like it's here. It's here. Are you running? No, no. Everything that you need for a 20 mile runs. We got 20 miles today. The biggest thing that we're going to be doing is going about 60% effort. For me, what I pack on my runs first is my gels. So these are my favorite gels out there. These are the cysts, signs, and sport. I used a 2D fruity flavor. It is the best gel I've ever used. It's not sticky. It has more of a smoothie like texture than a paste like texture. That is a little more sticky here. It gets on your hands. Super easy, really, really tasty. The variety pack that they have has a ton of different flavors. So I don't work with this, but this is probably the best gel that you can get. This thing I use is a hydroflast. So this is from on. I used this for the half marathon, and I loved it. It's really compact in your hand. The best part is as soon as you're doing drinking it. If you have some electrolytes in there. Super compact. You can literally fold this up. It's awesome in your pocket. I can continue to run. Or if you want to just hold it in your hand. It's really light at that point. I know that there's going to be water stations. I know you can run to every single water station, but I like having some electrolytes either in the front half of the back half. Foam roll. Which is kind of crazy that you're going to be like Anthony what? But I always foam roll before I run just to wake my muscles up. But also just a flush and you kind of lack the gas that might be in these trickier spots out of my body before I run. I used the cloud monster hypers from on. I have probably over 100 miles in these shoes. They are my favorite running shoes I've ever used. I race in the echoes, but you could easily also race in these shoes as well. The triton side I always encourage just eating maybe a banana and a rice cake or a banana and some kind of honey stinger or something. You can just get in your body, maybe a little waffle or something. But that way you're not running on an empty stomach. I think you definitely have some calories in you before you go for a run. And then last but not least, a watch. There's a ton of them out there from Garmin to Corros to Apple Watch. And whatever can give you the most real time data, I think is your best bet. I previously used the Napal Watch and I just felt like the data wasn't as accurate as my Garmin has been. This is a Garmin for runner. So I think investing in a good running watch is crucial as you're doing your marathon training. So yeah, we got 20 miles today. I'm going to recap it mile over mile. So stay tuned and let's get after it. 20 mile. We're going to get after it today. We're going to do this thing. Model one, 829, how to? 828, how to? 835. Well, 4 895, 815, how to? 6 817, 806, how to? 828, how to? 9755, how to? 10, 812, how to? 11, 820, how to? 12, 814, how to 13? 812, how to 14? 843. How to 15? 908? 916, 903. We're all 17, 917, 18, 1018, 19, 1016, 20, 858. 20 miles, overall pace, 839. Definitely feeling it. Oh, what's that? Candle. Good dog. I'm soroning. Yeah. I'm soroning. Good dog. Small lucky has been a good boy. This is like going to be sent out to franchises. Do you want to be on that? This is legit work. Wait, wait. What? Yeah, Michael, what's not on, Joe? Guys, Michael, what is it on, devil? Sunday AM, push, pull up, everybody. Focus, focusing to start on some try-speaks tensions. Let pull down, single arm rows, and some pull ups, which has been really crucial for keeping my chest nice and bright on these runs. Then we got into our Sunday Community 5K run with more of the miles. A great turnout, great energy, great vibes, we're growing week over week. I'm calling these driving boots out. I'm going to do recovery. So these compression boots have been a game changer for me at least. I use them probably once to twice a week. Easiest part is that it all just kind of comes together wireless because you can charge the normatech by itself. So you actually don't need cable plugged in at all times. I just kind of normally have this plugged in like this. Then I turn this on and they all sink. I normally just go at like a level 7, but this will start to fill up and then as these start to inflate, I get a little bit of compression, but they also have different settings where I can do a little bit of massage, I can do continued pulsing, I can target certain areas. So if I just want to do my feet ankles, I can do that as well. I'll do these recovery sessions and answer any kind of questions you guys have in the comments on YouTube. So next week when we get into this, I'll pull out my phone. I'll answer any kind of questions that you guys might have, whether it's your first marathon or recovery or nutrition or whatever that might be. Alright, so the session is complete. And to be kind to my wife, I'm going to make sure that I put all these pillows back and clean up this mess. But yeah, next week we'll do recovery questions.

=== FILE: Running Sub 3_30 at The Berlin Marathon ｜ 26.2 THE ROAD TO BERLIN EP 6 [Hj_6kuxG3HA].txt ===

Alrighty, this is the last time we were talking to the camera before the race so so Alright team, so we are getting ready to head out the door to go to Berlin. This is the moment. This is the marathon moment. Yeah, we're doing it. A lot of thoughts and a lot of emotions going into this but my bags are packed. Mission starts right now. Alright, so we are on the plane. Getting ready to take off. Got about eight hours until we get to Stockholm and then I got about two hours until we get to Berlin. So it's total, we got about nine hours on the plane. Plain is pretty packed but as soon as we get into Stockholm, shake it out. Soon as we get to Berlin, pick up the bib and then we're kind of off to the races. We are heading to the train now. Well, we're going to hide for a hot second. We're like, we're like, wait a minute. Why do we not know how to get to this train and there were little steps that say, train this way, literally, little steps. I'm putting all my trust in will. We gotta go. We gotta go. Let's do much shit. Get us out of here. Alright, so we are here in Berlin. We are at the check-in for bib pickup for the 50th anniversary of Berlin marathon. They've got a ton of great stuff here for today. Really, really cool. All names. They're just open everything up. We got a deetus, we got Abbott. We got BMWs, our major sponsors along with Morton. So I'll take you guys inside to the expo and we'll take a peek at all that on there. So we're at bib pickup. It's a little chaotic at the moment. Definitely. People sprinting all over the place, pick up these bibs. So we just picked up our bib, but we are now in the kind of merchandise section expo-wise. And there is a ton of stuff here, which is super cool. Day one is wrapping up. I am heading out to go back to the hotel for the first time. We see Coach Ben over there, which is going to be exciting. I haven't seen Coach Ben the entire time I've been here. Either way, go home, hydrate, rest. Oh, that kind of good stuff. And then we're off to the races from there. We are, we are in need of protein, right Ben? I think it's a bad day because there's no protein in the area. But we are on our way back home. So it's by a couple of the pop-ups today. We went to the band of pop-ups, the tracksmith's pop-up, shout out to Jerry, shout out to the tracksmith's fam. We went over to the pitters pop-up and then we tried to get Ben's bib. But that wasn't in the equation today because their printer was now. So... See situation nowadays? No, the glissio-jouacid. Not good at all. Also Ben hasn't had protein today, so Ben, how do you feel? I feel like my muscles are dry. So we're on a way to find protein and then grab something quick, maybe some chicken or something quick bite. Then go back to the hotel, do a little upper body body weight, push-up dips, stuff like that. And then grab dinner tonight and chill, drink water, sleep in tomorrow. We got some shake-outs. And I think he got bib big though. And he still has got to do his bib pick-up. So we got shake-outs, we got bib pick-up, and then we rest for the rest of the day. And not do anything. But Berlin, you have not let us down. It's beautiful here. And yeah, if you're going to come with us tomorrow to a couple shake-outs. So I just finished documenting the Adidas Berlin Shake-out. I'm going to head home. I've got to do a shake-out myself. So I'm about to get some miles in. I'm a huge shout out to the Adidas Fam. Everybody was great today. So I'm going to be heading home. Doing a little shake-out myself. And then, right into editing. I'm happy that I was on an electric bike today as well. I didn't have to pedal at all pretty much. So my legs feel good and fresh. So we are on our shake-out run. A little reflection, 24 hours before the Berlin marathon. I think a lot about the times when I started this journey. And I really didn't know what I was getting myself into. I come from the track and field space, 400, 800, 1200, but not really long. This is more in the speed space. And I think what I've learned over this marathon is that anything is possible. I think I've learned that you can grow and do things over time that obviously scare you or evidently scare you. But at the end of the day, it's kind of up to you on how you want to attack. I think the biggest thing looking into tomorrow is just holding pace, feeling good the whole time. That's the one thing that I think as I dive into the longer miles is where does the marathon start. And how do I get to that next level, especially? So we're doing it y'all. Little 5K likes feel good, likes feel warm. So I'll put this camera away. I'm going to show you guys some scenes and we're going to get after it. I'll see you guys as soon as I get done with the 5K. Alright, so as you can see I'm on the floor, when I'm going to use this little small cross ball, just to be able to get some tension out of my calves. I'll have to give you any kind of crazy feet picture right now, but I have really tight calves. I've had tight calves for a while. So what I'm trying to do right now is break up any of that muscle. It's really tight. We are 12 hours away from the marathon. 12 hours has been. 12 hours from the marathon. We got this. We got this. So we team. So game plan for tomorrow. The goal is 330, which I'm super excited about, just be able to run through it. But either way I want to have fun and I think that's the best advice I've gotten from people like Coach Ben and some other incredible, incredible people that I've been able to work with over a few weeks and even this week at alone. But I think the biggest thing is enjoying it, taking it all in, not just running as hard as I can right out the gate, like really taking time and pace and understanding that. Like everyone has said, first 20 miles. It's the warm-up. The last 10k is the marathon. Last six miles. That's where it really comes all together. Excited to just, you know, trying and hold the pace for 20 miles. And then from there really let loose since you would I can do and heading to negative splits on the way back. So that's the goal. It's not pushed too heavy. Not pushed too hard. Enjoy it and then take it home strong. Coach Ben, it's race day. How are we feeling? Makes feelings. But I know it's going to be a fun day. We did the marathon. We just showered. We got home. It felt incredible honestly. It's a gold medal. I ran seven minutes under my goal. So very happy about that. And I didn't hit a wall, which was really good. And it's a lot of thanks to this guy right here. Coach Ben. No, I got to give you the flowers. These are up. He showed up. You can show up. You reap the benefit of showing up. Yeah. Four weeks in New York and then six weeks we got high rock Chicago. Let's go. So this week I'll be living on the skier in the bike and the roar. Getting ready for that as I'm doing. Thank you so much. I see everything about Berlin. Everybody's so nice. So nice. So, you know, it's been great. It's been awesome. But yeah, six weeks. Four weeks in New York City, Marathon and then six weeks the high rock Chicago. So we got a lot of stuff going on. But yeah, stay tuned.

=== FILE: Russian Twist - Ab Exercises - Bodybuilding.com [Nl-txzo-7WQ].txt ===

Lime the floor and place your feet under something that won't move. Your legs should bend at the knees. Elevate your upper body so it creates a V shape with your thighs. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you and perpendicular to your torso with your hands clasped. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and twist your torso to the right until your arms are parallel to the floor. Hold the contracted position for a moment. Then exhale and rotate back to the starting position. Finally, using the same technique twist to the opposite side.

=== FILE: Samantha Leete's Shoulder-Sculpting Workout - Bodybuilding.com [DgySVAabbrg].txt ===

Hey guys, I'm Samantha Ann Lee, Bodybuilding.com and Fitment Sponsored Athlete. And today I'm here to take you through my shoulder workout. So today's workout I structured it in the hypertrophy rep range. So we're going to be building those shoulders, making sure that we're rounding them out, hitting all angles of the dealt, front, middle, and back. We're also going to involve some bodyweight movements so that we keep your heart rate up through the whole workout. Today's workout has nine exercises and they're all grouped into three different triceps. Each tricep is composed of three different exercises and you're going to perform all three exercises with little to no rest before repeating that. And then you'll repeat each tricep for times each. For this workout we're going to be using a one to three tempo, meaning on the way up for every exercise you'll be doing one second and then you'll slow it down on the way down for three seconds each. This will really recruit all of the different types of muscle fibers and make sure that you're getting the best workout possible. Alright, let's get started. For the first tricep we're going to start with machine root out flies and then go right into upright rows and then handstand pushups. We're going to be starting with root out flies and the reps are going to be eight to twelve. These you want to select a weight that you'll be failing in that rep range and that you can really keep that tempo going the entire time. Because of the tempo you might have to select a lower weight but that's okay you'll still get a great workout. As you do this movement really focus on keeping your back tight and keeping the weight in your rear delts. Don't let it transfer into your traps. You can do this by making sure that you keep your elbows up through the movement and keep your hands at the same level as your shoulders. Moving to the second exercise of this tricep we're going to be doing upright rows keeping our reps between twelve to fifteen. With these your hand placement should be shoulder with the part and as you bring the bar up keep it close to your body and make sure to drive your elbows through at the end. And make sure keeping with the tempo we're taking three seconds on the way down. With this exercise we're really focusing on the mid-down. We're going to finish up this tricep with handstand pushups doing ten reps or until failure. For this exercise you'll just find a wall or somewhere that you can perform the handstand, place your hands a little bit wider than shoulder with a part and kick your legs up to the wall and then you can perform the regular push-up style only instead of targeting your chest we're targeting your shoulders because we're going up and down. If you're unable to do an unassisted handstand push-up I've also provided a breakdown of how to do an assisted push-up in the article below. So after you're finished with that first tricep take 30 to 45 seconds to rest and then repeat it three times. For our second tricep we'll be doing face pulls, side raises and walking planks. Face pulls will be doing eight to twelve reps and you want to set the cable machine to shoulder height. I get asked a lot where these should be pulling. You want to be keeping your elbows high and pulling them towards your face so that you keep the weight in your rear delts. The second exercise of this tricep is side raises. With these you want to make sure that you choose a weight that you can keep that one to three tempo that we talked about. So you'll probably have to drop the weight from what you're used to. We're going to be doing twelve to fifteen reps. With these you'll start with the dumbbells by your sides, bring them up to shoulder height, squeeze for a second and then take three seconds on the way down. This exercise targets our mid-dults. For the last exercise in this tricep we're going to be doing walking planks for twenty reps. For this exercise you'll start in a plank position. You may want to put more space between your feet. The larger the space between your feet, the easier the movement is and the closer your feet are together, the harder the movement becomes. With this exercise make sure to keep your butt down and your core tight and try not to rock from side to side as you perform the movement. This exercise may look easy but it's really hard because you're keeping tension in your shoulders the whole time and it will really cause your muscles to burn out. For a third tricep we're going to be doing shoulder press, front raises and shoulder taps. For the shoulder press we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps. Again you may have to drop the weight because it's at the end of the workout and we're going to keep with that one to three tempo. As you do this movement you'll want to angle your wrists in a little bit, almost like you're dumping out a cup of water onto your shoulders and then as you go up stop right before you're locked out and then bring it back down. Angling your wrists in and stopping before you lock out makes it to where you don't get a rest at the top and you're keeping the tension in your shoulders. For the front raises we're going to be doing twelve to fifteen reps. You'll start with the dumbbells in front of your legs and bring them up to the 90 degree angle with a slight bend in your elbows. For this workout I am doing both of the front raises at the same time but if you prefer you can do alternating. By this time in the workout keeping that one to three tempo might be really tough because your shoulders should be burnt out. But just keep pushing through. We're almost done and you can rest after the last try set. The last exercise in this try set is shoulder taps and we're going to do twenty to thirty reps. You'll start in the plank position again with your feet either wider to make it easier or closer to make it harder. Again you want to make sure your butt stays down and your core stays tight to ensure that you're not rocking from side to side as you do the movement. Once in the plank position you'll lift one hand to the opposite shoulder and then repeat on the other side. I would recommend if you feel like your shoulders are lagging and incorporate this workout twice a week. Otherwise just incorporate it on your shoulder day once a week. If you have any questions about this workout find my body space or you can hit me up on my Instagram, Twitter or Facebook. This full workout is broken down in detail on the page below. And for more videos and articles like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Sculpt Monster Abs With Just 4 Moves ｜ Rodney Razor [vH-CGlxES8w].txt ===

My mind is going into this routine alone with any routine. I'm not just been all day in the gym, I have a job, no more things to do. I'll slide up, just working out. So when I'm coming into the gym, I'm hardcore, and that's what is work I've routine is designed to only be 15 minutes. You're focused on what you're trying to achieve. You know it can't let the gym in and you're done. My theory is if you want to really have a high performance in a particular exercise, you start with it. If I start with that every routine before I do arms, it's been times and I've done curls and I feel like my abs are going to create work out. Simply because I started with that routine first. The first exercise in this workout is to hanging leg raise. The second exercise is to decline ab crunch. The third exercise is to build a ball of transfer crunch. The last exercise in the days workout is to have roll out. My rest periods from workout are typically 30 to 45 seconds in between each set. Once I've applied the point out before we get started with the workout, I'll grab all the equipment, put it in one section, and let's go. The first exercise in the days workout is to hanging leg raise. I'm going to do three sets of 12 to 15. I'll start with that being the first exercise because it's a pretty difficult exercise. Once again, back to my theory of if you really want to attack a particular muscle and with the most intensity, you want to start off with it. I feel like that when to me benefits the most and depending on what you go legs out or knees up, really targets the whole abs. You can be doing all bleaks as well as the same routine and your hanging. It makes it a little bit different. It makes it difficult to make it. I don't really take time out to warm up abs. I'm using my first set and abs as normally doing just by weight. So, that's what my first set, I noticed that I felt like the next one I could have definitely had some weight to it and I did. The most important point to remember why doing this exercise is to keep the elbows slightly bent to prevent swaying. Also keep the abs constricted to prevent swaying as well. As you can see in the video, I'll switch up my technique in the middle of the sets. I do knee raises, I do legs straight out and I do sides for bleaks. This allows me to hit different parts of my abs. The second exercise in this workout is the decline at crunch. I am doing three sets of 15 to 20. This pushes up a different target on the abs now. I mean, the first exercise we're hitting more lower abs and now we're going decline is hit more upper abs. The first exercise is a little bit lower in rep count. This one I went up a little bit for more muscle endurance. The benefit of switching up the technique in the middle of my sets is to basically kill my abs. I might start with a medicine ball. Go 5, 10 total reps, drop the medicine ball and keep going. You'll see me do alternating side side. I'll do reach for the silins where I'm kind of work on more of the upper abs. That's just really how blessed I have. And I'm at a how tired you are. You still go right back into a 30 to 45 seconds left. If you're fatigued and you feel like you can't get to your ideal number, you can still lower the bench down to achieve total amount of reps that you're looking at. The third exercise in this workout is the stability ball transfer crunch. I do three sets of 12 to 15. On the first exercise we hit lower abs. The second exercise was upper abs. This exercise actually targets both at the same time. If you notice so far in this routine we never did the same thing twice. Upper, lower, not both together. So in this particular exercise we both rushed back down to 12 to 15. Once again we're targeting more strength. Slightly into endurance when you creep into the 15, but mostly muscular strength in the belly band as well. While performing at exercise I never let my heels or ball or hand motions hit the floor. The reason behind is to keep the abs tight and strict with the whole entire time. Flexibility is what I'm not so important in this exercise. I'm really glad. You slightly bend the knee to bring the ball up. You don't have to really crunch all the way up. A lot of people in gym make a mistake by coming all the way off the floor to crunch up. That's really not the idea. This is tight knee abs into a crunch motion and come right back down. The last exercise that is workout is the abs rollout. I'm doing three sets of six to ten. Freeze rep you're going to be doing a four second negative. As you go down to the floor you're going to go four seconds. Now you're going to count your head one, two, three, four and it comes back up. As you become fatigued throughout this exercise don't be afraid to just rep them out. That four seconds my turn is just one second. So just blast a kill him. I just want to about rep that fat point. I recommend doing this two three times a week and it's just a great thing to always throw into your routines. Once again I've never really designated a specific day for abs. But what I mean by that is that I'm throwing abs in them any day after workout. Before workout this is a 15 to 25 minute workout depending on your skill level. It's never changed what your normal routine is. Chest and back day. Boom 15 minutes abs. Arm day. Right after words. This 15 minute abs. You have any questions for me at all. You can find me on body space, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, all-air Rodney Razor. I'll be having to answer any questions you might have. From what articles and videos like this, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Sean Sarantos Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [is1dCSJ3Oy0].txt ===

Every one I'm Sean Sarantos. I'm here with ViBold.com. A little bit about myself. I'm an active student member in United States Air Force. I do physical therapy and occupational therapy. I was chosen to be part of the Lift Life at Campaign with ViBold.com, which led me to be part of the team ViBold.com. I'm also the first ever male fitness model sponsored by Sidersports. Today I'm going to be talking to you about some physical and mental road blocks that I personally had to overcome. And hopefully they can help you overcome anything that you're going through in your life. I'm also going to be talking about my nutrition, my training program, and any kind of supplements that I use that you might be interested in. Well, anytime that you deal with an injury physically, you're going to have that mental state that goes back into the rehab, getting back to being functional the way that you used to be. Basically, you have to have that mindset of am I going to let a break me down or am I going to be strong or fort? After that injury coming into the gym is more of a word I go from here for a thing. For me, when I was stabbed, it took away all functioning the wrists. Almost 90% of my functioning the wrists for any kind of exercise. It took away any kind of functions in the chest for a good month and a half also. So for me coming in the gym, I can't do legs every single day as much as I would love to do that and everyone else loves to do legs every single day. Now I have to test everything out. See if it hurts, see if it doesn't hurt. What can I go all out in? What do I have to go happen into? I had to go at different angles on weights and basically, just start from scratch is what I had to do. It was frustrating but exciting at the same time because people would ask me what I'm doing and it gave me a chance to try to explain exactly what I was feeling, what I was going through and how I was helping me out. The three biggest things to overcome, probably the acceptance of how I'm injured, I'm not going to be able to do things I used to. The second thing is coming back into the gym, taking that step and saying, I don't know exactly what I can do but I'm not going to let it slow me down. I'm going to go ahead and do the best I can with what I can do. And the third part is, where am I going to grow from this? Maybe I'm not going to be able to be 100% ever again. How is that going to affect me? You really, really have to take a step back, look at you surroundings and not be shy to ask for help to ask questions because some people might know stuff, they might have gone through what you're going through now. So now that you've learned how I dealt with overcome certain roadblocks, mental and physically, let's go ahead and get into my training program and what helps me out. For me, I trained for at least five days, up to seven days. I don't have a split anymore. I try to write it down and exercise on a certain day but you know what, if I'm feeling squirrely and I want to do arms that day and then by God, I'm going to do arms. I have a set schedule of workouts. I know exactly what I'm going to lift. I write it out. The day I do it on is never up to me. I just go ahead and go in there and whatever my body says, I will break it into two most groups of day. So say I do Monday as chest norms, chest biceps, chest or triceps does matter. Two days I'll go ahead and do back and opposite one so my sets are tri-sips. Leg down Wednesday and Thursday and Friday right back to the Monday. Two days schedule, I think it works best for me to go ahead and get all the as much power and strength that I can get in the beginning of the week when I'm fresh. That's my big movement. That's what I try to do. Later in the week I'll go ahead and do those isolation movements. Try to get those cuts that people like to get. Try to get that muscle endurance is what I try to work on. Plus it gives me whatever back burner energy that I have to go ahead and do the cardio and the high intensity training that I do. Carrier for me I used to run marathon to do tri-athlons but I would burn so much. So many calories I could make up for it and the food I was eating with the day and my busy schedule was working in the military. So now I've taken up CrossFit and it worked great and burns exactly the amount of calories that I need to burn in a short amount of time. And I still get lift weights so it's like a win-win for me. I try to do the CrossFit cardio stuff at the most three times a week. If I can hit it one time then I'll find but my workouts are usually so intense with such little rest in between that I'm winded during the rest. I don't know if that means I'm at a shave but I hope I'm hoping that I'm winded because I'm getting damn good workout. My workout changes every week. I stick to the basics. I stick to squats for legs. You gotta have a squat. You gotta have a leg press for a bench. You gotta have the bench press. Flat bench bar goal press. But with those two or three exercises that I stick into my training program I'll change to the next three exercises. So I will always have those staple exercises, those foundation exercises that I do. But the second half of that muscle group is totally changed. If I had to do plyometric stagger pushups with a clap in between or whatever I have to do to mix it up and be crazy then I'll do it. A typical rest day for me is just it just means that I gave that muscle group that I worked out at least 48 to 72 hours of rest before I hit it again. So we're coming flat toe. I have a rep in my head for a certain amount of weight and I say I'm going to get to that weight no matter what and that's where that's where I have an training partner really comes in handy because I can tell him that I can say look don't rack that weight until I get to that certain rep. Having that person there to help you out or even just writing it down say I'm going to do it no matter what. Put yourself in that position where you don't have an out so you have to do it now. Next, that's one way is a break in flat toes for listening, that's breaking flat toes for your mental state of mind knowing that you did to what yourself to that limit and you can go ahead and do those things so you're ready for the next challenge. So I hope you enjoyed that for my full training program. Go ahead and visit the page below. We'll throw it off to the side and let's go ahead and get into my nutrition. I'm smart, I'll eat clean, stay lean is my motto. I try to stay lean, you're around and I try to stay at least two to three weeks from any kind of goal I want. My diet basically consists of my carbs coming in throughout the afternoon. Anything past noon, carbs are coming from veggies and stuff like that. Hopefully by noon time and at the end of the day I've burned all that stuff so it doesn't go in the fast storage. So I'm not a huge number cruncher, what I do count if I do count numbers as ounces of protein in my system. My ounce is a protein per meal. I don't go any less than eight ounces from my meat. I don't go more than 11 ounces if I do eat a lot of meat. Everything with veggies is a serving, a handful. Can I grab it with a hand and place it on my tray and that's what I do. Same thing goes for carbs. It's proportion by eye, not proportion by numbers. So as I get at least five meals in, I'm a happy camper. I try to do my best to give it two hours to digest and eat the next meal. Sometimes I'm hungry after an hour so I run out of meals. That's the biggest thing for me. I pack my meals with me so I have to remember that I have those meals with me. If I get hungry in an hour and I eat that next meal, I might have 10 more hours at work. I might not be eaten for the next five hours if I ate every time I was hungry. If you want to see results, you have to be smart about your nutrition. When I blew my knee out, I wasn't able to do cardio. You really have to focus down on nutrition. If you want to stay lean, you really have to look at your nutrition and be smart about what you're putting in your body. I actually have a friend that's part of thebibillum.com team, her name is Jackie Kay. But what she does is she does this thing called the paleo diet. Basically if we didn't have a 10,000 years ago, don't put in your body now. We get our fruits and veggies and everything like that from the ground from the trees. We get our meats and our like that from the animals around. I followed it a hundred percent for about two months and I saw amazing results. But my brain got a little dumb and I needed my carbs a little more than I thought I needed. So I followed about an 80 percent paleo diet with a 20 percent whatever I wanted to eat, you know, brown rice and someone diet. Just like every day in the gym should be a brand new day and exciting. You go in the kitchen. It should be exciting too because that's stuff you put in your body. That's your feel for the day. I'm not going to put crappy fuel that I don't enjoy in my body for the day. I can't run on crap. I highly believe in females. I love them to death. I don't believe in cheap months. When your body gets into that state of mind of eating all those healthy things, it's kind of weird because when you go back to trying to put something that's bad for your body and your system, you might be excited for it. But one or two bites in and your body might not want it. And I've learned that when I eat a piece of cake or something like that, I take a bite in it. Hey, I'm happy. I'm satisfied. Push it to this side. I don't need the rest. Restaurant. I look at their menu. I look at something that I might have cooked at home. Chicken veggies mashed potatoes. Great thing to cook. Read what's on the menu. They should put it in detail. What's on the menu? If you would have put it on your thing at home, on your food at home, then why put it on there now. So I hope you enjoy that for my full nutrition program. Go ahead and visit page below. We'll go ahead and put it off to the side and get to my supplementate. Once supplementation can be done and build your muscles. All right, you can take it and just throw out your food. No, you have to get your foods and you have to get your diets and that's what's going to be able to build your body. A supplement is just that. A supplement. It's a helpful tool. Big ones. Obviously, you have to have your protein. Whether it be an RTD or a big jug of big muscle mass protein or whatever works for you, when you're talking about protein, you've got to remember that there's tons of protein out there. Proteins are going to be coming out new every single day. So, you have ones for what your specific goals. You're trying to gain weight. You want a mass builder. If you want to go ahead and just maintain it, you've got a high protein, minimal carb. And if you want to lose it, you've got your high protein, no carbs. You've got to remember that if you replace it with your meal, get the one that looks like your meal, get the one that highly resembles the nutrient content in your meal. I also get my BCA's, my glutamine. And my pre-workout is one of the new things I've been trying out. Pre-workouts are God's sense. I love them death, but I don't use them all the time only when I do need them. But they are like a secret weapon in the arsenal when it comes to the gym. But you've got to make sure that you cycle off any kind of pre-workout to the recommended dosage, finish the bottle, and cycle off for the amount of weeks that they tell you to cycle off with. We'll just tend to go ahead and use them. Their body gets used to them and it's unfortunate that they lose effect. The only thing I'll change during my supplementation of orphanage is my protein. Other than that, every other supplement I do take, you should be getting it 365 days out of your anyway. These are things to help your body grow, tell your metabolism stay fast. For me, supplements are just something to help you out with your healthy lifestyle, with your diet, with your workout plan. No way do I see it as an item that take over. For my full training, nutrition and supplementation program, go ahead and visit the link below. Feel free to hit me up on Body Space. My name is Rice 8-787. You can find that right here at the very bottom of the page. I love to talk to y'all. I love the feedback, and if you are going through something that you think sounds typically what I went through, tell me about it. I absolutely love going and helping out those kinds of people. For more content like this, go ahead and visit by Build.com.

=== FILE: Search For The Golden Shaker - Bodybuilding.com [FzCZP-YWd5g].txt ===

In a world of clear plastics and stinky shakers, one cup will rise to rule them all. The bodybuilding.com Golden Shaker. Excuse me, sorry about that. From February 23rd to March 1st, every time you place an order for over $49 on Bodybuilding.com, US customers will have a chance to win one of 10 Golden Shaker bottles. In addition to being totally baller, each shaker includes $1,000 of in-store credit. You'll also have the chance to win one of 5,000 limited edition gym blender bottles. That's better than gold but maybe. But it's not all. 20 Global customers also have the opportunity to win a Golden Grenade shaker by showing us how you shake on social media. Tag your creative shake posts with hashtag Golden Shaker for a chance to catch a Golden Grenade and supplement stack to blow up your gains. In-stile Bodybuilding.com search for the Golden Shaker. Go for the gold!

=== FILE: Seated Barbell Military Press - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [AFC-_Ka8nY4].txt ===

Sit on a military press bench. Your grip should be wider than shoulder width. Once you've picked up the barbell, lift the bar overhead with your arms straight. Hold the bar slightly in front of your head. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar down to shoulder height. Then exhale and press the bar back up to the starting position.

=== FILE: Seated Barbell Military Press - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [uiYOYMDiA44].txt ===

Sit on a military press bench. Your grip should be wider than shoulder width. Once you've picked up the barbell, lift the bar overhead with your arm straight. Hold the bar slightly in front of your head. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar down to shoulder height. Then exhale and press the bar back up to the starting position.

=== FILE: Seated Bent Over Rear Delt Raise - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [DEeUsQ9rCso].txt ===

Place two dumbbells in front of a flat bench. Sit on the end of the bench with your legs together and the dumbbells behind your calves. The palms of your hands should be facing each other as you pick the dumbbells up. This will be your starting position. Now keeping your torso stationary and forward, exhale and lift the dumbbells straight to your sides until both arms are parallel to the floor. After a brief moment at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Seated Cable Rows - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [IzoCF_b3cIY].txt ===

To get into the starting position, first sit down on the machine and place your feet on the front platform or crossbar provided. Make sure your knees are slightly bent and not long. Next, lean over while keeping the natural alignment of your back and grasp the handles. With your upper arms extended, pull back until your torso is at a 90 degree angle from your legs. Your back should be slightly arched and your chest should be sticking out. You should feel a nice stretch on your lats as you hold the weight in front of you. This is the starting position. While keeping your torso stationary, pull the handles back toward your torso while keeping your arms close to your body. Pull the handles to your abdominals and make sure to breathe out as you perform the movement. At this point, you should be squeezing your shoulder blades back. Hold the contraction for a second and slowly bring the handles back to the original position while breathing in.

=== FILE: Seth Feroce's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [Gwb7MeUrMdw].txt ===

I'm Seth Faroci, I have PV Professional Body Builder, Team Muscle Tech Athlete, been a fans since I was young. I'm most importantly, I'm a father and a husband of two most beautiful women in the world. People said, Seth, you're having a kid now, you're going to get a career job, they're like you're never going to be able to continue to bodybuilder lift weights, just give up. And I said, no, I said this is something that I've always wanted to do and I'm going to continue to try. If I have to train at midnight or one o'clock in the morning, that's what I'm going to do. I said, just wherever you do, don't take the gym away from me. That's what PV made. And sure enough, that's actually what it turned into. My wife, she's actually the one who pushed me to say you need to compete now. She said, Seth, I'm tired of living my life like this. You think you're a bodybuilder but you don't compete. It's time to compete. And we did. I started competing in 2009. I did the Northern Kentucky from there. I went on to do the NPC Pittsburgh Championships. And you know, it's, it's, it's truly a blessing because this actually has given me the opportunity to provide for my family. I'm going to do the way to put food on the table. You know, I'm willing to do whatever it takes. It's pretty much been my main motivator, my family. Being a good father, being a good husband, you know, stayed home with my daughter and raised her while my wife works full time but I stayed home with her. And it's, it's pretty surreal. You know, looking back at it and telling a story, it's surreal that everything has worked out of it as it has. Everybody is different and bloody, but everybody knows that by now. You could give me your program and I could follow it to a tee but I'm not going to look like you. But the best thing is is to learn your body and to say, well, this is what he does and we look very similar. I'm going to try this and see how it works and perfect it to my needs. Intensity. That's kind of been my motto since I was young was just being extremely intense about everything. Of course, it's evolved from the time whenever I was 14 to now. During the eggs coined it best for me watching blood and guts to high intensity training. You know, one to two warm upsets and then just one or two sets where you just let loose and go absolutely crazy and do as many as you can. Failures, you know, the partials, the negative things like that. Whenever I go into the gym, I have a set idea of what I want to do. And if I'm doing the exercise and just not feeling it, I will move on and say, that's, it's just not working for me today. That's not to say it doesn't work at all, but right now at this moment, I'm just not feeling it, so I'm going to move on. I've come to realize that how I feel is the most important part of training. As far as the sets, I've been developing just a concept. Doing the exercise and say we work into the high intensity. I do two to three warm upsets, say I warm up, I'll do my work set, just go to failure with it. And then say I move up to my next work sets and this will be my final set. So I'll go, you know, my full repetition, my full range of motion and then I'll just keep repenet out, just keep pumping, keep pumping, get the partials and then drop them and say I got 16 reps. Well, I'll wait 10 to 15 seconds. I'll grab half the weight and do twice the reps. It's been working for me. I really enjoy training that way. I think that it's given me the opportunity to hit the heavy weights, but it also gives me the opportunity to focus on the isolation and the upper chest with the lighter weight. We'll see whenever it comes so time if my train of thought actually is proven on paper so to say. Right now I'm training six days a week. Typical bodybuilder exercises. I do cardio five days a week. I take one full day off, train chest and I should say side delts, train back, quad, shoulders or arms and then I'll do hamstrings on the sixth day and then rest on the seventh. Usually train around two o'clock in the afternoon that usually fits my schedule best. I do cardio anywhere between five and six a.m. Right now I do 35 minutes every morning on a set meal. My nickname was Chubs. I was a Chubby White Kid. So I need to do cardio. However, I've learned that we're not running marathon. Along those lines, it's like I could say I do 45 minutes of cardio every morning, but what type of cardio are you doing? You do an interval training or you keep in your heart rate above a certain number, right on a program that I'm doing. I'm just trying to stay full and trying to get big them, just trying to grow into the show so to say. Fat loss isn't my number one priority at this time. My physique is pretty much where it needs to be. I just need to refine it, go through the mature process. I'm 28 years old so things are starting to pop a little bit better. But I think in the next couple of years everything will come together and get a lot harder. Everybody says you get better with age and bodybuilding. I hope it's true. With my nutrition, it's obviously changed over the years. Whenever I was in college, it was zed everything in front of me and just keep lifting weights to get as big as possible. And that has a competitor you realize that you need to stay in some type of conditioning in the offseason to be able to get in the good condition for your contact as prep. The most important thing is not to get fixated on a number that's on the scale. To look in the mirror and say, is this what I want to look like? Okay, I look in the mirror and I'm like, I want to be bigger. Well, if you want to be bigger, you have to eat more. I look at things that's very simplistically rather than over-comicating your thought process. If I look in the mirror and say, I need to be bigger, I need to eat more food. Now the hardest thing is just figuring out what type of food actually works for you to get bigger. I've noticed for me that if I just begin to eat more carbohydrates and a little more healthy fats, I will grow. Probably the past four months I realized that red meat doesn't work well with me. It just doesn't sit well in my stomach, it doesn't digest well. So I've moved to all-pultry products and fish. I've never had better digestion. The one thing that I've really fixated on and I preach to a lot of young kids is digestion, absorption, elimination. We all know about having bad elimination. So if something goes wrong in the elimination process, then go back to digestion and wherever you wait, probably didn't sit well and you realize it didn't come out right. And along that process, the absorption is the most important part. So if you're not absorbing all the nutrients properly, if something goes through your body too quickly, then you did them so that it would work. And if something's sitting in your stomach for too long, chances are you're not really absorbing anything at all because you're just going to keep feeding yourself because you're supposed to eat every three hours. So if something's not a green with my stomach, I just don't eat this year as a first time for me eating like this. I've never eaten like this before. I cut out all the oatmeal. The oatmeal is it's like, it's very glutinous, but in body-building, why do you eat oatmeal? Because everybody else eats it. I've kind of got away from that. I'm doing my own thing to test it out. The only way you're going to find out if your theory's work is to put them in reality. And right now, like I said, I'm in the phase of just trying to eat very clean foods. No gluten, no dairy, no preservatives. Don't do all organic because it's too expensive. I don't have that kind of money here. So I pretty much do all natural things. So I limit the amount of starch that I eat. So I eat a lot of brown rice, sweet potatoes, sweet potatoes, five once a day. I've also realized that any type of sweetener, the artificial sweetener is just they wreak havoc on the body. I'm not a scientist or a nutritionist to go into great detail of the actual terminology, but I can't say it just doesn't agree with me. So I don't eat it. In that place, I use all organic sugar. And I've noticed that I haven't gotten fat from it. I actually look better than I previously did eating 20 packets of Splenda a day. Even though there was no calories in it, I just didn't look the way I thought I should. And I mean, I'm eating 30 grams of sugar in the morning with my cream of rice and I actually look better than I previously did it 12 weeks out. My theories are working, but I just have to see how it goes as I get closer to the show. Last year, I noticed that I just didn't have the look that I previously did. And I think it was because of the overabundance of food that I was eating. My body just wasn't processing them correctly. So I just eat anything that agrees with me. If it doesn't agree with me, I don't eat it. Cheat meals consist of sushi. No more hamburgers in french fries. Not a lot of sweets. It's very simplistic. Some people think, God, that's a terrible way to live, but this is what I do. This is what I have to do. And I just kind of train myself to like it. What supplementation, the word says it all. It's a supplement. It supplements what we do no matter what type of training we're doing, whether it's CrossFit, just being in shape, bodybuilding, whatever it is, we all need to supplement because we're not normal people. We usually take our bodies to a limit that not many other people do and sometimes food isn't enough. For me, with supplements getting down and bear to it, it all depends on what you like. Getting this raw reverts back to if something doesn't feel right, then you should be doing. A way protein post workout or first thing in the morning is very important because first thing in the morning whenever we wake up as body goes with so much muscle in our bodies is your body is in a catabolic state for however long you've been sleeping. So if you are in a grow phase, it's very smart to get some type of very quick digesting and absorbing protein such as way isolate. Again, after you're done working out, everybody needs to get their protein in high, prefer protein powder. First thing in the morning, I usually take a couple of scoops of amino acids. amino acids are the building blocks of proteins and muscle. So you need to stay consistent with some type of amino acid. A pre-workout is always important. A lot of people that have a full work schedule throughout their day and then they go to the gym at 5, 6, 7 o'clock in the evening after they just work 10 hours, you kind of need to pick me up to go to the gym. Who doesn't like to have a pump like that? I mean, Arnold pointed the phrase that I'm not sure I'm going to say right now, but everybody knows which one I'm talking about, you know, the pump having the pump. So that's what makes this fun. That's what makes the gym a dicking and for you to actually have that good quality feeling. I believe that a good pre-workout does create that. This workout depends again where you're at. Creatine is always good to have and I'm not trying to really grow that much show. Creatine would be an off-season thing for me and you really can't go wrong with that. There's a lot of products on the market and it's up to everybody to find the right one for that. A lot of people said I couldn't do it. Pretty much everybody except a select group of people said I couldn't do it. Having to wake up every morning to 5 a.m. Do your cardio to eat the consistently to stay consistent with everything to train hard. And to come into the gym with the same driving in your head is extremely difficult. Negativity has gotten me so far, but you always can't think the world's against you because it's not. It's a work in progress and bodybuilding, you're always just trying to beat yourself. You just want to make sure that you go out and consistently produce something better than you previously did. Make sure that you're better in your previous show. See what works best for you and trying to take yourself to the next level. Then result is just to continue to do this, continue to motivate people, continue to use the position that a man in our positive manner. That's it for me and my philosophy is on training, nutrition, and supplementation. If you have any questions for me, you can check me out on Facebook, on Seth Furrow C or Seth Furrow C fan page or you can check me out on my body space page. And for more content like we just did here, just keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Sexy Shoulders： Ali Rosen's Shoulder Workout - Bodybuilding.com [hL6x_6Vy5oU].txt ===

Hey guys, Ali Rosin here, teambodybuilding.com athlete, I think you can eat pro. I'm here to show you my favorite workout and that's my shoulder workout. I use this for competing. I use this during my off season and to build muscle. For today's shoulder workout, we have three supersets, one straight set. Each exercise we're going to be doing three to four sets with rep range being 15 to 20 reps, minimal rest, which means it's going to be from 45 seconds to 60 seconds. The total shoulder workout for today should be about 45 minutes long. So now we're going to get into our warm-up exercise. For this exercise, I warm up my rotator cups. Very important for a shoulder exercise. So for my warm-up, I warm up my wrist first, 15 to 20 reps. After I do my 15 to 20 twists on my wrist, I'll go up and I'll do 10 reps per rotator cup. Just like this. Make sure you squeeze outside and inside, really working out that rotator cup. I use 10 weights right now. It's a little heavy, but it's good. I put some pressure on my rotator cup and my wrist so I get some pump. So it's too light. You're really not getting the value of warming up with muscles. If you've never warmed up your rotator cup before or your wrist, I would suggest warming up with about 3 to 5 pound weights, getting used to the motion. And then when you continue to do it, you'll see increased weights. For our first exercise today, it'll be a superset. A superset is two exercises back to back with no rest. I start with both arms up and I make sure I squeeze at the top. I do a little bit lighter of a weight with this one, just because it's my first exercise. And I want to get the burn started, but not fail right away. If you think this is too easy for you, you can increase it during your second or third set. For a second exercise of this superset, I do standing lateral raises. I increase the weight to help me go to failure. I want to make sure you squeeze at the top. You really get that burn. I like to tilt them at the top because they get more of the rear delts. In between the superset, I do about 45 to 60 seconds rest. And then I start with my second set of my superset. That's it for my superset on to the next exercise seated dumbbell overhead press. For my seated dumbbell press, I'm going to do four sets with 15 to 20 reps. When I start to get 15, I will drop my weight and go to a lighter weight so I finish my rep range. So as you guys saw, for my first set, I didn't have to drop my weight. For this one, I probably will. Okay, guys. That was it for our only straight set onto our next which will be a superset. This superset, I'm doing upright row, followed by plate front raises with a burnout steering wheel. A good trick to know where your hands should be. You put your fingers together and then you curl them back. You lift up and make sure elbows are above the bar and you go down. For the second part of this exercise, we'll be doing front plate raises with a burnout of steering wheel. So that completes this exercise onto our last and final superset which focuses on rear doubts. So for our last and final exercise, I will be doing standing, cable reverse fly, superseted with dumbbell bent over flies. I'll be doing about four sets, 15 to 20 reps. With these, it's really important that you squeeze when you pull out to really feel and activate the rear doubt. For these, I like to tip my arms up when I go up and I tip them down and up so I get more of the rear doubt action. Okay, so this is our last and final sets of the workout. Right now your shoulder should be on fire and burning and when you're done, you're going to feel like if a great workout. So that's it. For this shoulder workout, I recommend doing this about one to leave and I usually pair it with abs. It's a really great exercise. If there are some weeks where you're missing a day or two, it's okay because there's a lot of compound movements and a lot of reps to failure. The details of this workout are provided on the page below. You can print it out or look it up on your phone and take it with you to the gym. For more articles, workout videos and content, please come back to buybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Shane Raymond's Full Fitness Plan -  Fitness 360： British Beast - Bodybuilding.com [otbn8yOJbb0].txt ===

I am Shane Raymond, I'm 30, I'm the natural bodybuilding champion and from hitching in Hartfordshire which is just north of London. I started training really just to get into shape and to look good really and I've always been quite into sports and stuff like this paper football and an again. So I've really started weight training until I left school around about 17, so I've been training now for that for 13 years. But I've been training for a number of years before actually, I started competing because to be honest, I think we need to know much about bodybuilding competitions. I just thought bodybuilding competitions were like a lot of guys taking gear and stuff and it's not something I wanted to get into. So I've already been building up this league for the stage, I was building it to look good. It's only when natural British championing come out to me and say basically I should think about competing and up for a softball, well it's not really my thing to me to suggest it like natural shows and that, and I thought yeah I'm lucky for that. First ever competition I took the overall at a local show as a central being the F also I'm a category and the later on in that year I took the novice British title the FIA as well. I wanted to have you weight title in 2010 and got run right through overall and in the British in 2010 as well for the being there I took second pace in the final. I don't look at training as just bodybuilding exercises. I believe as a bodybuilding a new to it, sort of like incorporate a lot more training with this into your overall training. I mean myself I do I do powerly of being I do like high volume stuff I do a lot of pre-exhaust stuff and I mix in it, it's sort of like a rotation in each week and my training is different. I believe you need all that in your training to build it all around thick balance for week. My typical week of training would be basically two days on and then one day I'll say I'll train the Monday and the Tuesday I'll have a rest down the Wednesday and the Thursday and the Friday and I do my training is a major and the minor body parts split so I'd always train sort of like a major part for example the chest of the biceps and then I train legs on my own, like hamstrings and put them Tuesday and the wings that have failed. Sometimes I wouldn't go down the gym at all but it depends on the good for competition I'll do like a kido and gym when I'm saying that I'll be it. And then on the first day I'd probably train delts and abs and I'm Friday's I do that in tri-sex and I believe that this split works well from the above because a lot of people I speak to, they tend to train like chest and biceps or chest and triceps together. I'm different I like to train chest and biceps together because you're using the tri-sits working just anyway. Then to go and do a like a tricep workout I feel that you're overturning your tricep because it's more of a muscle group. That's the sort of split I tend to use. When I come to like a sticking front I'll plateau my training. I tend to sort of like throw something totally different into the next something put quite random like um say I was doing like an approved zors week forever and I would do like a nice isolation reason before a compound reason. I would do sort of like the pre-exorse would be the same but when I'm going to lock a new compound new then I'd lift a lot heavier. So therefore the pre-exorse part of my routine is the same but the heavier compound part of it would be heavier so I wouldn't necessarily get more reps out at the time but I'd put the muscle under more stress and I'd un-offstick it that for a few weeks and then to see where it happens so it happens pretty much. The workout I'm going to be doing today is called GVT which is German volume training. It's pretty much just high volume training using this one exercise which is the normal compound exercise and it's basically short rest periods and you're using sort of like 6% of you have one rep max. It's a sort of like training method I use like once every every third week sort of thing and even though you're not in the gym for long performing the um workout when you leave the gym you feel like you have been in there for a while because it's really taxing on the um on the physique. The first exercise I'll be doing today would be um flat bench as it's going to be 10 sets of 10 with a rest period of um 60 seconds in between. One of the exercises I'm going to do today is I was going to be in incline dumbbell press which is performed with um a moderate sort of weight and basically it's the target the upper chest region. It'll give you that thick top part the chest you see like sticks out the top of the t-shirt. The third and final exercise I'm going to do today would be um cross over cable fly and that's to do with stretching the fascia so I don't normally go very heavy on this exercise but I do sort of like a higher rep range and also concentrate in more on stretch as well as the screws. After the chest I'm exercising that I've moved into a bicep exercise and this would be a B&E Z curl. I'll daily do probably around about five sets on this like the like a high volume and could you tell me a mine a muscle group you don't really need a lot to still make muscle growth in that region. The secondary bicep move I'll probably do would be um dumbbell hammers which targets the outer side of the bicep and it gives you that peak. You don't want to really feel like you're on a diet in my eyes you need to be feeling strong enough to train. It's no point being in a diet where you can't train strong or you can't train to your full potential. Dying in a lot of people think dieting you means basically being hungry all the time and I feel for me a long healthy clean diet is the best approach. The matter meals I a day depends on all if it's a weekday or when you can in a weekday is I'm getting up quite early so I'm getting up around about quarter to five in the morning so I'll start eating around about five and every literally every two and a half hours after that I'm having a source of protein or source of carbohydrates and sometimes a bit of fruit as well with that but you should have a balanced diet. I don't necessarily believe in like a zero carb diet or a high fat diet I believe everything should be within each meal of your diet which have your vaccination, your carbs and age, your proteins and then you should eat everything you need in each meal throughout the day and I'll find that work for me. A cheat day was just I'll put in here anything I want a protein closer to the competition like 12 weeks then I start monitoring my cheat meals more. I sort of like have a cleaner cheat meal and not a cheat day as such and at the same time I'll wait my food always measure my food I know is that in a matter of calories I'm taking every day each day and what they are so if I do need to make any adjustments I know certain things I need to adjust or think. I perfect cheat meal and being probably be a Chinese or something where you've got different tastes and different spices and stuff like that a lot of people just stick to pizza but half over a pizza I'll probably get bored and I'll eat it anyway but I'll get bored. Stufflementation is very important I think which I found because believe in I haven't been taking supplements for that long but once I did take start taking supplements I know did a big and I continue to do a lot of learning research into supplements almost the best I take and it's not only just taking supplements is important it's a time when you get a supplements in and what supplements you take of different supplements does that's the thing and well people aren't realise that sometimes different supplements care and react and they're clashed together and the body's don't absorb it as well so it should do so it's not just supplementation and protein it's also a timing and what supplementation you take to give up. In supplements I'll take on a data-right debate today basis would be a grenade back then personally in the morning for my personal and also take 10-ground-gill glue to me way I'll just look creative if a less star I find that creative if a less star you don't get the water potential is much and the creating blow is much and taking that. Pre-training I'll take 50 calibre I'll glue them in again, 8-and-b post training I'd have like a waxing maze with food and then again, a H&B I mean the acids try it a bit time I'll take 4 caps as well as the amazing thing make tricks I'll take a multi-gill in the and I'll also supplementation with food overall which is basically just a me the 36 and 9. And if someone came to me and asked me for advice and training and supplement the top three supplements I'll will suggest would be if you want to burn fat would be grenades definitely a way I'll definitely definitely help glue them because they're the most important supplements I feel need. If you want to know more about my training, my nutrition and my supplementation knowledge check me out good bait. dog Сales landing the dead 你撒死撒死 Oh! Ah, I'm dead! Oh, oh, oh! No, no, no, no, no, no! Hey! 3! Oh! Ah! Hey! Oh! Oh! Ah! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh!

=== FILE: Shoulder Anatomy & Training Program ｜ Built by Science [dOQ2RRP0euE].txt ===

You are now to me is a blue print. You are an architect beneath your skin like the plant for your fastest, strong, and the longest, most powerful sound. If you can learn the structure of your skeleton, you may cut of your muscle and the mechanics of movement. You can create your best possible body. How my corroborate sin, this is built by science. Men and women alike want to build in a aesthetically appealing set of shoulders. Whether you calm cannonball delts, folder shoulders, or mushroom caps, the end of the day, if you want to build a great set of shoulders, you have to keep them injury free and healthy as well. In my field, one of the worst injuries you can have is a shoulder injury because it is going to keep you from doing so many of your favorite lifts in the gym. In this episode, we are not only going to cover the muscular anatomy, the bones and the joints, the movements and the key exercises that you are going to follow, but we are also going to show you some key things that are going to help keep your shoulders healthy and moving the way that you want for a lifetime. With us here today is WBFF Fitness Pro Gen Jewel. She has got a great looking physique, a great looking set of shoulders, and she is going to help both you and I better understand the anatomy and function of your shoulders. Let's go ahead and dive into the muscular anatomy of your shoulders. One of the best ways to understand this is to think of peeling an onion. On the outer most layer of your onion, you have what are called your deltoids. And these are the big shoulder muscles that most people are interested in building in the gym. So I am going to use a gym here, and just to give you guys an idea, you have got three heads to your deltoids. You have an anterior head, a middle head, and a posterior head. So the anterior head runs from your clavicle or your collarbone, comes down, and a cross, and ends up on your humerus or your arm bone. So it starts at the top or front of your clavicle comes down and a cross. The second is what is called your middle deltoid. So I am going to have a gym just to give you a little quarter turn here. And if you can imagine, this actually runs from the top of your scapula, or your acromion process of your scapula, comes down, and it also attaches on the outer portion of your arm. Last but not least, you have what is called your posterior deltoid. And I will show this on gynsopsit side here. But if you can imagine on the backside of her scapula, it is a scapula spine or that ridge on your shoulder blade, that is where your posterior deltoids start. And it comes down and across, and it also ends up on your humerus or upper arm bone. Now that we have covered your deltoids, I want you to imagine having that on you, right? The deltoids are the outside portion of your on you. And if you peel away that top layer underneath, you are left with a deep layer. And that is what is essentially called your rotator cuff, or your rotary cuff if you are from Indiana like I am. When you are talking about your rotator cuff, there are four muscles that I want you guys to envision. It is going to be kind of hard to see on gym because they are deep to your deltoids, but I am going to point them out to you anyways. The rotator cuff is comprised of your infraspinatus, right? And that is a big muscle that spans the outside portion of your scapula. Underneath your infraspinatus, you have a smaller muscle called your terries minor. The next muscle we are going to talk about is called your superspinatus. And it runs from the top of your scapula, comes down, and it attaches to the inside of your humerus or your arm bone. Last but not least, if you can imagine looking straight through gym and seeing the front side of your shoulder blade, you have got another big muscle there called your sub scapula errors. So the way I remember the rotator cuff muscles are the acronym 6. Superspinatus, infraspinatus, terries minor, sub scapula errors. Remember, we have covered two major muscle groups, the deltoids and the rotator cuff. Now that you have a better understanding of the actual muscles, let's take a look at the bones and joints involved in creating those movements around your shoulder. I'm going to have a ginger to give us a quarter turn here. And the first thing we are going to talk about is what is called your thoracic spine, or your middle back. There is 12 vertebrae here, and if you can imagine they essentially start at the base of your neck, come down, and try to get a little more of the strength of your spine. And I'll tell you, if you can see, if you can see, it's going to be a little bit more important. I'm going to tell you what you want to do, and if you can see, I'm going to show you how to do this. If you can see, it's going to be a little bit more important. I'm going to show you how to do this. And if you can imagine they essentially start at the base of your neck, come down, and they end about the top of your lower back. So you've got 12 vertebrae here, and while you may not think they're important, those vertebrae attached to ribs, and then you have your scapula, or your shoulder blade, which rests on top of that thoracic spine. So if you can imagine you've got your scapula right here, and it just kind of rests on the top of your thoracic spine. Last but not least, you have your humerus, or your arm bone. And if you can imagine, your humerus is this long upper arm bone. Now, when you're starting to create actual movements, you're scapula, and your humerus work together to create motion. And as you can imagine, there's a ton of freedom of movement. Your shoulder, like your hip, is a ball and socket joint. So they kind of move into each other like so, and then from that position, you've got tons of freedom of movement. You can flex your shoulder, or raise it overhead. You can extend it, bringing it back down towards your side. You can abduct it, or lift it away from your body. You can abduct it, or add to your body by bringing it closer to the midline. And then last but not least, you have external rotation, or opening your arm up, as well as internal rotation. So as you guys can imagine, there's a ton of freedom of movement at your shoulders. Mobility is absolutely critical, but now you guys should have a better understanding of how all those bones and joints work together to create more fluid movement. The next step is to show you guys all these movements with real functions so you can tie the muscles and the bones and joints together to see how it's going to look when you get into the gym. Now that you have a better idea of how you're scapula or shoulder blade and your humerus or that glino-humeral joint work together to create motion, let's take a look at the individual muscles and the functions that they can do for you. When we're starting off here, we're going to start with your anterior deltoid. And as your recall, it starts on the outer portion of your clavicle, comes down, attaches to your humerus, so it spans that glino-humeral or shoulder joint. So when you're in the gym, you're probably used to doing or seeing people do a front raise. So that's where you're really going to bring out your anterior del. It's not just your anterior del, though, it's also the clavicular portion of your pecs. So these two muscles are working together to create shoulder flexion. Now it only makes sense if you got your anterior del and it creates shoulder flexion, your posterior del or the back side of that muscle, it's going to do the opposite. It's going to create shoulder extension. Last but not least, you've got your middle del and it runs from the top of your scapula comes down and it attaches to your humerus. And if you've ever done a side ladder or something like that in the gym, that's where you're going to see that middle del being isolated. Now keep in mind, we've covered some isolated movements, but anytime you take your arms overhead as you would in a seated military or any kind of overhead press, you're going to be using all three of your deltoid heads synergistically to create that movement. Now that we've covered the deltoids, let's take a look at the individual functions of the rotator cuff. Now one thing I want you guys to understand, a lot of times, when we're talking about the rotator cuff, people want to talk about internal and external rotation. So when we're talking about the shoulder, you've got internal rotation and you have external rotation. Now that's not to be confused with if I've been gym's elbow just a little bit here, you can actually pronate and supinate your hand as well without necessarily rotating your shoulder. So keep in mind when you've got the arms straight and you're moving from the shoulder, that's where we're talking about internal and external rotation. So with that being said, you've got your sub-scapularis and that's that muscle that starts on the inside of your shoulder blade. It's responsible for internally rotating your shoulder or turning it inwards on a long axis. So if you've got your sub-scap internally rotating, you gotta have something on the back side that externally rotates. So I'm going to have Jin spin around here. And if you can imagine on the back side, you've got your infraspinatus and you have your Terry's minor. So if she's internally rotated and I externally rotate her shoulder, that's where you're going to turn on an engage, your infraspinatus and your Terry's minor. Now last but not least, if we're talking about ABduction of the shoulder, you remember you've got your super spinatus and it kind of runs along the top of your scapula or your shoulder blade. It's there to AB duct or lift your arm away from your side. And a lot of times if you read the research and I'm a geek, I read research, it'll tell you that super spinatus is responsible for about the first 30 degrees of ABduction. Now we've gotten kind of geeky and we've talked about internal rotation, external rotation, ABduction, that's all fine and dandy. But when we talk about your rotator cuff, arguably the truest role is to create stability throughout your shoulder joint. So if I just had Jin's arm hanging out here and I pull on her arm a little bit, her rotator cuff works almost like a tractor beam. It's pulling her shoulder back into the socket. So you guys think about when you do a dumbbell row or when you do a chin up and you get long through your arm, your rotator cuff is naturally turning on to create stability throughout your shoulder joint. So while you can do all kinds of isolated movements, if your shoulder and your rotator cuff are doing what they're supposed to, it's not going to take a lot of necessary isolated training to get the kind of result that you're looking for. Now that we've covered the muscles, the joints in the function of your deltoids in your shoulders, let's put it all together into a few key exercises that we selected to help you best understand how to do this. Now that we've covered the muscles, the joints in the function of your deltoids in your shoulders, let's put it all together into a few key exercises that we selected to help you best understand how to apply this stuff when you're in the gym. Now keep in mind, this is simply for demonstration purposes. Jin's going to make it look easy and we couldn't get the 100 pound dumbbells in here for the overhead presses. But overhead pressing is a fantastic exercise. It's really going to help you build all of those deltoid heads, so that's going to be the first exercise that we demonstrate here today. Okay, I'm going to go ahead and have Jin pick up the dumbbells. One of the things that's most important when you're overhead pressing is a good setup. A lot of times, all Q my clients and athletes to go with their feet about hip shoulder with the part, get their abs nice and tight and their butt nice and tight. When they do this, they've got a really solid foundation, which is not only going to help them move more weight, but it's also going to help them keep their lower back healthy as well. So Jin's going to go ahead and bring the dumbbells up to her shoulders, abs tight, butt tight, and then from this position, she's just going to push straight up overhead. Now, it looks pretty simple, but the devil is really in the details. Keep the abs tight in the butt tight throughout, nice control and motion throughout. And if for any reason you do have shoulder issues and overhead pressing gives you some shoulder pain, what I would suggest doing is turning your thumbs or your palms towards you, going to a more neutral grip. This is just going to give that rotator cuff a little bit more room to breathe, and it's going to take some stress off the shoulders as well. When you're overhead pressing, don't forget you're literally using all three heads of your deltoids to create the movement. The posterior del, the middle del, and finally the anterior del toy. Now, you'll probably see lots of people banging away with tons of isolation exercises at the gym. Trust me, I get it, I love those exercises too. But if you want to maximize the growth and development of your deltoids, you gotta make sure you're throwing a big compound overhead press in your lift. Last but not least, when people go overhead, some people have a tendency to have pain, dysfunction, or they just don't move particularly well into that range of motion. If that's the case, make sure you're getting that checked out, make sure your mobility, and your overhead range of motion is there before you go full steam ahead with your overhead press. So the first exercise we demonstrated was an overhead press, and that should be a staple. But the second exercise and final exercise that we're going to demonstrate here today is a bent over lateral raise. And I really like this because it helps isolate the posterior deltoid or the back of the shoulder. So, Jens is going to go ahead and set up with these dumbbells here. And what I like to cue my clients to do is soften these and hips back, like you would in Romanian deadlift or straight leg deadlift. And from this position, she's simply going to lift the arms up and out to the side. And that's where you're going to hit that posterior deltoid. Right? And you can see she's got great control here too often. When people do this exercise, they use way too much weight, and it's just all momentum. So she's doing a great job of holding that top, holding that peak contraction, and then relaxing as she goes back down. So these muscles are typically pretty weak. Don't worry about going super heavy when you're in the gym. Go lighter, do it right, and you're going to get way more out of the exercise. Now keep in mind, we've only highlighted two shoulder exercises in this episode. You want to see all the exercises we've selected. Make sure to download the full six week built by science program. In this video, we've covered the muscles, the joints, the function, and some key exercises for your shoulders. But if I can give you guys one takeaway point, it's awesome to have a great looking set of shoulders. It would be really strong through your shoulder joints. But the bad news is, if you injure these guys, you're in big trouble. Not only can you not train shoulders, you can't train chest, you can't train back, and even think about legs. A lot of times when you're back squatting, you're putting pressure on that shoulder joint. So it's not just important to build these for the aesthetic or strength purposes, but you gotta keep them healthy as well. So when it comes to your shoulders, make sure you're taking the time and energy to warm up thoroughly before you go through the workouts. So you keep yourself healthy and you can keep pushing the iron for as long as you want. With that being said, that's a wrap on this video. Make sure you watch all the videos because we go into the same amount of depth and detail to show you how all the different muscles in your body work. Run muscular and not too bad. Buy your mechanics, the calc. The skeletal system. It's muscle function, and the best exercises to build lean mass mass. Knowledge is power, know yourself to build yourself. Build yourself with the best. Mind, muscle, masterpiece.

=== FILE: Shoulder Smash Workout ｜ IFBB Pro Jessie Hilgenberg's [0zQUhK1V4qY].txt ===

Hi, I'm Jesse Helgenberg, IFBB Figure Pro and teambodybuilding.com athlete. I am a graphic designer and also a competition coach and I have been featured in magazines such as Oxygen Magazine, Mascellan Fitness HERS, and Iron Man Magazine. My whole entire life I've had biceps and great calves and really great legs and I've had a six pack forever but my shoulders I just had little string beans. I had good biceps and triceps but I didn't have any delts and for me to compete and figure I had to take my training to a different level and actually kind of sculpt out a new look for my body and part of that was building my back, creating a VTaper and building big huge round caps to my shoulders and that's why I've been working on her for a few years. Today we are at Body Renew Fitness in Meridian, Idaho and I'm going to take you through my shoulder workout today focusing on big compound movements for that strength and size a little bit of medial delt work to build those big round shoulders so let's go. Our first exercise today is Incline Barbell Press. I usually use a barbell and a rack for this but today my only option is a Smith machine but it's totally fine I like to be able to mix it up ever once in a while anyhow. I pick this for my first exercise because it's a big compound exercise that recruits a lot of different muscles so I like to have the most strength for it in the very beginning of my workout. This is our first working set I've added 50% more weight than my warm-up set and I'm going to do three sets of about 12 reps. And if you see how my elbows don't totally lock out at the top that's how I'm keeping tension on my shoulders through the entire exercise. I use my rest periods to stretch the muscles that I'm working usually takes me about 45 seconds. The compound exercise that I chose for the very beginning is Incline Barbell Press because I don't train chest very often. It's a great one to get in a little bit of upper chest but it's also a great compound exercise for your front delts. All right this is the second exercise today and it's one of my favorite exercises. It's a 45 degree barbell shoulder press. You can do this in any gym all you need is a 45 pound barbell and you can just shove it into a corner or into a piece of equipment like I've done here. I'm going to do three sets of 12 to 15 reps on each arm. You want to keep your core tight and your shoulders square. You're cur'd a lot of muscle for this one. You're in a little bit of a squat so you're using your core, your legs, and your shoulder. I love this one because it's still compound exercise but I'm working my way around my shoulder. So I started with a little bit of upper chest front delts and now I'm switching my grip to a hammer grip and I'm pressing a little bit more overhead kind of coming to the top of my delts working my way around and to get a really good well-rounded shoulder workout. I take about 30 to 45 seconds rest in between each set and in between each arm and I stretch out the muscles being worked before I get going. The reason that I take a rest in between each arm on that exercise is because it is such a big compound exercise. If it was more of an isolation exercise like a lateral fly I could just kind of go back and forth really easily there without resting between arms but for that one it's such a compound heavy movement and I'm lifting it pretty heavy. I need rest in between and I want to stretch out that muscle. I start with the front delts just because I want to get the chest exercise out of the way in the very beginning. Being at that incline it hits more of your front delts and then I start working my way to more compound all over shoulders and then I start getting into the little isolation exercise like medial delts and rear delts. When I am confronted with something like that I don't want to lift weights because I don't want to get huge. I usually just flip it right around and say, do like the way I look. You're talking to me for a reason you're asking me for fitness advice for a reason and they said, yes I would love to have your arms. I would, you know I want to know I'll do whatever it takes to get that well it takes lifting heavy and it takes time in consistency and intensity and you know women we don't get huge we don't we don't have the jeans to get big we just get awesome. For a third exercise we're doing seated dumbbell shoulder press. As you can see throughout the entire workout I have very quite a bit from unilateral bilateral using barbells dumbbells and machines. I'm going to do three sets of 12 reps I don't walk out my elbows at the top and I also don't bring my dumbbells together at the top. Doing that helps me keep my traps out of it and just keeps all of that tension on the medial delts. I need to focus a lot on growing my shoulders as much as possible and rounding out and capping off my delts. So if you kind of look closely at the workout it is a very traditional workout. I don't do any sort of functional shoulder training. I'm focused on strength and growth and rounding that muscle out and you know forcing as much blood as I can into the muscle. So a lot of the moves are real traditional compound movements. I rest about 45 seconds in between sets and I use that time to stretch. Our next exercise is the rear delt fly on the reverse peck deck machine. I'm doing three sets of 12s here and I usually on this exercise I'll add weight as I go through the set. I love this one because I can brace my torso against the pad on the machine and really focus on just using my rear delts. So we're starting to work our way all the way around the shoulder working all the heads of the deltoid here. You want to make sure that on this exercise you keep a slight bend in your elbow during the exercise. If your elbows are locked you will incorporate too much tricep in the exercise. In between sets you want to make sure you stretch out your muscles being worked again. I always do that in between my sets and we're going to take about 45 seconds change the weight and go out of it again. The rear delt is a really great exercise to keep in your shoulder routine as it fills up the muscles in your back and kind of pulls your shoulders back a little bit opening the chest and appearing wider and broader on top. The most common question I get is how do I get my arms to look like that? You know how to get the physique like I have and I just always say you know lift heavy lift with intensity and create a lifestyle out of it. Eat clean and go to bodybuilding.com. Next exercise is side dumbbell lateral raises. We're getting to end of the workout now so I'm focusing more on isolation exercises and I pick this one because it really focuses on that medial deltoid and helps round out my shoulder. I do three sets of 12 reps here. It's not a big compound exercise so I'm okay with my rest being a little bit shorter and I just move from arm to arm and I take my 30 second rest in between set to after I've done both arms. I don't use any momentum and the movement is really slow and really controlled. One thing I want to point out with this exercise is you want to focus away from all the momentum. That's why I like using one arm instead of two so you're not inclined to use a whole bunch of momentum to lift the weights. I don't take any rest from arm to arm but I do take a 30 second rest in between sets. I think intensity is almost everything. Intensity to me isn't you know grunting and screaming and throwing weights. That's not intensity at all to me. Intensity is how heavy you're lifting how hard you're working, how shorter your rest periods and how effective was you workout? Did you walk out knowing that you chit-chatted you know five minutes between every set and you know just kind of did some cardio and left or do you go in the gym and you get you get it done and you get out and you just know that you're going to have changes. Your body will change if you go into the gym with intensity every single time. I like leaving the gym knowing that I absolutely destroyed my delts so on shoulder day I like to pick a finisher exercise. One of my favorite and most effective techniques is what I call running the rock. It's really similar to a pyramid style of exercise. I start with 25 pound dumbbells and I'm going to do Arnold presses the entire time. 25 pound dumbbells are picked for me because I know that I can do at least four to five reps with them. So I do those four to five reps with the 25 pound dumbbells. I drop them. I grab the 20s. I do as many reps as I can with that. Drop those, pick up the 15s. Do as many reps as I can with that. Drop it, grab the 10s as many reps as I can again. Drop that and I finish with as many reps as I can with the five pound dumbbells. Then I take a 60 second break. I stretch the muscles being worked. After that 60 seconds has passed. I start all the way at the bottom with the lightest weight. I do as many reps as I can and I keep doing that all the way back up until I've done as many reps as I can again with the 25 pound dumbbells and then I'm done. With Arnold presses you start with your palms facing you, ground your feet and keep your core really tight. Don't let your elbows drop too far down and don't walk out at the top. By adding a finisher like that to my shoulder day it really just gets the job done for me and just completely exhaust the muscle and I feel like I have done my job. I can't hold the steering wheel in my car my way home from the gym and there's all sorts of techniques for finishing. When tip that I would give that I think is really important to anybody starting out is to choose one source. Whether you have a personal trainer, a nutritionist, whether you're just following a program on bodybuilding.com, pick that one thing and stick with it the whole entire time. That's the end of our workout. Typically a workout like you watch today should take you between 45 minutes and an hour. If you have any questions about what you watch today or any other fitness related nutrition motivational tips you can find me on body space. My username is Jesse Fitness. You can also follow me on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram and for more content like this, check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Shoulder-Gains Workout ｜ IFBB Pro Jake Alvarez [6EqI5V8AUp8].txt ===

I used to be a shy skinny kid. Then I found bodybuilding. Now I am an IFBB pro in Mensozy. I am Jake Alvarez. I can help you build your best self. Today's workout we're going to be working on shoulders. However, we're going to be emphasizing a lot on the posterior delts or rear delts. Your shoulders comprise of three heads. Your anterior, which is a front, your lateral, which is the side and your posterior. In my opinion, I feel like a lot of people emphasize so much on their anterior and their medial heads. And they neglect their posterior head. Stracting your posterior delts will help with your overall shoulder development and help prevent injury. Today we're going to be doing four exercises. The first exercise is going to be shoulder double press. The second exercise is going to be bent over side raise. Third exercise is going to be cable face pulls. And the last and fourth exercise is going to be reverse pectac. Today's workout is only going to be tick about 30 minutes. We're sitting about one minute between each set. All right, let's start this workout. Exercise one, we're going to be doing shoulder double press. We're going to start with one warm-up set, four working sets, and one burnout set. For a working set, we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps to failure. Sour of this workout, what I typically do is I get the dumbbells. Put them on my knees. I kick one dumbbell at a time towards my shoulders. Stabilize it. Get the elbow on up and then push up both together. I do this because I want to prevent any injuries and safely get them up to perform this workout. Once I get the dumbbells up over my head, I drop the weights down until I'm about 90 degrees. It brings them straight back up. When I do my burnout set, what I typically do is I go back to my warm-up weight. Then I try to hit pretty much as much as I can to failure. Exercise two, we're going to be doing bent over side raises. Just like exercise one, we're going to be doing one warm-up set, four working sets, and one burnout set. While working sets, we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps. To set up to do the bent over side raise, what I typically do is I sit at the edge of a bench, bend over so my head is down. Try to pop my shoulders out so I'm trying to activate my rear delts. And I do the reverse fly with my fingers up. When I do this, I only go up just as far as I feel my posterior delts contract. I do see it over standing just because I have a lot more control isolating the rear delts. For a third exercise, we're going to be doing cable face pulls. Just like all the other exercises, we're going to be doing one warm-up set, four working sets, and one burnout set. We're going to be increasing the rep range for these working sets to twelve to fifteen. What I like to do is I like to do it on the ground. By doing it on the ground, I'm not activating any of my other muscles, I'm not using my back. I'm just isolating my posterior delts and focusing on the contraction. When I start off this workout, I grab both ends of the rope with an overhand grip. I try to keep my lower back on the floor. I pull both ends of the rope straight to my forehead. And I try to hold it for about one and a half seconds. Let go slowly and repeat the process. The fourth and final exercise is reverse pectech. Just like the other exercises, we're doing one warm set, four working sets, and one burnout set. For working sets, we're going to be doing eight to twelve reps. When you set up your seat on the reverse pectech machine, what you want to do is you want to make sure that your shoulders and your arms are aligned. The only pivot point is going to be at your shoulder. Each person is going to be a little bit different. You want to just make sure that at the top of each rep you're squeezing your posterior delts. For the burnout set, I jump back to my warm up weight and try to hit 15 to 25 or to failure. In general, as far as any workout, I just like to make sure that I try to keep my muscles on their toes. So they never really know what to expect. So if you want to take a little workout, I could probably do maybe once a week focusing on the posterior delts. And then maybe on another part of the week, focus on the anterior medial. The full workout breakdown is on the page below. If you have any questions for me about this workout, you can contact me on my body space, which is J-A-Y-K, or on my Instagram, which is at drugjake. For more free videos and articles like this, come back to Bodybuilding.com. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Side Lateral Raise - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [LT1Eo-q58yg].txt ===

To start hold a dumbbell in each hand and stand up straight, the dumbbells will rest at your sides at arms length while the palms of your hands face you. This will be your starting position. Now maintaining a stationary torso, exhale and lift the dumbbells to your side with a slight bend in your elbow. Your hands should be tilted slightly forward as if pouring a glass of water. Continue to raise the weight until your arms are parallel to the floor. While spurred brief moment at the top, then inhale and slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: Sit Up - Core ⧸ Abs - Bodybuilding.com [10mp1wusuzM].txt ===

Line your back in place your feet firmly on the ground. Your legs should be bent at the knees. Place your hands beside your head. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your upper body to create a V shape with your thighs. Once you feel the contraction hold for a brief pause, then inhale and lower your body back slowly to the starting position.

=== FILE: Smith Machine Squat - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [_jcAAqMMtnc].txt ===

First, set the bar to a height that best matches your height. Once you've selected the correct height and loaded up the bar, step under the bar and place it on the back of your shoulders. Hang on to the bar with both arms at your sides and the palms of your hands facing forward. Unlock the weight and lift it off the rack by simultaneously pushing with your legs and straightening your torso. Position your legs in a shoulder width stance with your toes pointed slightly out. Be sure to keep your head up at all times and maintain the straight back. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and begin to slowly lower the weight by bending your knees while maintaining a straight posture with your head up. Continue to lower down until you form around a 90 degree angle with your upper legs and calves. Be sure to not let your knees pass your toes while lowering the weight. Finally, exhale and raise the bar back to the starting position. Use the balls of your feet to press the weight up while simultaneously straighten your legs as well. When you're finished, lock the bar back on the rack.

=== FILE: Something New is Coming to Bodybuilding.com [zH9F32HOols].txt ===

It's a sales broker.

=== FILE: Soy Protein Guide - Bodybuilding.com [wGG3AFZpmn4].txt ===

Soye protein is actually extracted from soybeans, growing all over the world, and the way that's extracted or fractionated gives you a very high percent protein by weight with a lot of the other things found in soybeans like carbs and fat greatly reduced. In that islet or soy protein concentrate can be used as a protein source to support training especially for vegetarians. Soy protein becomes because it comes from a plant source can be used as a preferred or primary source of protein if you are vegetarian or a vegan who doesn't consume any animal protein sources or any animal foods. Because soy protein is easily digested and absorbed actually better than casing, you can use it as a protein source after intensive training to support recovery and promoting animal response. Soy protein has also been shown to be a very health or heart health promoting protein source because of its unique amino acid makeup and perhaps other ingredients called isopflabones that are found in soy protein. When you're looking at a soy protein look for the percent protein or look at the number of if it's just a protein powder by itself from soy protein the number of grams of the serving and the number of grams of protein you should have around 90% protein from the outchop powder because soy protein is not 100% protein. So the higher the percentage, especially if it's declared the higher the quality of actually getting protein from soy protein. For some people the isopflabones which are like flavonoids that are found in soy protein can be important especially for women that are seeking their effects on bone health and look there for the amount of isopflabones and there are two names for them, daydzing and genistine and that will tell you the amount of the isopflabones preserving if that's an important thing for your soy protein and choice. Protein from soy just like any other protein in amounts more than 20-25 grams may not lead to any additional antibody response muscle after intensive training. So if you consume a soy protein dose more than 20-25 grams, the additional amounts will likely be burned as a fuel or potentially could be going into making fat. The other thing to consider is what to combine it with. As with any other protein you can combine soy protein with anything else you want to, carbs, creatin, branch-chain amino acids, gloomy, anything else even other proteins to stack it up with.

=== FILE: Spartacus War Of The Damned - Arm Workout Interview - Bodybuilding.com [Fhsd41QsPzc].txt ===

Hey everybody building.com. It's Liam McIntyre from Spartacus War of the Damned here to tell you about the guy that changed my life changed my training changed my shape So his Tyrone Bell tell me a little bit about yourself. I am the official Spartacus trainer and I am the man responsible for what you see here Yeah, no Tyrone and I had an interesting little journey so We did How we meet? It was an adjim funny enough. Yeah, yeah Yeah It was an interesting time for me because I just lost all this weight for another film like 45 pounds So I was in the works for maybe getting this role and and and head of Stance our popleton was putting me through this crazy bootcamp training Which was Soul crushing but amazing and learning all you know really fundamentally amazing things, but we had to assess at the start Yeah, your skills are up-to-scratch for fight scenes for you know We had to know you had the enjoy the last the entire season, but unfortunately there's not the best You know as when it comes to packing on muscle. Yeah, so I got real fit Yeah, despite myself and as soon as you got the role then you know we were thrown the brief that you needed lean muscle mass You needed to be ready which went against all against our bootcamp training and we had taken to another sort of form of training Yeah, well, and ties the the master of hypertrophy training because I suppose you'd call it all there So the the hard task master of hypertrophy training. So I was I don't know I felt like I was in this I was in this room and working out that I had never trained up for the season and and ties I could only imagine so let's not make it It's gonna be a big job We met like once at the end of gods that you read it when I was test it goes that big yeah, yeah, and I mean I have the first move. Yeah, I looked at you and I was given the brief and Yeah, I was good. I know I'm good But I don't do miracles But you know not you don't argue with our problems because that guy's the business and he's like tight You know like making this and I'm sitting there going he was massive so it's gonna work out great This guy's built like a pretty she knows guys. I had it probably not You know this guy's massive so if anyone's gonna help me out with this guys good Meanwhile, I'm thinking ties broken on this excited design Like I said I know we it was a challenge because of the time frame Not only because we had to get you in peak form before shooting, but we had to you know We had to be training the entire time throughout the seasons and with the time frames who were given for training You know the workouts not only had to be effective But they had to be very very time conscious. Yeah. Yeah, so what we had to like we had shoot days when we started five We finished up at you know seven. Yeah, yeah We hit Jim it's the eight thirty and yeah those with those Yeah, and then there was times where it's like okay with your schedule you've got 20 minutes Yeah, it's like okay. This is our only chest session for this week We've got to make 20 minutes work. I'm sorry for two of the chest sessions But that's that's where we developed and We need to develop the 19 minute workout Yeah, where you had to get hypertrophy Results from 19 minutes. Yeah, we had to develop that and it worked not only for you Better for other cast members, but yeah, sure. Well, it's funny by the end of it Everyone just like lining up like I started off there and they're like are you training with fire? Okay, sure. Good. Have a good time I'm going down to my gym by the end of it for more of the day and everyone's like yeah Number taking a little bit of a threat. That's right. That's right. Yeah, I was like stay away from my dude It's my time. This is my time you should come here earlier But yeah, early days that was that was fun because I was like oh, this is gonna be great You know how high can it be right and yeah, yeah Time is all about hard and then then I introduced Liam to a reality yeah, and nutrition and nutrition. Oh yeah, I got a nickname the card Nazi for good reasons God, yeah, I would count and watch every calorie that went through your mouth Yeah, you mean at times that I'd be like I'd be at At the lunch table and like on Thursdays that something for decision watching you literally that Well, I just be staring at me like I'm like That's that's messed up. I got to get a new trader this guy This is gonna be a long season Just appear and I'd have like I'd have some latinos or anything that I was like just a potato. What's wrong? It's not tight proof. That's off. Yeah, it's not waterproof that yeah, even now Like it happened in happened today I'm like a Spartacus just finished, but he will pass the like a few Plates roll This is good But that that was probably to be honest that was 80% of your results was what you were eating I'm so tired right absolutely and especially when you were scheduled a so full on and then I'll work out So intense for that short period of time Recovery nutrition was paramount Yeah, I could understand because I just spent so long training with our populton who probably at the time very rightly was like more is more Just just worked to you can't work anymore That was then for where I was at was a really good mind state to get myself into Make you mentally hard. Yeah, yeah, yeah really tough and jump for when you know you have to do the work But times like all right, so if you want to grow some muscle mass we're gonna have to change this I don't like but no, no, no, I've got this worked out I know what to do. I'm gonna just gonna lift more. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's do it It's like if I put it into some training sessions like what are you gonna do now? I'm like I'm you're gonna sleep on you You got sleep. Yeah, I'm like yeah, so I'm gonna sleep So I own you for two seasons. Yeah, it was great Please And you know we'd I'd been early days. I'd be training and then I'd like I'll take a funny exercise I'll start doing some other things I already know what you're doing. You're wasting luck at your men So I think I eventually came around to it because spark as scheduled was hard to get the sleep in but Yeah, my good. Well that's that's what supplementation came in we had to do jale gloomy going You know, make sure your BC double laser in there Because yeah, you were a lot of the time to sleep the product which was unfortunate because you know You would have made even greater gains if you had more sleep on it Yeah, which I'm excited to see yeah, because you are gonna stick with it Excited to see You're gonna beat yeah Yeah, yeah, well me too. Yeah, that's the thing But that's what I mean like you actually changed the way I look at training and changed the way I'd died I changed the way I lived my life because you know I was a computer game nerd I don't know I know I still find that That's what makes it But you know, so I was weird like a week ago I was sitting in a hotel room going oh finally I got some time to play some games I'm sitting there with with a game I was playing and it was a great fun I looked at the clock going I really trained session in good. I've never had that thought But it's not with you. It's ingrained now. It's a lot of me now I'd play I'm like, I'll just put it off for a little bit I couldn't I couldn't do it. I was like and for the first time my life put the game down walked into the gym hit out a quick, you know 30 minutes dash and and and You know blew the chest apart so it was great and and I've just never been like that so proud now. I'm proud Thank you But it's a life-changing thing. I think that's the important thing that you got through it I was lucky enough to have you for because you would you would it like change Like change my perspective and that's the thing because like anyone can do a diet and anyone can just wait for a week But but you have to really change the way you think about training and I think that's what you absolutely You need you need to adapt that lifestyle It's not I mean, hey, you could have blown it. We could have got this done. You don't have a Spartacus in that So but now it's ingrained and it's a lifestyle now and you are always going to be busy Whether you're on a feature film or another TV series But you know now how to fit and effective workout effective training nutrition plan everything in Because you've adopted that lifestyle. Well, that's the gift though I mean, that's that's the benefit of having a guy that just isn't isn't very nice to you There was moments we don't need to talk about that in a school I got the nice guy thing going on Yeah, that doesn't that doesn't train kill a body Yeah, you're gonna be hard on yourself too, right you do you do you do you got to be honest because I sit there And I sit there with the chocolate cake going you and you know what I would say if you were here you know what you say See, that's good. You're not talking to your food. That's You got a connection. I'm like I'm just looking at all those empty calories. He's like oh there's sugar This fatty all those you know what those and But you know makes it makes it it's results. That's right. You know what so what's um What's your favorite session because I think I think we're on the same page with this Well, I can oh well I just remember when we were doing you know our 19 minute workouts because sometimes we're thrown I can't go as you got 20 minutes so that's where we developed that 19 minute workout I purchased for different muscle groups Cheers was always a challenge That's my challenge my challenge. That's right, but I think the you know that the most rewarding was always the arms I mean it's the beat myself about you in 19 minutes with that recipe I used to pump up huge Yeah, we used to do that before you had promotional shoots and stuff like that As well, we just fill them and you know, it's it's Insanely rewarding It's certainly turned into a head case. It was always good for time because you know I'd be like look nothing's changing. I can't see anything in times like do you bodies like in a totally different place? Yeah, you look at the before and after and and the progression shots and it's like we can literally see the changes happening month to month Yeah, it ties in early on that yeah, you're over. You tell me like Well, unfortunately the bad news is you'll never be big enough now like you'll always look at yourself and go Well, I could fix that yeah fix that I could fix that in fact total sense We were doing the same thing and we were both getting back into training and he was like oh I don't know the shoulders like this is big enough like it. I might do a massive look at the And I'd be so I don't know I feel like I feel like I'm not I'm not a side-size See it's important to be happy where you're at but there's always that it once you want you can tend Then it's over So maintaining is boring. You know always looking for constant improvement Just for finding it. Yeah, just pushing it just making the quality better Yeah, I remember you want to be about that. I'm like, oh, I mean, you know in my head. I was like I'll be happy at this way You stop doing the work that way man. Yeah, but yeah, I know I always look I just was my satisfaction Because I felt it always felt really really really rough in the morning which you which I'd learn to accept is the best way to feel when you're just like Oh, I can't move properly. So obviously I think a job That was serious But no it was Yeah, and safe training that was the good thing because I mean it was so good having a spot on someone You what they were doing. Mm-hmm. Lift the white could tell you how to do it So you didn't just waste your reps and stuff like that. That's right When when time is that's valuable every rep counts and and both phases the up phase and the down phase You know you don't cheat don't bounce, you know because you only have a 90 minutes you have 1,142 So you literally every second counts every rep and math. Oh, mate. I'm good If you're thinking you're shrinking what's that really? No No, it's totally man. I know it's You're against it and it's hard to make big games Your time time call but you mean but it is possible. Yeah, that's right. That's right. I know it was only in The best thing you know, you've got to it's a long-term game You're like near the end of four of the day and I started to go you know what I do see what you're seeing I do see the change. Yeah, you know I could it had been happening for a long time But I didn't want to believe it because I was used to being the other guy and that's the thing too As other people were seeing it You know, but you yourself you see yourself every day so you don't don't see no change Yeah, but it wasn't like you said it wasn't until the end of the season. It's like you know what I'm looking all right Yeah, you know you saw a few cupbers of magazine you saw yourself and a few things. It's like Have a heart you know what I'm okay Yeah Yeah, man. I was that was that was seriously life-changing But then you know I wasn't always good news because for those covers and things like that you You had a new system for me which was something was very well You know we we had to peek you and that was the hard that was the hard thing You know during like guys who can peat you're gonna peek a few times during the year But you know would be dropped on you have a promotional shoot in a week It's like and I used to like prepping you like it was a competition Oh, yeah, we would drop your carbs out completely then we would carb like you would dehydrate you all that and it was it was how for you And show it amount of time but you know you look at look at the results Yeah, I worked. It's again if I wanted to feel good about myself We do that they do an arm exercise That's right. I'm training and be like yeah, all right. I could do this I'm sure who took this all the time, but man those are some of the hardest days I know yeah, I'm not I'm new at this So I've never really flown a lot of business class for they flew me business class to this photo shoot So I'm like oh all this food Of course My own decided to put me into like this this massive carb depletion phase because I was basically gonna walk off a plane into a photo shoot And so there was free chocolate cake. There was all this amazing food and like you know chicken beef Pro what do you want like and I had to bring a box of boiled chicken And um, Kumera and egg whites that are depending on the meal times and I had to tell the kids Is you and I like can you just bring this cold chicken out to me at like two hour intervals in this amount exactly please and he's like Seriously yeah What about all we've got all we've got food and like yeah, you know, we can make a chicken I'm like you can't make you chicken the way I have to have the chicken He's like but it's just chicken. I like no, I don't have as I have seasonings. Yeah, so yeah See man, I'm proud that's maybe really Yeah, I'm just watching through this horrible chicken, but exactly you know It's that that's that's what you can teach me doing this since that The Liam from three years ago couldn't have done that at all like I couldn't even think like that Yeah, you do it. I do it for two days and be like last student Yeah, it's surely won't make that much difference. You know surely these they were that's that's that's I guess that's the lesson of this whole training I was like I don't know all of it does make that much difference if you do it all the right times They're right that's right It all has to work together. You can't do one part. You know They're training you're stressing all works together. And the rest yeah, this is a well Yeah, rest of course, but you're getting I was still even by the end of season I'm like oh no I saw a reckon that's gonna be the one that we're gonna have disagreements on yeah, that's okay Well, no, I do agree with you. I just you know, I just I get lazy about it. Yeah, you're stopping to the right kind of like yeah Stop it. Yeah, sorry about that. Well, you know, push you through it. Yeah, I remember he was like Too many people will give you out like to me other trainers that I've had in the past give you like a little wiggle room Tyrone a little wiggle room. Okay. You know, so I was like he's like well you chuck a little you know I'll betray his might be like talk a little bit of salt on there. Well, you know look have a bit of this have a bit of that and I was like oh cool. Well, so you know I had to sort of get a little put a little sauce on there Something like that but when it was especially when it was coming down to cutting you know you were like exactly this match Many milligrams of salt exactly this many grams of protein if you get that wrong by an ounce You've ruined the whole thing everything I'm like that's kind of possible Everything That's what we were working with though. I mean Every you know every day normal people you know day to day they can afford that wiggle room Yeah, but you were put in front of the world. You know you were Me to rebellion you're a sex symbol, you know you meant to be this warrior, you know So there was no room that the milligram could be out. Yeah Oh, that's that's part of it. You know, I think you know there's a lesson in that for everyone that's like Training and for me now like I know that if I'm you know not having to be that guy on camera every day I've got a little more wiggle room, but I already know that because I didn't have the wiggle room and I can Yeah, you know my body a little more from that process, but it's been I've been on hell with you It's been exciting And it's not over yet mate. Well, no, sort of just like now. Yeah. Yeah. What is the thing you know I like the hard path for me every day was looking at you training huge weights that I was always trying to like match even though I had this Not experience body, you know you'd be lifting these huge like you know you'd be doing three plates But that's that's that's great as well though is like um You know normal people as well. You have that goal somebody you know you follow might not be your training partner But you watch training videos these guys and you know that's what I want to be this what I want to be lifting stuff like that So but you know you had that in your corner every day which I've just helped Yeah, but this guys just massive I had to look at that every day which is kind of like the psychosis like I was like Why's tolerance a big but um you know, I guess that's that's Keeping it up for a little period of time. That's right. That's right. All come on. Oh, so you know like so what I made you do was what I was doing as well Exactly, which is amazing and you know and so like long term is how you go start setting it mind up suddenly people are at short term diet Short term training cycles short term this where is this stuff that you do is all about You know really changing a life which is what I got definitely I mean you can get fast results if you do everything To the gram you know to the pound You and to the second you can get fast results, but then like you said it becomes a lifestyle and that's where you start making you great Getting this is like it's a million days it took a while it did yeah, it got faster and faster and really started to take hold and when it got In grain it was yeah, man look I'm excited for you to be able to do like this workout with somebody's people for body I can't wait to show you know because these are the actual workouts that I made you do Yeah, you know and I do personally as well So to be able to show everybody what we did you know So it's great for people who push for time massively Yeah, and it's achievable and it and just it takes discipline, but it's it's a realistic life change Yeah, I think that's what that means what you brought me I appreciate that so much so you're welcome. I'm not gonna dead, man. Thank you. We'll do

=== FILE: Spider Curl - Biceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [TVjOooXvzO8].txt ===

Thank you!

=== FILE: Splash Candy by Bodybuilding.com ｜ Vitamin Gummy Supplements for Health and Wellness [GHY2D3Jxh9g].txt ===

Ⅳ

=== FILE: Split Squat - Legs Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [UJWLxHAYxx4].txt ===

Position yourself into a staggered stance with the rear foot elevated and the front foot forward. Hold a kettlebell or dumbbell in each hand letting them hang to the sides. This will be your starting position. Begin by descending, flexing your knee and hip to lower your body down. Maintain good posture throughout the movement. Keep the front knee in line with the foot as you perform this exercise. At the bottom of the movement drive through the heel to extend the knee and hip to return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Squat - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [tVB1q8zkP3o].txt ===

To perform this exercise, first set the bar on a rack that best matches your height. Once the bar is loaded up with your desired weight, step under the bar and place the back of your shoulders under it. Now lift the bar from the rack by pushing simultaneously with your legs and straightening your torso. Step away from the rack and position your legs to a shoulder width medium stance with your toes pointed slightly out. Keep your head up at all times and maintain a straight back. This will be your starting position. Now inhale and begin slowly lowering the bar. Sit back with your hips as though you were going to sit on a chair. Maintain the arch in your back and keep your head up as you descend. Continue lowering the weight until your hip and knee form a line parallel to the floor. Now exhale and lift the bar back to the starting position leading the movement with your head. Push the floor with the heels of your feet as you use your abductors to push your knees out so they stay in alignment with your feet.

=== FILE: Standing Cable Wood Chop  - Core ⧸ Abs - Bodybuilding.com [iTmMPyDzeYA].txt ===

Connect a standard handle to a tower and move the cable to the highest pulley position. With your side to the cable, grab the handle with one hand and step away from the tower. You should be approximately arms length away from the pulley with the tension of the weight on the cable. Your outstretched arm should be aligned with the cable. With your feet positioned shoulder width apart, reach upward with your other hand and grab the handle with both hands. Your arm should still be fully extended. Now, in one motion, pull the handle down and across your body to your front knee while rotating your torso. Keep your back in arm straight and your core tight while you pivot your back foot behind your knees to get a full range of motion. Maintain your stance and keep your arm straight. Return to the starting position in a slow and controlled manner. Repeat this motion to failure. Then switch sides.

=== FILE: Standing Calf Raises - Calves Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [MAMzF7iZNkc].txt ===

With the pad of the calf raised machine at the appropriate height, place your shoulders under the pads and position your toes facing forward. The balls of your feet should be secured on top of the block with your heels extending off of it, push the lever up by extending your hips and knees until you can stand up straight. The knees should always keep a slight bend and should never be locked. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your heels as you breathe out by extending your ankles as high as possible while flexing your calves. Ensure that your knees do not move and there should be no bending at all during this movement. Hold the top contracted position for a brief moment, then inhale and slowly lower yourself back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Standing Dumbbell Calf Raises - Calf Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [wxwY7GXxL4k].txt ===

Stand straight up while holding a dumbbell in each hand at your sides. Place the balls of your feet on a sturdy and stable wooden board that is around 2-3 inches tall. You can point your toes in different directions for different emphasis. Your heels should extend off the back of the board and touch the floor. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and raise your heels off the floor by contracting your calves. Hold the top contracted position for a brief moment, then inhale and slowly lower your heels back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Standing Dumbbell Upright Row - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [SO_nHq52a8o].txt ===

Grab a dumbbell in each hand with a slightly less than shoulder width overhand grip. The dumbbell should be resting on top of your thighs. Your arms should be extended in your back straight. Keep the dumbbells close to your body as you move them up and the elbows should drive the motion. Continue lifting the weights until they nearly touch your chin. Slowly lower the dumbbells back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: Standing Military Press - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [8E4oWpi0RkA].txt ===

Stand with a loaded barbell in front of you. Grab the barbell with an overhead grip wider than shoulder width. Clean the bar to shoulder height. This will be your starting position. Now press the bar overhead taking care to move your head out of the bar's path. Exhale during this portion of the motion. Then inhale and slowly lower the bar back down to your shoulders.

=== FILE: Stephanie Toomey's Training & Fitness Program - Bodybuilding.com [q3KJETz8a40].txt ===

I'm Stephanie Tumie. I'm an obstinate nutrition sponsor athlete. I'm on the other of a very active six year old boy. I'm a cross-spirathly. I was a former United States Marine and I'm a motivational speaker. I've been in sports my whole life so I became a sponsored softball player so I traveled ball and I started traveling all over the state of Florida which is really good because I had a really big passion for sports but my mother was diagnosed with brain cancer so you can find me to practice but my coaches would come and pick me up and maybe I said I need it to practice so I really believe that athleticism was my gift. In high school I went to a really big school in Jacksonville, Florida where a six-day school over 4,000 students and I was in hopes to make the division one softball team. Going into my senior year my mother had another brain surgery, another tumor and it got put in the impatient therapy. My father who was never around came home and ended up emancipating me and left all those scholarship offers behind. So after I graduated high school I ended up in listening in the United States Marine Corps and didn't play any sports. It wasn't active other than my training for the Marine Corps. I wanted to really challenge myself physically with weight training. So I'm in our before deployment and bought Arnold's encyclopedia of modern bodybuilding and I had all my seat bags, my pack, my rifle's long and we're manifesting on the airplane and I had Arnold's encyclopedia in hand. Every single day was training weight so I would just read. I had no really included in the train or or isolate body parts or groups and we were very limited on equipment so the I demanded that they brought me a barbell and some weight so I had 45 25s in a barbell and I just needed creative with doing reverse hyper extensions off of front of a Humvee or I did a lot of pull-ups. Anything with the barbell that's how I train and I came back pretty strong from that. I was 21 years old. I got a phone call that my mother was having that hospice came in. I was taking over with her hair and I went to see her and just saw me down, told me that she was going to die and I had dealt with her being sick my whole life. Three months later I showed up and she was in our living room and I told her that it was okay and she died in my arms. That's where you're after that I found out that I was pregnant. So I took the news when the doctor told me that I was pregnant and I felt my life was over. I didn't tell anybody and continued to do all my duties as a Marine. About five months into my son's bi-locked mother showed up and said he wanted to be a family and moved into my apartment and I fully did everything in the house by nature. In one night he didn't come home. He showed up my house, choked me and poured a hot coffee over my head and he said I know everyone you asked me where I've been for what I'm doing and I'll come here when I feel like it. From that day on I lived in a house. I was captain in my own home. I could not love the pregnant I could never tell him that I still had my son moved. I was very detached from the motherly little elements of being pregnant. In my third trimester pregnancy I was in our shop. I had that nesting feel but I was the one where we're going to paint the shop. So I was on the 15 foot ladder painting and my water rokes. I saw my doctor like you need to come in here in labor. So I called my son's father who's like I'm not a doctor. Go to the hospital then. So I drove myself to the hospital. I didn't really have anybody to tell and I'm giving birth alone. He never came and I was with my new infant who I didn't even know really what it meant to be a mom. All I knew is that I had a big responsibility and I was going to do it alone. My promise came that no matter what I would do whatever I had to do to give him an opportunity. All I could do is promise to give him a chance to do whatever he wanted to do in life. It really took me having my son and seeing him to realize I'm not just responsible for my own reputation, my own health, my own anything it's all about. He's such a great little boy. He's active because with the everywhere he trains with me at the gym. He's been doing it just TNI and trying to make it happen and I don't want people to see my pictures or see me stage perfect or whatever and think oh I could never do that because I'm going through this thing. Everybody has a story. Everybody. Life's hard. So if I could be an inspirational voice or tool for them to be better than I wanted. I want to use that. I don't want it to go unnoticed. I competed in figure three years ago and ever since then I've just been really training a lot heavy weights and my quads are over to Bella from the figure and I've liked to train that way. So I wanted something that would really embody how I trained and that was real. I didn't like me restricted when I trained as like a figure athlete in bodybuilding where you did sets and reps for a nesthetic purpose. I wanted performance. I've recently within the last three months transitioned completely into CrossFit. But if you talk to me four months ago you would have thought I would never happen. Now I don't go anywhere without my nanos, my Olympic lifting shoes, across ball, my straps. Once I finally looked into my CrossFit really is I had to do it. I walked into Blackburn CrossFit in Jacksonville, Florida and I walked up to the owner and I said I want to do CrossFit. I want to compete in CrossFit. He's like well how long have you been doing CrossFit? He's like you look like you've been doing CrossFit and I was like never done CrossFit. But I want to compete in CrossFit and he's like okay let's see what you got. In 70 pounds I can snatch. I look like like a four-year-old trying to do something. I was humbled quickly with I thought I was strong until I tried to do CrossFit. So my training now is a program training where I do several workouts through the day. I go in really early in the morning. About three to four or three or four days a week I do a long row. I'll row anywhere from two to K to 10,000 meters. I do a lot of running. Those are my forms of cardio. I'll do long runs. Anywhere from six, eight, 12 mile runs. I do a lot of skill training. I'm really kind of learned. The Olympic lifts. In one lift you can do it from several different positions. So just trying to master those from every point. All the spots are a big lift. I do that separate from and I want to several different ones. I try to get a program into something I'm very weak at in the middle of a wad to highlight it. CrossFit's great for me in my personal opinion. It was great to show my strengths but it definitely highlights all my weakness. I think the constant challenge of CrossFit made me really just love it. Every day I want to lift heavier, move faster, jump higher, more pull ups. There's never like I've made it in CrossFit. I think no matter where you're at, CrossFit you can always be better and you always want to be better. Your competing against the clock, leaning against yourself primarily, inner competing against everybody else. CrossFit changed my life. It gave me a competitive aspect that I wanted again. It gave me that sense of camaraderie with the other Crossfitters anywhere you go. You see Crossfitters or the box that you train at. And it also gave me new goals every day I have a new goal. In my opinion fitness is strength, flexibility, endurance, all those things not just a picture that says I'm fit because you might not be. I want something to say. Put that 400 pounds and pick it up or 300 pounds in your back and stand up. That to me is beautiful and it's strong and it's and nobody else can tell me that. I only eat to either fuel or refuel for my workouts. I don't say six times today I'm going to eat. I plan what I'm going to eat off of how I trained. So if I'm not training that day of course I still eat but it's just very limited or try some smaller scale than when I would eat if I wasn't training. Also I believe in that 80-20 roll, 80% of the time you mean eat for functional purposes of refuel or for hunger and a 20% of time nutrition is a social thing. You go up to dinner with friends there's something extra yummy and you want to try it like 20% of the time unless you're really like dialing into to compete in something. So my son I let him every time we go to grocery store. He knows he gets to pick his one treat and I call that I don't like that dirty filthy word of cheating. Like you can cheat on a lot of things in life but I don't think that nutrition should be something associated with something with your mind. Therefore if you ever fall off that wagon and to eat something that looked so tempting then you feel like you've just failed. I just cheated. Instead I treated myself to the company office party that had those nice yummy cupcakes and then you just say oh I guess I can't treat again later in the week. I think people go away from good intention when the convenience is there for something that's a little bit more handy and they drive through and they don't want to go home and they got out of the kids in the car and they just rather just make it happen one trip they pull in and all the kids are fed before they're they've even eaten before you got home. So I don't ever leave house without food ever. Things I pack in my bag and I have chickens I do tuna. I do nuts. I do Laura bars. I do carrots and baggies stuff like that. I cut celery up I chop up a bunch of vegetables and put them in avocado. I like to eat they're not very handy they have to care around avocado but I do like to put in my favorite recipes cucumber salad. It's just still lime sesame seed and cucumbers and it takes literally like three minutes. If you can always control which put in your mouth. Always nobody forces you to eat poorly. So if that's one thing that you control when you have all these other uncontrollable elements in life you should take the time to 80% of the time to eat the right things. I like to use the analogy DTS diet, train and supplement. Supplement should fill in blends. I think supplements are definitely things that should be used by everybody. So the biggest thing is to figure out what your body is naturally not producing enough of or where you might be using during your training and supplements that back into your nutrition. So for myself what I I supplement I supplement quite a few things. I take in fish oils. I take in way away I sleep. I normally take that post workout immediately after I'm done training or I take it when I'm on the go. I like to use it in cooking too. I like to throw away scoops into a pancake with almond flour through way to have a complete meal. I take in H and B's. I do Z and A's at night. CLAs. And of course I take in all my microminerals so I do a multi-bidamin. I make sure I get enough sinks and saline. Some of those microminerals that you need. Now I do so much of performance stuff so I'm not just training for strength. I train for endurance. So there's different things that I need to take in fast absorbing carbohydrates. So products that have fast absorbing proteins and slow digesting proteins fill me out or to continue to fuel me through those long workouts that I have. So it has changed and also I did a lot of more pre-workouts like caffeine stimulants throughout the day. Now I really try to cut back when I'm not training so that when I train so much and so hard with the process that I try to use this stimulants definitely around the time so I'm gonna work with um pacing pros and a nine I love to make ice cream with it. So I take all of my milk and pacing and I mix it. Sometimes I only make it to the pudding stage and I don't get it into the freezer because I'm in that hungry but if I can I leave it in the freezer for about 10 minutes and it's just perfect consistency to eat it like ice cream. And supplements can be expensive so make sure you're taking in what is good. That can balance into your budget. Why can balance in for specifically what you're doing for training? Or call me and I'll send you whole bunch of free stuff. I never want anybody to look at my story and I never feel sorry for me. I don't see myself as this incredible person or somebody that has even done anything extraordinary. I just feel that I am a normal, very normal person that has challenges that I've been through and challenges that I'm are still unseen to me. Just like we all have. When I was in the rain course I sat in this class and there was this crusty first sergeant and he sat up there and told us motivation the worst word I've ever heard. It's like a shot. You take it. Everybody's happy. Runs around and then after it's more off here. There's worse than you ever were or you had to really have that hang on from it. And I was like this guy just likes to run his mouth. Like that doesn't make any sense. When he came back with when he said instead look for something that inspires you. This is the inspirational that can last a lifetime. It could be listening to someone talk for five minutes and be like they did that I could do it too. So I try to find things that I'm inspired by and I try to you know, send an example of things that are inspirational but achievable. I'm definitely achievable and I'm not something to think that is anything beyond beyond that. It just take your goals. If you've got to write them down, stick them in places that you see them and remind yourself often of why you're doing what you're doing. You know, it's a day true that I'm Stephanie Tune in if you want to contact me further or follow me and follow me on body space. My body space name is ST14 Supergirl or Twitter, Stephanie I'm square Tune or you can find me on truestrength.com on the Optiutrition True Strength website or you can follow my personal blog site which is just steffanytube.com and for more videos and content like this, come back to bodybuild.com. Holy. We just got dropped kick by the earth. That thing came.

=== FILE: Steve Cook Back and Biceps Workout ｜ Big Man on Campus [5Y2D5ODJJnE].txt ===

I'm Steve Chub. Bodybuilding.com, Stokes Model, Optimal Nutrition Athlete, 2010 Bodybuilding.com, Fit Body Winner, 2010 muscle and fitness, metal model winner, NIFPV Pro, Men's Physique Petitator. Before I was any of that, I was a collegian athlete, where I majored in biology psychology, integrated studies. Today, on the Big Man on campus 12 week trainer, where we be tackling back and biceps. Grab your no-pad, class and session, take your seats. This packing bicep routine is typically taking no longer than 45 minutes to an hour. You're in there to lift weight, not to socialize. You have your rest period, don't go longer than those. Do what you have to do to get in the right mindset. Throw those headphones on, turn up the volume, and let's get to work. I like to start off with an active five-minute warm-up. Now that you've got your five-minute warm-up, you're now ready to tackle a back and bicep workout. For the first exercise, we'll be doing a wide grip pull-up. We'll be doing four sets to failure. Now you have to get ten reps. Now if you need a spotter, or if you need to take a little bit of a rest in between, that's okay. Make sure you get ten reps on each set. This is a great exercise to do first, because it's a very functional movement that's going to create work. One thing I like to point out when doing pull-ups, keep the elbows as wide as you can, really concentrate on the squeeze at the top, and just lower on the way back down. Make sure you're getting at least ten. I a lot of the time shoot from 12 to 15. If I'm able to get 15, I add on weight through a weight belt. Two more sets to go. Are you feeling that back get big? You have to go into the gym with your game face on if you're going to get the maximum results. Take ten minutes and really think about what you can be doing. Sing yourself with that back you really have always wanted. We're ready to move on to T-Barrow. The second back exercise we're going to do is a bent T-barrow. Make sure you get your belt when performing this lift, which you want to do is you want to keep that back flat, nice and straight, keep the butt lower than the hips. We're going to be doing three sets, and on that third set we're going to do a drop set. The nice squeeze in that lathe, this time coming up full contraction to both stitches. That one right there, get you that big barndool back. All right, time for that third and final set, what we're doing this time, drops it. So as you can see, I've increased my weight each time. What am I doing here? Let me go to failure. Shooting for about ten to twelve reps, but I'm just going to go. It's like I've nothing left in the take. I'm going to strip off two plates, and continue going. That's it. You can see, it's real tough, but my form never suffers. That's it for T-bar. Next up, got a little co-scritch pull down. We're going to get on that lathe length. We're getting after it. This is really to activate the lower part of the lathe. Get a good squeeze. We're going to be doing three sets, and after that third set, we're immediately doing a drop set here. We're going to be keeping the reps between ten and twelve. We're going to increase the weight for our third set. Finish off with a drop set, and that'll be it. Really, increase the weight. That's it. The co-scritch pull down. Next up, we're going right into single arm dumbbell rows. Now, one thing to remember on these, keep that elbow as close to the body as possible and pull back. Not just straight up, but pulling back to your hip. Really isolates that lower lathe. We're going to be doing three sets. We're going to be shooting for eight to twelve reps. Always like to incorporate two rowing movements. It's really good to get that back to thickness. Now, if you feel the knees to start using straps, don't. The only time you should is if you can no longer handle the weight at all. We have to build some forearm and wrist strength as well. We're set out of the way. Time to go up and weight. You shouldn't feel it as much into your arms. If you are going to need to light the weight, it should be all flat. 60 seconds. Got the bigger dumbbell. Last set. Let's do it. Let us it for dumbbell row. We have one more back exercise to top it off. For the final back exercise, we're going to be doing rope lap pull downs. Now, this is going to really target the lower lathe. Use a light enough weight that allows us to about 15 reps. We're going to do five sets, 30 seconds break. One thing to remember when doing these is really keep the chest high as you bring the weight down. Now, remember on these the stretch. This is important as the contraction. Get a better contraction further than the stretch we do. Also, in between sets. To stretching up those lower lats. Alright, my step for back, make it your best. And that's it. Now that we've blown it back, we're moving on the blast and some bicep. First exercise we're going to do is a standard barbell of curl into a cheek curl. Now with this you want to take a little bit wider than shoulder width grip and concentrate on the last two-third movements. You want to watch you lock it out on the bottom, keeping it right here, all the way up, elbows down by your side, pure bicep contraction. We're going to be doing four sets, two sets of strict movement and two sets where we cheat a little bit. I throw in biceps with my back days because you work so much of the bicep as a secondary muscle when training back. Our second set, we're going to shoot for about eight reps. That's it, get to there, strict now, let's get into the cheeks. Now a little bit about cheek curls, the name's a little bit deceiving. You cheat to make it harder, just enough to get up that weight. It's going to be kind of the compound movement for biceps and one that builds math and we're going to be shooting for about six reps. And like they said, cheat to make it harder, not to make it easy. As you can see there, I was throwing my back just enough to get it up and control on the way down. Because we did add some weight, we're only going to do four reps. Next up in our bicep routine, we're going to be doing a little incline dumbbell curl. Now with this, you're going to want to make sure you're stretching all the way down, not quite to lock out, but getting a full range of motion and a nice squeeze up top. This is a great overall bicep builder, as well as when you come up, turning that wrist out, getting that pinky higher, really going to help bring out that lower cut. Four sets, 10 to 12 reps, rest period 30 to 60 seconds somewhere in there. All right, third set. And on that, you can tell I brought my legs up and crossed them. The reason I do that is to take any kind of momentum, I have my legs are anchored to the floor. It's got to be pure bicep contraction. Now that our two mass builders are out of the way for the biceps, we're going to be moving on the spider curls with a supersetted dumbbell hammer curl. We're doing two sets of each and we're going to be doing pretty much the failure. Hopefully it's around 10 to 15 on each, like I said, just go, go, go. Super setting, these two exercises really hitting that peak straight into the hammer curls, working on the brake yallas. I'm going to get an unbelievable pump, it'll be sure it's going. Paul, my 30 seconds rest, quick drink if you need one, right back. Time to get after it. And that concludes our back and bicep portion of the big man on campus trainer. One thing I like to do is keep a record of all the weights I use. Now you don't have to do it every single time you work out, you're making sure you know that you're increasing weight each time you lift is important. Reverse to bodybuilding.com for more content like this. Sure check out the rest of the videos.

=== FILE: Steve Cook Leg Workout for Strength ｜ Big Man on Campus [Ha4tOOEMMQI].txt ===

I'm Steve Kofl, BodyBilling.com spokesmodel, Optimal Nutrition Athlete for 2010 BodyBilling.com Fit Body Winner. For 2010, muscle and fitness male model winner, as well as a IFB Pro Men's Bicycle Predator. Before I was any of that, I was a collegian athlete, where I earned my bachelor's in biology, psychology, and integrated studies. This is the Big Man on Campus, 12 week college trainer, Lake Dave. This grueling Lake workout will typically take you 45 minutes to an hour. Today we're hitting hamstrings and quads. I like to start off with an active five-minute warmup, whether it's jump rope, treadmill, followed up with some leg extensions, just light enough to get the blood going. Also one thing you'll notice in my leg workout, I'm always wearing a belt. I like to lower back, keep things tight. First exercise, straight leg deadlift. We're going to be doing three sets after our first warmup set. It's going to be sticking between eight to 12 reps. Really concentrating on form, keeping things nice and tight, legs not quite locked out, a slight bend, back straight, driving through the heels. First, this is just going to be the warmup set. Here we go. After our warmup set, in between all sets, we'll be taking about 60 seconds, 60 to 90 seconds to catch your breath, get some water, leg training is really demanding, so also remember to stay hydrated. Now for our first working set, we're going to be increasing the weight. A lot of times, you might not know how much weight to go up each set. You can't learn that by trial and error. The rule of thumb, I always like to stick to, if you should always be progressing in some form of weight. If you're shooting for 12 reps and get it easy, you know, next time you need to go up more, keeping a journal also really helps you can look back and make sure you're making progress. 8 to 12 reps here, I want to be shooting for. Pour it around that 12 reps because it is my first working set, keeping good force. Legs make up some of the largest muscles in the entire body. For this reason, the mind muscle connection needs to be greater here than any other body. All right, our 60 seconds is up. I've stretched out a little bit in between, just to keep things loose, we've increased the weight, we're still shooting for about 10 reps on here, never sacrifice your form. All right, for a third and final working set, increase the weights and I've also got my straps to use here. I don't use my straps on many things because I like my forearms and my grip to be strengthened as well. But when you get up in this kind of weight, you need them. Motivation is key on life. You're going to be using a ton of weight and if you're not mentally right, it'll tear you up. Like a jump on bodybuilding.com and watch some late training videos before I go. Seeing other people going through the hell of a leg day always excites me. Also having a training partner in your ear, pushing you, not letting you give up, keeps you accountable. Met it. Hit. Straight leg dead lifts. Stretch out the hamstrings a little bit. It's next up. We have standing leg curl. Now, if you don't have a standing leg curl in your gym, a lying leg curl works out just fine. Since we've already warmed up our hamstrings, three sets will be doing eight to 12 repetitions with rest periods being 60 seconds. The most important thing, whether you're doing a standing or a lying, is to keep the pelvis flat on the bench. This ensures that you won't be swinging, no lower back will come into it, you'll have peer hamstring movements. And that is it. Next up, for our third hamstring exercise, it's a seated leg curl. We're going to be doing five sets here. We're going to be doing three rounds right around 12, but I want you failing on each one. Only 30 seconds rest, this is really going to force a ton of blood into these hamstrings burn it out. Here we go. See you see, even as the way it starts getting heavier, the form never gets soft. It's a nice squeeze at the bottom to a full extension. One thing you'll also notice, I never lock out my knees at the top when I'm lifting the weight. It's important to keep a slight bend, keep those joints healthy. Alright, you made it to the fifth and final set. Hamstrings should be on fire right now. Last set though has to be the one of the most intensity and concentration. It's where we're going to get that growth. And that concludes our hamstring training. Take five minutes, stretch out the hamstrings. We'll be contracting them for the last two exercises, time to lengthen them out. Then, we're on the quads. Now that we finished up with hamstrings, we're moving on to quarter steps. The first exercise we're going to be doing is front squats. Now the reason I like to do front squats is to really work this fast as media hours. That tear drop muscle, where they're going to the beach, wearing a little bit shorter shorts, show that off. We're going to be doing one warm upset, followed by three working sets and a drop set in which we're going to burn it out. As far as rest goes, taking 60 to 90 seconds, just enough time to recover, get back under the bar. The reason we're going to be doing quads and hamstrings on the same day is because they're opposite opposing muscles. If you think about it, when you contract your quad, your hamstring stretches and vice versa. This is my opinion, is the best way to train legs to get the most growth out of them. For our first working set, we've increased the weight. Now you might not be able to increase the weight like you would on a backsquad. The weight is a little bit more uneasy in the front squat. That's okay. Just the hang of it. Second set. We'll be shooting right around that 14, 15, 16 mark. Rip range on our second working set, 10 to 12 reps. For our third and final set of front squats, we'll be performing 6 to 8 reps, fall immediately by a drop set. So after I get done performing my 6 to 8 reps here, I'm going to immediately strip off weight until I just have 45 on your side. I'm going to continue the set and really blast the quads. And strip off the weight here. Quad's right now we're going to fire. So you're in the set like this. There's just one way to take the pass failure. And a great way to really blast those quads. Now we are done with front squats. Not too much time to rest though, as we head over to perform leg press. If you don't have this machine in your gym, find something similar to it. We're going to be doing 3 sets of 10 to 12 reps, fall by a drop set immediately after the third set. Also, one thing, changing up your foot placement, you can really keep your feet close, we'll help you work the outer sweep of the quad. Why do you need the feet? We'll really help you work the inside. I like to switch it up, hit all the areas. After your 60 seconds rest, we're on to our second set. As you can see, I was performing the concentric and the eccentric at about the same tempo there. It's important to switch it up just like you would rep range to keep the body guessing. Alright, time for our third set. This is where we would perform a drop set at the end of our 10 to 12 repetitions. We'll extend it. We're going to start burning. Immediately, decrease the weight. You can continue the set. First two exercises are in the books. Now this is time where you get a dig down deep. Get through that leg dance. It's got check time. Your legs right now should be feeling a little bit rubbery. It's time though for the last superset. We'll be doing a leg extension right into a jumping lunge. Once you complete both of them, you get 30 seconds rest. We're going to be doing three sets of each. Let's get after. I'm going to be shooting at the 12 to 15 on the first one. So I really help coordination as well as just trashing the legs. Like 30 seconds, you're back to do it all over again. Your legs are probably screaming right now. They don't want to be doing this. Go through this pain and the rest of the day everything else seems easy. When I do leg extensions, I concentrate more so on the way down. It really helps stimulate all sorts of different muscle fibers and bring out the pads. If you're going fast on legs, you're not getting a result that you could. Definitely got the Gyeongby legs going. They weren't screaming before. They probably are now. One more set, your leg day is over. Watch it just be blown up right now. Your gas, you got nothing left. Third set. Final exercise with a big man on campus leg workout. You're almost there. Increase that weight. Leave it all in the gym. You're spent nothing left. Have a buddy carry over to the stretching area. That was the big man on campus leg day. The three exercises for hamstrings, smashing quads. They should be doing a little wobbly legs. It's a good thing. There's no way around it. If you want a serious physique, you have to train legs. My philosophy on the legs is that they have to be trained heavy and with more intensity than any other body part. All content like this and the rest of the big man on campus trainer. It's all at bioblion.com.

=== FILE: Steve Cook's 6-Exercise Chest-Building Workout [Sdr77zBugKc].txt ===

Today is International Chest Day. So we're going to be talking about how to build a awesome chest. There's a difference between having a strong bench press and that's typically the first thing people think of when they think of a chest, they think of flat bench press. How much do you bench press? One thing people don't understand is that so many other muscles come into play when doing a bench press. So we're going to be taking those muscles out of the equation. We're going to be pre-exhausting, building an amazing chest. Let's get after it. So the first one we're going to start off with to pre-exhaust is going to be an incline cable fly. We're going to be moving next into an incline dumbbell or machine press. Finally, we're going to be moving onto a flat dumbbell bench press. Lastly, we're going to be finishing off with a tricep to absolutely annihilate the chest. The first, let's start up with that pre-exhaustion on the incline cable fly. We have two warm upsets and then three working sets. We're going to be doing 12 to 14 reps. Now the reason we're doing this first is because we're going to be pre-exhausting. We're trying to take the triceps and the anterior delts out of it. So you're going to want an incline bench set up, no higher than a 45 degree angle. And again, find a cable apparatus and center your bench to where you're going to want to be pulling down, keeping the elbow, shoulder and wrist all in the same angle. On this first set, just nice and easy. We're not trying to prove any once anything right now. This workout, you've got to check your ego at the door. Because we're doing those heavy compound movements second and third after we've already pre-exhaust, you're not going to be a strong. This has always been one of my favorite isolation movements. And then when I say isolation versus compound, isolation, we're only using one joint here. We're using our shoulder joint to move the weight. Whereas in a compound movement, you're using your elbow and shoulder. So that's a compound exercise. I use the cables because it's allowing me to keep tension on the pec throughout the entire time without using any anterior delts or the triceps. The bench was a little bit off-center there, so that's what warm upsets are for. We're using the lighter weight and then I'm able to adjust my bench here. We saw my hand position. I wasn't in a parallel grip here. I'm using more of a pronated grip. That's because I just put the angle of my upper chest. I'm more of an advantageous position here. We're using the cables and then also gravity to really give us that resistance on the way down and then a full contraction on the way up. Main thing to remember here, that elbow joint, we're not pressing here. We're keeping that elbow joint locked in the same angle throughout the entire time, focusing on that nice chest contraction there. Rest period on this, about 60 seconds is all. I'm not actually seated all the way down. I'm actually on my feet, but in back as against the pet. The reason I do this is this, to me, it's going to be easier for me to arch my back off of the pad. And again, we're not looking to put our core at any risk. So I'm actually going to keep my heels on the ground, push up, keep my butt, and that's not going to allow me to arch as much. It's going to allow me to keep contact with that pad all the time. All right, we've got three working sets, 12 to 14 reps, really concentrate on keeping that elbow angle the same throughout and squeezing at the end. Give it a good squeeze, control the weight on the way down. Now we're not looking to stretch it past 90 degrees. I put more of a risk on our shoulder joint, drop the pen, and get the second set. Now you can never isolate 100% fully one area of your chest, but by doing this at an incline, we're using a little bit of anterior delt, just a little bit, and then that upper pack. Here we go. Ah! Ah! People are such a good way to start off. I work at it for a little bit of pre-exhaust. All right, third and final working set on this exercise. Drop the pen one, go up and wait and crease that weight. I'll set best set. Here we go. Ah! Little rest pause at the top here. Ah! Ah! Ah! Oh! Test is on fire, and that's just exercise number one. Should be feeling it on that top down, really that inside of the pack too, with the cables. All right. That's it for the first exercise. Let's move on to the second one. Our second exercise we'll be doing in this chest workout is going to be an incline to Smith machine press. So, one thing we always talk about in body building and fitness is having a balanced approach. And that means top down from your physique. Your one body part shouldn't overpower another. We started off with a cable. Now we're moving to a Smith machine press. We're attacking it from all different angles. So in this exercise, we're going to be doing three sets and then throwing kind of a nasty little drop set in there. We're going to be shooting for eight to ten reps. And on this one, we're going to be changing up the negative part of the movement. On this, we're going to slow down even more to four seconds down and then exploding up. So we don't need to warm up. The chest still has a little peck pop in it. We're not going to want that by any end of it. We're going to want so much blood in those packs that we can't bounce them. Our grip is going to be a little bit closer than what we might do in a normal flat bench press. Thumbs wrapped around the bar. And the Smith machine is nice. If you're working out alone, you can racket at any different place within your bench press movement. That anterior delt is coming into play, especially because we're on an incline here so that anterior delt and chest. But because we've already fatigued the chest, the chest is still failing before the anterior delt. My elbows aren't flared out all the way here and that next to my chest either. There's somewhere right in the middle there. Getting a nice press, nice squeeze, almost a scoopy motion. All the way to the top. As it starts getting tough or you know, I keep my feet pressed for me on there. I don't want to start raising my hips and raising my feet in there so the feet set the base for the rest of the lift. Here we go. Get to set that mind muscle connection. If you can stay connected with the area that you're working out, you're always in good better work out. Come into the gym, half-assing, you know, just going through the motions. Become into the gym with a purpose. You come into the gym, knowing what you want to achieve. The chest is already getting super filled up with blood because we've done that cable work beforehand. We've put in the pre-exhaustion. The last one, we're going through a little wrench in there. We're going to drop set in with it. But again, this is Utah. Come into the gym for you. Now what you put in is what you're going to get out. So turn off the cell phone, limit the distractions. Here we go. Set number three, straight into a drop set. Up, up. That's why we use the Smith machine there. Seven, seven and one quarter reps there. But again, that's where I wanted to fail just. Right about that seven range, I'm going to strip it down to the point where I only have a 45 on each side. What we're going to do is going super wide here. Doing five to seven reps, then bringing our hands in closer, doing five to seven reps. And then finally, finally with a close grip, bench press, five to seven reps. So here we go. Three, four, five, six, six. And then finish it off with a close grip. And that is just taking it past one of the techniques that take it past failure to lighten up the weight, switch up the grip. Again, that's going to bring them more triceps as we go closer. But it's hitting just a little bit different area each time we change up that grip. And next move, what we're doing is the flat dumbbell press. Now the reason I like to use the dumbbells is because we're going to be doing some isolateral work. Everything else we're doing both arms at the same time. So we're going to be working with one arm while the other one's resting and then switching up. Again, concentrating on the negative side of things and then we're really going to explode out of there. So my right arm is just going to stay put while I'm using the left press up. Three, four, and then we just switch it back. So we've increased the weight for our second set here. We're going to be shooting for at least eight to ten reps on here. Last time I held my right arm while I did the left first. So this time I want to be alternating and switching it up. Nice, it gets trolled. Again, our set here is going to be twice as long. So the time line is tension. We're holding it even in that offhand. Some of that peck is working, the anterior deltives working while we are actually doing it, the exercise with the other hand. So again, take that 90 seconds, full recovery back at it. All right, we got set number three here. A lot of good work has gone into this workout already. We're going to finish strong. So last set, best set on this. And then we're going to jump into a tri set. Here we go. So I'm back to using your arm. I started off with since we're only doing three sets here. That right there is a killer isolation work. Making sure each side gets the same amount of work as the other. It's so easy if you're doing barbell work to let one side start taking over. It's natural. Usually one arm is dominant. That'll take over if you let it. So over time, that's happened to you. Or maybe you've had an injury. Get back to doing some more isolation work. All right, that is it. Now we're just going to go for it and then seeing pump to finish it off. So we've done our warmup, our pre-exhaustion, our incline, our flat. Now we're going to be attacking it for that lower outer pecks. We're going to be doing a decline type of movement here on the dips. So we're going to be on straight from dips to a T bar press. And then we're going to go on straight to a modified pushup just to exhaust. It completely annihilate the chest. Just force as much blood into your pecks as possible. So we're going to be doing these nonstop and then a minute rest, nonstop, minute rest, and then one more. So by the end of it, heart rate should be up too. So first and foremost on the dip, we're going to be doing a dip for chest. Now most of the time when we're doing dips, it's for triceps. The way we make it for chest is by keeping the hips back and high. The chest we're not going to round our shoulders and concave it. We're going to be keeping it out. It's going to look something like this and then bring the hips high. You can see I was almost parallel with the floor there. Straight into our T bar press here. Again, I'm just going to wrap my hands around the bar here at the top. Get a nice angle away from the bar. Almost like we're creating a triangle here. Down to the top of the peck, back up one. One, two, three, four, five, six. And the last thing, straight into our modified push-up. Now this one might look a little bit weird. You might get people in the gym telling you you have bad form, but again, it's working the muscle and that's all we're carrying about. This isn't any ego workout, so we don't care about what people in the gym are thinking about us. Our butts are going to be high in the air and as you come down you come forward as well. And then push back. Maybe get as many as you can there and then just switch it up to a normal press and a normal push-up. As long as I got a little peck pop in there, I know my chest has not gone as a failure. I got a little bit left, so I got two more rounds in here. We're going to try to get it to the point where I can't contract those pecks at all. Chest dips are very underrated exercise for chest. Get a great squeeze on there. We're going to be going down just below parallel or just below 90 degrees and then all the way up just short of locking out. That's going to keep tension throughout the movement on the peck. We're using that bent over movement. It's almost like a press, almost like a fly movement. Pretend you're hugging a tree as you are doing your chest dip as I hit failure. I did some partial reps there. It's a wave extending the set. Spin and shawth. It's our modified push-ups. Get failure there. Now get a couple more. Check your peck. Your peck bounce. It still's just a little bit damaged. All right. For the last round, everything you got. Let them left nothing left in the tank when you walk out of the gym. You should know that there is nothing else you could have done. Last set, best set. Here we go. Full range of motion now on this. We just did some partial, stuck-stended. Now we're back in the full range. Two. Three. Three. Can't do any more full ones. There we go. Buck those in the air. By doing your workout, by pushing it, we want to quit. By forcing out one of those, those one or two extra reps when your mind doesn't want to go on, but you push your body a little bit past to that point. That's going to flow over in every other area of life. Let's start right here right now with you in the gym. Just because it's not leg day or back day. Doesn't mean you should leave gasped. The peck pop. Nothing. Nothing left. Nothing left. That's good work. Again, it's a balanced approach. We hit things from every different angle. Cables, machine, free weights, and it's all done without working out your ego. Just your chest. Like always, if you guys want to see the full workout written out, check out the page below. Go ahead and leave comments and questions. Also, if you're looking for more workouts for me, there's plenty on bodybuilding.com. Also, on my website, Steve Cook Health, my YouTube Steve Cook, and then follow me. Steve Cook, underscore, 32 on all social media. If you guys want more free videos and articles, keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Steve Cook's Big Man On Campus Training Program ｜ Trailer [7VLBBfPa9z8].txt ===

Warning. So ut. Close your eyes. You gotta move your head to the helicopter. I went to Russia and I thought you don't ya? It's always there. Remember that one other day? When the hats go up, when the party's over, at the start of your new life. The iron is there. Ready to teach you. Its weight doesn't change. Its lessons are timeless. Its a lifelong friend. One of the best. When you're ready to quit, the iron will tell you. One more rep. When you're on the brink of cheating, the iron will tell you. Do not give in. When you're about to fall, the iron will whisper. This is a plan. Confidence. Power. These are the things I have given you. Take them everywhere. To class. Work. And life after. Listen to the iron. The iron will teach you. It will make you strong. Better than you were before. The best self. Could ever be.

=== FILE: Steve Cook's Chest and Triceps Workout ｜ Big Man on Campus [vdg3AYIr4pc].txt ===

I'm Steve Cove, Bodybuilding.com Spokesmodel, Optimal Nutrition Athlete. 2010 Bodybuilding.com, Fit Body Winner. 2010 Muscle and Fitness Mail Model Winner, as well as a IFBB Pro Mint's physique competitor. Before I was any of that, I was a collegian athlete, where I majored in biology, psychology, integrated studies degree. For the next 12 weeks, I'm going to be your fitness professor. This is Bodybuilding.com's Big Man on Campus, 12 Week College Trainer. Take your seats, class is in session. Today, we're going to be hitting chest and triceps. You're going to be performing eight exercises. So take your anywhere from 50 to 70 minutes. It's going to be super intense. I don't want you in there for eight ton of time. It's getting smashed. I think you'll get back out. Grab a pen and then no pad because you're going to be working out with me today. I like to start off with an active five-minute warm-up. All right, we just got done doing our five-minute warm-up. She feel ready to go. Now we're onto our first exercise and climb barbell press. We're going to hit a warm-up, eight to 12 reps, and then we're going to do three working sets of eight to 12 reps. All the continuation of that third set, we're going to drop the weight. Doing it set at 21, I'll talk more about it later. That is it for our warm-up set. Let's get serious. Time to start adding some weight. Everything I do is based on progression. Adding weight is crucial. You have to learn how to each time you come to the gym, focus yourself, add the weight to the bar, decrease rest time to ensure your intensity is always staying at a peak output. We're going to go to the center on each side. We can go to the stretch, keep ready for that set number two. Let's get after it. All right, this is the third set. It's time to get after it. We've up the weight, don't let that form get sloppy. I hope you've set up a little bit for this one. Now what you learn in the gym each day is something you can transfer for your school studies and to the rest of life. The discipline, the focus, as soon as you step foot into that gym, it is all business. All right, from there, we're going to immediately keep off the weights, taking it down just a 45 on each side. Go with a little bit, this is a technique I used to extend the set and take it past failure. We're going to be doing here. I'm going to go in 21 and I'm switching up my hand placement to really isolate the different areas of the chest. First I'm going to start in close. You'll notice that when I do these, I don't go down all the way. That is really to save my shoulders. I stop generally three to four inches before my chest and I continue pressing it all the way up. We're attacking it and a couple inches wider. This big man on campus 12 week old trainer, you're going to have to schedule time for workouts, class, social life. That's the only way to succeed because we're going to be pushing you to your limits. It's going to get a little more time. Yeah, I stopped through that. Get a good pump. You ready to hit the rest of that chest. Moving on to our second exercise, incline and dumbbell fly. The reason I'm doing two incline exercises is to really work on my upper chest. It's always been a week area of mine. So I've used a priority principle and I'm training it in the beginning of my workout. What we're going to be doing here is three sets, eight to twelve reps. We've already warmed up our chest and on that final third set, we're going to drop the weight, extend the set with a drop set. Let's get after it. I know you might not be used to doing back to back incline exercises in a couple weeks. You'll be thinking for me. A couple things you might notice on this is I'm not touching the weight at the top. I'm keeping constant tension underneath that chest all the way down. Coming up, stopping about six inches apart, keeps that chest working. Six seconds is up onto the second set. All right, moving on. This is our third and final set on dumbbell incline fly. We've got a drop set here. So we're going to be using our heavier weight, eight to ten reps. Going straight from there, no rest. Back down to what the weight we started out with. It's going to really force that blood. Get a great pump. Big down deep. One thing that I want you to really do before you ever step foot in the gym and do my trainer is get your mind right. Get motivated every day, prepare yourself to go through a fell. This isn't going to be easy to guess what life and color is in easy. All right, now that we've got a great burn for that chest, moving on to flat dumbbell press. This is our third exercise. We've already done two for our upper chest and it's super swollen right now. What this is going to do is really build our mass and thickness through our middle chest. We're going to do four sets here, six to ten reps. Go a little bit heavier and because it's a compound exercise, we're going to go 60 to 90 seconds rest, catch our breath a little bit. Get after it. All right, rest time's up. Time to get back to work. This is our second set. We're increasing the weight. Time to get serious. Now you might have to use a little bit lighter weight than you're used to using. Don't let that bug you. You're still working that muscle. All right, it's our third set. We're starting to get a little bit of heavy here. Form can't suffer though. Keep that chest expanded. Really focus on keeping the elbows tight. Don't want the anterior delts to start working or the tricep. Focus it in. Go land the chest up. Hold one to see it head rocking. Bees crunch on the b-boys up by the hip-ing. The base drop show for sounds like a drum. Everybody's in the club getting the fly. However, hands in the sky you're moved to the floor. Leave your stress and go and hop on this. And that's the bring the way up. Don't press straight up. I bring it a little bit up over my head. Just concentrate on squeezing everything together. All right, fourth and final set. Last set, best set, time to dig deep. Got about six reps. Time to put your game face on. All right, this is going to be the fourth and final chest exercise we do. We're going to be doing a modified dip as well as a push-up. It's going to be supersetted. We're going to be doing three sets of each. No rest in between. Your chest is going to be on fire. But after this, we're done with chest. Getting into this is a little bit more technical. As you raise up into a like you would a normal dip. You don't want to lean forward a little bit. Keep the chest over the knees. And as you come down all the way down and it's really squeeze with the chest. Going down all the way stretching the chest and coming up just short of lockout. No pressure should ever be on the triceps. It should almost be like a fly movement. Immediately, no rest down and two. Almost like a yoga downward dog position. And going to rock forward. Push up. Push back. Doing these back to back fashion allows you to just get a massive pump. It is great for finishing up a chest. It leaves your gas. But chest, on fire. Alright, 30 seconds is up. You might not feel like you're ready to go again. It's not. Toast it. Alright, this is going to be the last and final chest exercise. So it separates the tenders from the contenders. Here we go. My chest now is spent. We are finished with chest. We did over four exercises. Getting all of the areas upper, middle, lower, inner and outer right there. Next, tricep portion. We are going to start off with school crushers. Coming at you. For our first tricep exercise, we have school crushers. Supercetted with a closed grip bench press. Now this is going to be the basic mass builder for the triceps. We are going to be doing one more upset here. Followed by three working sets of eight to 12 reps. And each one is going to be a super set. Going to blast these triceps right off the bat. We are using the eye train chest and triceps together because when you work out your chest, you are working your triceps as a secondary muscle. So what I like to do is after hitting the chest, throwing a couple extra sets to really blast the triceps. Anytime you are doing a pushing exercise, you are usually hitting both. That is it for the warm-up set. We now have three working sets to go. We are going to take you 60 seconds rest in the swing. With the warm-up out of the way, we are now moving into the first working set. I am going to be doing eight to 12 reps. Let's get after it. One thing to keep in mind in between sets, grab a drink, flex a little bit, stretch out some muscles, and keep your eye on the clock. 60 seconds is all we are taking here. This is the second working set. This is now the third working set we are on. I have increased the weight each time to where it is getting heavier. My reps are going down. Next includes the first exercise for our triceps. We did a compound movement in school crushers, close grip bench press, really working on the mass of the tricep. Next up we will do more of an isolation movement. Rope extensions. For our second tricep exercise, we are going to go with an isolation movement, rope extensions. It is a great one to bring out the details. And because it is an isolation movement, we are going to bump up the reps. 12 to 16, still keeping it at three sets. As you can see, there is not a lot of movement in my shoulders. Elbows rest down by the side, all triceps. We have increased the weight a little bit, still keeping the reps a little bit higher. Rest time has only been 30 seconds, so we are still going to get a lot of blood in there. If you notice there at the end, I did some partial movements. If you have an upper or lower area of the triceps, that is a little bit weaker. Doing a couple extra partial reps can really force blood into those areas. Now look at the triceps on fire. We are going to move to our final exercise, dumbbell overhead extensions. Now this is one giant set with four drops. Starting off with the heaviest weight, as many as you can. Immediately, dropping to a lighter weight as many as you can. Do that two more times, you will be blasted by the end of it. No rest. You are all fired now. That's it. After that, you should be able to move your arms. We know it's working. And that is it. You made it through. Chest and triceps portion of the big man on campus trainer is finished. In this big man on campus 12 week college trainer, you are going to have to schedule time for workouts, class, social life, really to do it all. And that is the only way to succeed. Knowing when to play, when to work is crucial. So by really harnessing that mental toughness in the gym, you will be able to use it out of the gym. Make sure you check out the rest of the videos and bodybuilding.com for more content like this. Class dismissed.

=== FILE: Steve Cook's Shoulders & Traps Workout ｜ Big Man on Campus [pwHqEfIuGMQ].txt ===

I'm Steve Tucker. Bodybuilding.com's postmodel, often nutrition athlete. The 2010 Bodybuilding.com, Fit Body Winner. The 2010 muscle and fitness male model winner, and the IFPD pro men's physique athlete. Before I was in the event, I was a collegiate athlete, earning my bachelor's in biology, psychology, integrated studies. This is the Big Man on Campus, 12 Week College Trainer. Today, we're going to be training shoulders and traps. Just like for all other body parts, we're going to be using both compound and isolation movements. Compound or multi-joint movements, take 60-90 seconds to rest. Because we're able to use a little bit heavier weight, you're going to need the extra rest period. When using an isolation movement, keep it to 30-60 seconds. Grab a pen and a no-pad. Classes and sessions. I like to start off with an active five-minute warm-up. First exercise, dumbbell press. When we're doing three sets, 12-16 reps, moving down and reps as we increase weights. And a final set is going to be a drop set that we do. Getting ready for this intense shoulder workout. You're going to want to take some time, close those eyes, visualize, and get motivated. You've gone up, in weight. We're dropping the reps a little bit. Still going to failure. My belief on shoulder and traps training is that they've got to be hit hard with a lot of all you. You're going to be doing over 20 sets for shoulders. It's going to be demanding. It's going to be tough. We're going to get through it. You get 60 seconds. Grab some heavier dumbbells. You're at back. Time for the third set. We've gone up to our heaviest dumbbells. I think it pumped up a little bit for this one. We've got a little bit of a bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit. You got to go over it. You're going to be doing over 20 sets for shoulders. It's going to be demanding. It's going to be tough. We're going to get through it. heaviest dumbbells. I can get pumped up a little bit for this one. All the way, completely failure. Moving right into our drops, it's a continuing. The drops set, it's typically trying to hit the same number of reps as I did on the previous set, usually around 10. Next up, we're doing some side dumbbells, we get that nice dumbbell cap. First set, we're doing about 12 reps and there will be increasing weight as we decrease reps. After our third set, we're performing a running the rack. It's a triple drop set, super intense, but it really gets a butt pump in there. This is the help build with and give you that nice wide shoulder look. The shoulder and trap training is a great way to use many different techniques. One that I always use is progressive training. I always try to beat the weights that I used last time or decrease the rest, increase the set, and shock the muscles in many different ways. For our third and final set of dumbbell lateral raises, we'd be shooting for about 8 to 10 reps, immediately dropping the weight to a lighter dumbbell to get 10 new for 8 or 10 reps, and then dropping once more. I call this running the rack, because usually the dumbbells are on the rack and you just go right down it. Just hold it, just burning away right now and just staying there for as long as you can. And that's it for dumbbell lateral raises. Next up, we're doing a reverse pectech, working that rear delt. We're going to be doing five sets of 10 to 14 reps, only taking 30 seconds in between. One thing you might not be able to tell is I never let the machine go back to its resting point that way the tension is always on my rear delt. We're going to increase the pounded, for our second set, 30 second break right back here. I've increased the weight, shooting again for 10 to 14 reps. We got our fifth and final set of reverse pectech, really striving to shoot for that 10 reps. And that's it for our third delt exercise. Next up, we have a superset, a front raise and an upright row. We're going to be doing three supersets. We're going to finish with one, go straight into the other, rep range between 10 and 14. Now the front raise I want you to do with your palms facing up. This is the best way to activate the muscle fibers and tie in that anterior delt and pecten surfaces. Get that nice separation. Now we're going to straighten that upright row. It's a little bit wider of a grip than maybe you are used to. And then after this, we have 60 seconds break. You've increased the weights. We're going to still go for that 10 reps. This is our third and final set for delt exercise before we move on to shrugs. Shoot for 8 reps. You still love how we have traps to do. There's a misconception that you have to throw a ton of weight to increase your traps size. It's about good form, squeezing. We're going to be doing a warm up set here, followed by four working sets of 8 to 12 reps, increasing the weight each time as we decrease the number of reps in this set. I also have my straps. I'm not going to use them until the weight becomes too heavy to hold. 15 reps is enough just to get the blood full and get that warm up in there. We're going to take 60 seconds, increase the weight. You're ready to go. For our second set, we've added a 45 on each side. Still don't need the straps quiet. Shoot them for 12 reps. Never is the mind and muscle connection more important than when training shoulders and traps. The reason I train these two together is because they work very closely with each other. Anytime your hands go above your shoulders, the traps come into play. That was working set number one. Now we're going to increase the weight. Take that 60 second break. Now this is when the felt and your straps come in handy. As a weight, it's too heavy to hold on your own. Strap it around the bar. It allows you to keep good form. We're not bouncing here. All the way up, holding all the way back down. Shoot for that tid red mark. I've added the weight. We're going to still shoot for 10 reps just because it's our heaviest. Doesn't mean we're going to get sloppy. And that is it for our deltories and traps. Getting into the gym and training shoulders is one of my favorites. If you really take it upon yourself, take work hard. If you want to be honest. Don't forget to watch the rest of the big man on campus training series. And for more content like this, check out BodyBilly.com.

=== FILE: Steve Cook's Training & Nutrition Program [A8QdQzUV0Fk].txt ===

Hi, I'm Steve Cook. I'm the 2010 Bodybuilding.com Fit Body Winner. Also the 2010 Muscle and Fitness Mail Model Winner as well as a professional level in GA Body Builder. I'm here to talk to you a little bit today about how I achieved my physique, through diet, nutrition, my training and my supplementation. I really want to help those out there that are with the transforming themselves from high school or collegiate sports, looking to get more into the fitness world. I myself put college football and high school football as well as track basketball. And that's really easy when you have coaches and you have other guys around telling you and pushing you. What do you do once you're alone in a gym? When I got out of high school, I get them playing college football. I looked at it, still in the same way. I was going into the gym with a goal online, whether it's to compete on stage, just to be healthier, have little goals to get set for yourself, whether it's two weeks. I'm going to max out and see where I'm at, two or after getting stronger. But I'm going to test my body fat. You have to go in there with something that's going to keep you motivated, keep you on track, or else you're just going to be going through the motions. There's so much of a parallel between sports and lifting. You can keep in sports, you add the final, you're going to be measured against other people. And bodybuilding, there is that competition between other people you can have. The more employment, I think it's between yourself. Every day you're going to wake up when you're in the mirror and see results. You're going to see it happening and kind of setting those goals, going into the gym, and just seeing, getting the pompous, Arnold described it or whatever, it is an amazing feeling. And going in there with that competitive mindset, just like competitive attitude, it'll take you take you a lot further. Even if it's just competing against yourself, because really when it's all said and done, the goal is to be healthier. And that's just something that's personal. When I go to the gym, it's 100% business. I don't go there to socialize, you see a lot of people in the gym, you know, run in the mouth, whatnot. For me, after the iPods and then I get like to get after it, whether it's, you know, heavy lifting, or if it's more of a circuit training depending on exactly what my goals are, I like to switch it up. I do a lot of resistance training with heavy weights, where I'm doing heavy squats, basic lifts, one thing that I do like to do is if I'm doing a basic movement, whether it's a bench presser, I do like to go fairly, fairly heavy. Down to, you know, those four reps up to about 12. I'm doing more of an isolation movement. I'm going to do a little bit more in there. I'm at the end of my workout or whatnot. But I like to switch it up, keep things interesting, and that's how I've got my best results. You know, I want to build big, big chest. You know, I saw everyone in the gym being flat bench. A bench press got real strong, but it didn't do a whole lot for my chest. And I had to kind of sit down and it was kind of a hard thing for me to do. I just say, hey, you know, bench presses and working to build my chest. I started to be more of an incline building my upper chest. For a beginner, go in in there and just doing the basic stuff will be a great foundation. You can then, you know, set your goals. Some people have, you know, genetically your disposition to build big arms. You know, I have to work on their legs a little bit or whatnot. But just just getting into the gym, starting out basic, just doing your basic lifts, really doing them proper. You know, good form, you never throw their weights around. I always change it my rep tempo. Some days it's rolling, you know, slow deliberate. Always under control other days it's more of a power, you know, training a little bit faster pace. If I'm training for mass, you know, I'm going to take a little more time between my sets. If I'm training more for a show or to get cut up, you know, it's more of a cardio basketball workout as well. I typically train on a four on one off when I'm getting ready for something, whether be a show or for the, you know, the spring trying to get a little bit more cut up. I like to go in and hit my back and buy steps one day, chest and triceps, legs and shoulders. Shoulders, I find I get the best results when I do just a shoulder workout. Cardio for me is something that, you know, I think it's very important when I'm trying to maintain or get down to a certain body fat. Or, you know, it's also very important. And, you know, if you're in a bulk, you still need to do some form of cardio just for your heart. I like to do it in either in the morning. Before my workout, I don't, I don't ever do cardio and then work out very close together. It's, you know, a couple hours apart. Or, I do cardio if I'm in a pinch right after. Cardio is one of those things you just need to, if you need to get it done, do it when you can. Platoes are something, you know, everyone's going to run into. When I hit a plateau, the first thing you do is, I look in my training logs, my body space, so what I have been doing. Obviously, it's not working for hitting a plateau, something needs to change. You do it, you need to hit harder, maybe back off a little bit. Maybe take a couple days of rest and just totally let your body look great. Maybe you need to also look at your diet. Also, sleep. Sleep something, you know, you're not going to be able to go into a gym form like you should if you're not getting out of good enough. So, you get to look at everything. And then, kind of, you know, back to the drawing boards, maybe add an exercise or two for a couple weeks. If you've been doing more of a volume, drop your sets down, show it up, you work out, train for intensity. You know, really heavy weights and, you know, just track your progress. Well, that was how I train for the full content on my whole training routine. Check out the page below. Now, time to talk a little bit more about nutrition. People ask, you know, what's your diet? And I always tell them, you know, it's not really a diet for me anymore. You know, I've made a decision to live like this and it's a healthier lifestyle. One thing that's going to definitely become apparent as you start your training is that diet plays a huge role. You know, growing up high school or whatnot, you can pretty much eat whatever you want. As long as you're in the gym, you're going to grow a little bit. As we get older, you know, our bodies are going to be changes and you're going to need good nutrition, whether you're in a bulk or cutting, feeling your body with the right sources of carbohydrates, proteins and fat, make all the difference in the world. You have a plan of a gym. Why don't have a plan on your diet as well? That's something that goes hand in hand. You can't have one without the other. I eat seven meals a day. I know that sounds a little bit extreme. My metabolism's a furnace and I'm always stoking it with fuel. And I'm always feeding it, giving it good sources of energy. Good carbohydrates, good protein. And it's always wrapped up ready to go. I try to eat every two and a half to three and a half hours. You know, when I wake up, I give something and I'm eating then until pretty much to go a bit. My meal is consistent protein and carbohydrates and good fats. A good protein source for me, you know, chicken. You know, you have the hottest cheese, chicken. You know, you hear that. I also like ground beef, really lean ground beef, good, you know, sirloin steak every now and then. Eggs, I eat a lot of egg whites. And then I also, you know, post workout. I look to get a shake in or if I'm on the go and can't grab something. But just make sure that you're hitting at least one gram for pound of body weight. Good carbs sources, you know, I like sweet potatoes, yams, obviously vegetables. People, you know, what we mean sometimes think I'm a rabbit, because I'm a mountain vegetables and what do you think? Other, other good carbs sources, I get ground rice, king law, oatmeal. I also like to carb cycle, you know, keep on the top of those and then I'm on a body guessing, you know, one day go really high, fall by, you know, a medium and a low day. Also depends on my activity level. You know, if I'm, if I'm out there skiing, you know, being very active, I can afford to, you know, more grand, grand, carbohydrates or whatnot. So I'm a little bit less active, you know, if I'm at home watching the football game or whatnot, you know, I'm going to back off the carbs and the most of my calories in the form of fats and proteins. That's a very important to test off-stream production, your body. You know, nuts and nut butter, you know, I eat a lot of almond butter, almonds to me, tastes like canyons, I love it. I also like avocados and olive oil and whatnot, but it's, you know, it's important to remember that fats are more calorie dense than the carbohydrates and the proteins. So, you know, it really does come down to calories in versus calories out when you talk about losing weight, but it's also the quality of calories when you talk about, you know, body composition. No one can go all the time without having any cravings. So, things you can do to really help out. I love the thin calorie sugar-free jellos that, you know, that gives me a, a set of size of my craving for, for a lot of speeds when I'm on a strict, strict diet. But one thing that, you know, I really, I'm a big, big believer is every now and then, you know, pro-achievement, you know, whether it's once a week or if you're just starting out once every three days or what not, then you have to allow yourself to have a break, you know, you have to allow yourself to just pour your glitters, pizza or hamburger, pick one meal and get after it. Now that you know about how important nutrition is, you can check out my full meal plan on the page below. Now, let's get into another important topic, supplementation. One other very important aspect of training and dieting is supplementation. It comes in when you can't get all your meals or you're lacking vitamins and whatnot. Supplement something that you can take advantage of and really see the gains. It's something that I like to do with it, right? I mean, a bulkying or cutting phase. The reason something that I can't do without, definitely going to be the glutamine. The branch changes me no acids and then the protein. These things no matter what cycle I'm in in my life or where I'm at, you know, I have to make sure that I get enough of. I'm really feel like the glutamine really helps repair, you know, my, my damage body from the workouts and it's something that I really can get everyone to benefit from. You know, for me, I make sure that if I get a new supplement, I always read a label. I see exactly when I should take it. Usually I take my, my multivitaminants or my thermogenic, a little before I eat breakfast. There's a lot of supplements you should take with food on an empty stomach. That's one thing that you really need to look at and see. Folded directions. Protein shakes are essential for me as soon as I can get on with my workout. There's so many supplements out and they're always coming out with new supplements and they're always are claiming things. Now you need to go, you need to check out bodybuilding.com, check out the reviews on them, make sure that they are, our, our parallel with what your goals are. I mean, not going to take a mask-aining carbohydrate protein drink if you're trying to cut. There's so many, so many great companies out there that make supplements that you really can't go wrong. But the key is to really know what you're putting in your body and know what you can expect out of it. You know, supplements, like I said, are there just a supplement case? You can't have a poor diet and poor training and take supplements and expect to have a near course. Now that you know what I do for my training, nutrition and supplementation, check it out on the page below. Or find me at Body Space. My username Steve Cook under score 32. Ask me questions anytime, I'd love to get back to you. Further content like this, check out Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Steve Nash Explains Why He Uses OneBode - Bodybuilding.com [75BopILPPZs].txt ===

Hey Steve Nash here. You can find my one body products right here at Bodybuilding.com. I use one body from my performance, recovery, clean energy and overall health. Our holistic natural product line specializes in food vitamins, plant enzymes, patented keylated minerals and stabilized probiotics. I use a lot of the products with my favorites, our blend, flow and recover. Check us out and enjoy. Thank you.

=== FILE: Steve Sherer ｜ Hellraiser Training Testimonial [0BOcmr58f04].txt ===

I'm Steve Shier, I'm one of the HRT contest winners hosted on Bodybuilding.com. Well, at first I'll send you a show for myself at least. I can really speak to the fact that they were very eager to flating. I mean, that's what I found right off the bat. I mean, I was doing a lot less weight than before. And also, it really pointed out when you were doing form incorrectly, because it was really difficult on the stabilizer muscles. When you were working with partner assisted resistance. Oh, the first time, it was embarrassing. I mean, it was painful. We were going through there. And you goes for hurting. We could not even complete. All the reps that we were supposed to do. I mean, when it got down to the health metrics, we were burned. We don't have any trainer partner. He really calls you out on your shirt. You know, there was some days where I just wasn't feeling it. And having a loss there, he made sure that I did the weight that I was supposed to do. You know, I was on a cutting diet. So I had very low energy. So we got very difficult at some points. But having a partner there, he really called me out. And I was acting. And he wasn't acting the last, both. We have a different training style. So I had to work with him in various ways. I know that I was going to push up a little hinge as well. I would say we were competitive. But the way that we were competitive is we both really wanted. We had certain goals that we wanted to meet. We wanted to make sure that we met the goals. And our goals were different. My partner was putting on weight. I was losing weight. So really the competitiveness was just making sure that we held up our end of the deal. We did what we needed to do. I started at a tooth 30. I ended up, I believe, around 2014. And it was actually interesting because before I started the cut, I gained about five pounds. First four weeks that really was bulking up, I was putting a muscle in strength. The last day of weeks I started a cut program. And what I will say is I actually had strength increases while I was cutting. I just did not expect. Before I started the program, I couldn't even do a dip with body weight. I was kind of embarrassed. I'm a big guy at 230 pounds. I still couldn't do one single dip from body weight. At the end of the program, I was able to comfortably do eight reps of body weight plus 45 pounds. There's a lot of programs that promise you, gigantic gains, or huge cuts. Get ripped real quick. Things like that. I was very skeptical of any program that I saw, but I'll tell you by the end of the program, I was down to a routine. We got them in general. We were machines. We did what we needed to do. We were in and out of there. We made it work. By the end of it, we had a pretty personal contact with a couple of the guys at animals. We were getting help from all different sources, which was extremely beneficial and actually took a lot of our weightlifting to the next level. The people that I would recommend it to, I guess the earlier stage would be somebody who's looking, who's actually beginning to take bodybuilding seriously. Because it's a very painful program. So if you're not committed to it, you're not going to do it. So you need someone who's already started seeing some benefits and knowing that bodybuilding is working for them. Who really has a goal in mind and they want to meet that goal. I mean, that's the first time I would tell you, use HRT, reach that goal.

=== FILE: Stiff Legged Dumbbell Deadlift - Legs ⧸ Glutes Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [w9_PudlkeLI].txt ===

Hold a couple of dumbbells by your side. Stand up straight with your legs based apart about shoulder width. Your knees should be slightly bent. This will be your starting position. Keep your knees stationary and back straight. Now exhale and lower the dumbbells over the top of your feet by flexing your hips and setting your butt back. Keep moving forward as if you're going to pick something up from the floor. Continue this motion until you feel a stretch on the hamstrings. Then inhale and start raising your torso back up again by extending your hips until your back at the starting position.

=== FILE: Stiff-Legged Deadlift - Leg Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [NzMDStjQadQ].txt ===

Grab the bar using an overhand grip. Stand straight up with your legs spaced about shoulder with the part. Your knees should be slightly bent. This will be your starting position. Now keeping your knees stationary, exhale and lower the barbell over the top of your feet by bending at the waist. Keep moving forward as if you're going to pick something up from the floor. Continue this movement until you feel a stretch in your hamstrings. And inhale and start raising your torso back up again by extending your hips and waist until you're back to the starting position.

=== FILE: Stomach Vacuum ｜ Ab Exercises Guide [f2PliOQHQ4c].txt ===

Stand up straight with your feet shoulder with a part from each other. This will be your starting position. Now slowly inhale as much air as possible. Then exhale bringing your stomach in as far as you can. Hold this position and try to visualize your navel touching your backbone. One contraction is around 20 seconds. During a 20 second hold, try to breathe normally then bring your stomach back to the starting position. Once you've practiced this exercise, you can work your way up to 40 and 60 second contractions.

=== FILE: Stop Doing Leg Extensions Like This!!! #legextensions #workouttips [5D4C2Ts5U7s].txt ===

Stop doing your leg extensions like this. Non-sense. All right, a couple things I want to show you. So you have a couple dials you can move here. First dial is you want to get this pad as far back as you can so you get greater range of motion. All right. Second thing is you want this pad to be at the bottom, essentially close to your ankle. All right, you don't want it up your arms or your chin. That's going to take a lot of people make it. It's very uncomfortable movement. And the third thing is to see, you want to see to go far and also that the back of your knee is snug with the pad. Once you have that, you have a couple things you need to take into consideration here first. Grab the handles and with the handles you want to drive your arm. Into the pad. Make yourself a stable as you can possibly be. So that would look something like this. And the last thing is you want to point your toes up and you don't want your feet to be out like this. Or inwards like this you want them to be straight lined up with the hips and the bones. Pointing up this one. You got a better contraction in the VMO. That part of the quadricep that we're isolating. All right. So lock yourself in. Now don't swing the wings. A lot of people do this. It's terrible. This is where a lot of knee pain comes in. You want to control the movement because this is isolation. And when you're at the top, you're going to spend some time because this part of the quadricep is fully short. And a lot of people don't spend a lot of time here. So you really want to control this contraction. Really own it and control it down. This is not an exercise where you want to put in a lot of weight and get your ego in it. No drop your ego. Go for higher repetitions 10 plus and really control it and own it. If you really want to develop the quadricep, especially that tear drop part of the muscle. That's your best intention. All right guys. Like and follow for more. And if you know a bro or bro let that does this incorrectly, please share it with them. All right.

=== FILE: Straight Arm Pulldown - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [wcVDItawocI].txt ===

Start by grabbing the bar from the top pulley and stepping backwards a few feet. Next, bend your torso forward about 30 degrees at the waist. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you with a slight bend in your elbows. If your arms are not fully extended then you need to step backwards until they are. Once your arms are fully extended and your torso has slightly bent at the waist, tighten your lats and you'll be ready to begin. Now keeping your arms straight, breathe out and pull the bar down by contracting the lats until your hands are next to the side of your thighs. Then while still keeping your arms straight, return back to the starting position while breathing in.

=== FILE: Straight Arm Pulldown Technique #backday #workout [QUIB08yf_dM].txt ===

Alright, now jump in, let me show you something to look good. This is too high for you, so you have to step all the way back in order to pull. You want this to be like right above. I level, so it's easier to control. So this is the weight, right? So we're here instead of sitting back, stand here, bring it up, just come to the stretch. Your upper body comes down, then you bring your torso up, squeeze up here. Alright, step back slightly, not too far. You're going to lean forward into the weight, lean, and then push the bar down. And then four stretch one. Good, and then up comes up. Yep, when you stretch, bring it up, your body down, so you can get that stretch in the left. Nice, right there. Down, stretch, stretch, stretch. Very thick. Good job, you know. Come on, come on, come on. It's starting to shake already. That's how you know you're using your back, now your legs. Come on, one more, one more. Up, up. Nice, let it go. How does that feel? Exactly, exactly, alright? Good job.

=== FILE: Straight-Arm Pulldown - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [r34PR1mxzmU].txt ===

Start by grabbing the bar from the top pulley and stepping backwards a few feet. Next, bend your torso forward about 30 degrees at the waist. Your arms should be fully extended in front of you with a slight bend in your elbows. If your arms are not fully extended then you need to step backwards until they are. Once your arms are fully extended and your torso has slightly bent at the waist, tighten your lats and you'll be ready to begin. Now keeping your arms straight, breathe out and pull the bar down by contracting the lats until your hands are next to the side of your thighs. Then while still keeping your arms straight, return back to the starting position while opening this entry, just like an일 a seah ihrinーム side of your leg. A corner of your head stitch must stay between your floor and floor.

=== FILE: Strawberry Lemonade Amino Ice Pops ｜ Lais DeLeon [EQbYr-dbuIk].txt ===

Hey guys, I'm Lise Dileon and I'll leave for her athlete and today I'm going to show you how to make my strawberry lemonade amino popsicles. This recipe is super quick and easy. First we're going to start by filling a shaker bottle with water. Then we'll add four scoops of NLA for her pink lemonade amino's and the juice of half a lemon. Then just shake it up and fill the popsicle molds about three quarters of the wafel. Next slice and add one strawberry to each popsicle mold. Last just cover and put them in the freezer overnight. In this recipe I use strawberries but you can use any fruit you like. Just have fun with it. I love this recipe because it's a fun summer tree that's guilt free and I can keep on hand for whenever I'm creating something sweet. The step-by-step guide and macronutrient breakdown for this recipe can be found in the article below here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me you can find me on Instagram at Lise Dileon and on my website at LiseDileonBitness.com. For more free recipes and articles like this keep coming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Superman - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [hhq86gJvrvo].txt ===

Lye face down on the floor or an exercise mat. Fully extend your arms in front of you. This is the starting position. Now simultaneously raise your arms legs and chest off the floor and hold the contraction for two seconds. In the fully contracted position, you should look like superman when he's flying. Slowly lower your arms legs and chest back down to the starting position. Slowly lower your arms legs. Slowly lower your arms. Slowly lower your arms.

=== FILE: Surviving the Toughest Workout at Westside Barbell ｜ The Westside Method EP 2 [VcAJAdEDcpk].txt ===

I would love to tell you that I came in here and I ticked but week number one. That would be a lie. I barely lived through my first workout and that hurts me to tell you because I didn't think it was going to be so bad. I saw the workout on paper and when you look at it, it's really not a crushing workout. I got through the first few lifts. I'm going along, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, we're doing a bamboo bar overhead press and the first set we did on it. I feel like the ball was going to come out of my hands at the top of each rep. I'm thinking wow. Either Tom is kind of soft and the programming is soft or I am just, oh, that good. Second set of bamboo bar presses, I barely finished and it was only downhill from there. As I went through the workout, things got worse and worse and by things, I mean me, I started deteriorating pretty significantly and was dropping IQ points probably every couple seconds. I can't remember a lot of what you're seeing from that workout. Once I got into a certain point in my, and my de-evolution over that workout, I have no active memory of any of it. I was talking to some of the guys afterwards, they thought I was like stalling or kind of by time because my coordination was off, I couldn't get a belt on, I couldn't get it off. I genuinely don't know what happened, but I do know that I am in much deeper water than I expected to be. And again, I didn't come in here with a big ego. I didn't think I was going to crush everything, but I also didn't think I was going to get completely steamrolled. And I did. Where's the rounddown workouts? Now this is the most physically uncomfortable training session I have ever done. I got that journey session more emotionally stressful. I think it turns out it's a weight in our, or what I've tried to do. I've got to have some of this physical that I've had the wall. This is like this deals like super credit, super setting, like truck balls. Like, you know what truck will deal off, you sit down right. You know what? This is like, too truck ball, relax, too. Imagine who would go, who actually truck, but that's I both. I can't get away from the ticket, can't you? Yes. He's just fucking anti-tag needle of the fucking workout. Yes, good. Like, yes, good. You're going to try it. Yeah, you can. So from here, I can't cut any corners. If I intend to live through the next three weeks of training here, I need to get everything nailed down. So my food is going to be perfect. Every meal, every day, the same couple things, I'm going to take every single supplement I can that I have with them doing multivitamin. I'm doing a postwork out. I'm doing a pre-work out of a book. Approaching out, I am doing everything. Everything I could possibly handle, or everything I could possibly include in my routine, I'm including. I'm doing the sauna, I'm doing the cold point. I'm doing normatech boots. I'm going to sleep as much as I can. I'm going to drink a lot of water. I am trying to nail every single aspect of this to the point that I've decided to move into the store room at the gym. And be here 24, 7. To give this undivided, monk mode levels of attention. So here is the plan as we move forward. I've got three significant workouts per week. One of the whole body day, that's the one that almost led to my untimely demise. Then I've got a heavy upper body day and a heavy lower body day. It takes into that week. I also have three light workouts every week. More extra workouts. We're doing some postural stuff, some sled work, some recovery work, overall. I'm going to be using the armory for body work to stay together. I'm going to be eating a gram of protein per pound of body weight every single day drinking. Five liters of water taking all of my supplements, including the multibitamin. The recovery shape, the pre-workout, the protein powder. I am taking every single measure possible to make sure that I am not the reason that I've below this month and do not represent what results are possible. Despite the fact that after this first hard workout, I think there's a chance I just die. There's a chance that this ends with my funeral. That'll be the next episode. If I have another workout like that, it might actually kill me. And that's how this project could end. Hello, the week. This week's getting absolutely obliterated. But now I'm genuinely understanding that this is even more serious than I thought at first than I have to be equally as serious as I approach this. Not only to get the most out of it, but to live through it. So I'm hoping when I see you next week and tell you about what has been happening, I've got some good news. As opposed to the news I had this week, that is I am barely alive, but I am going to be spending the next week getting as serious and as consistent as dedicated and disciplined as possible. And I'm hoping the next time we talk, I've got some good results to show you. Scent prayers.

=== FILE: Suspended Fallout - Shoulder ⧸ Core Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [0FAMdxWgFnA].txt ===

A just the straps so the handles are an appropriate height below waist level. Begin standing and grasping the handles. Lean into the straps, moving to an inclined push up position. This will be your starting position. Keeping your arms straight, lean further into the suspension straps, bringing your body closer to the ground, allowing your shoulders to extend, raising your arms up and over your head. Maintain a neutral spine and keep the rest of your body straight. Your shoulders being the only joints allowed to move. Pause during the peak contraction and then return to the starting position.

=== FILE: Taco Potato Bowls IG：@jalalsamfit#mealprep #highprotein [wwvZ5DCn0f4].txt ===

The tasteiest, high protein cheesy beef taco potato balls. All four 520 calories packed with so much flavor, perfect for weight loss, and incredibly easy to meal prep. Slice your potatoes into small cubes, then add this taco seasoning mix with olive oil, give it all a good mix, then oven or air fry on the settings listed on screen. Next, make the Chipotle spicy sauce with low fat yogurt, light mayo, chipotle chili paste, hot sauce, squeeze of honey, salt, paprika, and garlic powder. Blend it all till completely smooth and creamy just like this. You can bought all the sauce up and store in the fridge for weeks. Next, make the first sauce I would chop tomatoes, red onion, bell peppers, coriander, the spice blend, and lime juice mix to welcome buying. Then get a pan on high heat, add grass fed butter and cook the beef for 8 minutes before adding tomato paste and more taco seasoning mix, mix and cook till golden brown. Add low fat cheese, then all that's left to do is equally distribute into four servings and your high protein meal is ready to enjoy.

=== FILE: Take a T-levels test to gain health insights with LetsGetChecked. Save 25% with code BODYBUILDING25 [dv3Ujrh0mjc].txt ===

Remedies for Lotus Dostrum. First and foremost, I would say to seek medical professionals guidance. This is stuff pertaining to your hormones. You want to blood test. You want someone who's educated and can guide you in the proper direction. But there are other things that we can do that can make a decent difference. You can focus on your sleep, your habits, and your nutrition. Sleep, and extra hour goes a long way towards improving your testosterone levels. As well as focusing on getting better quality sleep, billet-beder sleep habits. Abit's in general, stress. If you can approach life with a more laid-back mindset, not stressing over small things, that will do worlds for your testosterone levels. And lastly, nutrition. When it comes to nutrition, ensuring that your diet is comprised of good, whole food, micronutrient dense foods is very, very important. There is nothing wrong with having a treat here there. Everyone's in a wild, junk food can be fantastic. But, too much of a good thing can also be very, very bad thing. So it's important to make sure that you're limiting your intake of that and focusing on the foods that are really going to make a difference.

=== FILE: Take action today with a LetsGetChecked at-home Testosterone test. Save 25% with code BODYBUILDING25 [9NR7iqS3t8o].txt ===

We've talked a lot about the signs and symptoms of a list of sauce drum. Enough that you might be thinking, well that's not good. What if that's me? How do I know? Luckily, let's get checked calm, offers you very easy to use at home test kit. They send you everything that you need in this little box. All you have to do is take five minutes of your time, go through the steps, and then mail it back. They also send along a return mailing address so you have nothing to worry about except for doing the five minutes of work that is required. There is a video on their website but to walk you briefly through it, you will have a saliva swab that you put in your mouth for two minutes. Do not chew it. If you don't have enough saliva, leave it in for a little bit longer. You place back in the tube, you're good to go. Next, they will provide you a number of lances. You just twist this little tap off. Push it flush against one of your fingers, any finger except for the ring finger, and then you will then take the cap off of this tube, push your finger up against the lip, and you will let your blood fill until the fill line. And you're done. Once everything is all taken care of, you package your back up, put in the box, take it to you. Yes, you're good to go. They also have a very, very detailed walkthrough on every step of the process in addition to how to take the actual test on their website. Here's the closer look at what's included and then let's get check.com test kit. Results are available in two to five days after your test is received. You can consult with an LGC nurse to discuss anything about your test and answer any questions that you may have. And you can also save 25% off by using the code Bodybuilding25.

=== FILE: Terminator Genisys Trailer： Arnold Schwarzenegger Interview - Bodybuilding.com [5pONVCl4Cxg].txt ===

I look at each of you and I see the marks of this long and terrible war. If we die tonight, mankind dies with us. I'm always in a pretty good shape. From one to ten, I will consider myself always in seven and eight. But for this movie, obviously I had the first to gain the weight back because as you remember, the skeleton of 1984 and the body, I remember I think it weighed around 228 pounds for that movie. And so I wanted to get that body weight back and have the same kind of size, so it's believable. So I went back to my kind of system of drinking protein drinks twice a day in between meals. So it would be breakfast and lunch. We had a protein drink and then between lunch and dinner. I had another protein drink. And then the food supplements, you know, the great thing now is you have those packages. And so it was easy to be reminded all of that. I'm okay. They're this in the morning, they're this at night. So it was no problem to do that. But I think it's very important to do it. Because it just can't get enough in the unendertrition and protein with just regular food. Number two, it was important to really train the cardiovascular system. Because I know with stunts, it's not just in the actions, not just doing it one times of two times or five times, you do this stuff all day long. And so it'd be really ingrained at letting an infysical shape for those kind of things. Because the punishment is already hard enough, but the endurance is to keep things there. I don't think that this terminate is more special than the first terminate of the second terminate or the third one. I think the disease is just an ongoing kind of a story. And what this pedigal movie has done is it has set a read on some of the rules. We were very fortunate that we had really a producer like David Nelson and Dana. They were really close attention to the storyline and they do have the best script writers involved with it. And also to hire director Alan Taylor, who is an assistant extraordinaire, job. And we thought of it to move it to the movie just before it did terminate. And he was fantastic. He really has a great vision. And so I think by having talented people like that and the talented cast that this amount of time makes the movie really, I think a great movie and the great entertainment. It's amazing to kind of visual the knowledge that is available. That you can recreate me from 1984 with that body. Exactly the way I was standing there naked in front of this punk and asking for their clothes. And they have me then standing there, not with split screen, but all on the same screen. And having this fight since it's really fantastic. So this is what makes this movie kind of unique that we now have additional kind of technology available. We'll entertain people even more. So if the big action seems to be also after the magic of the visual effects. I would say that without sport, I would have never really learned the lessons that are so important for life. Coming from the body building background and from the lifting background and having this done before was really the foundation to everything that I've done without that that wouldn't be sitting here today. You know, I think every one of you out there know that terminate is coming out on the true life for a weekend. And I know that all of you will say, I'll be there. Watch it. Run! Where is he? I'll be back. What?

=== FILE: Terry Crews Workout for Expendables [D-uBxxK4c3U].txt ===

What? Hey everybody, it's Terry Cruz from the new movie, the best action movie ever summer. The expendable. With the best of the long jet-league Jason State of Randy Cotour, Mickey Roark, myself. It's going to be great and you might know me from the old Spice commercials. And I'm glad to be here with Bodybuilding.com. Let me tell you something. You will never ever ever see a cast like this. Ever, in movie history, it's the Haley's comment of action movies. I'm trying to say, dude, you're just a stock-skilled level. Will jump when you get into theater. I'm a hot guy. I play a guy by the name of Haley Caesar. The best movie name of all time. Okay, who's a long, very old weapon specialist. I'm passionate about my weapons. I have a gun that I'm literally called my girlfriend. You know what I mean? But that's my character. My specialty is always been my guns. You know what I mean? It's kind of like, that's my deal. And this is what we've survived. So I put me in. It's that, you know, he knew that I had the look. You know what I mean? It was like, to guide a hold in the gun. And a lot of military guys were like, wait a minute. He wouldn't have. He wouldn't wear anything sleeveless, but I was like, hey man, this is the movie. I'm here to show you an exercise that I do to get ready for most of my films, TV shows, projects, especially the expendables. It's called the 24s. And basically, it's four different exercises with six reps each. And I'm telling you, this thing will work your core. It works your shoulders. It works the lower body. You are totally done. And because you do so many reps, it's almost like a cardio workout. Let me show you. First exercise in the set of 24s is an upright rope. I'm going to show you how to do it. Three. Grip the way. Make sure your grip is close together. Bend your knees. Come up into it. Set it in it. Make sure you have your balance. And here we go. We're going to lift the bar all the way to our chin. Six reps of... And then we immediately, we widen our grip. And we go up, do six power clean. Without banging it on the floor, with metal weights. If you have some rubber weights, go ahead. But with the metal, you all got to be conscious of the floor. So here we go. You got to get down and explode on every jump. And we're going to jerk when we get it up to the top. Explosion is what it's all about. Make it come from here. Come on. Your hips. And you set it in you to six reps. Right after those six power clean, we close our stance a little bit. And then hit a Romanian deadlift. You don't have to go past your knee. Just enough so you feel it in your back. You're working your back. And you're fulfilling your hamstring. And then you're going to pull your hips up. Now, directly, we're going to Romanian deadlift. We're going to do six jumpswalks. Take it to a clean, get it up behind your back. Rest it on your shoulder. And then you get down and explode. Right up into the... Keep it in your back. Right. Close. That's it. Drink it down. Hey guys, as you can see, 24s has you winded pretty quickly. So you have to be careful. Make sure you start with very, very small weight. The whole thing, this is not about how much weight you have. It's about the explosion. Even if you start off with just the bar, that's real cool, man. As long as you get the movement and make it correct, and do all the reps in the sets, you will get burned. And it's one of the things. This is exercise I do every time it's a shoulder day for me. It's best you with the jerk, and I started out with this. So now, come on, engines run it. I'll go right into my shoulder exercises. And it's got me warm, it's got me ready, because the shoulders can be a really sensitive area. I work out very, very hard. My thing is to always be as hard and as cut as possible. But within parameters, you don't want to be just starving and having no strength. And with a role like this, I knew I was going to take a lot of energy, man. Just to get through the days and make the physical stuff work. My workout that goes through the week is pretty much cardio every day. And I usually get on the treadmill, and I'll do half an hour at 7.0, with me running 3 and a half miles every day. Monday is a shoulder day where I have a lot of power queens, I work my shoulder. Tuesday is a back day, everything we garden back. Wednesday is strictly cardio, and I usually double up my cardio that day. Sometimes I do five miles instead of 3.5. And then call it a day. Thursday is a chest and arms, and if Friday is a big, big, big, big day. I go in endurance and heavy weight. So it's always a good balance of doing, I get to the gym, consistency, always. And if you have to not do exercise for a while, just leave it alone, but work on other things. You know what I mean? It's always something you can do. I train very, very hard. I train as if I'm still in an NFL in a lot of ways. I mean, I use a lot of NFL style work out. Tons of power queens, lots of explosive movement. Get up, I pull in the morning, just to wake you up, then I take my vitamins, then I work out, I mean, pretty much on that. Then I had a protein shake, like right after the workout. And then about two hours later, I'll have some yogurt, granola, that kind of thing. And then for lunch, I usually hit get a salad, chicken salad with the beans, the lettuce, no rice, nothing like that, but with the meat and the whole thing. Then I might grab another protein shake. And then for dinner, it's a good chicken breast. I'm always adjusting whatever I see. And it's always like some chicken breast you can grab and that whole thing for dinner. And it's a call of the day. I'm not opposed to having some bread or some tortilla chips. And because I really burn it off, I have a very, very active lifestyle. To be here and to be in this position and to watch yourself on a screen, and the movie looks great, man. It's just, it's like, man, it makes all those years, not that pain worth anybody who trains. No, it's 100% pain. It's kind of like the theme of this movie. You know, you know, then the expendables, it's like people try to retire you. They literally, I mean, I look as a stilom, man. They try to put them out the past, you know, like, do it, you're done. You did your thing. Now, we got to give it to somebody else, and, you know, you should be over. But you always have to come back. It's always about rebuilding. You always have to say, I'm not going to stop. And the thing is, why? Why stop? I'm going to never give it. I'm going to always stay in shape. At forever. You see me, I'll be the best looking 90 year old guy you've ever seen. That's my plan. Let me tell you, for more content like this, you've got to go to bodybuilding.com. It's the place of eBay. Expendables. August 13. Bye!

=== FILE: Terry Crews' Cobra Back Workout (HD) - Bodybuilding.com [7Y5Wdq_N7qM].txt ===

Hey everybody, my name is Terry Cruz and you might know me from the expendables from everybody hates Chris, my brand new show, how we dare yet. I am here right now with you with BodyBuilding.com to show you the number one back workout that I do, my favorite one. On a time we can go have one of those co-op effects. I'm just now in a thin, ah, this is you and me. We work it out together today. Burn the music up, turn your jazz up because we bought the hit it. Everyone focuses on the push movements, but you're really to get your back together. You have to focus just as hard on the pull movements. This is what today is all about. All right, ain't no bacon on this one y'all. Let's do it. Ready? Ready? First thing we're going to do is start with a 5 minute warmup on the bike. All right, here we are. I cannot stress the importance of getting a good warmup because man, it gets everything the blood flowing, the whole deal. You can't run a Ferrari test to the road to straight from zero to 100. You can kind of guide your way up. So here we go. We bought the juff on this bike man. We've got our warm up on. And you know, you should set the resistance a little high so that you can warm up your legs. If you have a bike where the resistance is between 115 and 115, one being an easiest, 15 being the hardest, I say you set it between five, six or seven. You don't want to go too fast because this is not the workout. This is all about this warming it up. Okay everybody, our first exercise is the Romanian debt lift. I brought my straps. We're using heavier weight and not going down so far so we can really focus on what this is about, which is your back. I usually start out like 135 as a warmup set and then I go into four sets of 10 with heavier weight. Make sure your knees are slightly bent and keep your back arched. You're not want to roll your back. Time to get a little break. You just have some good O-d-H2, man. It's the way to go. All right, our next exercise is a good old fashioned pull-up. I use straps just because I want to focus on my back. The first set of our pull-up exercises is the behind the neck and we're going to go all the way to failure. You're going to get about a minute rest and then we're going to go right into a one-arm pull-up. You're going to take each arm to failure. You basically have a grip on both of them but you're doing them focusing on one arm at a time. Switch. And then go to the middle and even it up. Burn it up. All right, the next move and our pull-up exercises are the close grip pull-up. Again, it's all the way to failure. There's it there. Here we go. Really get an extension. Nice. The last set of these four pull-ups that's two failure is just a standard pull-up. Just the same ones you have a gram popper used to do. Woo! That's it. Okay, we just got down with our pull-ups. We're headed right over to the squat rack and this is it. I usually use an underhand grip. Some people like the overhand. It depends on what's comfortable for you. All right, this guy's down with the first set. I'm going to add some more weight. So we're going to hit the second one right now. We're going to add a little more weight. We're going to hit the third one. All right, now we're headed over to dumbbells. We can get those rolls over there. Now we're moving on to the bent over dumbbell rows. You want to be really careful, you want to keep your back straight and you want to really feel the squeeze at the top. We're going to do four sets of 10. I'm working with 100's here. I stay with one weight the whole time. This is all about concentration. You're trying to work on the detail. That's one. We're going to get a 30-second rest and then we're going to hit it again. That's two. One more set. Now we're going to move on to the hammer straight high row. You're going to hit a hole in another section of the back. You want that cover? You got a paper to cover. All right. Now we're moving on to the hammer straight high rows. We're going to work the lower section of your last. The idea is to get four sets of 10. The last set is to failure and I add weight each time. Another thing I want to stress is that a lot of guys use these hammer straight and they keep their feet on the floor. Here you want to make sure that you get your feet up on the post here because if you're feet on the floor, you have a chance of rocking and then not going to this thing over. Especially when you get into heavier weight. This keeps you secure and keeps you locked down. Really stress the back and concentrate on where you want this thing to hit. That's the first set. Trying to put some more weight on. Forget about 30 seconds rest. I'm going to put my last set on. I got five plates going on. Now I'm going to failure. This is it. That's failure. That's failure. Okay. We're going to do four sets. Try to get 10 reps. We're going to add a little bit of weight each time. And this is pretty much the last heavy kind of exercise you're going to do on your back. I don't go heavy weight on with this because we went heavier but I really want to focus on what you want to hit with. Which is that middle of your back. Make sure you keep your feet up. Good grip and here we go. So I'm going to add a little bit more weight. About 30 seconds rest. We'll hit the last one. There we go. Now we're over here over at the back extensions. This is basically a warm down. I do four sets of 10 because we've already done a lot of heavy heavy motions with a lower back. So now it's all about warming it down and making sure everything's still in place. You know, after you've already hit it. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. We're going to do some sit-ups because with your core you want to keep it balanced. You've been working your back so hard. I like to use a ball today because right now my back is pretty tight. We're going to do four sets all the way to failure. I like to keep my arms in front of me across and we just crunch it up. Oh, oh boy. I got a little cramp. I just got a cramp on my first set. And you know when you're cramping that might need failure. That's the good one. We're going to keep going. Oh, I actually started to drill a little bit. Oh. Woo. One more. The last one of the day, y'all. This is where all the games happen. Four quarters. Five seconds left. You get the ball. I got it. Here we go. Let's take it all the way in. All right, y'all. That's it. You did it. You made it. You got the cobra back. You got the bite somebody with it. I'm telling you, thank you for doing this with me. And if you want to incorporate this workout into your journey routine, please check out the page below. I'll share your cruise. And I'll tell you. For more content, just like this, check out Bodybuilders.com. Oh. Guns are going up. Oh. Oh. What? What?

=== FILE: Testosterone Replacement Therapy (TRT)： What You Need To Know [h2SgYdob1g4].txt ===

I think a lot of our negative connotation comes from the 70s and the 80s and the 90s were guys. I mean, this is the term juicing where they're high alpha antibiotics, steroids, stuff that we don't even prescribe, that we don't even have access to. And there's a whole black market, even though TNT exists legally. But the key differentiator is there's a dangerous low end of it spectrum, which we talked about hypogonatism, secondary hypogonatism. There's also a really dangerous side on the opposite of the spectrum. Where guys are taking antibiotics, steroids, well beyond what even a lab core or quest test will pick up. I mean, that's 15, 16, 700 nanograms per decilator. You're running risk on both sides of that heart disease, autoimmune issues, cancer, stroke. And that's why you're seeing in the body-bidden community, guys are dropping. In some cases, like FIs, and they're not taking what we consider replacement. And that's the key word. We were replacing what we think should be there at a healthy level. We're incorporating labs on a significant basis. Yes, about how often guys should get labs. When you're on a therapy, it's even more. For me, I'm getting anywhere from four to six comprehensive labs a year. Sometimes when you're in your first kind of round of treatment, it might be six to eight. You've got to be measuring things outside of just testosterone. PSA, your estrogen levels. There's so many things that go with that.

=== FILE: The 21-Day Bizzy Diet Trainer： Promo & Overview (SD) - Bodybuilding.com [alPiTxPhHHY].txt ===

Life happens in time passes, and then we're stuck with little time who exceeds like an impossible goal. But what if I told you all you need to three weeks? I built a program for people just like you and me. Physi-professionals with careers, families, and limited time. This isn't a bad diet. It's a crash course in achieving a rip-a-zique, you can only short amount of time. I'm giving you the complete meal plan, supplement my guide, workout videos, and even more. No gimmicks? No hype. Just 21 days. 21 days to look your best. 21 days to get ready for that special event. Just 21 days. What's stopping you? Hey, what's up, guys? This is Corey Gregory. Senior President Co. I'm a founder and muscle farm, but I'm also a certified personal trainer and nutrition coach. I'm here today to tell you guys about the busy diet. I've worked with some of the busiest professionals around. All the way from soccer mom at the gym, the whole time job, up to the professional athletes. I'm not having grand-page jacks in the Michael Bay. I'm here to help you build a body in three weeks. Most people are used to 12 weeks, but the busy diet is a condensed version. Sometimes you get caught with your pants down, you get to find a way to pull them back up. Currently, I'm in the same situation you guys are. I've got three weeks to get ready for a photo shoot, so I'm going to help you reveal that muscle, lose that body fat. Think it's impossible. You better think again if I can do it so can you. It takes three weeks to get a life change. Three weeks to lose 15 to 20 pounds, and if you give me three weeks, I'll give you that body. This three week course puts your body in a state of super confusion. You put your on a time clock to raise your metabolic rate naturally for your food and for your supplements. And what I love about the bitten diet is that I've seen it firsthand in the gym. Men, women, it doesn't really matter, it doesn't discriminate. Whoever follows it, it always works extremely well for. Even after three weeks are up, you've created a habit. What's exciting about that is now you're in a frame of mind that you can do this lifestyle of looking lean and being in shape. In my opinion, every day light, somebody needs something that's going to jump start their body. As if you need mostly what is maintenance planned for some people to diet, your body's not going to do anything. When people come to me, they want results now and the best thing you can see is when you get on the scale day one, two, three, four, whatever it is and that your body is changing. I believe that you've got to put some serious work in the beginning to raise that metabolic rate and then go on living a good lifestyle with the higher metabolism. This specific 21 days is to get everything jump started, get you ready for that special event and make it happen right now. The weight loss that you can expect on the busy diet from a guy like me all the way down to just a very beginner person is usually from the low end of 10 pounds but the high end of about 25 pounds. So it really depends where you're at personally. For me, whenever I just hit it, I'm looking at a 20 pound weight loss and that's what I'm going after. The busy diet basics were a plan a specific way for your nutrient timing, for your time in the gym, which is only four days a week with some optional cardio if you like, two days of upper body, two days of lower body. I really put this plan together to keep your hormones in check, to keep your body on a time clock and to make it convenient. It's all thought well out for the busy diet to make it all works synergistically so you can have good results. Now those are the basics, let's get in the specifics about training. I have workout A and workout B. workout A is upper body, workout B is lower body. The way I've created this is that you start out with the interval system of cardio. I created this really for people that worked out in their own because a lot of my online clients were home clients. So whatever piece of cardio equipment you have, whether it's treadmill, elliptical, bike, doesn't matter, I prefer the treadmillness. You do like one minute fast cardio, one minute a little bit of slower cardio. You alternate that back and forth for 20 minutes. When I say do a minute intense, I mean all out for a minute. When I say you know just kind of, most of the long for a minute just kind of keep it let your heart rate come down for a minute, then right back and tense a minute. Then when you go into the upper body, you're setting up a circuit that's hit all the major muscle parts and you just rotate through it two times at 20 reps each. Then you go right back to cardio. So your body doesn't have a chance to really rest the whole time. The other thing is the workout takes about an hour to an hour 15 minutes. Now when you go into the legs, I had legs twice a week for a couple reasons. People don't like to train leg usually. And that really hurts your hormone profiles, especially when you're dying. I'm not really concerned with how much weight you're lifting on this workout. Make sure that you challenge in yourself, but also don't worry about a certain number that you should be posted. What I want is that your burned out, that you're pushing hard and that your body's at a heightened level so you're burning fat. And that's the biggest key about the plan. You might experience a little bit of soreness, but that's just part of the game. And that's why you also only training four days with a couple optional cardio days if you like. Make it fast and easy on yourself. Like I've always told my clients, just follow it to the tee, just head down to the bottom of the page, print it off and make it happen. Now you just got done putting all this time in the gym. Don't mess it up in the kitchen. I chose the foods and set up the diet the way I did because of the practical application that I've seen the gym for over 10 years. Those foods are optimal for fat burning and for retaining muscle. The intervals that are set up in the meal plan is one, eat within an hour out of bed, because you want your body to come out of that starvation mode from what you're just going to sleep in. The other main rule is eat every three hours to your body expects when it's time to get food. So that timing is what triggers your body into a metabolism spike. If you've got everything on point with your nutrition, you should feel really good. Because honestly, anytime your insulin is stable, your body feels good. So if you're coming from a lifestyle that was kind of all over the place, you might have a couple days where you're a little bit off. But for the most part, you're going to be feeling better and then when you're looking in the mirror, you're going to look better. The advanced person that tries to busy diet just have to be a little bit careful that you don't burn too much muscle. So I would just recommend to slightly up your protein and make sure that you're utilizing your amino acids properly and you have no problem doing this diet also. The commitment level, remember, I'm only asking for three weeks, which is 20 days. I need tonal vision. Don't think about other foods. Just think about what the plan is and what your goal is. I need you to only see start and end and nothing in between and just work hard. I wouldn't even want to step further for your convenience. I've set up a grocery list so all you have to do is print it off below and take it to the grocery store with you. So you have unlimited types of options for the plan that has you set up for success. The way to tie it all together, we went through the training, we went through nutrition, now we go through the supplements. When I envisioned the person that was at their desk and they kept missing meals or they weren't from meeting the meeting or the travel on a plane all the time, they're on a train and New York City. However they're at, they're just missing their meals which is messing up their metabolism. The key to the whole plan was based around one of the main supplements which is muscle gel which is an extremely convenient way to teach your protein intake. The other key ingredient is the shred matrix which helps with your appetite suppression, helps with your fat loss and help keep your mind clear through the whole process. We also set up an extremely high level multivitamin and BCA's for your post workout. For some of you that have never taken supplements before or maybe even never done anything this strict before. I believe this is a great entryway into getting your body in shape really fast and put yourself on extremely solid time clock with supplements with food to get your body extremely responsive. You can't get one right, you can't get two right, yeah you get all three right for all three weeks. I've given you the meal plan. I've given you the training and I've given you the full supplement plan. Everything that you need for this 21 days of your successful is right below. 21 days, I'm Dona with you too. I'll be posting front, side and back pictures. You can go to my Twitter and ask me any questions you have. I'll be there to help at muscle farm pres, PRES, whether it's your high school reunion, or your wedding, family reunion, or your go on spring break the equation.

=== FILE: The 21-Day Bizzy Diet Trainer： Trailer - Bodybuilding.com (SD) [fkYSn1OOF0Y].txt ===

Life happens in time passes. And then we're stuck with little time. What seems like an impossible goal. But what if I told you all you need to three weeks? I built a program for people just like you and me. Physi-professionals with careers, families, and limited time. This isn't a fad diet. It's a crash course and achieving a rip physique can only short amount of time. I'm giving you the complete meal plan, supplement my guide, workout videos, and even more. No gimmicks, no hype. Just 21 days. 21 days, look your best. 21 days, get ready for that special event. Just 21 days. What's stopping you?

=== FILE: The 21-Day Bizzy Diet Trainer： Workout A (SD) [5QE0vp1vPiM].txt ===

Hey, what's up guys? It's Cory Gregory. I'm here to go over work out one of two for the busy diet. We're going to be going over our upper body work out and cardio. It starts out with a cardio interval. We're going to do it on the treadmill of one minute intense, one minute a little bit moderate for 20 minutes. And we go right into our upper body movements. We'll do one chest movement, one back movement, one shoulder movement, one bicep and one tricep. What I try to do when I put this together is I try to keep it real basic movements. You can even do this at your house if you didn't have a gym membership. We'll use a dumbbell, flat press, breathe chest. We'll use a one arm row for your back. We use a military press, dumbbell for your shoulders. We use a bicep curl dumbbell for your bicep and we'll use a tricep take back for your triceps. It's set up as a circuit program. So you're going to get 20 reps of each movement in a row with no rest, two sets. So if you have a workout partner set them two exercises ahead of you in the circuit so you don't run in each other. And it just moves real center just like that. The way the circuit's set up is going to be 20 reps. So you want to pick a weight that's challenging for 20 reps. But not too challenging to where you can only get 12 to 15 because you got to remember there's no rest. And essentially you're hitting 200 total reps really quick for the whole upper body. So set yourself up to where you can be successful but it's still challenging at the same time. We're going to get in more specifics as we get into workout. So let's get started. Now we're going to go over the cardio portion of the busy diet workout. What I'm going to do is to do a one minute walk and I usually do between 3.5 and 4.0 and a one minute run anywhere from 7 to 10.0. You alternate that for 20 minutes, put your heart rate in a really good zone, to really burn some fat. You can also apply this to the elliptical jump rope, fight, whatever you have available to you. This is exercise one. So let's get started. Alright, it's in my one minute, 8.5. Now I'll do one minute, 4.0, good fast walk and keep alternating. And I'll keep pushing myself in my run, each time and make it as intense as possible. Studies have shown that interval training will raise your metabolic rate faster than in for a longer period of time. Rather than just doing a consistent cardio. Up and down with the hurry is way better for what we're after. It kind of goes into the whole thought process behind the busy diet concept, where you can maximize your time that you have available on the treadmill. So instead of wasting a much of time, you get right after it. Any new to utilize your time to best. I got to go because I got run. Let's go. But we just finished our first exercise, which is the cardio portion. Now we're moving on to the weight room. Come on. You want to have your elbows kind of at an angle like this, up in the squeeze. You want to have them flared out too wide, so keep it kind of tight. We're ready to go one arm row. Grab the front end of the dumbbell, so it hangs down like that to stretch your back. Keep your head up to your back tight. When it comes straight through, just like that. I have 20 reps here and on. Just look at that arm. Which one do these? This have. I'm going right to your legs. Your legs are not. You're all basic. Start here, up in twist. You twist them out so you can get a peak on your bicep. Now what you want to do on the triceps is try to keep it good then. You're going to take them and push them under like that. So it's going to keep your head underneath. All right, it's got done. It's all five exercises. We're back to the top. No rest. All right, now we're at the cardio. This is the middle portion of your workout. So, now it's different than the first cardio. You go five minutes. I just a steady pace. And then five minutes all out. Then back to the weight room for two more sets of weights. And then it's a wrap. So this is our middle cardio. Let's get after. We just got done. With the Monday and Thursday workout, which is up a body. Make sure and check out the page below, which has the Tuesdays and Fridays, which is lower body workout. It go get busy.

=== FILE: The 21-Day Bizzy Diet Trainer： Workout B - Bodybuilding.com (SD) [V9SCBcT9iOU].txt ===

Now we're on the busy diet workout number two. We're going to go upstairs and hit the treadmill. We'll go 1 minute high intense and 1 minute low intense for 20 minutes. So as we're done with that, we'll come back downstairs and go right to the legs and act. We'll hit a circuit of squats, lunges, cab raises, regular crunches and then legs of a cross crunches. We'll rock that two sets through and then head back over to cardio again for five minutes low intense and five minute time intense. Then you'll come back over to the squat rack. There are two more sets of the legs and absurke and that'll be your Tuesday and Friday workout. So let's get started. It was up. Now we're going to our first exercise. I would use to do a low intense and a high intense interval. Meaning I'll do a one minute walk around 4.2 and then a one minute run. Starting around 8.5-9 and working all the way all the way up to 12.0 so I can basically barely stay on the treadmill. And that high intense workout really burns a lot of body fat. Let's go! Now we're all warmed up. Time to get to the workout. All right so the first exercise of the low-body workout is squats. The way that I do squats, I'm not going to go super heavy. I'd rather go a little bit deeper so I really hit some muscle fibers which helps spark the testosterone and GH in the body. So we'll take a medium stance, ride the bar kind of high on our back and just take a deep. So let's get it! Second leg exercise is lunges. Stationary lunges. We're going to do a step in the step back. Just go down and in. Make sure that your knee is at a right angle like this and that this knee touches the ground. So don't be slack in and try not to go down all the way but make sure this is at a right angle and your knees are fine. Just like so. Keep it posture on. Especially the other way. Same thing. Make sure you get the angles right. Third exercise is just good old standing cab raises. Like I said when I put this together I want to make sure that you can do it easily around your house or at the gym. So just find a ledge or you can use a couple plates at the gym whatever you want to do. Good down to you get a good stretch and then just up on your toes. So you want to do 30 to 50 reps. You can move your toes in or out too if you want. You can go this way. You can spread them wide. It doesn't matter. Whatever you want to do. If you do the toes out, you get a little bit more burn on the inside. You get a toes in. Get a little bit more of a burn on the outside. Then you can just switch the angles if you get bored. Just want to get a little different feel on them. Exercise 4 or 5 is crunches down here. So what we're going to do here is go 30 to 50 reps of a normal crunch like this and then 30 to 50 reps legs up across 90 degrees. Now I like to use a 10 pound plate. That's a little bit more resistance to me. You want to make sure that you just, you don't pull with your neck that you just raise up nice and easy. Get a good squeeze and right back down. Now when you go into the next exercise, you put your legs up at a 90 degree angle and you want to try to take your elbows to your knees. So it adds a lot more resistance. Alright that was the first set. Now it's time to get back up and do the second one. No rest. Now it's time to do my five minutes, low intense and five minutes high intense cardio and then back to two more sets. Now that's the end of our number two workout for the busy diet which is lower body that you're Tuesday and Friday workout. Make sure you check out all the information below for workout 1 and 2 and check out all the videos we are coming on the busy diet. If you have any questions hit me up on Twitter at MuscleFornPres, ERES and for all the information that you're interested in, make sure you check out BodyBlood.com and that's a wrap.

=== FILE: The BEST Shoulders & Triceps Workout [wsFd0LoIyKk].txt ===

What's up guys, today we're going to be going over a full shoulder and tricep workout. I'm going to be going over some of the common mistakes you'll see in the roast split. So let's get after it. When it comes to an effective workout, today we're doing shoulders and triceps, you really want to prioritize your weaker underdevelop muscle groups first. A lot of guys when they start their shoulder workouts, they're starting with shoulder presses or overhead presses. Now I get it. The compound movements are going to require the use of more muscle groups. You're going to be able to lift a little bit heavier and have a little bit more mechanical tension. But here's the problem with overhead presses. When you're doing overhead press, your anterior delts are mostly engaged in neglecting your lateral and rear delts. If you really want to work on your underdeveloped muscle groups, for a lot of guys, it is those medial delts and the rear delts. So what we're actually going to do is we're going to flip our sequencing of the exercises. So we're actually going to start with rear delt cable flies. And then we're going to superset that with a lateral race. Here's what everybody gets wrong with the cross cable rear delt fly. They're squeezing their scapula together at the top of the movement. The rear delts are not involved in scapula retraction. Keep the shoulder blades relaxed. Squeezing them together would only be beneficial for targeting the rhomboid, but since the rear delts only insert on the humors and attach on the scapula, shoulder extension and abduction would be what targets the rear delts best. What I want you to do is protract those shoulders, pull apart. And this is where you're ending. Anything further, you're not really isolating the rear delts. You're just getting the rhomboids and maybe a little bit of the traps involved. We're going to drop the cables. You're going to perform four sets until technical failure. After your fourth set with little to no rest in between, you're going to perform a drop set, where you lighten the load anywhere from 10 to 30 percent and proceed again to technical failure. I also want you to notice that I am not using momentum and I am controlling the eccentric portion of the movement. Alright, so now we're going to be moving into an overhead press. The reason why I didn't want to start with an overhead press is because I think you're going to get a much greater stimulus to fatigue ratio during these after you've already pre-exhausted the lateral delts. Slow and controlled reps on the way down, keeping it as close to my face as I can. I'm coming all the way down to the top of my chest, near my clavicle. And then I'm going to hold there for a second and get a nice pause. Push straight up. Again, guys, the goal here is to work until technical failure through a full range of motion, especially the bottom portion of the movement. Oh, doing a lot. Yeah, that's how you work to failure. And no, see, I'm not using a lot of weight, but getting more of a hyper-trophic response stimulus in my muscles by lifting that way. Alright, so now we're going to move on to triceps. I like to do some variation of an overhead extension or a skull crusher. You're going to give the shoulders a little bit of a break because I plan on finishing off this workout with dips. So, let's give this a go. Hold it at the bottom post for a second. Come up. Notice how I'm keeping the bar belt back. So, I'll go in my head, keeping it tension on the tricep. For this particular exercise I am using a straight bar, you can use an easy crow bar or you can use dumbbells. Use whatever piece of equipment you need in order to connect with that movement and that muscle group better. I'm going to do my third and fourth set. I'm going to do two drops at the end, so I'll be doing an 8 to 10 reps with the heavier weight and then I'm going to drop and do anywhere from 15 to 20 reps with a lighter weight. Alright, so we're going to finish this workout off with dips. Now, if I'm fresh, I can probably do easily 20 to 30 dips. When you do them like this, I guarantee you're going to have a hard time doing 10. Here's how we're going to do this. Starting out at the top position, I'm going to slowly lower myself down, slow the control at the eccentric. And I'm going to get as deep as I can. Get a nice deep stretch on those triceps. Press up. You can make this more challenging by adding weights with either a weight belt or chains, or you can make this easier by using the assistance of resistance bands or using a variation of a dip machine. Okay. Oh man, I felt that in my spirit. I got to do two more of those. That's how you lift folks. That is how you work out. Comment below if you found these tips to be helpful. And as always, don't forget to like and share this video with a friend and enjoy the plump.

=== FILE: The Bizzy Diet Trainer： Promo - Bodybuilding.com (HD) [FpItQ7qq4mE].txt ===

Life happens in time passes, and then we're stuck with little time, who it seems like an impossible goal. But what if I told you all you need is three weeks? I built a program for people just like you and me. Physi-professionals with careers, families, and limited time. This isn't a fad diet. It's a crash course in achieving a rip-fazique, can only short amount of time. I'm giving you the confidence that you can do this. I'm giving you the complete meal plan, supplement my guide, work out videos, and even more. No gimmicks? No hide. Just 21 days. 21 days to look your best. 21 days to get ready for that special event. Just 21 days. What's stopping you?

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Fitness App ｜ Everyone Starts Somewhere [Oft8gc6hCS8].txt ===

Huh. Why do you ask? Ah... Wrong. Time in! Who are you? I'm here for you guys. Hey guys. I think this might help. Welcome to BodyGlory.com. Everything you need to know, the master. Your core, your legs. I put this in some energy. I'll provide you size and strength. Stamina, endurance, speed. I'll buy stuff for you to be very pretty soon. Are you ready? Build your body. Build your body. Build your life.

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 04 ｜ Dan Giordano ｜ How to Lower the Risk of Injury [GjNmBJ6M5HI].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, what you doing? What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners, we're back for another episode of the B.B. Com podcast. And today we are joined by Dr. Dan Jordano. Dan is a doctor, physical therapy, certified strengthening addition in specialists and co-founder of bespoke treatments, a sport and orthopedic rehab clinic with locations in New York City, San Diego, and Seattle. Dan, we are excited to have you on the B.B. Com podcast. Today, I think we have a great combo prepared for all the listeners out there. Thank you for having me. I'm super pumped to talk to you and try to help the listeners out there and give some knowledge about the rehab industry. Yeah, before we get into it, I do have to say we have just signed bespoke to an annual partnership here at Bodybuilding.com. We'll be bringing all of our body fit users with preventative exercise care, movement prep, all the way to core recovery for postpartum parents. So look out for those programs releasing once per month for the rest of 2023 and you'll get to know a little bit everybody from the bespoke team across the country. Nice. Let's dive into it, Dan. So tell us a little bit about yourself. What prompted you to get into the sports medicine field? Take us back to day one where you start in and how do you get to where you are today? All right, so day one, okay. So my interest in physio came from an injury, right? So I was a promising high school athlete looking to play a division one sport level. Got injured in my senior year and it actually prevented me from playing football in college, right? So that actually led me to going through physio and really taking the physio into my own hands and really educating myself using the use of bodybuilding.com back then, which was wild, that it comes full circle. Another magazine is in such a sort of best-dressed conditioning. And then what happened when I got to college, I started, you know, a kind of I had that itch of Y-min, I'm playing a sport at that level. And I injured my shoulder and I made it a goal of mine that I'm going to walk onto a team. So then I wanted walking onto the wrestling team, which was wild because I didn't wrestle in high school. And then I walked on to division one wrestling team. So it was a very humbling experience because I didn't even know the rules, which is wild. I remember my first match was actually at a Brown University and I didn't know the score because I didn't know how to keep points. My coach was just like to yell on that, me telling me what to do. Just to make sure I didn't get pinned so for the team, right, for points. And it was a, it went to being a very humbling experience. But then I learned so much about rehab because I was kind of like at the end point in my rehab. And I really got to learn more about anatomy and from there I decided, you know, I'm going to go to grad school and get my doctor in physical therapy. And that's what really kind of pushed me forward to that. And then what's NYU, New York University got my doctorate there and started to work in physical therapy. Start to learn more about athletes, started working with medical teams, USA track and field, the World Championships, IFF, got me into some like CrossFit World Championships and then working with Nike Elite Basketball leagues. And that's when we started to spoke, right? So we started to spoke to try to basically improve the quality of care. So we saw a lot of problems with the industry. And then when we came together, we started to spoke, you know, at Bizpark. And now we've developed a great team. And we're really trying to just change that quality of care. So people actually know what physical therapy is and how it can be useful for anyone in the industry or anyone just training or health wise. So, you know, that's what the spoke is and now we're in three different cities. And we're really just trying to push it to the next level. So physical therapy has a whole improves. The spoke treatment is not your ordinary physio experience. Tell us how you differ from the traditional physical therapy experience, not only for sport patients, which for all patients who come through your doors. Yeah. So we work with everyone from everyday athletes to, you know, Olympic level athletes, pro athletes, CEOs, all different types of people. We're really just working with people that are trying to better themselves. So our treatments are what we say research driven and tech enabled. We use a lot of technology, which is very different from physio field, right? So we use a lot of technology because what we do is we start to gather data. And if we can gather data, we really get to learn about our patients. And from there, we can develop hypotheses, all right? So we can retest our hypotheses, change our hypotheses. And that in turn will allow the patient to get better faster. And one of the biggest things that we do is we work with the individual not just on the acute injuries, but also on longevity aspect of it, right? So if you come to us with an injury, we're going to help you get out of that pain, but then also look at you as the individual as the whole and see how we can help your performance. And that's great because we've been able to really help people prolong their healthy lifestyles and improve their performance, which as you know, if you improve your performance in the gym or in your body physiologically, you can help you everything from mental to your work. And we just see people improve. So we're really helping people. And that's been the best thing about what we do is we see people change and improve their overall quality of life, which is, I mean, it just makes us feel so great. And as a team, as a whole, we have an awesome team. Honestly, our team is great. And our team really comes together to help each other. So that's one of the biggest things that we do. And we all work together so that we all learn from each other, right? And if we all learn from each other, we can improve together and improve as a whole. Tell us a little bit about that testing. Tell us how you dictate which testing you're going to conduct for that patient. Is it every test of the sound that you do once they come in as a new patient? And tell us how this information not only helps you as their provider, tell us the value of information that gives someone as a patient to take home with them and apply to their daily health and wellness. Yeah. So in the medical field, basically, there's subjective testing. And then there's special tests that you do to diagnose injuries, right? And create prognoses. So we're diagnosing injuries using what we learned in school and using subject testing to see how patients feel to really understand how the patient feels from their side of it. But then what we do is a lot of objective testing, right? So our objective testing allows us to gather data like we said, these tests can consist of forced testing, metabolic testing or motion analysis. Everyone, when they come through a door, get some sort of motion analysis and forced testing so that we can really evaluate the entire body as a whole physiologically. And then if they want to improve on certain things like if they're in a door and to actively just someone who wants to work on their heart health, we'll put them through a metabolic test. And with those metabolic tests, we can get some information that can help apply to their training programs or to their rehab program. So we're really just gathering all sorts of information that is measurable, not just subjective objective data. And we pull it together then to create our hypothesis and then create the program from there to see how we can improve. And the best part about having objective data is that if things aren't working or, you know, they're only getting better to a point or the 90% better, we can go back to that data and then look at it again and see if we missed anything. And because we have that objective and measurable data, we can see where there's falls or fail-flail failures. And then we can change it and change the program to help them get the extra 10% or the last 10% of them raining in their rehab. Tell us how the level of the test that you're performing at your facility differ than maybe what people can get somewhere else, right? There's many different types of VO2 tests, for example, right? But tell us about the one that you do and how that may be different from maybe just your standard Bruce Protocol. So it kind of breakdown the differences of kind of what your generic forms of these tests are, but really how you guys get granular with what you're doing at this book. So for the VO2 and RMR, we'll go into that. But we use Pinoui. Pinoui is a gold standard VO2 max testing in RMR, so they'll take all the data and on the back end they'll evaluate that data and then send us a report and then we'll then break down the report with that individual to see where we see differences or our team and our experts, Cameron Yuin, leaves that and Sam Chan and what they do is they really break down everything and then work with the individual to find what they can improve on or what gathered that data that was collected and how it calculated and see where those issues, right? Also we work with evolved performance, evolved performances of four testing company and the same thing. So it's measured by Newton to the commedier amount of force that someone is producing and it could measure median force and peak force. So we can actually see, because a lot of the times when you're measuring just force like over two seconds, everyone looks good, right? But then there's a failure that occurs at four seconds. So if we can see these on grass, we can see what the failure is coming from or if it's an endurance failure or just a strength for a force production, right? We also use force plates to see when people are jumping, how they're jumping, if they're pushing off one side or another, that's also evolved. And then motion analysis, we work with a company called Kinotech. Kinotech uses a 3D visualization through a Microsoft Connect, I think it's called Cameron, and that uses motion analysis to then to see how the individual is moving, so it measures range of motion, but then it also gives us an avatar. And if we could see that avatar, we can slow down, move forward zoom in, and you could see where failures are actually occurring. So it's really cool technology. We're hoping that this technology would become more accepted in the medical field, so that the medical field becomes more objective and measurements so that we can actually see things rather than just subjectively, which the medical field has been for a hundred plus years. It's also objective data, so if we can use this and hopefully more people can start to adapt this and then we can improve the industry as a whole, as we start to grow too as well. Yeah, and someone doesn't necessarily have to come in with an injury to get this done, right? Someone could purely be curious where my imbalance is living, how can I perform as better as an athlete, despite whatever sport or modality that I'm chasing after? So tell people the importance of just kind of having this data, you know, injury aside, maybe you're not injured yet, but tell us how this information can apply to you, preventing injuries, or let's say, lowering the risk of injury for future cases. Yeah, absolutely, so it's very interesting. A lot of people actually don't come to us originally with an injury, so people find us because they have injuries or they've been injured in the past, and that's how they come to us, they find out that we do more than just tree injuries, right? And that recreates just an organic referral source where people start coming in and wanting to do testing and objective data, right? So when we do this testing, especially with, let's say, evolved, as you've all of this, an example, so the forced testing, human bodies are not symmetrical. We know that. There's a big argument about that. Everyone's like, oh, you're not symmetrical. Yeah, I understand. But if you're showing a 20% deficit from left to right, you know something's going on, right? And if you have that issue where you have a deficit on, let's use your glute, 20% deficit on your right side. Over a period of time, your left side is going to be overloaded, right? So then your right side can, you know, have an issue for this prolonged period, or your left side can be overloaded, and, you know, what's the cause of most injuries is overload or increase in volume, or increase in intensity, and that left side can create an injury, you know, after X amount of time. So let's use, I have actually someone, let's use someone for an example. So I have someone who just had a total need replacement. And years ago, he told me that my left side is just, you know, he was a high jumper in college, a division one, high jumper, and he's in his 50s, late 50s, he's like my right side has been beat up my entire life, my entire life, my entire life. And then we look at, you know, the data now for about a year ago, we started using force analysis data, and we see that there's a huge difference inside to side. Sure enough, like, you know, six, eight months go by and they look at his joint through imaging, and it's completely degenerated. And it just shows that that side has been compensating, and yes, that was a stronger side for his entire life, but most likely because he didn't compensating his entire life. So there's, you know, there's that up and down of symmetrical for say symmetrical, but really just gathering all this data to create hypothesis to help people. So preventively, we can see where fillings are and start to work on that so that it can hopefully reduce the risk of injury in the future, or help them prevent from getting the surgeries and really just work to rehab and, you know, avoid those surgeries, a good boy going out of the knife. So talk a little bit about VO2 testing. Right. What information can that give someone, how can they then go on to improve their heart health and their cardiovascular health after receiving a test like that? And why do we test VO2? What is that actually doing? Just educating people at home with this test is? So VO2 max measures the amount of oxygen you can consume during exercise and how efficiently you can actually use it. Right. So during the test, you go through stages of exercise where they we increase the intensity during exercise and we have that measurable data of how you're consuming an oxygen, how you're using efficiently. During that as well, we measure your heart rate. So when we get the calculations after and the data after, it shows you where you are with your heart rate, a certain peaks in your VO2 during the course of that exercise intensity. From that, the calculation shows us basically your RQ, which is, oh no, I'm sorry, I'm talking about RMR. So basically this happens is when you pull that data, it shows your level of your heart rate during different training zones. So you have five training zones, five heart rate training zones. Right. Zone 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Zone 1 is like 50 to 60 percent of your heart rate. Zone 2 is 60 to 70, 70, 80, 80, 90 greater than 90. Right. And then it'll show us what your exact zones are. So for you, you let's say your zone 1, you want to work on fat burn. That would be your zone 1. So it'll tell you the exact goal, standard numbers of you need to be between this heart rate and this. So X and lot. Right. Zone 2, same thing, it gives you that nice breakdown of whether it's 110 to 120 heart rate, BPMs. It's showing you where you need to be for your enduring. So zone 2 would be in door, in certain reason cardio output. Zone 3 would be kind of that middle feature. So that middle man that would just have that VLT max increase. Zone 4, which is higher intensity is more at aerobic. So you can improve your anaerobic. And then zone 5 is max. So for zone 5, not a lot of people get to. It's more for power output at max and a lot of lead at level athletes get there because you're heart rate so high. So you're using that VLT max. You're seeing how you consume action, how you use it efficiently. And then giving you gold standard data of what heart rate zones you need to be into start working those different systems. So it's a great way for endurance athletes, aeroday athletes just to work on what they need to work on. So if you're like for me, for instance, I'm terrible at zone 2 training. I was a sprinter, you know, growing up, I played sports like football and wrestle the very high intensity for short periods of time. So I have a really hard time working that zone 2, sure enough I take my videos from max, and my zone 2 is terrible. So I need to do low intensity, cardio-applic work to improve my cardio-vascular system so that my cardio output improves and as a whole that's an athlete I improve. Because we don't do that, right? You don't really see exactly what numbers you need to be in using gold standard heart rate training data. Right, and just to show how vastly different two people can be, I mean, I've had my test done at bespoke as well. And as a triathlete, I was doing tons and tons of that zone 1, so into work, for me, I get 0, 0, 5. So for me, if I report, it was, you need to go get some zone 5 and your life and you need to start maxing out and getting to, you know, that 1, 9, 9, 1, 95, heart rate a little bit more. So it's really great just to see the differences and just to, you know, across the board, it isn't just as simple as looking at a chart and applying that to everybody. Everybody is different and testing can help establish where you need to be. Yeah, that's, and so I mentioned RQ, rest of the story, I can't say I can never say it, right? Quote and so it's basically your, that's from the RMR test, so the resting metabolic rate test, and the resting metabolic rate test is what you do when you're just sitting at rest. So it just sees how your body's working at rest. That's a great thing also to test where I'll be listeners out there. It really shows how efficiently you're working and really it measures your, you know, oxygen consumption versus your carbon dioxide output. And then it shows you what you're burning with your fat carbs or both. And then it shows you a number of way you should be certain what you should work on, so if you're consuming some of your carbon hydrogens versus fat, it'll give you some numbers on that. I think it's like 0.7 below fat greater than 1 is carbon, but in between is that 0.7 to 1. And as we're at rest, we usually use fat as a storage, but if you have someone who has some issues in your like diabetes or something, and you're consuming to make carbon hydrogens or burning that, it's a way that you can actually kind of manipulate or change the diet slightly to modify it, so it proves as a whole. So I always recommend doing RMR plus the VO2 together at once. That's probably the most interesting piece that I think came out of my test as well, especially for endurance athletes out there, you kind of kind of show you how often you need to fuel based off of what heart rate or what zone that you're living in, so for me, and it made total sense that camera and shout out to camera and at the spoke, I was burning through glucose at a very fast level. So to me, I'm under fueling almost for a lot of these, these races that I'm doing, which makes sense because I am hitting periods of kind of the they call it bonking, right? So for me, I need to make sure I'm keeping my glucose level because I burn through my glucose very quickly and I'm burning through my, excuse me, my carbs very quickly as well, whereas I'm not actually getting into that fat burning stage. So that's something I'm working on right now in the off season, just don't too fat burning to kind of manipulate my body so that when my next race comes up, I'm not ripping through my carbs and my glucose is quickly. Exactly, and then you'll save some energy for that race, so you'll improve as a whole. So if you just did that to change during your training, and when you get to that race, you'll be able to work more efficiently, right? So you'll save energy during your race, and that will, in theory, improve your race. Yeah, absolutely. Let's segue into types of injuries. Let's talk about, you know, most common injuries that you're seeing maybe in the sport of body-building versus the sport of running versus the sport of a hybrid cross-fit athlete who probably has a little bit of everything going on when they walk through your door. So let's break that down by sport and modality. So we'll start with five building, right? Most people that are weight lifters or looking for strong and competition, things like that, lifting very heavy, they usually comes with low back pain. That's like the number one thing that occurs, low back pain, knee tendonitis, or even just some strains and sprain. So running is a little different. Running will be more low-extremely injuries. We'll continue to even go to stress fractures, things like that are shin splints or Achilles problems or plants are fasciitis, right? And then that hybrid athlete that cross-fit athlete is kind of a combination of both, right? Because they're mechons and they're my ball condition days and things that they're doing. So it's a real mix of injuries. The weight lifter body building type athlete usually comes to us with some sort of pains or strains in the lower back and it's usually just because they're increasing volume or intensity too hard. That's kind of the same across all sports. Usually if you increase your volume, you're intensity or if you're running, increase your speed or your volume, the amount of mileage that you're doing just too fast, your body doesn't adapt properly. So you always have to give yourself time to adapt. So gradual increases always the way to go. And it's the same thing when you're lifting. If you're not warming up properly and you're just throwing the weight or like, oh, I can do a little more. I can do 50 pounds more. Maybe go for like a 20 pound increase for a certain amount increase and just gradually get your weight up to that because if you increase your loader, your volume too fast, you're kind of just not allowing your body to adapt and you're asking for trouble, which creates injury, right? So if you gradually increase whether you're a runner, a bodybuilder or a cross-ordatheat, you'll probably help yourself in a long term by not putting too much stress on your body, right? Your body's stressed enough when it works out. If you increase the stress levels too high, there's a strong probability that you're going to start to injure yourself. So just be careful and just gradually increases you get there. Talk about types of injury in terms of overuse injuries and things like soft tissue versus skeletal and kind of break those down for people at home who aren't familiar and also kind of how can someone at home dictate what's going on with their own body when they are experiencing pain? So what does the sharp pingo with was the dull pingo with that those type of breakdowns? Okay, so that's interesting. So there's the difference between being hurt and being injured, I always say, right? So let's say, let's say being hurt, okay? So if we start with being hurt per say, being hurt is not really being injured. Let's differentiate those two things. Being hurt could just be soreness, string the tissues or just kind of being super fatigued, right? Usually being hurt is not a heavy amount of pain. It's pain that goes away with some sort of self-care, whether that's icing, heating, stretching, using a foam roller or massage gun. If you can just use that and use some passive modalities that's out there these days and you feel better, you're probably just tired or fatigued and you need a little rest, right? Injured being injured is totally different. Being injured means there was some sort of injury to your soft tissue. So your soft tissue is damaged, okay? And if your soft tissue is damaged, per say, you have injuries that don't go away with self-care, okay? The pain also is usually very different. When you have an injury the pain could be very sharp or very intense, whereas when you're hurt it's just kind of like a dull or an ache that's occurring. If the pain sharp pains intense or it creates loss of range of motion, like your joint range of motion actually decreases, could be from inflammation or it could be some damage in the joint itself. But if you lose joint range of motion you'll lose functional ability to do daily activities, daily living or things that you normally do without any issue. If that is the case you have to seek help from medical professional because if you prolong this and you don't attack that injury right away, this can lead to more damage or damage that requires you to get different types of medical treatment. And like we say the worst thing could be some sort of surgery. So if you have a pain that's under four under three kind of tired fatigues, self-care usually helps, great, you just hurt, right? Take some rest, work on it. And by rest I don't mean completely shut down. We'll put that out there. Move. Moving is usually the best, right? Motion but pain free range of motion or low levels of pain range of motion. Get on the bike, walk to your thing. Don't just lay in bed. That's not been shown ever to help people. But if you're really having that sharp intense pain or shooting pain as our pains that are causing you to avoid or modify your daily activities then seek medical help because you want to make sure that you get that in the beginning of that acute phase before it turns into something else that's too intense. So it's fair to say, go for more of that low impact, low impact movement, you know, until you start to figure out what things are going on. But why is maintaining that blood flow so important for something to not totally shut it down? Well because blood carries oxygen, right? And if blood and oxygen come together it will help to tissue heal itself. So that's the main concept of, that's the main concept of physical therapy is like how do we get blood and oxygen back to its issue so the body starts to do a thing and heal itself. And that's that motion motion is lotion, right? So the more you move, the more you increase your circulation and the better you'll feel if you're just shutting down, that's not good because you're not moving one so you're decreasing circulation. You can cause pulling or inflammation to hit certain areas and then you're going to create more harm than good and it could lead to a ray of problem. So move, circulate, increase blood flow as much as you can. And that's why all these modalities that are out there, right? All these past modalities that we have access to now that you and I didn't have access to when we were college athletes, right? Our treat made, I should laugh. Our treat made, it was like, it's a world pool. We had a full life. I didn't have full molar. I had a PVC pipe at my university, right? So in that hurt and that was also a phone rolling shouldn't hurt put in that out there. Okay, itself massage would be easy on it. PVC pipe could be to intense for a lot of people. So we didn't have this stuff. And now there's modalities out there that are either passive but they're main concept of the majority of the modalities are chum crease blood flow. And if we can increase blood flow to the area, it's just going to speed up our recovery process. These aren't the things that are going to fully heal us but it'll help. So it's like a tool that can help us speed up the process so that we're not just sitting there and resting like bed rest that was recommended back in the day to everyone, not just you know centering individuals. This is recommended to athletes for a long period of time. So just get moving, offload a little bit. If you're like you know you can't have pain walking but you don't have pain on the bike use the bike, things like that. So just offload a bit, increase blood flow, rest, hydrate, eat well, sleep well. Those are the key factors a lot of people forget about all those other factors but you have to sleep as high-biter covers, you have to hydrate so your body gets you know more blood to the circulation to the tissues, your joints and you have to eat well because if you're eating poorly you're going to increase chronic information about it and then if you have too much of relationship about it, it's not going to adapt and not going to recover faster. So this all comes. This is all everything comes together so many external factors. Yeah so finding that middle ground between full stop, full rest and then the mindset of no pain, no gain. Yeah you get it. So school mentality and I think I think there is an industry shift happening now and I think to your point you know collegiate athletes are in a much much better spot than you've been five, ten years ago at this point. I mean they're getting access and you have been major schools now. They have nutritionists, they have you know dedicated strength and conditioning coaches, they have the resources that a lot of you know athletes prior to not. So it's great to see that shift and it's also just great to see that shift in the general health and wellness industry now you know people using to hot and cold therapy more people doing you know at home massage whether that's with a gun or even the self-myel facial release things of that nature. He said something indiscene that we might have to go into the foam roll and so why foam roll like why should foam roll not hurt what area should you avoid when you're foam rolling? How can we foam roll with you know other tools not just the roller itself but peanuts and balls and the intensity of the ball so you can use dope could dive into that a little bit and break it down by the areas of the body. So foam rolling is just a form of self-myel fascial release. Do we need more research on it 100% but it is in massage right so the main concept of it is to increase blood flow to the area and to try to relax tissue itself. You don't want to hurt yourself okay so with anything just like getting a really tough massage if you if the mesus goes too hard on you you're bruising your tissues so you're slowing down the recovery process right so a lot of people are like oh you know like I put more body weight on the area and hurt so good and that would be a little easy on that right offload your body weight because you wanted to just be a massage to be what it's used for to increase blood flow to the area and decrease some tension to modulate pain right and that will then allow you to get into your rehab or you're exercising you do this strength in the tissue long term with the foam roller per se a lot of people ask me about vibration do we know what it's exactly doing no you're talking about let's say massage guns right well I'm actually talking about vibrancy foam roller yeah so everyone's like talking about vibrancy one and we don't know you know I use the vibrancy one we actually did a study at bespoke using our biometric device via and we use the ferro body foam roller which is called the wave which I love it's a great foam roller and we did a you know a quick study of 20 people so it's not really you know it's a great study but we're using a case study 20 people and we checked to see if it helped improve our sleep thinking it would right so because of mesages the area relaxation well didn't improve our sleep did the complete opposite and we think talking to the team over timmar verse over at their body is that possibly was due to the vibration or the change of movement in your body positioning and so we don't really know right we do know that it increases most likely increases blood flow and acts as self massage so if you have some soft tissue restrictions or you're feeling tight in certain areas it's a good tool to use like using massage gun as well right so to self massage the area to decrease some tissue restrictions improve blood flow relax the tissue most likely with certain things or with the vibrating one in case it did the opposite it actually oddly enough so we tested reactive strength index so the way we jump and didn't get time on the floor and how we act and when we use the vibrating foam roller prior it improved our our our our our our our our our so we're active strength index so it did the opposite we were thinking but it just kind of shows that we need more research and that's where we are in 2020 30 is now we have all this technology and we're learning more about it and we're getting what research but people forget science isn't black and white it's gray so maybe what we're talking about right now maybe a year from now we've got a podcast and we're like yo foam rolling does the opposite of what we thought it did so use it for what it is just keep an open mind you know don't get tunnel vision on these things because it is science and we're learning more and more as we go now yeah you may agree point I mean with the emergence of all of these tools and and then you know obviously comes most likely the data to follow unfortunately right so a cool new shiny toy comes out everybody runs out and gets it but we're not entirely educated on how we should be using it when we should be using it what is in in your um in your head what is the ideal kind of use case for these tools should I be foam rolling before I'm working out should I be more static stretching dynamic stretching what is the order of events when it comes to stretching and foam rolling and recovery modalities kind of when when should I be doing them how to do this it impact based off of the activity that I've about to set out on one of the running or weightlifting session kind of bring that down a little bit for us okay so we'll talk about how to warm up right but let's let's let's touch if you have a soft tissue restriction or tightness or you're recovering from injury or something like that I always like to use that foam roller or massage gun to just loosen the tissue just in self massage the area don't crush yourself right you just want to for you know 30 seconds to a minute our an area just start to release any tissue restrictions that you're feeling an area have that self massage for you to get into your warm up when you're getting into your warm up I like to use the ramp I don't know if you've heard of ramp our MP so it stands for raise activate mobilize potentially so what you're doing is you're raising a heart rate okay whether that's via jumping jacks walking biking jogging anything just increase your heart rate get your body moving get your body ready to go activate you know add in a couple bodyweight squats lunges or pushups ready to provide a lower body where you're doing just to try to just activate your tissues a little bit then you go to mobilize so that's when the dynamic stretch and comes into play so dynamic stretching I like to dynamic stretch prior activity so it's an active stretch with dynamic stretch kind of moving the joint through the full range emotion having active stretch on the tissue just to activate tissue increase blood flow circulation and truly get your body starting to warm up and then potentially means the sports specific activity so if you follow that ramp protocol and that could be jumping sprinting or striding you know if you're running warm up would go into strides prior to a run just very sports specific type movements itself but if you use that ramp it's a great way to hopefully reduce your risk of injury but really just prepare your body for the activity or the sport that you're doing and then I like to like I said before just use the soft tissue restriction stuff prior to get your body into it or if you're feeling like super tight maybe use the raise you know whether that's walking just increase blood flow and then you know substitute that soft tissue mobility right in between before you get into the the AMP acts of it so just move that way passive modalities usually for recovery whether you can use the boots the compression boots which are great or I'd like therapy and for a red sauna cold hot kind of contrast use it after there's a place in time for everything you know sometimes a lot of these pass-msalities get a bad rep in a way because people say oh it's not going to help no it's not going to help cure an injury but use it where it needs to be used right use it for what it's good for it's not going to you can't use it for everything it's not going to make you feel better at your injury but you know let's we can use any of these I'll say intermittent compression boots compression boots increased blood flow you know compressively so increased blood flow drain your fat access them and just help pump all right there's also some research to chose a really bad jiff one growth factor which is basically growth factor come from a liver that helps tissue repair itself so there's all different ways these what these things do but the real thing is we have to educate ourselves on all of them you know talk to someone in the field or someone that does research on these are rejoin research is a new coming out all the time just read about it and understand where you incorporated into your recovery or into your training so it's used for what exactly it's used for what the research shows it's been helpful for really no matter how much let's say pre-hab rehab etc and how many no matter how many preventative measures you do take injuries do happen right whether you're kind of just a weekend warrior and every day gym go or all the way up to the highest level performing athletes injuries happen small minor it's just a part of life take us through kind of your gold standard process when someone comes in with a new injury and tell us where you start and tell us about the manual process that you put into place all the way to how strange training also plays a part in that recovery process okay so let's use for it was someone comes in as a healthcare professional and as a practitioner the number one thing we should do is listen ask as many questions as you can one of the best things that about the spoke is that we have one-on-one treatment there's no assistance aids trainers there just one-on-one with your doctor physical therapy and we also have private treatment rooms so we don't have tables out in the open so people can't hear what other people are saying those private treatments allow us to really ask questions you'd be shocked at how much we learn from asking questions who what when where right how did the injury occur when what happened what do you feel explain it and over periods of time spending more time with patients you could be you know day one you could have x and y and then on day three they're like oh actually this is what happened or this is what I feel and that can really determine what's happening or the diagnoses and prognoses right so as a healthcare professional that are one thing we can do is listen and really listen to the individual and talk to the individual because the more we know about what's going on the more we know how we can help or exactly how or what this injury is because we're not always right you know that's a hard thing that a lot of people have is the they can't accept that they don't know right and if you don't know you don't know it's pretty standard like you can't you're not all of a sudden you'd be like oh actually it's this but that doesn't happen don't get wrong but sometimes like I don't know what's going on and that's when either a further into one of my colleagues at spoke or refer them out to and orthopedic doctor for something or you know sometimes we have to refer for imaging so we actually know what's going on I know you're not your MRI but sometimes to actually figure out what's happening we need to see with underlying causes right so number one thing is listen listen ask us many questions as we can and then we have an assessment where we go into the forest med bulk of motion testing once we get the data from there we can see what's going on and visually obviously with the motion testing you can see where restrictions are and they can turn in it once we find out of what we believe our hypothesis is then we can go into see if there's any tissue restrictions so we could do manual therapy to help modulate pain or really just have that therapeutic effects so that we can improve range motion or decrease restrictions using manual therapy right which then will allow us to get into strength training and that's how we stabilize our tissue long term is that you mobilize the tissue you increase blood flow in circulation to the area and then you stabilize it through the full range of motion so that the tissue adapts and understands that full range of motion right if you're just doing stretching I don't recommend just doing one you have to combo everything together if you're just doing one verse the other you're really not getting that full effect of your muscles to adapt to create that change right so that we can become better and our muscles can become better that's how we grow and then obviously strength training is progressive load um progress through that load or increase load and volume or time so you get stronger and then after most likely let's say we did manual therapy we did our strength training and then there's recovery process and that's where those passive modalities come in so that if we could help increase the therapeutic effect or increase in blood flow to the area post it can help your body recover faster or just improve your recovery time overall and that's when that all comes to play and that's when all those modalities come back into play and like we said you're not using all the same modalities and every you painted a really nice picture of of the process really and and how you bring it full circle so it really starts with that manual therapy you go into that strength reinforcement and then it's about recovery let's break those three down a little bit um pagan injury right pick an injury and tell us how you would approach it in each of those three stages so let's start with them and that manual manipulation that you typically start out with a patient and how you apply that in different tools that you can use steam was one of them what else are you using in your toolkit okay I'm gonna I'm gonna use somebody example and she's gonna hate me for saying this but I'm gonna use Kristen as an example Kristen's one of our physios of our bespoke that you know and Kristen is a power lifter and she's super fit and very recently she's heard her back right she knows what she's doing but she lifted very heavy and it happened and she's dealing with a string right now so you know we work together as we do as a team well if someone is hurt we're gonna use each other right for physio so she's having a lower back issue and what we'll do is start with some manual work or some joint manipulations and mobilization so we didn't talk about this so what we'll do is because she has a low back injury we want to assess the area above and below as well so not just the lower back you want to go at the hips and the thoracic spine right so with her we'll do some joint mobilizations we're using an SI joint belt and I'm really distracting the joint and moving the joint through the neat range of motion so that we can restore the proper range of motion over our hips so that I can take pressure off of her low back properly right also we're using steam on her lower back and her glutes try to increase more blood flow to the area it's relaxed the tissue right so we'll go through that manual process for that lower back and then after we get through that manual work and you know we use instrument assisted soft tissue mobilization as well or grass then to try to increase blood flow so there's some research out of a journal body work and something else I'm sorry I'm blanking on that but there's some research on grass and instrument assisted soft tissue mobilization that shows a localizing increase in blood flow and increase in fiber blast activity or the increase in collagen production which helps muscle repair and reform to the area so right that what is grass and for those you don't know at home so it's instrument assisted soft tissue mobilization what it is is those tools that you see people scraping themselves with and what it is shown to do is just low-class blood flow like we said in circulation more blood flow to the area can help some research in my I believe that increase in fiber blast activity which goes into repair fibers but we do know increases collagen since it's an and basically collagen production which helps muscle repair and remodelization collagen so muscle so we know that it can help so if anything we can do we're using these tools but what we know they do to improve blood flow circulation common with other forms of manual therapy and then with her it could go right into mobility program right so we're going to mobility program we're working to mobilize the hips the thoracic spine as well because the lower back you got to look above and below and then we'll go into strength right with her we realize that she has a decrease in strength and end range emotion on external rotation of her hips right so think um think like a clam shell activity lying on your side lift the leg up all the way she actually doesn't issue with that end range so we're trying to do a stabilize in that end range and by doing that she's getting pressure off her lower back and we realize that that may be what the issue is is our external rotators are very weak all the that end range positioning right and as you think about when you're going to your deadlift or certain types of squats or movements sometimes at external rotation your feet are turned out right so we have to make sure that she's strength strong through those entire ranges so that there's no compensation a lower back and she's just stabilizing through so you know for it's with different with every injury obviously but you want to use all of these things together into one and then remember to strengthen throughout the entire range emotion you know there's a time in place for like time under tension or pulsing to get more activation but you want to make sure that you're really strengthening through the entire range that tissue adapts to that range emotion or periods of time it becomes stronger is it very say that you're essentially retraining that area of the body once you kind of get it calm down once you get some blood flow in there and we're kind of almost reprogramming it maybe is a better way to put it um of how it should be operating on a daily basis when it's out of the information and kind of that that gripping phase right yeah you're adapting so your body your body's resilient first off our bodies are super resilient and we want to adapt so whether we you know put stress on that tissue or restress in different ways your body is to adapt to it's just like anything the we there's good types of stress and bad types of stress right and those good types of stress are lower bodies to adapt and become stronger whether that's mentally or physiologically it's just adaptation and when we learn these stresses and improve on these stresses our bodies just kind of become better and more resilient so that's exactly what we're doing is we're just stressing the tissue and making it more resilient and stronger and adapting and then over periods of time the tissue will become high-partury stronger and just more resilient to basically protect your body on everything else and hopefully reduce your risk of injuries in the future and what's the importance of that recovery stage so why why do you not typically allow patient to say okay I did my manual I did my my strength but I got to head out of here like none of them I need to stand for 20 minutes what's what's the benefit of that so for us it's after our treatment right so it's time that's separate a lot of people like oh don't put that part of your treatment no we're not charging people for this so basically what we're trying to do is just create that therapeutic effect so that the patient has more blood flow to the area that they can do on their own so we spend our 60 minutes with them and then if they have 20 minutes or 30 minutes and we have times well to set them up we'll put them on because it's just a pass in modality one you almost like a cooldown right so you can't skip your cooldown so if you just go from training hard and physione we do train hard to bespoke we're not just a physione that you sweat you're gonna work I can a test for those yeah I do I do I do I do I do I do I do I do I do I do not you maybe some listeners think is like oh if you know we're working hard we're we're performance training we're training hard we're getting people back to whether you need to be and after was you need to cool down so you need to a part of basically let's say a cooldown cool down cool down is your body is gonna retain go back to your pre-workout phase so whether that's decreased heart rate decreased body temperature you need to bring yourself back down if you just stop and basically your blood pressure will drop and you can faint or get dizzy right and then your body won't get the proper um basically recovery aspect so you're gonna be more strain more says little strains or strains or strains or strains and such like that so we need to cool the body down let the body adapt and relax using these passive modalities can help increase blood flow so the area to increase therapeutic effect to just enhance that recovery process so if you have 20 minutes at the end of your session leave their put you on boots stay in red light infrared sauna just anything that is particularly that injury that can help that patient relax their body decreased stress before they go back to work right so we're in your city and as you know patients will they have 68 minutes alright they'll come in they're like I beat me in some remaining before they need to run to the next meeting get in the next call and there's anything we can do to help them you know prolong that therapeutic effect or increase blood flow and relax tissue relax the mind they're gonna perform better they're also gonna go back to work with a better sense and they're gonna be clear in their mind right so because if you're caught up on things like stress it can affect everything from the way you're reacting how you're thinking your coordination your everything can be affected by stress so if we can relax the body in the individual it helped them recover faster and we've done our job as well so they're recovering from injury and then their mindset is right to get back to work or either go home to their family or whatever they want to do after work yeah we have thrown a lot of terminology out there in the last couple minutes and we've talked a lot about the different tools that the you guys used but really what are universally being used even by people at home just the pure access that we now have to motion compression guns to compression boots red light therapy you can get one of those and put on your desk and that during that day you can put treadmills at your desk as well you can have standing as right there's there are all these things and I think it's pretty overwhelming as a consumer at home and as an individual at home how can you begin to understand what tools might be best to start with to build your tool kit how does that pertain to maybe the sport you're doing so if you are a triathlete for example I am someone who originally loves to travel with my compression boots wherever I go because I know when I get off that airplane I need to get the information out of my legs I need to get the blood flow to start back to those legs in your head kind of when someone's sitting at home and especially looking at the prices to some of these tools right it's not it while they're accessible in the sense that you can go online and purchase them they may not be accessible from a pricing perspective so for you at home kind of what are your barebone necessities of what you like to have when you're home when you're traveling what's kind of like your go-to kit okay so my go-to kit is when we're in right now my compression socks I love my compression socks the increased circulation decreased vibration force just helps through the recovery process so a work compression socks whether they're performance compression socks recovery probably every day so you're in your feet all day long right so you want to make sure that we're compressing that way so that's definitely you'd go too far away especially when traveling airplane prevent pooling your legs compression socks right I travel all the time with compression boots a massage gun and then also stem so those are my favorite there's tons of research on electric simulation over the years and what it can do and how it can help you with increased blood flow or if I recruit men so different ways you can use it those that's my go-to so if I could pick one it probably be EMS or normal musculetric simulation it's probably also the cheapest set of those besides the compression socks those are obviously cheapest but boots they can be pretty costly and so can massage gun I know you can find massage guns in different types of boots on Amazon but I personally I'd love the compression boots right and you could travel with them you can bring them everywhere you want and they help you with recovery so they're going to basically compress release compress release some increased blood flow drain effect system some research shows I believe in increased an IGF on growth factors well which helps muscle repair and tissue repair massage gun it's easy to use so that's the benefit of the massage gun you also let the gun do the work just say that right here don't dig into much it's just like getting a really aggressive massage or of going too hard in the foam roller you don't want to beat yourself up but it can help decrease tension in certain areas so especially because now they make the massage guns a smaller versions of it you can just throw it right in your bag right so if you get one of those smaller ones percussion therapy massage gun just increase in blood flow decreasing tension it's a great thing to travel with so I would say top four compression socks compression boots massage gun EMS or stem great for travel with and then also your number one recovery tool no matter number two ones that you don't have to pay for or sleep right you gotta sleep and you have to have good quality sleep is not just about laying down you know when I started tracking my sleep I realized I wasn't having good quality sleep I'm kind of going to something else here but I actually moved me my wife moved apartments in our same building here in New York City because we went from an apartment with more windows to a apartment with less windows because I wasn't sleeping well because of the sun like great cool apartment you see the city awesome but I was waking up every day too early when the sun came through so for us it was a great way just to create a better sleep environment we've tried to keep our dog off the bed borrace but he weighs 85 pounds and yeah dude so stop there's no stopping him exactly so he's just in bed but you know sleep is free make sure you sleep well I'll recommend cold dark quiet environment put your device like in the kitchen or something buying a long clock do something like that and then hydrate if you're not hydrated not only can it you know decrease blood flow in circulation but if you're not hydrated well your brain goes haywire right and you can't think well you're gonna be more stressed and if you're not hydrated your body's just not going to recover so make sure you're hydrating make sure you're taking enough that doesn't mean water always that means electrolytes as well so hydrate and sleep are free those are the best recovery tools and then add those past modalities in as well hydrogens a huge topic and actually I think we have this conversation pretty often just the sodium deficiency that we're now seeing I think we had this discussion when James knew very as well shout out to James but you're always harping in as well you know you need to get in that magnesium potassium and sodium mix as well it isn't reaching for those sport drinks those classic sport drinks that have a ton of sugar in them it's not reaching for you know those baby formulations as well which is typically people's go to whether it's a hangover all the way through may be making myself a case of the toms right so what what what what of the what's the magic formula here with those big three okay so as you used to baton this but the research is showing that if you have too much salt or too little salt it's the same it can increase cardiovascular disease is everything there's a sweet spot in the middle right so you want to make sure that you are taking in some a lot of the studies back in the past yeah included like processed foods things like that with our high and sodium so that's which show people's levels are too high but the research shows that if you're too high or too low it's the same thing it's negative right so there's that sweet spot so what I like to do because my diet is pretty clean for the most part I'll add in some sort of salt into whether that's a supplement that has sodium in it or just taking like sea salt flakes so this is something mean camera and started doing in 2020 we started talking about it just gushing it before I went to bed I would just put sea salt flakes in water and some put some lemon to have a digestion and then I would just drink it there so then I get my electrolytes from the sea salt I'm not overly saturating with too much salt and I'm just saying in that sweet spot to then use the salt to help hydrate my system itself so really most people have too little or too much if you're diet super clean you're probably too little if you're diet's terrible and probably too much so you can get your your levels your measure your levels measured per say but there's really a sweet spot so adding and usually more salt is actually somewhat better to be honest from what the research is showing so just add some salt into it as some electrolytes into it yes there's some companies like you know that have these drinks that are super high in sugar is also a negative aspect of that as well right so any added sugar really is not that great for you so make sure that you're staying clean on that and avoiding that because there is some research to show that could dehydrate you actually a little bit yeah so we're saying essentially sleep stress what was the other one that we said sleep stress hydration hydration those are huge those and those are free those are all kind of we call them controllables right those are the things that you can really wake up and and be determined in the sense that I'm not going to not allow my stress levels get too high I'm going to really focus on gaining a bit early tonight and getting a good eight seven hours sleep whatever it is that you require I require eight that's just how I'm programmed if I get less than eight I'm slightly off of my game the next day and then hydration you know hydration drink you know they long and it's not just about that water talk about the actual physiological repairing that's happening during your sleep cycle talk about how your muscles are physically recovering during that time period talk about also spacing out workouts appropriately if I just got if I just went extremely hard at a marriage class eight o'clock on Monday night why should I not turn around and run six miles on Tuesday morning so first off you need to recover let's talk about that right so if your body's too stressed you're listening to cortisol levels so when we work out of a body becomes stressed so if you're taking your blood work right after you work out it's probably going to be terrible your body is way too stressed and your body needs time to repair itself if we're not repairing ourselves and then we're going into a work out the next morning you're literally like going in with a half a tank of gas right so your body is just not prepared to go and to move to that position so you need to recover properly you need to make sure you take enough time to recover and you need to get your sleep so sleep is interesting and I say quality of sleep more than quantity because once I started measuring my sleep maybe I was in bed for nine hours but I wasn't sleeping for nine hours right there's different stages of sleep you have light immune deep sleep right you don't release your growth factor your IGF1 or your hormones that repair our tissue unless you're in that deep sleep stage so that like medium to deep stage so we need to make sure that our quality of sleep is good so that we're releasing these hormones actually repair our tissue so when you release these hormones they come in and they like IGF1 growth factor let's say it helps with protein synthesis right helps repair the tissue itself and just remodel our tissue so that's what's happening there and it's the training effect right you when you train you rip your tissue apart and the tissue comes in and repairs itself and comes back strong or in bed or right so sleep and hydration have a lot to do with that if you're constantly stressing yourself you're not allowing those levels to drop and you're staying at a high level of stress if you stay at a high level of stress it could create irritation one um I always say that if you have irritation or too much stress it leads to your mind being elsewhere which affects your focus and affects your coordination which can lead to poor form um which can lead to injury right so that's a chain reaction that occurs from now make sure you're taking proper time between each workout if you're doing a workout at 10 o'clock at night like I do maybe don't work out the next morning maybe wait till the next evening to work out um if you go to that do that workout and your super sore and you had a leg day but your legs are crushed listen to your body don't do legs that day you know switch the workout up like switch it up because if you overstress your tissue you're also just not allowing every cover face to happen so the tissue's just never actually fully recover calling you an out in this room right now but we looked at programs you know I was like just do less sometimes less is more don't overstress your tissue let your body recover self let your body go through that entire process and phase so that you feel better and then you'll perform better and you'll lift more you'll be stronger you'll be faster but your body needs time to repair itself so less is more I tell this to a lot of my athletes as well it's just take a day off like sometimes you need that day off make sure you take at least one day off for a week sometimes you need to sometimes you need more but your body needs to relax and repair and recover in order to help as your performance on the next workout especially as you get older you know we're not 22 years old anymore I think I told you about one of our athletes shout out to a Maori out there I was shooting with him for about 8.5 o'clock on shoot and this kid was in absolute jack rabbit with the box jumps that he was pulling off and I asked him how old he was and he yeah he's in his young 20s and I was like wow I felt that for a second you know talk about you know the importance of everything that you just said especially as you get older you know when you turn when you really round that let's say 30 or even around that corner of 30 is it old by any means but you also aren't 20 anymore so why does this become increasingly more important as you age? I've probably just doesn't pair itself as fast as it did right I'm 37 and man I'm sore after work out so like I played basketball I was telling you I played basketball the other day and I'm not sore I got so kid just ran into me and my calf is sore like I feel bruised right and I think about that when I played football and I was younger I wrestled I just got beat up every day and never feel the sore so it's just our body going through a process as we age right and that's why we're doing everything we can to improve our lifespan longevity and we're using all these other outside tools and such to help that process curse so that I've got to talk about a couple other factors that can have a high impact on recovery so firstly it's going to alcohol intake so we're actually seeing a huge wave right now with a younger demographic they are opting out of alcohol use just based off of the knowledge that we're now seeing devices such as a lot of these wearables that we're wearing right now that can really measure your daily habits and your daily behaviors and then show you as a result what you did the day before how that impacted you for the next day talk about alcohol impact on the physical recovery of a body okay so bad that's the best way to put it I stopped drinking I wasn't a big drinker but I would drink my buddies on Sunday I'm a well-watching football whatever playing golf and I stopped drinking about six and a half years ago and I feel so much better okay I stopped drinking because the next day I would notice that my mental state as at that point a non-chip anymore was just delayed my processing time for my brain was delayed and I wasn't fully there I wasn't showing up the way that I should be until like midday the next day and I wasn't drinking a lot of it like a couple of years but that was it but my body really did not react well to it so the issue with alcohol intake is it could affect your immune system and your recovery process for all different ways basically what happens is that when you drink alcohol your body has to process everything that's in there whether sugars everything that's inside of that alcohol all the alcohol all things like that so your body's processing that so when you go to sleep your body actually doesn't get into that full deep sleep and that's why all these wearable shows that you're poor sleep like you think you're in bed for 10 hours or you think quote unquote you pass out no you don't pass out your body is up working to process all that alcohol you just took in so it affects your sleep and if you affect your sleep it affects your recovery like we said we don't get to deep sleep a body doesn't release proper hormones and both factors and our muscles don't repair ourselves right also a big issue with alcohol is it can re react with your coordination your reaction time in your mental state so if you're recovering from alcohol a day of drinking and the next day you go to work out your reaction time is going to be lower your coordination is going to be poor your focus is going to be less so those are all the things that prevent injury is being hyper focused be coordinated and really react time being there so there's a chain reaction that occurs in drinking alcohol so your body's not recovering there's also a lot of research shows that alcohol can impair your immune system so it could lead to more stress on your immune system so you're being more successful to being sick per se as well if you get sick you don't recover so it's just like a full circle right if you're not if you're drinking you're not sleeping well it also dehydrates you that's another huge thing is alcohol does the hydrate you so if you're not hydrated you tissues aren't properly fueled or hydrated your joints you know have less circulation and everything is basically impaired so alcohol is a big no no if you're serious athlete you know some people like oh stop or lower your alkaline take to be quite frank just don't drink you know there's a non alcoholic beverages that people can have now if you want that taste of beer or such there's non alcohol coins I saw recently that rock fell Simon's a store there non alcoholic alcohol right that is that so and I tasted one of the wines and you know it tasted like wine to me so maybe real wine drinkers would argue but I'm not a big wine drinker or never was yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so just just limited if you can I would say don't if your series athlete don't drink it will really improve your recovery times because it's not affecting other aspects of recovery so your tissues are staying in optimal state and your body is allowed to perform the way it should in your recovery process is a close to impairing it's basically you're doing your just impairing your process every time you drink and also you know this research that shows it kind of destroys your DNA a little bit as well so I'm sure alcohol this probably will be tons of new research coming out in this future because we're doing a lot of research on it now because not alcohol drinks are becoming so popular is that probably also affects your lifespan and your longevity so you know limit your alcoholic or say no to it if you can and rather hydrate your system and properly fuel your system yeah awesome now we're not here to talk necessarily about nutrition and obviously we don't have a dietitian in the house here but we are talking about the impact the human body and how your body is recovering on a daily basis from one that workouts as a daily life so let's talk about under fueling let's talk about under fueling I just had a massive mass of strength day maybe I didn't refuel properly how is that going to play a role and how my body is is feeling the next day and continuous cycles of under fueling how that can also set you up for a higher risk of injury as well okay so it's just vitamins minerals if you're not taking the proper vitamins of mineral like said I'm not an nutritionist on a physical therapist so if you're taking and not taking the proper vitamins of minerals your body is not getting the fuel that it needs right or if you're taking in the wrong vitamin minerals right so a big thing that I see is that people are like oh man I ate a ton of protein after I worked out but what types of protein did you eat and they'll say things like oh I had a you know fried chicken sandwich is a protein yeah but you're using fried foods which can cause more information your body one let's say that's it the condiments that you put on most of these foods have high sugar things like that or not the best whole foods per say that if you can say so really proper fueling is huge right so a big thing is make sure you eat enough as well a lot of athletes are under fuel I've realized I had this conversation with my buddy key last year two years ago when he was training off season for the NFL we were talking a lot about fueling and it's really just taking in the proper things right and people their entire lives can work on athletic ability and they can eat whatever they want and there's some athletes that argue oh I can have McDonald's I'm you know I'm calling out Chad Ocho Sinko over there but he is one of the greatest athletes of all time but and his body is that like one percent or that his body restilled reacted well and recovered well but a lot of people if you increase inflammation or taking the poor nutrition your body is going to basically fight against that and it's not going to properly heal right or you can increase inflammation your body possibly through the use of like fried foods or poor oils right that's another thing a lot of people don't get is that when you eat out a lot of the times restaurants cut costs right so they're going to use cheaper oils these cheaper oils have been shown like an oil to increase inflammation your body so we need pure oils that you know sometimes costs a little more but if you cook at home that's okay get that extra virgin olive oil things like that just be clean I say whole foods be clean get your protein intake after you work out whether that's through a shake fuel or whole foods itself but just make sure that you're getting proper vitamins and minerals as opposed to what most athletes do is just leave the gym and go grab a beer or something like that because we want to make sure that you're feeling your body properly so it has the efficient nutrients, vitamins and minerals to actually repair itself. Great stuff we're going to transition into our final topic here and it's a big one and it's probably one that's gained a little bit more attention as of recent years and that's really the mental health impact that injuries can have and now this isn't just the mental health impact of a professional athlete who's you know living is to play that sport right this is everywhere from you're again I'm going to say it again you're a weekend warrior in your everyday gym goers to your amateur athletes all the way to your professional athletes whatever disruption that you experience in your daily routine is going to have an impact on your mental health talk about the patterns that you have historically seen in individuals who become injured and who's daily life does become distracted because of an injury and what is sort of the advice that you you you know give them to take home okay so negative reinforcement is bad let's put that out there right so if you don't think you're going to get better you're possibly not going to get better okay your brain is a very strong thing it will affect your recovery so if you're saying like oh I'm doing bad I'm not going to do better yeah you're limiting your ability that's it performance right so negative reinforcement is terrible if you have negative reinforcement in your life finally to get rid of it okay I've just put in that out there step one step one get that out right so positive reinforcement is you you have to tell yourself you're going to get better you need to train your brain and your mind to understand that you're going to get better and you're going to do better you're going to perform better right you need to be positive with yourself and you need to have external factors that are positive um one of the biggest things that I talk about with athletes especially Doran's athletes is Samuel Mercos Bio psychosocial model of endurance right so he's a researcher I've actually gave you that book to read about it and he talks about this model his model is saying that there are different types of external factors whether that's physiologically through our individual selves you know where affected by like a VO2 Maxis how much oxygen we can consume, our bodies can function out properly, you can function we're also affected by social factors external factors support groups support people support individuals right and then we're also affected by our own psychological aspects so meaning are you motivated are you not motivated do you have a lot of stress in your life do you have a lot of negative impact in your life this can all affect one another so yes you're physiological performance body will affect your performance but if you're having issues with all these other external factors they will affect your performance and they will come down to impair your performance in a way right so one of the big things that I like to tell everyone is that you have to practice your mental fitness if you don't practice your mental fitness you're not going to all of a sudden like walk into the gym and be mentally prepared to work out right you have to practice this at home at work and in the gym okay you need to understand that your mental fitness can be affected by all these other external factors social factors as well so if you're having a stressful situation at home or stressful situation work you're not going to be performing at your best during the gym and vice versa right so you have to practice positive reinforcement and that's positive self-talk so it's not just you know external factors of seeing like a nice photo that makes you happy which research shows that if you flash a smiley face this is San Wilmer Co's research on a personal treadmill they will go longer and stronger on their treble runs right as opposed to flashing sad faces like this actually does affect our brain but we want to make sure that we're giving ourselves positive reinforcement and positive self-talk talk throughout this entire process you need to tell yourself you're going to be better you need to believe in yourself that is a huge thing if you do not believe in yourself you're not going to do as best as you can right so that goes kind of into his 60% rule um you're saying that you're 60% when your body you know feels fatigue some people call this like the navy seal rule things like that um you're actually 60% you know done you still 40% left in the tank and your body needs to understand that you're going to get better and you're going to be able to get past that point but if you don't train yourself to understand that it's going to affect you in a negative aspect or impair your performance or limit your performance in a way so I think the biggest things that people need to take away from this is that mentally be positive practice positive reinforcement in the gym at home at work all the time because you're going to be affected by each one of those and if you are sad or unhappy in one of them it will affect your performance so be happy you can also do meditation work mindfulness work yoga you know breathing techniques things like that or if you're just feeling super stressed when you get to the gym or something you're lifting sometimes stop what you're doing take 3D breaths that's what I always say take 3D best and go for a walk walk around the block one time clear your mind if you can clear your mind you can get back to the performance you want without these external factors affecting your performance our brain is undoubtedly the most powerful organ of our body right talk about the mind muscle connection how that plays a specific role in the injury aspect of this cycle right so someone just got an ACL reconstruction right how do they how does the brain play a part in helping someone walk again and helping someone run again right how does the mind play a role in that in that process so mind body connection right you have to connect your brain to the muscle you want to use that sounds crazy for some people but it's true right so if you're doing let's use like a quad set or a knee extension or something like that where you can track your quadricep muscles you should actually think about through your brain contracting that muscle more that will show that the muscle will contract more you'll have more activity of that tissue itself so that mind body connection is huge if you're doing your bicep curls and you're you know a way lift or a cosmetically trying bigger biceps think about that like squeeze your biceps think about your mind squeezing the biceps yeah if you flex between sets it's research that shows that actually can decrease your strength on the next set but if you're just looking for high part of your squeeze away right if you want those biceps to be bigger connect your brain to it between sets squeeze as much as you want you might have been will lift as much because it'll affect your training for performance I don't recommend flexing between sets disclaimer disclaimer you want to get stronger don't flex between sets but if you want to just connect that brain but when you're doing the the workout itself whatever muscle that you want to contract or the muscle that you want to focus on working connect your brain to that muscle and really try to hyper focus on that muscle contracting itself and this research that shows that will help that mind body connection to help that muscle gets stronger and grow in itself absolutely so throughout our entire chat we've talked a lot about longevity and what we're seeing today is a lot more emphasis on just that when it comes to health and wellness goals why are we seeing that shift right why are we seeing people you know moving from I'm gonna go really hard in my 20s and then I'm gonna kind of dwindle out from there whereas now no I want to keep doing Iron Man's until 85 right so why do you think that's become such a big shift in our culture well first off we're living longer right generationally we're living longer through the use of medical advances in technology and the research that we're having supplements and just medical as a whole is allowing us to live longer people are living longer so people's mindsets are shifting to I want to and also people having children later in life so people want to be prepared to you know interact with their kids later in life but we're shifting to that aspect of let's live as a spoke we say live better longer right that is what our true that's what we go by that's where we want every patient to be is to live better longer and we focus on longevity and lifespan so as we age we want to age more gracefully we want to make sure that we're aging properly so that we can play with the next generation in our family or you know interact with all those people we're just in general if you don't have and we just exercise longer and be really focused on bettering yourself and improving this actually all comes through everything we spoke about today so there's all these different factors that play a role in our life span and longevity whether it's exercise sleep nutrition hydration all these things affect one another and it's showing us that all of this that we're working on if we do these properly or work on all these individual things we should be able to live longer right bottom line through technology through research through the medical advances that we're having right now is we should be able to live longer per se but we want to live more gracefully longer we want to be able to perform an our memory you know that's my goal and generations before us did not have that and they weren't living as long right but we're also as a generation more focused on things like exercise exercise as a whole as you if you move and you stay moving not only will it make you stronger but will also increase your blood flow your circulation and all your brain to be better right we have to make sure that we're also playing that mental fitness game we spoke about mental fitness earlier but we also want to make sure that we're training our brain right don't let your brain just stop working especially those that retire early you want to make sure that you're still challenging your brain because your brain is like a muscle we stress it to then let it to strengthen itself and become stronger so it's not decreasing as we age right think about all timers it's a very big issue in our society now to mention things like that we want to make sure that we try to avoid these things and usually through what we know in research it's exercise exercise helps everything exercise is the key to longevity okay if we can stay exercising exercising and staying moving our bodies and our brain will be stronger and we should be able to age more gracefully and improve our longevity in life span awesome doctor Dan Gerda and I thank you so much for coming to the BbCom podcast we have an exciting 2023 coming up with you in the bespoke team just really pumped for this conversation to come out for our users thank you for having me look forward to hearing this and I look forward to working with you guys more thanks for tuning in to the BbCom podcast stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 06 ｜ Ebenezer Samuel ｜ Building Muscle & Training for Your Decade [UmnC_lYVP6s].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bitz, and today I'm joined by Ebenezer Samuel. Eb is a certified strength and conditioning coach and the fitness director for Men's Health magazine. He has 10 plus years experience as a fitness trainer and has worked with pro athletes from Terrell Owens to Charles Way, along with everyday athletes from marathon moms and New York City firefighters. Eb specializes in training techniques that build strength and enhance the mind muscle connection. He's put together numerous workout programs for men's health, including the best-selling new rules of muscle, and his modern approach to training is built around fundamentals while delivering new and unique movements that keep workouts exciting and fun for all. Samuel also helped create the strength and diversity initiative, a men's health and women's health program that provides trainers from marginalized communities with the mentorship, certification, and platform to jumpstart their careers. Prior to arriving at Men's Health, Eb was consistently around athletes working out as a sports columnist for the New York Daily News. Very often he found himself working out with pro athletes and he's trained with the likes of sprints or adjusting gattling, Cowboys pass, pressure, democracy's wear, and many others over the years. And welcome to the B-becom podcast, excited to dive into everything that we have planned today. Yeah, no, I'm really excited to be here. So I actually grew up a little bit on Bodybuilding.com in the Greg-Plit era, that was the guy who I wanted to, or among the guys who I wanted to really look like. So it's kind of cool to be here because it's something I really grew up with. Nice, nice. We're always happy to hear that. I mean Bodybuilding.com has been around for 24 years at this point. So some people come in here and they're like, you're here where I got my first training program. You're where I got my very first editorial article, and it's really cool to see. So I appreciate you noting that. At a high level today, we'll be covering the evolution in Men's Health from Physical Mental and Emotional Wellbeing. We'll be talking about muscle building, rep schemes, breaking up your program, programs splits, training for your goal versus high-perchrophy versus sports performance versus endurance. And then we'll be wrapping up. We're not only with Men's Mental Health, but also training for your specific decade. So we'll be talking about the differences of training for your 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s, and even 70s plus. So really excited to dig into this today. Yeah, that's going to be fun. So let's kick it off with a hot topic with our audience. They always want to know how to build more muscle. So the goal of building muscle, specifically fueling and training with the goal of building muscle at the forefront. So let's talk about fueling because I don't think we tend to lead with that one often enough. We always hear the saying ads are built in the kitchen, right? Well, do an extent muscles are built in the kitchen too. So all around, let's talk about fueling and someone who has the number one goal of building muscle, what they should be fueling with. Yeah, it's wild because for a long time in my training coming up, I followed all the bodybuilding that come, workouts. But I didn't handle my nutrition business for a very long time. And part of the reason was because I thought I'm training, I can eat whatever I want, and that's going to cover me. And then I got into a stage in college where I was literally just drinking protein shakes. They're the most cost-efficient way to get protein, but they're missing a lot of other things. And so that probably wasn't the smartest way for me to go about things. It wasn't until I think I actually moved here. I think I was 24, 25 years old, still struggling to kind of get where I wanted to strengthen my muscle-wise. And I remember asking a bodybuilder, I was like, what's wrong? I trained really hard. I trained every day. But I'm not kind of achieving it. I can't barely, I can't bench 225. I can't get a lot of the things I want. I was basically like, well, what do you eat? And I was like, well, for my first meal, I have a protein shake. And then a couple hours later, I'll have another protein shake. And then a couple hours later, I'll have another protein shake. And he's like, well, there's your problem. You're not eating real food and you're not getting your protein from the right sources. And once I made that transition, I was able to start making the gains that I needed to. And I think that's the biggest challenge for people is kind of understanding one that you need to, you do need to hit your macros, but it's about so much more than that. Both from like a longevity standpoint and from a muscle-building standpoint, also from like a tendon and bone health standpoint. And so it's about getting your protein, getting one gram of one gram per pound of body weight at least being in that region. But then at the same time, trying to get that protein from natural sources and trying to eat from natural sources. I do not think diet is as complicated as some people want to make it. I think it's crazy because all the stuff my mom told me that I never listened to would de-exception the probably like drink milk. But most of it was true. If I'm not drinking soda, if I'm drinking a ton of water, if I'm eating like being vegetables, if I'm eating my protein, I'm kind of going to be right where I need to be. So I think we can keep it simple in general. The only macros I really tell people to track is protein. Make sure you get one gram per pound of body weight a little bit above that. There's no there's there there there are diminishing returns to some extent. Once we exceed, I think around like 1.2 grams per pound of body weight. But at the same time, there's no downside. Right? And so it helps it. It's a really good start for to build your your diet around protein. And then to try to get it from diverse sources. So I'll like, I'll have a shake every single day. But then throughout the rest of the day, I'm trying to make saying, you know, chicken, I do a lot of salmon, shrimp. Try to get your protein from various other sources because then you're getting a lot of other micro nutrients covered instead of just having like a, I mean, the protein shake thing I was doing was really, really on intelligent. But if you if you diversify those protein sources, you're covering a lot of your other nutrition too. Yeah. And the just of it really being starting with whole foods as your primary protein source. And supplements, you know, we say this every day, even here at bodybuilding.com, supplements are made to compliment that. Right? They're to give you that that essential extra edge and that little bit of bump of what you may not be wholly getting from your diet on daily basis. But thereby, no means to replace, you know, that steak, that chicken, that tofu, whatever it is that it is that you're choosing as your primary protein source. So I think that's a great point. You know, for you specifically, what, you know, take us through a daily day for you of eating and what works for you when you're really trying to pack on some muscle. Yeah. I mean, you know, I try to, I try not, again, I try not overthink it. I always make sure I want to get my protein in every single meal. I'm going to try to get a complex carbon. Some kind of like a brown rice. I do a lot of white rice on Asian, so I can't, I can't help it. Potato, I do a lot of sweet potato. But I'll start my day early, because generally I try to be awake by 545, 6 AM. That's the only way I can make it to the city and survive the commute. So I'll just have a protein shake there. I usually mix in, you know, I'll go like 25 grams of one scoop of my protein. And now I'll add a little collagen protein to that as well. That gets me started then two and a half, I try to eat every couple of hours on one of those people. Two and a half hours after that, I'm usually getting, I'm at the office, I'm kind of settled in. I'll usually do like three to four eggs with spinach and some potatoes. And then I usually get two of that. So I'll eat that again a couple of hours later. I try to, you know, always make sure I have some level of fuel in my body, because I know I'm going to train hard and I'm going to want to train a lot. A couple hours after that, usually around like two o'clock, I wind up having four to six ounces of salmon. They do the guy downstairs at the cafeteria knows me really well, because I would do the same thing. But I'll get four to six ounces of salmon. Usually, the leader have spinach or the half kale down there. So I'll grab some of that. And then I'll do another two to three ounces of rice. And then I'll repeat that meal one more time throughout the day. That brings me home. Once I get home, I try to, you know, I'm going to head out to my work. I'm going to have to work out after I train, you know, I may do a pre-work out. If it's, if it's a really, really aggressive leg day or something like that. But after I train, I'll come back and I'll have, I'll usually have another four to six ounces of the salmon. Usually, some starting curry. My mom makes it and it makes the salmon taste a lot better. And then off, I'll finish it out with, you know, three to four ounces of white or brown rice. And usually it's white rice. There's been a lot of conversation around starting your day with a very high protein meal. Why do we want to do that? I think it's mainly because your, like, protein is, is the building black, is the key building black of, of muscle, right? And one, it's like, what else would you start with? Right? If you start with a complex car, or something like that, you're potentially, you're, you're playing with your insulin level. Then you don't need to do that, right, in the morning. But protein, it's, it's a key building black. Your, your body is completed from night before. So it's a good thing to start with. I think that's what. Great. And then what about, what about nighttime? What about winding down at night? What, is that something, and we, do we still want to be protein forward there? Do we want to go, is that the more, a more appropriate time for a complex car? What are your thoughts on, on nighttime routine? I think it depends, it depends a lot on when you train. I train it. Again, I try to, I think some of that, it's over-complicated when people say, oh, you shouldn't have carbs after certain time. There are, to something, there are, you know, insulin effects to that. But I also think for the majority of people, we're not training necessarily at that level, where that's something we need to over-focus on. I think if you, if you're coming off it, if you train at night, which is what I do, then you want that carbon there. Because, you know, you, you had a hard work out just, and you want to, we know how important the post-lift meal is, and we don't want to take that for granted. So if you have, if you train at night, you definitely want to have that carbon there. Protein to me is something we should, you know, we've, there's a lot of discussion about, and I feel like the guidance on this gradually changes every couple of years. But there's always a lot of discussion on how much protein can you metabolize in one meal, right? And in general, I feel like they usually say, you know, between 25 to 35 grams. In general, you want to make sure somehow throughout your day that you're hitting your protein bar. Whatever it is, 100-day grams, 200 grams. So that's a lot of protein period. So it makes sense to, it makes sense just beyond the, the diet perspective of it, and beyond what's best. It makes sense to space that out throughout the day because I don't know many people who can sit down to eat, say, 60 to 70 grams of protein in one sitting and do that three times in a day. So it makes sense to space it out and based solely on that, it makes sense to start today with, you know, 25, 30 grams of protein and end it with 25, 30 grams of protein because that, that just makes it, it allows you to get your numbers without having to eat a massive lunch date. That, you know, I mean, intermittent faster is do a bit of that kind of work. Absolutely. I'm with you. Now that we've really broken down how we should be feeling with the number one goal of building muscle in mind. Let's talk about training and I think that's going to be the nugget here, right? And this is where you're going to really come to life, I feel. Let's talk about training with the number one goal of building muscle. Give me all of the details. Should we, how should we be breaking up our week? You know, what are the types of workouts we should be doing? I know we're going to get into making the most of a rep in a few minutes here. We talk about reps, reps, schemes, and e-centric versus contract, concentric, and things of that nature. But really, just give us the high level what your number one piece of advice for someone going into building muscle in the gym and how they should approach that goal. I think there's two things. One, you have to train legs. You can't skip it. I think that's something I did when I was, when I was younger too, like they, like they as vicious is going to hurt. It's going to leave each, a good leg day to some extent is going to leave you a little bit of pain tomorrow. If you're not struggling walking down the stairs after like, did you didn't, you did something wrong? Exactly. It's surprisingly satisfying though, struggling to walk down the stairs after like that. But you have to train legs. There, there, your largest muscle group. There are also, and this is going to go into the other key thing with trying to build muscle and also build strength. And there are also, because their your largest muscle group and because so many other muscles are just involved from it, an isometric standpoint. And in every single leg motion, there are the muscle group where you're going to lift the heaviest possible weights you can. Your deadlift, regardless of what implement you're using, should be your strongest lift. And the fact that you get to subject your body to that kind of load is going to send the hormonal signals required for you to grow. So my first thing is going to be you have to train legs. And it, not once a week, that's like 52 times a year. It doesn't feel like a lap, but try to get it in twice a week at least. The second key thing I think is just making sure that you build your workout around multi-joint motions. I think you want to look at, I like to divide the body into, or I like to divide motions into five different groups. You've got six different groups actually. I can't count. You've got, you've got an e-dominant move. So that's going to be any kind of squat or lunge. I would put in that category too. You've got a hip dominant move, any kind of hip hinge, and we want to make sure we have that. That's going to be our deadlift. And then we have four families of upper body moves. We've got vertical pull and vertical push. Vertical pull is going to be any kind of pull-up or chin up concept. Vertical push is going to be any sort of overhead concept overhead presses. And then we've got horizontal pull and horizontal push. We want to make sure it's critical for everybody. Before you even touch the vertical pull, vertical push ideas, the first upper body motion you've got to be able to master is the row. The row should be one of your strongest upper body motions. It's going to keep you healthy and it's going to help build your back. That's a really, really large muscle group and it's also a really key muscle group for shoulder health. And then you've got obviously horizontal push. That's the fun one for guys. It's bench presses, push-ups. And I like to, you want to make sure that you cover all of those bases. You want to hit at least every single week. You want to do at least one of those motions. The way I like to break it down and the simplest way I think and the safest way I think over the long term to break things down is to treat this either like a four day or a six day split. Your first day you're going to train legs, get it out of the way. Second day you're going to train all your pulling muscles. That's going to be your horizontal rows, your vertical pull. If you can get, if you're at that point where you can really manage pull ups and you can handle pull downs and your shoulder health is good. And then you can get in a little bit of biceps. Your date three would then be push. Right? And that's going to be, that's going to be driven by your bench presses, your overhead presses. You can get a little bit of triceps in there as well. And then you can repeat that cycle. That's one way to do it. The other way to do it if you only want to train four days a week, if you're a little bit more of a beginner, then we can go lower upper lower upper upper. Right? So my day one is going to be my leg day. I'm going to make sure to cover my hip hinge, my knee dominant move. My day two is going to be my upper body day. I'm going to cover my, I'm going to basically go through a horizontal push motion, a horizontal pull motion. I'll get in a pull up idea. I may get in some kind of shoulder idea. And that's going to be my workout. I could take a day off and then repeat that. There are a lot of different ways to do it. All of them can be effective. I think over the course of your training, over and that's, you know, talking like decades, you should play with all of them and utilize all them because they're going to fit different phases of your life, which I'm sure we'll get into a little bit later. Yeah. Absolutely. You touch on something a second ago. Lifting heavy. Yeah. Right? Lifting heavy weights. And I think that's something that we need to emphasize here. I think more women are lifting heavier weights. I think just more people in general are understanding that you need to lift very, very heavy. If you want to see the progress you're looking for. And you mentioned a hormonal signal being sent. And I want you to expand on that a little bit more. Basically, in terms of the hormonal signal, what we're, when you're lifting heavy, your body is going to wind up producing more testosterone. Testosterone winds up being a key, testosterone is driving so much of how we grow muscle. So it just makes sense to try to push that as much as you can. Yeah. And we want to be doing this in all of the six or seven fundamental movement patterns we want to be doing this for all of our major lifts as well. Right? Yeah. It's something, Stan. I think it's going to, again, when we hit our legs, right? We're going to just be capable of pushing more. Right? We may not be, like, I think you want to be a little bit cautious of vertical pulling, vertical push. Because when we go overhead, so many, there are so many little issues that can happen in terms of our shoulder held. But I think, yeah, as much as you can, on our multi joint moves, we want to be pushing as heavy as we can. And that can mean diving down into, I think we get caught up in feeling the burn too often. And thinking, okay, let's keep this around eight to 10 reps. Because that's what I'm going to feel it the most. You don't have to feel it on, you don't have to feel it when you're lifting heavy. You're, you're, you'll feel it the next day. Just get the lift done. And you can kind of focus on the burn a little bit more of the my muscle connection. When you get to some of those accessory ideas later, that doesn't mean your form should be horrible. And you should be arching your back and your butt should be sky high off the bench when you're bench pressing. But it does mean that, you know, it's not necessarily about feeling it fully in your chest. Right. There's going to be a time in a place for low rep, high weight. And then vice versa. So there's going to be a time in a place for your program. No matter what kind of goal you're training for at this point. The, the, just of it is, everybody should be lifting heavy at some point in their program during their week. And then there's a time in a place for your higher rep lower weight accessory work. Yeah. I think it's too about the relationship between muscle and strength. Right. When I am lifting a little bit heavier, when I'm lifting a little bit heavier, I'm going to not only develop muscle, but I'm building strength and I'm building power. And if I can build, if I can enhance my strength and power, if I can, if I can take that to another level, then when I get to those kind of pump exercises or those moments where I'm going to focus on the my muscle connection, I'm going to be able to use a larger load and still hit higher reps, right? So it makes sense to play in a lot of sandboxes in terms of in terms of the, the, the reps game you're using. And in terms of going very, very heavy and challenging yourself. And at the same time, having those moments where we're not going as aggressively. Yeah. Absolutely. What is your number one piece of advice for someone not to do when they're trying to gain muscle? It's funny because I'm almost going to contradict myself. I think it's not what I said you should do. We just talked about lifting heavy and I think that's really, really, really important. But the number one thing not to do when you're trying to build muscle is I think thinking of motions at, like, just lifting almost, like, I think the number one thing not to do is let motions become point A to point B, right? What happens, I think very often, I think this is a, is a, is a flaw or an issue, especially when you're beginner in the gym, is you're, you're going to, okay, I'm going to do a Biceps curl. So I've just got to get the weight up, right? Well, I'm just, I just got to get the weight up. And there is a time in the place for that. And we, you know, that that's kind of the heart of a deadlift. We want to get the weight up with proper mechanics. And we've got to learn those mechanics first. And we've got to understand the muscles we were engaging first. I think not enough people take the time to understand the muscles that they're supposed to be using. And none of people take the time to understand, you know, a deadlift is, yes, fundamentally it is, I'm just picking a weight up off the ground. But it's mainly driven by my hamstrings and my glutes. And I need to understand that those muscles are working, I need to be able to feel it in those muscles. I've got to master that before I start lifting crazy heavy. Yeah, absolutely. So, so a little bit of what we're going into in a little bit is I'm developing that mind muscle awareness and just overall that body awareness. So, something we always hear people say is I'm trying to build muscle. Should I do cardio? Well, yeah, she should do cardio, right? We need to keep our heart healthy, right? But how do we keep it at bay in the sense that we're not going to affect muscle mass when our primary goal is building muscle? Cardio, I think, is Cardio is very, very underrated from a strength perspective. I think people tend to, I am a very big believer overall in making sure that you don't, I think when we get too caught up in one modality and we forget everything else, we're short-circending the gains that we may be trying to make in that in that one area. And I think that's what tends to happen with cardio because if we can make our heart stronger, if our heart can more effectively plump blood throughout our system, right? Then when I go to, when I go to sit down to the bench press or to any of my strength exercises, I'm going to have a little bit more in me to get another couple reps on top, which provides more muscle building stimulus in the end. So I think we should all have a cardio component in our workout. How we piece that together is sort of the riddle and I think there are a couple ways to do it because you also don't want to, you don't want to say go through like an hour long strength workout and then sit on a treadmill for an hour or do something like that because then you're just wearing yourself out, you're not giving yourself a chance to recover. I think there are a couple of things that people can do. One, there's, there's a lot of increasing research on zone two, right? Zone two cardio, just the idea of being 50 to 60% of your heart rate and living in that area and how that can help build your engine. And that is also a little, that's also not necessarily body taxing cardio. I would contend with zone two too, a lot of the reason the research is coming out and a lot of the reason we need it more is because humans are moving a lot less than they used to and zone two is literally me walking my dog or me going to the grocery store except I don't go to my grocery store anymore because I just ordered for man's on it. So we can get that zone two in and I think if you can make time for an hour of that a day, there's nothing wrong with that. And hour of taking a walk, there's no harm, right? The more active we can be the better. I think that all this sort of counts as as very base level cardio. I also think there's value and kind of in revving your engine up a lot more. When I sit down to a really, really hard set of like six reps on the deadlift, my heart rate will wind up pretty high. Especially if I'm doing three to four sets of that. So there's no harm in training that level of cardio and getting in like you know, eight ten minutes of hit on the back end of your of your strength workout or as a stand alone workout if you have that kind of time. So I think it's just it's making sure that we're smart about our cardio but I think it needs to be a part of your training. I would probably limit it if I'm going to do like a hit style session or some kind of interval session on a rower to twice a week because I don't want to kill myself and then try to but try to get in that other zone two cardio as often as I can because it's just gonna help. Yeah it's a great point. Cardio diversity is such a big topic that you know so many people think just walking and inclined on a treadmill you know is cardio right you can get on the skier you can get on the air by you can get on the road you can you can do cardio with weights you can get a kettlebell and you can do some complexes and you can really get your heart rate up and you can do some metcon conditioning with weights so you really stress you know cardio diversity getting out of the mind set that you need to be on a treadmill to get cardio done and finding you know new and unique ways for you to really spike those heart rate levels for you to ensure that you're staying healthy and fit all around. Yeah and it's just so good to support your strengthening so much because our heart rate if we are strength you know our heart is going to wind up high so let's get comfortable with that that way I believe you have to get comfortable when you are trying to build strength that's about that's we have to progressively overload to something's done and we're going to be able to take that much harder when we're in our strength work. What about timing do we want to do our cardio before or after strengthening? I think this is this is all about priorities and I always say it's interesting I like to try to I love trying to do two of these I think it makes me feel like a badass even though same even though like it's not really a two of the I just broke my work I'd up in a smarter way right um I think whatever I think when I think of two of these though and I think of you know how I'm going to fit strength and cardio together I think it's based around what my priorities are I want to build muscle so that needs to come first that does not necessarily mean that needs to come first in my day though because I'm you know we all kind of have slightly different rhythms like lifestyles work stresses and stuff like that and I'm most optimized like I am most on when I'm in in the evening and therefore I do my muscle stuff in the evening that's when my that's when my strength training happens my cardio I do you know early in the morning or I do it you know at like one in the morning but that we're not talking sleep habits so I call that myself killer with that and say well leave that we'll throw back to Dan for that one yeah but the key the key to me is whatever your primary goal is that should live in your most optimal and focus training window and whatever your secondary so for most of you guys obviously you know strength training so that should live in your optimal window and you get your cardio done in that secondary time where you're not as focused because it's not as important to you but you do want to make sure to hit it. Yep absolutely yeah so let's talk a little bit about program splits right let's talk about the difference between programming for I have a hard to feed basic school a performance basic school and endurance basic school and how we would go about you know creating a program for each of those three athletes so for those out there listening hypertrophy let's say a bodybuilder for performance let's say football baseball and for endurance let's say triathlon or marathon runner right and let's talk about strength program structuring and the differences between those three types of athletes. Yeah I happy to and that it's something that excites me to because I've moved between I feel like when the more you're in fitness you we want to be everything and I've moved between the different pieces and tried to find different ways to put them together. I think the thing I want to start by explaining a little bit is just it's all three athletes are kind of on some level training in what I say three different spaces and you want to make sure you have those spaces you have those spaces covered one is obviously cardio which we we talked about everybody should be should have some kind of a row of component in their training um the second is kind of the hypertrophy style lift that's going to be your slow traditional um the slow traditional way we're going to approach you know a bench press a biceps curl um a dumbbell curl we're really focusing on the muscles um really trying to make your our performance tight we're trying to lift heavy but it's all about going almost as heavy as we boss we can is classic progressive overload um and then I think there's kind of a third family of moves I call them momentum transfer moves basically it's going to be anything explosive in athletic that's going to be like your kettlebell swings snatches power cleans um high pulls exercises like that where we have to you you can't really isolate your entire system winds up involved in it and what we're trying to do in general we're never really going our heaviest because it's about not just a muscle creating force but the muscle creating force incredibly quickly and it's our body's ability to we're combining our body's ability to create that force and our body's ability to our muscles ability to stabilize and control those forces after we've created them and I think throughout the course of our training we want to have mastery over all three of those over all three of those styles of movement it's how we dose them that differs between the hypertrophy athlete between the the track athlete and between the and then between the more long endurance athlete. All right let's talk through the differences in strength training you know sport for specific goals you know muscle gain hypertrophy sports specific and endurance let's talk about the reps game that go into those programs right so let's talk about the difference between three to five reps five to eight and eight to fifteen and the best use cases for those based on goal. Yeah I think for I think for muscle gain again I think we're living in all three of those blocks right in muscle gain the first thing we're going to do our first let's say we're going through let's say we're going to limit this to a four days a week program and it's going to be um you know five five exercises right my first three motions are probably going to be if I'm focused only on solely on muscle gain and hypertrophy my first you know three to four exercises and that workout are going to be in that eight to ten rep range right I want to I want to um I want to be able to really feel the muscle I want to be able to create time under tension and I want to be able to create that force repetitive repeatedly right and so if I'm focusing on muscle gain I'm going to make sure that my first three to four motions live in in that eight to ten rep range that's going to be that is kind of what we consider our standard hypertrophy rep range right um I'm also I'm still going to make sure that I have an explosive component within my workout so later on in the workout I may want to do a kettlebell swing I may do because that's going to allow me to have to deal with the load of momentum transfer and then I may end with a little bit of cardio just so I get a little bit of ruby in there and what's the difference between you know let's let's for those listening out there let's distinguish the difference between hypertrophy and then just building for strength right and how does the reps scheme differ there between hypertrophy and just pure strength building if I'm if I'm a little bit more pure strength building I'm going to go a little bit lower rep because I'm trying to I'm trying one night I have to cash in a little bit more power and explosiveness on my lips and that power response expires far earlier is going to expire you know within eight to ten seconds and a normal hypertrophy set is going to take you around if you're doing eight to ten good quality reps it's going to take you 30 to 40 seconds to get through say eight to ten good reps of biceps curls or squats right those first three to four reps in that set are going to feel powerful and explosive eventually what you what's going to happen after those first three to four reps if you've chosen if you're working with a challenging weight you're not going to be able to be as explosive and suddenly you're going to have to grind out a couple reps those grind out reps aren't necessarily the best way to build strength but they're the really good way to help you build muscle and they're really good way to kind of stimulate that hypertrophy response and on the other side of the spectrum endurance athletes someone who is participating in triathlon someone who's training for the marathon someone who is a cycling athlete obviously all these are respectfully their own sports within themselves but they're long distance endurance events right how do they go how do these types of athletes go about sport our sport specific strength training for these events without constantly having heavy legs and feeling fatigue right obviously they're putting in 20 30 40 50 sometimes 60 plus miles if you're a biker right I hope you're not running that much in a week but for running maybe you're logging 25 plus for 100 mile months right you know preventing injury is going to be a huge part of that and by preventing injury strength training needs to be at the forefront of our program but how often should they be implementing that to stay in cadence with a heavy duty endurance program that's a really that's a very unique front or the way I see it's a very it's a very different situation because it is all about what is the role of of strength training for them so for the hypertrophy guy it's obviously just to build muscle right the athlete is using it we want to be a little bit more explosive we want to focus on a little bit lower reps it's all about moving that way fast because that suddenness is what makes a great athlete so you're almost never training heavy if you're if you're focusing on that and that's especially true now if you look at if you like 100 meter dash runners I don't know I used to follow this a lot if you look at the 90s 100 meter dash runners all those guys were I mean jacked right if you look at the guys who would not have 100 meter dash the last couple of years and the post you say both era they're kind of skinny normal looking guys and it's because they're really just focusing on they're focusing on quick ground contact time on being explosive and that means they're probably never doing by subs curls they're also staying lighter yeah exactly because because it makes sense right the lighter you can be as an as an athlete who needs to move quickly change direction whatever it is from a sport perspective the lighter you can be while being strong the better so you prioritize I'm gonna hit my power cleanser gonna hit my jumps I'm gonna do all those I'd like things maybe I'm gonna get strength the strength work for those guys is specifically injury prevention and building just a little if I can get stronger without getting bigger I'm the best athlete out there so that's that's the key for those guys for for endurance athletes I think it's it's literally just injury prevention right with a little dose of especially you know if you're running a triathlon if you're a cyclist if you can build again without adding size because those athletes want to stay as light as possible because upon miles upon miles upon miles of running the last thing you want to do is have two on it's have you know 25 extra pounds of muscle so you want to stay as light as possible but if you can build strength in your lower body then you're winning right because each stride you have you can if you have if you're glues or that much stronger than your opposition if you're quasi that much stronger each pedal that you have is is that much more useful right so I think those athletes one we have to be very very careful with how often they are training because they have so much mileage on them so I think you're limiting your strength work to two days max maybe a third day but even that's probably pushing it we want to make those two strength days too very very productive and very very focused I think you're choosing one explosive concept because we want you know the more we can make our body explosive the better right it's not necessarily easy but I think we're choosing one explosive concept like a kettlebell swing maybe it's an explosive trapbar that lift maybe it's some sort of squat maybe it's it's a I love I love lunges so maybe it's some kind of lunge but I think you're choosing one explosive move like that and then the rest of your work is going to and the great thing with that is you're you're not going super heavy on it you're just focusing on moving fast right so that's like four sets of you know three to five reps high intent on those reps so the goal is to move fast on every single bit and then I think you're choosing two other exercises that are maybe in that eight to twelve rep range because you want to build a little bit of hypertrophy in your lower body and I think this is all you know you want to build a little bit of hypertrophy and you want to be able to injury for your body and that's going to require you know we get back to the beginning of this discussion that means building a little bit of muscle you don't need 25 pounds of extra muscle but you want to wreck you want a solid requisite amount of muscle in strength and you get that from choosing two other exercises that he key functions maybe that's you know a row maybe that's an overhead press maybe that's you know something else for lower body and keeping that in the three to two to three set range eight to ten reps quality reps focusing on time and your attention right a little bit of a higher volume nothing crazy but just getting the muscle used to you know standing with standing that stress a little bit more you know as opposed to three to five rep range yeah I think it's key to don't go to create like you know even if you're an endurance athlete it doesn't mean you need to train this kind of crazy endurance range like 20 reps right eight to ten quality reps you need to build requisite strength you'll cover your endurance with your endurance training yep absolutely all great stuff how do we distinguish what should be a single rep movement or single set movement or other what should be super set and what when we should start exploring tricets so what what's the time in place for really structuring within that workout itself now this got to be general for all that let's talk about hypertrophy first let's go down the same three that we just did right so if my number one goal is is muscle building you know should I really just be focusing on four sets of a lap pull down before I move on to my next movement or should I be pairing that with something for a super set or a tricep I think super sets and triceps are in general for the hypertrophy athlete are best reserved for two situations one is arm day we can play with those on in accessory ideas very best and so I love doing like biceps triceps biceps triceps super sets I think that's one context the other context is if you're really really tied on time then it's it's very useful to go to like a super set or a tricep you know we can string together say three different you know if I if I only have a half hour maybe I'll string together three different back exercises one after the other after the other um that's one setting right in general if I'm a if I'm somebody who's trying to build muscle and strength I don't really want to go to I want to focus I want to get the most out of that means not not necessarily doing a set of something and then jumping to another motion then jumping to another motion because then I don't have the rest time I need to be able to lift heavy and lift hard on be and be truly productive on my sets so I would actually avoid super sentences and triceps if I'm if I'm a hypertrophy athlete if I'm somebody who's chasing hypertrophy and I have the time and I can get through it the drop set is a different thing and I'm a very big fan of drops that's because I think for the hypertrophy athlete because I think what you get to do with the drops what you're trying to do on every single set if I'm really trying to build muscle what I'm trying to do on every single set and this is again within reason in their cycles where you're going to do this and cycles where you're not but what I'm trying to do on every single set is push as close to that point of complete fatigue as possible without going over the edge and if I do drop set if I do say 10 reps of bicep curls at 45 pounds I'm going to make myself something like a badass and then I can't do anymore I can't do anymore at 45 pounds but if I pick up at 20 I can probably squeeze out a couple more reps so I get to push my muscles closer to muscular fatigue without going over by using drops that so I think drops that should be integrated more heavily and there are so many ways to do them too I think drops that are something that more hypertrophy athletes should be looking to implement the other two approaches again aside from arm day because arm day is a little bit of fun go chase and pump but it's not actually the day that's really building a muscle for you aside from arm day I think hypertrophy athletes should just price straight away for those I think the conversation is lending itself in this direction anyway making the most of a rep so let's talk about the mind muscle connection we had a great conversation myself and Dan Jerdana on our episode check out episode four if you haven't how do you best describe the mind muscle connection to a beginner weight lifter or gym go or who really doesn't have the experience to understand what that should feel like yet and it's it's really really hard the key thing it actually goes back to something I think we we said earlier and that is point A to point B and exercise is not simply point A to point B you should feel it in the muscles that you're working and to me the mind muscle connection one it's best and this is my background in training how I got into training how I got into fitness is a little backwards because I feel like a lot of people wind up starting with kind of functional ideas and then at some point maybe they kind of gravitate towards bodybuilding ideas I fell and I didn't even fall in love with bodybuilding it was kind of all they had where I grew up in Pennsylvania so it was a bodybuilding gym so before I did all the stuff I said people should actually do I was doing you know biceps curls and skull crushers and the great thing with those exercises is you can if you're doing them right you're really gonna feel the muscle working right so the mind muscle connection is about the mind muscle connection is about kind of you should when you're doing exercise correctly when we do that kind of standard hyper-to-fee exercise correctly whether it's a bench press whether it's a biceps curl whether it's a squat or a deadlift we should feel it in the target muscle and we should also be pushing to feel it in the target muscle it's not gonna happen you know I can do a deadlift and I won't feel a thing especially if I'm working it like a weight that isn't necessarily challenging me but what we need to do to foster the mind muscle connection is one understand the muscle groups that we're trying to train on any given exercise and to try to almost squeeze those muscles extra hard at the top of every contraction at the top of every rep that way we that way we are kind of feeling it if I if I do a biceps curl and I can't squeeze my biceps right I mean I don't know if I'm really working the muscle right so I should at least be able to kind of flex my biceps when I'm doing that biceps curl absolutely let's move into the difference between concentric and eccentric right obviously I feel like more people know and perform concentric based exercises right it's the main aspect of our lift but not too many of us are adding in eccentric specific movements into our programming and that's kind of a problem right if we're if we're not adding those in let's talk about why so first distinguish the difference between the two and then talk about the benefits of eccentric movements yeah um you're right it's a it's a huge why I have a whole I have a whole speed around that one let's do but yeah so concentric movement the concentric portion of the contraction and I think a biceps curl is a really really good example that everybody can can stick with we're all doing bicep curls at the end of this episode you guys too everybody you know it's funny every time I ever have a conversation with anybody on it winds up gravity it's the first section it's a single joint motion and so it's really really easy and we know how we know what everybody knows what it feels like to to squeeze their biceps yeah the concentric portion of the contraction occurs when the muscle is shortening and it's shortening and we're creating more force than whatever we're trying to then gravity can apply to whatever we're trying to lift and thus the weight winds up moving upwards so that's the concentric contraction there's a lot of other little pieces that go into it too and that in order for me to get that really clean biceps contraction I have to have tightness throughout the rest of my body I've got to make sure shoulders my shoulder blades are tight my abs are tight my glues are tight and that allows me to really get the most out of the concentric contraction that's what everybody knows we all squeeze we all can curl something up and squeeze our biceps that's the concentric the eccentric contraction occurs when basically we're lowering the weight but we're not passively lowering the weight so we're still applying a level of force we're just letting the force of gravity on whatever load we're lifting exceed the force that exceed the force that we might be applying that's kind of a standard concentration contraction and it shouldn't the thing people miss about the concentric or I said concentric I'm an eccentric wow yeah you're good yeah the thing people miss about the eccentric contraction is that it doesn't just happen it you mean we need to think about it if it takes you one second and this is where tempo training I think can really help people in assigning a tempo so if I'm doing that biceps curl I'm going to think about curling it up as fast as possible while using only my biceps that may take one second pause at the top very briefly one second and then try to lower make sure that lower takes two to three seconds that's going to ensure that my biceps have to eccentricly contract because if I just if I just all of a sudden stop contracting my biceps at the top of the curl the weight's going to fall that's one not really good for my joints and it's a mechanism for injury and too I'm leaving a lot of gains both in the short term and in the long term on the table because I haven't appreciated the time on the retention those two extra seconds of work that I'm going to get with that eccentric contraction yeah absolutely so we always want to to display some form of control coming down from a rap same thing when you're deadlifting is what I like to use when you're coming down from that the if you don't want to let your shoulders slump forward you don't want to lose slack in your and your spine in your and your stomach and you want to put that down the same integrity that you picked it up with so that's number one just to prevent injury and keep number two the eccentric can really help with that muscle growth with you getting stronger in that movement so something I've done the past I've I've added a lot of eccentric um pull ups into my routine a lot too just because pull ups are very difficult for me to get better I can't rep pull ups out but when I add eccentric pull ups into my routines so I'm pulling myself up and I'm going down for a three count I'm feeling those lats so much more than I would by maybe using a banner and assist pull up machine and just kind of getting you know the eight to ten rap sin so um you know to expand a little bit more of how eccentric training can help with the growth of a muscle but also just growing the strength of a muscle as well and where it should be used because I don't want people to say to go to their next gym session and then they're going to be doing eccentric training for every exercise right how do we implement it um and what are what are really the benefits that we're going to see out of this type of training yeah I think and I love eccentric I think they're highly underestimate overall I could I've been implementing them a lot more than my training I hate them when I do them but absolutely you will be sort of a disclaimer yeah I think the the the big distinguishing factor I because some muscle it's interesting I feel like when I got into fitness I really miss understood the eccentric attraction there's no such thing as an eccentric power queen which kind of didn't make sense to me at first which is probably why I had a labor-imissue at very early in my fitness career but um yeah it doesn't work for explosive movements it's I eccentric attractions are best reserved for either isolation exercises or very any exercise that you might see a bodybuilder do in general is one where you can really take advantage of eccentric's the thing that people or the the thing the thing that really helps with strength from an eccentric or why eccentric's work really well for strength is because you're stronger on the eccentric than you actually are on the concentric it's a lot harder if you once you get into eccentric's you'll you'll people will start to understand this it's a lot harder to it's a lot harder to lift something up then it is to lower it down slowly that means we can use eccentric in a couple one we can say do a set of biceps curls with those 45 pound dumbbells hit as many reps as we can and then we can kind of cheat up for two to three extra reps and lower down slowly and again that's another kind of mechanism by which we can prolong the set so we move a little bit closer to VT or we can use eccentric's actually there are three there are three ways I can think of eight million things to do with the eccentric's or we can use eccentric's to expose ourselves to heavier weights and then we could lift in other circumstances so for example I can do you know I could go to that biceps curl I can I can load extra weight I can grab 50 pound dumbbells 55 pound dumbbells cheat them up and kind of tighten up my entire body that way I'm still using my biceps and they're the driving force and they're what's you know what's taking that eccentric contraction tighten up my entire body and lower that was weights super slowly for three to four reps and then that's a great way to expose my body to expose my biceps to that heavier load that is more than I could curl that is more than those 45 pound dumbbells I know I can do and then in a couple weeks after doing that that will help set the stage for me to be able to play around with full 55 pound biceps curls the third thing I think with these centrics I think eccentric's are really really good for beginners because it's a lot safer to lower something with control once we understand that tension to lower something with control then it is to then it is to try to pick it up so a really really good it's also a really good way to force really good mechanics because we're going to do those eccentric slowly if I'm taking three to four seconds to lower down I'm going to feel everything that's going on and there are fewer I'll I'll notice the points where my body is off and I also can't hide from anything if I do you know a sloppy deadlift rep picking it up I can around my back I can get away with the couple things because it's only for a moment right but if I do I can't really do a sloppy eccentric deadlift rep because I'm going down so slowly and the whole object is to go down so slowly and if I can't maintain good positioning I'm going to know it I'm not going to be able to control the rep. Yeah absolutely speaking of beginners what's the best way to check on on your form when you're working on a loan you know for someone who maybe hasn't developed the body awareness they don't they haven't familiarized themselves with the mind muscle connection how how are they what are some tips you have for someone who's working on a loan and they want to ensure that they're squatting correctly they're deadlift and correctly everything's looking on point so that they aren't injuring themselves at the beginning of their wellness journey. It's funny because I think we have a weapon that we didn't have years ago for that it's it's sometimes a dangerous weapon but it's a very useful one if done smartly and that's we have phones now right and so everybody that means can the more you video yourself the more you watch execute a movement the more you're going to see one the inconsistencies from rep to rep that you might have if you're a beginner and two you're going to the more you watch yourself you'll see okay that doesn't necessarily look like what I've seen somebody else do now there are 8 million reasons why that might not look right but and some of them are just you know going to be based on lever legs and based on on your physiology and so you don't need to look like anybody else but at the same time I think intuitively the more we watch ourselves move the more we can kind of say oh you know on that fourth rep I felt a little bit more and it's because you know I squeeze my glues a little bit harder when I was doing my biceps color my overhead press so I didn't feel it in my lower back on that last set because I squeeze my glues when I was doing my overhead press so I think watching yourself the more you video yourself and you can delete it afterwards if you hate it but the more you video yourself the better I think that's the the other thing too is if you ever get with the trainer then you can eventually send that video to the trainer and it gives it gives you both a really good starting point so I think that's thing one the the other thing I think there are two ideas that you want to think about one is that there are two ideas you want to think about if you're a beginner to make sure that your form is tight one is eccentric right we can learn every exercise you know before you do before you do a standard deadlift from the ground you should be able to execute a Romanian deadlift that's what's going to teach you what the hip hinge feels like what it feels like to push your butt back before you bend at the waist so you should if you're ever struggling with an exercise try to add that tempo to it make sure you're you know you can lift it however you're going to lift it because if you're a beginner that might not be perfect but take four seconds on the way down it's going to force you to go lighter and that's you know going to be a little bit humbling but it's also going to help you lock in really really good form the final thing I think is the idea I believe that especially on our hypertrophy motions on those non-explosive ideas if we're really in control of the weight we can pause at any point during the exercise so that goes for a biceps curl if I'm in control of the weight I can pause you know when my elbow is at a 90 degree angle I can pause when it's at a 60 degree angle I should be able to have that kind of control especially when I'm learning early on if I'm doing a squat I should be able to do the same thing and if I can't pause at any point during the motion one I may be going to heavy or two something may be off of my execution so when you're going through your basic hypertrophy exercises if you're not sure if your form is tight almost like think about can I can I randomly pause at two to three points in the exercise because if I can then I'm probably doing okay if I can't if suddenly I you know if I'm midway through a squat and I'm trying to pause and I can't do it that might be because something is at a position yep great stuff we'll be linking a link to a phone tripod in the set for me to start practicing some let's transition to one of our final topics and I think one that's highly anticipated by both you and I training for your decade so we're going to be talking about the training structure and the difference is from your 20s to your 30s your 40s your 50s and even you know 75 plus and I think you have some exciting insight there so let's talk about the biggest difference between training and your 20s versus say your 50s you know what kind of occurs in between those decades at high level it's interesting because I I don't tell you how well they am because I don't want to even but um I um the older I've gotten the more I think there are two kinds of populations and they're both and they both deal with slightly different issues along these lines I think there's kind of a new generation of person we're more focused on longevity and fitness these days and those of us who are more focused on that I think there's going there's a lot less diminishment than people realize you can train at you can train very very hard in your 40s and 50s and you don't need to see a whole ton of job off but then there's this other group of people who can't be as obsessed with with fitness as you and I might be and things are a little harder for them because you know it's basically life stresses right like kids more gauge all this kind of stuff and for for because that stuff happens they either can't spend the same amount of time in the gym or they can't so you know they can't spend two hours in the gym anymore or they can spend the same hour in the gym that they were spending when they were 20 but the the mental focus is no longer there because the gym serves as a distraction I think both of those populations face slightly different challenges I think if you are somebody who um has been able to stay committed to your fitness routine since you were 20 years old and now you're into your 40s or into your 50s you're probably still going to be able to train hard the thing that the two things that have changed are one you need a little bit more recovery time your body doesn't recover as fast you probably felt that and so you just need to that means a little bit less volume overall in your training I think the other thing for that group is you have to be a little bit more precise with the exercises that you're doing because if you because certain characteristics that weren't your focus as we get older we tend to stick with say okay I've decided I'm going to be a runner and that's the focus of my training and all the other qualities are gradually dropping off if you haven't been monitoring them and that's especially true of power explosive explosive at less of is one of the first things to continue to on some level gain strength and gain muscle as we age into our 40s and 50s but our ability to be explosive if we don't maintain that starts to diminish so once you're into your 40s I think it's really really important that you make sure to have that explosive component you make sure almost at least three days a week you're doing at least three to four sets of kettlebell swings box jumps sprints something that's going to force you to move with power and move and create force quickly so I think that's the biggest difference for that group if you're in that second group and if you're in that second group and you haven't been able to apply yourself to the gym and you dropped off then you have a different issue and that's when you get into your fitness you have to be a little bit you have to be a lot more cautious and you have to be kind of thoughtful you're essentially you have to think about starting over whenever you you you haven't been able to be a has consistent I think for that group you want to start with some basic hypertrophy exercises um hit the key movement pattern so again go back to kind of the template we laid out at the beginning and you want to stay a little bit away from the explosive because one that isn't as important to you on some level um and two it's the hardest it's it's going to be hard for you to get that back eventually we need to reintegrate that into your routine but we can't do that too early on so focus on the hypertrophy list and focus on the core list you don't need to have an arm day but you do need to make sure you're dead lifting you're covering your your basic lung and squat and you're hitting your your upper body your first point was interesting it kind of hinted um to what you said earlier on we're just not walking enough right we're just not kidding up but we're also just we're not playing enough either we're not moving literally enough we're not changing directions enough we're not doing everything that we did when we were younger and that just decreases with age as well so I mean just get out there and and play a little bit right aside from putting in your foundations in the in the gym every day there is evidence out there that promotes building your aerobic engine and younger in your life and I really having that set to continue on and I'm not to say that you go crazy and become a marathon runner in your 20s and 30s and then you're set you don't need to do that in 40s and 50s right but why do we want to really focus on building that engine when we're younger as opposed because we quite often we see the opposite right we see people lifting when they're younger then they become they start lifting less as they get older and they start hitting the elliptical for 40 minutes every day right so why do we want to actually do the opposite of that I see I wouldn't actually say that we want to do the opposite of that and maybe that comes from because you know all I wanted to do my whole life was be was be jacked but I think we do want you do want a little bit of balance um it's more important I think it's I think it's more what we more want to do is you want to start with that basis strengthening when you're in your 20s and I I still think it's really really important that you hit your aggressive with your strengthening when you're in your 20s you're so many of your home hormonal levels are going to be at their best in their 20s so that means you get to build this reservoir muscle we know some of the soccer penny research out there I think soccer penny is a real thing I believe it's more it's more because of those life style issues we mentioned before then it is because we just all of a sudden see some diminishment of muscle after we're 40 I think if you strengthen if you build that reservoir muscle you're good but what I think we we want to do when we're in our 20s because we can build so much muscle is go ahead and get strong right it is going to be easier and that means we don't need to spend as much time it is going to be easier because our hormones are a little bit more optimized and that means we don't need to spend as much time necessarily you don't need to do 15 sets of biceps curls maybe fun but you don't need to do it so you can do say 5 to 6 sets of biceps curls your body is going to respond really well and that time that the rest of that time can be used to you know enhance that aerobic engine because it is going to lead to a much stronger heart which will one serve you a lot better in 20s and two that that stronger heart will then serve you a lot better as you age I think as we get older once we're into our 40s and 50s you know we just we can't necessarily we don't have as much volume or we can't necessarily take as much volume we don't we can't we're going to wear down a little bit faster so that's when you back off on cardio and that's when you really really got to focus on strength training what starts happening when we hit the 40s right what what do you think in your opinion is the biggest difference between training and your 40s versus the 20s I think it really it is that it is that overall recovery time you need a little bit more recovery you can get really really strong in your 40s I think the one thing I try to do especially because you know because I met men's album because so many of our readers are in there is I don't want to I don't want to scare them away and make them think I don't want to scare myself away from me I don't want to scare them away make them think 40 is somehow the end um the I think the things you're facing though are you do need a little bit more recovery time you're not going to bounce back as well from injury and you need to make sure to to protect your joints that's um you need to make sure to protect your joints so I think that's one thing um I realized a couple so our our latest cover guys on a shorteninger and when I was training with him you know he's a guy who's lifted and insanely heavy for years he's 75 years old now which is kind of nuts and saying yeah um an election exactly and he needed to you know he um the thing he complained about the most so we talked a lot um after we worked out together and then we talked we had a great interview but the thing he complained about the most in his interview was his joints right um and I think that's the thing that um that plague once you're over 40 you feel those a little bit more um the way to offset that is and it sounds kind of basic but just you need a better warm-up you need to take your time to ramp into your need to take and the truth is you probably should be doing that in your 20s too but you need when you're in your 40s when I was in my 20s I could get away with not warming up and that the truth is I probably felt like the same little things in my shoulders that bug me when I was in my 20s or that bug me now I probably felt them when I was in my 20s I just didn't need to react to them because I have this great recovery response. You're like I'm fine. Yeah um that I'm fine not once you're into your 40s you're paying an increasing price so you need to be a tune to that and you also and you need to um you need to warm up better and you need I think it's really really important once you're into your 40s and 50s that we do not just kind of a dynamic warm-up but that if we're going into our strength motions we we take very we're very very attentive to our warm-up sets. This is actually something I learned from Chris need the uh giant when he was with the giants he was a uh offensive lineman for them and I used to ask him he was probably about 35 34 35 like his last year in the league and I would ask him a lot about the bench press like how he warmed up how he did everything and he would literally start with I started doing this too and it works on so many levels um he would start with like the bar and I was like why are you venting the bar there's nothing there and he's like because it helps me one the explosive um because it's it's it's a super good way to like get in a groove of okay I'm gonna be powerful but too it lets me pay attention to my joints right so I think it's really really important that if you're going into a heavy lift if you're in your 40s and 50s take three to four sets of warm-up set it's before you actually move um a serious load it's gonna take a little bit more time but your body will thank you and you'll probably honestly have a better workout too. Let's up the ante here and talk about 75 plus right so um I think we're gonna start seeing more generations um and more people working out at that age and I think we're starting to see that shift now I'm that's my goal I still want to be going at 75 plus and I still want to be going in the gym a couple of times a week and getting my runs in right um so let's talk about that and let's talk about you know we're in that that third shift so now we're 50 plus but now we're now we're 75 plus what's your recommendation there for maintaining strength and just muscle just for functionality right and that's what it's about when you get to it's funny because I've always when I went down to interview Arnold I definitely envision myself at 75 it's like I'm gonna be jacked in the superhero and that's just the way it's gonna be right um not negotiable um I think it is um the one that was the eye opening thing about Arnold because um that's not what he told me I assume you know in some way he was gonna he was still gonna be a superhero and he is on you know TV but um he basically said now I he basically said now I live to to stay healthy and stay alive and um and to make my movies um which kind of you know I mean at first it took me a while to wrap my mind around that I think because I am not somebody who wants to change my goals but hearing kind of you know 75 year old terminator do it I think um you know I think I think it is a little bit as you and I get older um will shift our goals a little bit and will shift how we train because it does become muscle becomes about about living when you're at 75 I need to strengthen you you know I need strength to to get up off the ground and I need strength to you know the basic strength to like open my refrigerator to get in my car um my dad is 79 and sometimes you know I look it I look at him and you know it's like you know he needs a strength to pick up his granddaughter you know and so we need it for that purpose so I think our our training shifts our volume is gonna decrease even more um and the reality is there's a very very good chance at even if you know we're gonna I feel like I'm gonna work my ass off to stay super healthy but I'll probably have you know a couple aches and pains that's I think when when we get there I think we still want to folk we want to do everything we can to hit those same movement patterns I laid out before so we want to you know have kind of a squat motion hip motion horizontal vertical pull horizontal vertical push but I don't think we necessarily have to do it with freeways I think one of the things that changes as you age when your joints can't create as much stability we can shift to machines and I think that that was the interesting thing about Arnold um everything every exercise we did we did shoulders and arms because if we didn't do our if I didn't do arms with Arnold I think I would die um fair but it was all machines right and that's gonna allow for a couple things one is gonna allow us to still move a relatively heavy load um it's gonna allow us to work through any injuries we have because we can kind of customize our form a little bit um and it's gonna allow us to pile up some volume without necessarily you know it'll be great if I can do you know 315 pound deadless for for max reps when I am 75 years old but it might not be the safest thing and the breakdown that might happen if I miss on my 15th rep is gonna be a lot more it's gonna is gonna take me out of the commission for longer than at 75 then it would now and so I think shifting to machines um and shifting to a little bit of volume is something that's gonna help us a lot and it's gonna help a lot as we get older machines um bands bodyweight movements etc all this to say that string turning does have a place in every decade it's just how you go about it that will shift and transition over the years yeah um let's transition transition to our last topic today so a mental health specifically men's mental health um it's not talked about enough not nearly enough um we just wrapped um may which is mental health awareness month but going into men's health month here in June you know let's talk about your experience with mental health let's talk about how fitness and working out has helped with mental health um and just take us on your journey with it a little bit yeah it's and I feel like I was probably the generation before mental health became something you could talk about um and so for for a very very long time especially in the newspaper business so I started it's a New York Daily News the newspaper business is hard you show you show up you go write your story you do um you do your work and they don't want to hear you complain they want your story because you have a deadline and it's tomorrow um so it wasn't it wasn't discussed um and to be honest that created a lot of you know my mind played a lot of games with me at that time um but I think it's evolved and I think it's it's evolved very very positively and I think you see the fact you see it you know the athletes I was covering also weren't talking about it but now to I think it is two years ago Ben Ben Simmons from the from the six years at the time or might have been the net you know basically took like half a year off because you needed to monitor his mental health you had to some onbiles thing a couple of years ago um where she was very open about about it and I think as we're having the conversation it's it's changed for the better and it's kind of helped me like I I think for me working out has always been very much my safe place um I go in there and I want to I want to I want to work hard but the cool thing with working out for me is um it's something where I control everything right I control all the variables how many reps I'm gonna do what weight I'm gonna put what weight I'm gonna put up am I gonna do the fist set or do I want to sit it out and I think because of that um working out sort of helps my mental health because all I think your mental health at least for me my mental health struggles with all of these factors that I can't control right but when I stepped into the gym when I pick up a weight I chose the weight I'm picking up and I'm in control of that and so I think I think that helped me a lot and I hope that in the long term people can I guess hopefully get something out of working out like that where it isn't some kind of burden that they have to assume but it can be kind of a place where they can understand that yes they're subjecting themselves to work but they're in control of that work yeah great stuff tell us what's next for you tell us how people can fall along on your journey where they can fall along online um we've got a lot of cool projects that we've got a lot of cool projects going on it men's helped all the time um can't say too much about what's coming but um definitely read the cover story we have with Arnold Schwarzenegger coolest project that I've ever done and we've also got a really cool program in terms of strength and diversity for men's health and women's health this is a program where I work with eight to ten trainers a year um we try to develop them we get them certification we get the mentorship um and then we try to get them into into into the men's health and women's health programs so we're trying our best to just um open up who can be a trainer and create more opportunity for a lot of young trainers out there so we love to be able to um pay attention to that I'm at Ebenezer Samuel 23 on this program and our YouTube channel at Men's Health Men's Health Muscle is a really really great spot that we're trying to grow and we're trying to provide people with a lot of good fitness instruction great congrats on all your success so far we look forward to falling along on your journey awesome thanks for tuning in for another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 07 ｜ Gabe Snow ｜ Allowing the Mind Lead the Body [LNwfBX55LE4].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, what you doing? What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners, my name is Danielle Bitz, and today I'm joined by Gabe Snow. Gabe is a New York City strengthening addition in specialists and performance nutrition coach who focuses on new ways to gain strength, speed, and durability through movement. His programming expertise promotes control, stability, and playability with a goal of challenging the body using time under tension techniques. Gabe has an earned-de-green psychology with an emphasis in neurochemistry and is deeply embedded in the evolution of the human mind and its abilities to emotionally connect. He's a believer in allowing the brain to lead the body and stands by the motto, do it light, do it right. Gabe applies his learnings to coaches clients to view their body as the vehicle for their mind. Through this practice, we can learn to live life through meaningful relationships and experiences. Gabe's in future in in publications such as Men's Health magazine, GQ, Vice Pop Sugar, and his work with global fitness brands at cross-dination to deliver firsthand educational content to millions. He has a passion for travel and believes experiencing every facet of the earth is a key to staying grounded. Gabe, welcome to the BB Kong La Pocast. We go back quite a few years now starting. Think over at Spartan 4 or 5 years ago, pleasure to have you on today. I'm really excited for this deep dive into your mind. It's such a pleasure to be here. Thank you Danielle. Thank you bodybuilding.com. Yes, we do do way back multiple brands. It is an honor to be here. Very excited to chat even though we have our phone calls that sometimes turned into a solo podcast themselves. Absolutely. We're just going to start recording those and releasing them soon. We have a great episode up for you guys today. We're going to start our first half really breaking down some physicalities here and talking about physical health. Backhaff will be focused on more mental and emotional health. Really great conversation, Q, up for you guys. Let's get into it. We are going to start off with time-under tension as our first topic. Gabe defined the practice of time-under tension, the use cases and the benefits, and why this pertains to every level and not just beginners. Just high-levelics plan. The definition is create, so everybody's only no tension. How we create that tension, whether it is through a large heavy load, a moderate load, a small load, that is the first choice. How are we going to create the resistance? Now it's up to us as to how much time we can put under the concentric and eccentric phases. A lot of times you see beginners on a bench press, maybe you have the first thing that you see where they're just trying to bang it out as many reps as possible. Very rarely actually hitting their full ranges of motion. Not understanding how their scapula is working on, not understanding that they actually need to lock their elbows out. Trying to get as much done as possible. It actually has quickly as possible when you could create more tension being as our bodies a lever pulley system. You don't need to just lift up one large crate. You can hold one large crate or even one smaller crate and create more time in that lever pulley system to create more adaptation to tear more muscle fibers. Also to confuse the central nervous system so that your body doesn't just get used to banging out as many reps as possible. In terms of how a beginner should approach, I always start with time to centrics. If we're doing a bench press, three seconds to get to your chest explode off fast on the concentric on the shortening phase. You can do the time to centrics and you can do time to pause it. It's a down quick hold at 90 degree level, press back up from there. Just finding ways to increase as much tension as possible rather than trying to add as much load as possible. I found in terms of sustainability is most beneficial for joints for ligaments for tendons and then also just to not burn out your CNS because me as a college athlete, we had our test which the one was 225 pound bench press as many times as you could do it. You can get under it and do it like 39 times with this sloppy form. Create a lot of tension because you're using a lot of weight and you're doing it fast or you could take that 200 or 25 pounds and do it as slow as a rep on the eccentric phase on the stretch and as slow as a rep on the eccentric phase because all that tissue actually knows is strain and then that strain is what's going to cause that temptation. So it is, I'm going to say it's lazy because you know good old fashion have you lifting definitely works but if you're constantly stuck in that facet and you're not finding any progress that's where then for the higher level athlete you know I want to know what their program is looking like and if they're just trying to bang out as many reps as possible you know I challenge them unlike why don't you hold a pause at the bottom you know find where your strength is at at your end range of motion rather than you know your shortest phase and I think that's where a lot of people kind of sell themselves short is you know whether it's you know the push ups whether it's you know even like bicep curls guys that are kind of just going you know from 90 up like you have this full lovely eccentric phase of completely lengthening the bicep and if you're going to fully lengthen you're going to create a larger stretch which is going to create a larger contraction so then again for a similar amount of adaptation well also just not you know getting stuck in the same routine so you know there's there's a lot of ways to do it and I just find the easiest to be for beginner to just time there are centuries like how long the phase takes for them to go back to full range of motion you do this a lot with bands I noticed you do it with body weight so this it doesn't just require weights I think you know from what you're saying and what from what I've seen and noticed as well maybe for a beginner this helps develop a little bit more that mind muscle connection and for them to really understand hey I really want to target the glute right while one I have to think about what part of my glute is that could be the glute max the glute meat etc. what am I actually targeting during this exercise and to how am I going to slow down enough so that I feel it working both in the eccentric and the concentric phase right on the other side of the spectrum for maybe a more seasoned lifter let's say a bodybuilder in this instant right it's going to help with hypertrophy it's going to help with growth by gaining that full lengthening of the eccentric phase as well in the concentric both you know equally so you know that just proving that it's placed to both sides of the spectrum here. Yeah absolutely in the glute bridges honestly I think out of all the exercises the glute bridge and the plank right so my goal is a training is to teach people how to create as many points of tension in their body like how many people can just hold a plank hold a plank with their you know spines sagging like you know their chest is up their shoulder blades are you know retracted and they're just hanging out and they're just dumping all that way into like their lumbar will teach somebody how to you know pelvic tilt so that they can actually use their glutes also to hold them up flex and knees create a contraction that glutes pro-jocally they're shoulder blades so then you're getting a T spine and a little bit a lot and then also drag your forearms down so then you're also getting oblique and abs so like that's one of my tests my first kind of new clown like show me show me your glute bridge show me your show me your plank you know and the biggest thing that you see and you go to a big box gym there's people doing glute bridges and you know they're flying up and down off the floor and the first thing you see is the low bat their low back is still arched right and their but their butt is you know a foot up in the air you only have 15 degrees you know of rotation you know or excuse me of hip extension from the floor so if you're not talking your pelvis underneath creating that tension finding your glutes before you raise rather than you only feeling your glute at the top of the glute bridge after you've just used like your extensors in your lower back to raise you up then you're not really understanding where the tensions built so I do go as far as like we were mimicking a glute bridge for them to even push their hands their palms into the floor as hard as possible so then you're creating tension the obliques you know have them think about dragging their heels towards their fingertips so then they're finding their hamstrings and then learning how to do that pelvic tuck so that low back makes contact with the floor then when they raise from their heels the lower back is not active at all you've got hamstring glutes and a bleak being the main you know points of tension in the body and I think that if you can teach people how to create tension in their body rather than just load their body that's what you're going to have a more sustainable program you're going to have people understand what they're supposed to be feeling when you do then progress that to a lift or a full body movement so it really is you know using time under tension I find you allow people to empower themselves more by understanding what they're supposed to feel versus how many reps they completed. Yeah absolutely you know when I when I think about these exercises too it really puts an emphasis on the core and I don't think some people out there understand just how integral your core is and that that doesn't matter if you are a runner a swimmer a biker and I say that selfishly from triathlon over here but if you're trying to do the 500 pounds or run the fastest mile you can right core is so extremely important to any athlete any person walking around I heard someone say one time I really stuck with me not having a strong core is like biting the middle out of an apple and at any moment you can just break and I really resonated with me and made me want to do core every day and my weeks every day the weeks since then you know but where does core come into play for a lot of these time under tension movements that you implement? I mean that's just time and attention with everything just like not being able to control your ribcage like you're just standing ribcage just what you see especially in the bodybuilding community like you have all these guys holding hundred bandun bells doing these you know these overhead press you know and if your ribcage is descended and your core is not active then your spine is actually what's holding majority of that weight so like I have some of these guys that are you know they they're built beautifully aesthetically but as soon as you give them a bench press or any of a movement the core becomes completely inactive it's just completely elongated so like sure and the goal of raising something over your head like you know the hundred that becomes like a 50 because you're done me on half that weight into your you know into your spine so if you have people learn how to pull the ribcage down pull their hips underneath to keep the core active you know then you're also learning how to use your diaphragm as a place of stability and then that's also going to increase your strength you're you know you're testically you're not going to feel very great because those dumbbells you have become a lot smaller but then you're actually earning true functional you know strength in the muscle group they are actually trying to train so you know with the bodybuilders I would say it's really rare to watch a bodybuilder put down the hundred pound dumbbells grab 30s and like sit there push the ribcage down and press overhead where then you know with runners because like you know cores also not just like your abdominals it's your hips as well it's your abductors your ad doctors right that's your hips stability so like the hips aren't stable the knees aren't stable the knees aren't stable like when you run you're wearing tires also you know kind of increase dramatically so for me you know the kind of you know mantra or with the comparison I use is you wouldn't build a skyscraper in a swamp right like you know try to sink you know this big monstrous strong building in a I don't know weak foundation so your core being your hips and your abdominals and your bleaks that's going to be your foundation so no matter what you're trying to do in terms of longevity you know not loading your spine and allowing your core and your abdominals to hold that tension is just going to keep it's going to keep you health here it's going to keep you safer it's going to keep you you know being able to go longer so you know the core is something that I think people have to isolate you know they want to do their planks they want to do their ab wheels and stuff like that but in my programming it's you know it's using a symmetry so like doing your overhead press right but found only if one dumbbell and I press over here well now once I my body's loaded and this one's to happen so now this this oblique has to then shorten to keep me upright so there's a lot of ways time you know that's not so much time under tension but there's other ways like you know training asymmetrically to be able to access the core without you know just keeping in an isolated and the side plank or plank you know making it more intricate that way that the body also learns that you can have overhead movement you know horizontal pushes and pulls while you know keeping the core active like and like when someone does a push-up same thing they do their little sway back in the plank if you can tuck your pelvis find your abs and come up as one versus you know your your chest and then your hips coming up you're going to be able to hold out more push-ups now it's going to in terms of intention and using your mind it's going to take a lot more neurological load which is another thing I say like training with me it's more of a neurological load than it is a physical load because I've seen that you can make equal parts even not you know more progress just having more intention behind your exercises rather than just going and grabbing a bigger dumbbell or a bigger kettle though so you might you I always like to use the front squat as a great analogy to you sure you can load that bar up and you can use your quads and you're hampering your glutes and you may able to get 200 pounds up if you think about pulling your belly button to your ribcage and really engaging that core it is going to feel like a completely different exercise that I guarantee you're going to want to take some weight off your two in the back and then just with that like even people does not understand like for moral attraction like pulling you know pulling your femurs into your hip socket like that's kind of come from like you're so as in your hip flexors so when people a lot of people do front squats are just like all I'm going to train quads and it's like no like you're smashing that co-can now and you're you're using your core as you're you know your main point of stability and then learning how to use your legs you know secondary to your core where I would say you know 90% of the population are just you know they're targeting so they look at an electrosizing and I'm thinking that they're going to do any core like like you said with you know the back squat you people just folding in half and I'm like if I could do Leonardo DiCaprio inception you're just on a leg sled you know what I mean like if you can keep your chest upright keep your ribs down through your elbows forward and come down vertically what's keeping you upright your core is right so there's you know a lot of misconceptions everybody you know learning these things is going to take a distance so you know but he's going to squat like that you know naturally take us through a progression take us through maybe a warm update for yourself let's say it's squat day right are you starting from the floor are you moving to bands are you moving to bells I see you do a whole ton but what what what is what is step one and what are the steps that you take before you even start loading up that bar for myself which is interesting because for myself you know if we were talking years ago it would be as opposite of what I have my clients do now that I'm having a lot of old injuries plague me from you college athletics and just life and whatnot I'm doing all the same things that they're done you know which is you know as a trainer probably should but it all starts with FRC so like functional range conditioning right which is you know people feel like they're in a stretch right but you know the stretch is the feeling that you know the brain it's only even the only thing our brain can can make sense of in these you know feelings of tension so like a 90 90 stretch you know stretch again like I call them drills I call them like activations you know it's started the 90 90 my left hip you know it protrudes I have it's anterior it's it's forward because my left hip is weak so you know a lot of people think that like oh my my left hip is tight so I need to you know go into my couch stretch and like really open up my hip or my my left hip not it at all I need to actually do the opposite and I need my hip to understand that it's comfy and cozy and a hinged position you know into single like hinged position and then that's what's going to allow me to have that hip allow me to access my glue in my abductor more so a lot of the times people think that they're tight you know tightness and usually it is in essence weakness or it is a neurological little disconnect with the brain says if my hip goes that motion I'm going to create some type of bad news for myself so whether it's me it's my clients it's all in the floor it's all I would say functional range conditioning you know which is like the 99th stretch learning where your ad doctors learning how to turn your ad doctors and abducters first putting your hips into a deep hinge you know for a lot of people my first step is always pain mitigation you know so if we've got one person who doesn't have very much dorsy function in their ankle and when they squat their heels come off the ground and they feel tension you know in their in their Achilles tendon you know we're going to work like debankful flexion driving the knees over the toes some people do it loaded I don't really think that's that you need to do it loaded you know squeezing your toes into the ground lifting your toes off the floor so that that you know your shin that your calf everything in your ankle or or prepared for that deep ankle flexion which is another thing I see so many people not prepare for in a squat so you're sending these signals to your central nervous system is prepping it yeah and that's you know because we don't use these things like you know because you know sitting up and standing down like the perfect example like how do you sit down plop down okay every time you plop down you just did yourself a disservice to teach your hips how to hinge lengthen your hamstrings use your hips to lower yourself into the seat but we don't do that we just plop down but every time we get up what do we have you got a lot of the hip extension and we got knee flexions so the quads are quads are going quads are going quads are going so there's all these things during the day that we're just like we neglect these parts of our hips on our hamstrings are supposed to your chain that just don't get any love so you know whether we start with the joint stuff finding you know finding hip mobility if we're talking about squat a lot of people it's also shoulder mobility because people don't have the ability to pull the bar underneath just because you know that they're extension their shoulders are so poor and then from there it would be more like of an activation technique so like creating stability in the hip you know waking up the glute waking up the ad doctors making sure that they're not just going to just be doing knee flexion just you know bending the knees straightening the knees because that all we're really teaching there is you know your myso being your bodybuilding you know just doing a leg extension so for myself because of all the pain torn knees torn hamstrings it's always going to be you know accessing mobility first then from accessing mobility a little bit of you know isolation doing isolation to make sure that I got blunt phone the right places and then I go into dynamic so that's like multi-plane or movement you know literally literally literally reverse transverse going up and down turf creating proprioception so like my body knows where it is in space and then you know getting the heart rate up so that's really getting warm is good and then from there that's you know I'll get into a load you know using the back squat as a you know as a as a prime example but it in doing that also making sure that the core is active you know so I like to do like a plank a low plank from my knees and then creating a hamstring contraction by squeezing my heels so it's my butt so learning pelvic tuck getting glutes getting hamstrings on and getting out getting abs on because for myself those are the last three things that I ever activate my butt rarely turns on all quadz over here hamstrings need some love abs always need love so that would be like my final kind of move and then I get under the bar but it comes with a lot of tedious work but I back squat seven days a week then I don't have any pain and I make progress you know there's the days when the ego does get there and I'm like oh I get to go a little bit heavier today but I can say I've been back squatting six to seven days a week for over a year and a half now and that's all thanks to mobility and stability training. With the conversations certain in landing itself to our next topic which is creating mobile and stable joints so you know first let's talk about the difference between mobility and stability and if you fall along to our newsletter the catalyst which comes out every Sunday evening subscribe on bodybuilding.com we just spoke about this topic but tell us in your words the difference between mobility and stability. Yeah so you know I've got I've got my written version which is joint stability is the ability for a joint to remain in a fixed position and resist movement okay and then mobility is the ability of a joint to move freely through the range of motion so you know stability would be more of like an isometric you know holding like you know if you were going to do an LRDL get rid of the way like get into your single you know your single like deep hinge right and then have control over your hip with the adduction the abduction so understanding you know that the hip is what's holding you up or a lot of people can get that hip deep enough behind them and they start driving the hip forward and then it's all the quad so that you know the hips ability is what's going to make the knee feel stable and a lot of people have knee pain and a lot of people have lower back pain and in my case 80% of that is all coming from either weak slash tight hips you know we don't have nearly as much of a neurological response and like our receptors and pain to our hips as much as we do our lower back just because of all the nerve endings there so you know people are coming oh I have a bad lower back it's like no you don't have a bad lower back you have weak hips that neurologically don't know how to move because if you're not you don't know how to hinge you know not to get your hips behind you you're just and you're just trunk flexing just folding in half those extents are muscles in your back and I've built for that so of course your back's going to you know light up so I can bind the two I would say I start with the mobility right which is getting people neurologically to understand you know internal external rotation whether it's the shoulders you know extension flexion pro traction retraction and if you're listening to this instead of watching it he was doing some superb demos doing into our YouTube for the visual yeah so you know people that's you know just a row like how many times you see people take a row and they'd be there already started retracted and they're just doing a hammer-crowing a shrug right like you're not going to be able to understand your own physiology unless you understand that like the lat starts from a protracted position and you're actually retracting the shoulder blade in order to activate that and scapula to then bring the elbow back so that's where you know a lot of people I start with retrit-excuse me protraction and retracting on the floor then you know for doing a push pull day because in essence you know a push in a pull in terms of your scapula are the same exact thing it's just where the tension's coming from right so like if I'm pushing the weight I'm going from retracted to protracted if I'm pulling I'm going from protracted to retracted we're so many of us we don't you know finesse with our skeleton we just pull it or push it you know and then you're just you're getting half of the rep and you're not getting any of the neurological benefit for you know your scapula your shoulder blades actually learn how to move things with with your skeleton you know a lot of us are just like how to make the muscles bigger for you know bigger faster we're like yeah sure if you like do a bunch of half reps you're going to have you know a lot more concentric phase the muscles are going to have a lot more blood flow in it but in terms of like your endurance and how much longer you're going to go and how long you're going to be able to complete these movements it's going to be minimal so yeah for the moving from shoulders to spine you know so we've all been taught this like flat back thing where like good posture is upright and you know if as long as you can hold that you have good posture and then in lifting like keep your back flat like for me now like just learning as much as I have like your spine is one of the most high tech pieces of equipment that exists in your body like the spine is resilient but the thing is it's so resilient it's so smart that if your hips don't work appropriately your spine is going to be the first thing that's going to learn how to move instead and that's why people have a lot of back issues in these lower back issues because what's connected to your hips you lower back so if you can't move your hips appropriately your spine's going to try to do it and that's one of those muscles you're QL and your labor and your QL and your extensors are going to you know are going to go to shit like they're just going to be overusing over warned so QL is going to be the exact one I start calling out but I'm going to realize the QL is when the only muscles in the body is it the only muscle in the body that extends upper to lower body so if your hips are at a whack that is attached to your spine and you're going to feel pretty unhappy if that's happening you know I think it also comes from people just not understanding that there is a difference between a mobile and a stable joint and you know walk us through the skeletal system in terms of a mobile versus a stable joint so yeah I mean like that's for instance like what I just talked about like my hips it's like me playing football my left hip again being you know not hinging not having you know proper external rotation or internal rotation served me in my sport because I was an outside line back at defense events all of my body weight was on my left leg so all that all that leg ever was served as was a platform for me to push off of but then if I had to make a lateral movement it always had to be off of my right leg so my my right hip in terms of like internal and external rotation moves significantly better but if I'm going to sit there and hold like a single like an hinge all those years of just leaning into my left hip has now created in essence you know a more stable joint the joint is isn't stable and it's correct you know range of motion but I can hold the weight there much longer because that must that tissue that tissue integrity is now built more for holding in one place where my right hip you know if I'm going to step off of a curb and jump off you know to like do a lay up for a basketball this one is how to get out of the way this one is how to move so it also sometimes you know does come down like people's like dominant side and non-on overtime just that neurological pairing behind you know if I tell you to go reach for door you're going to reach with your dog and a hand you're not going to like slowly reach across with your left hand so you know a stable joint does have the ability to resist more force right but that also doesn't mean that it's end range of motion it's going to be the same so you know if we use like you know shoulders friends since like maybe I can you know I can internally rotate my you know my right shoulder much more than my left shoulder but if you push against it it's not going to have as much stability in that fixed position where you know look my left shoulder which is the case not having any Jenny like I'm in love to make you join my range of motions limited but now I've had to learn how to build strength because I don't have mobility in the shoulder so now this joint is an SNS stable but it doesn't have the full range of motion and you know the big thing with training is like you want to be you want to have both you want to be stronger your end ranges and get your shortest range but a lot of people to understand that joints you know internally rotate actually rotate abduct you know an abduct so if you're just kind of skipping those points you or you're not you know your strength is no longer functional and those but that's what you'll see you know people who use machines you know for training versus people who use free weights you're going to have a much more stable joint using free weights than you are using a machine because you're not putting that joint to compromising positions where you know maybe that dumbbell goes overhead or goes in front of you or with the machine it's just guided straight up so you can build all this great soft tissue but you can join it you can be a building and on a joint that is probably not very mobile and you know that's why when you take these bigger guys who you have a lot of muscle mass the joint are in essence stable because they have so much soft tissue around them to protect them but then the second you have you know you're doing end range motion test as an injury rotate push against my hand oh really drop right away right so it is about you know what type of strength you have in your end ranges and in your you know in your rotations and abduction and abduction right rotation is really the key word there to you know explain how important it is to train rotation on movement patterns right because you use the perfect example machines you're usually in flexion extension flex extension maybe that's great for a lower back with a lower back your your lower back doesn't like to to rotate your thoracic likes to rotate right so we need to get the rotation in for for your thoracic for your hips they love to rotate so how are you implementing that into a routine um that's so I mean it's it's with people are so used to linear training forward backward up and down you know it for some of the bothersome just because they can consider themselves a high level fitness but not many people are doing rotation um what makes it fun is when you do like to implement it is when you kind of if you get a golfer if you get a tennis player like get a bodybuilder and make him sweat like swing a tennis tennis tennis racket like you're not really creating much power right and that's where like understanding that your body is not just made up of separate muscle groups that is you know it is one organism that works together and like you can't turn your body into a whip or if you're gonna throw something overhead you know unless you learn how to rotate flex and extend your you know flex and extend your spine you're not gonna be strong so teaching people that you know whether the client is more like strength performance driven is like a lot easier because it's like you know let's see how much of a whip you can turn your body and so you can see how far hard you can throw this med ball or how much you know better golf swing is gonna get or how much better you know you can swing a racket stuff like that and then for people who are less performance focus and they are more focus on their longevity you know people who've been sitting in a car for you know or travel which I have a lot of clients like and they're like my hips are tight and I'm like no you know no poo of course they are we know that right but like so is your back and what it's so interesting is because like we've been especially in fitness like it's almost been taboo to move your spine in all these different ways people have they don't know what it actually feels like to feel good and I find that you know so many athletes we're so you're feeling shady all the time so we don't know what actually feeling good is and like for me specifically like as soon as I learn how to implement spinal rotation in my training I mean everything became easier you know because like whether it's a you know a single arm press you're going to your bench press like just having you know your shoulder blades understanding that they can rotate so much further behind you you're increasing you know your ranges of motion you're feeling better about your training but then just overall like in your body because you don't have this systemic you know issue going from your either your shoulder or steer your spine or your hips it's keeping you less hesitant and you know that like I said so many people just don't even think or function you're thinking to increase function others to make their spine until it's like oh no I can't do that I have a bad back right where we're in theory it's actually going to help with injury prevention it's good and it's going to prepare you for those moments where you do need to move fast you need to be on your feet especially here in the streets in New York City like you know both know very well stepping off a curb like your car is going like exactly your hips are pointed this direction but your body needs to move that way like yeah you'll see you know there's a million times a day you know I'll tell a little bit of sad story in my dad had when I had a full spinal fusion he was for extra facial athlete we guy was built like an adonis I watched him throw a coat can out one time literally slight rotation hips in the seat and this guy like he did not show pain and the grittest teeth sat there gripped his grip his you know his own fists for like 15 minutes because he went into a full spasm just from slight rotation and that was just that was 2001 so like people not understanding that like the spine needs to rotate needs to flex in order to be fully operable unfortunately is like new information but if you've been looking at anything greatest athletes anything created is quarterbacks and greatest pitchers you know those guys can basically point their hips at you and pull their guys to pull the exercise they do the exercise that's like look behind them so you know if you're trying to increase your power in any way you know and create longevity of your life you know the more spinal rotation you have the longer your problem you can you live because the quality of movement is just going to be so much higher yeah I mean I'm just decreasing the pain that you're experiencing on a daily basis as well if you're if you're someone who's in an office all day or even if you're working from home and you're seated most of your day go outside do some rotational movements I guarantee you're going to feel better just with five minutes of doing that and injecting those into your daily routine you know why is this important to do at a younger age why do we not want to wait until one we're feeling those daily aches and pain and two you know we don't want to wait until we're 15 60 year old to to start doing quote unquote some of these more boring things right we're adding in mobility work adding in our activation work wise it becoming inherently more important for people of younger age to add this to the routine um I think the reason being is because the information wasn't as accessible and understood so I think that's why like right now we're kind of in the pinnacle of people actually understanding you know when you just look at like people with their back surgeries like so many people so many less people are getting cut open now than like 2000 to like 2005 you know for a multitude of reasons but you because people are actually understanding that the spine is durable and that you know if you cut something open you're basically you know if you have a six cylinder under and you know engine and you pull out one cylinder like the car's not going to run the same so now you have to teach this car how to you know drive with one of the cylinder so you know I think that you know using like more of a pre-hab technique and teaching people that you know using their spines daily and you know whether through sport or just daily life is going to create a longer pain-free life which you know if you're in pain for less amount of time and you don't hesitate with movement you're going to move better longer that's going to keep you alive longer you know you see especially in the lower East side you see these you know elderly women doing like these crazy Tai Chi exercises but they're in their 80s and their 90s and they're moving around better than most of the 30 year olds in Equinox so you know there's you know there's a lot of you know cultures and societies that have like kind of figured it out but I also believe because there's not you know when we first get into this stuff when we're younger that's we're lifting because we're invincible we're invincible we're working because we're invincible we're working because we want to be the biggest most shredded the fastest the strongest we don't think that you know it's going to end at some point and then if it does end you know it's not going to be because I didn't do my mobility drills so you know I think that ego is honestly you know it's just so prevalent in fitness and in a gym culture people don't want to be on the floor for 30 minutes doing these things they want to get up and get after it because that's being really like another great part especially the mental the health part of training is to make yourself feel better right so unfortunately there's not a lot of people until they've already had an injury where they actually go through these drills and it actually feel accomplished and feel fulfilled by doing them so it sucks that it usually comes with you know putting your hand on the stove first to learn that these things are going to serve you you know whether it is progressing your performance or if it's just keeping you out of pain or if it's just you're longevity so I do think that it is a little bit of an ego thing you know I have my guys who come and I don't want to go on the floor I don't want to go on the floor I don't want to get in the rack let's go and I'm like cool we can do that but like do you want to be able to do this for like the next 10 years or the like the next 25 years right and then they're like oh okay I also you know I also think we don't I've said this before and I think I've said I've also said this in recent newsletter the catalyst but we don't play enough we don't we lose the element of play and we may have gotten to this at a later part in the podcast we can talk about it now we are not moving the way that we move when we are seven years old and I I'm even guilty of that for me I am I do train a ton um linear but you know I'm purposely adding in those lateral moves in the gym but when I think about it am I really getting that much lateral work and throughout my day without doing it intentionally probably not right so we need to start you know go join the softbally go play this recreational soccer go out and play whatever it is that you like to play as a kid because we are losing so much of those skills the older that we get and we're losing it a lot quicker than a lot of people realize absolutely I just had this conversation the day um and it was originally pertaining to play and then I guess my rotation like went back and do what I was with some of my buddies that we put in college football with and I was like tell me you can throw a football at 32 the same when you did when we were 19 and everyone was like no I was like an idiot when I football now and it's like it's not you know the neuromocular connection yeah it may have faded that you know neural pathway maybe isn't there anymore but like what's more you know what's diminished more is that ability of moving your spine if you're sitting in a desk all you know all day and then you know in terms of play yeah why do you think you know you take a 30 year old and you tell them to go quadripe on the floor they look up at you like are you fnc areas like you want me to go on the ground because something happens it like 18 19 years old the floor is just the enemy it's like we don't go down there anymore like my youth is over and the thing is when you're down there you are moving dynamically like if you look at like a toddler like a three or four year or five year old get down and play on the ground if you watch how they actually lower themselves to the ground or how they reach for things like it if it if it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it should inspire you it was an adult you know you're not like rolling on your side and they're like pushing yourself up like the way that their hips move the way that their spine's move you know and people like oh that's because they're young yes and no like if you've committed to those practices from age five years old to 55 years old there's no reason that the integrity of the soft tissue in the joint and that you that neurological connection would go away the same way that if the 32 year old is throwing a football today capstone and a football every single day you know we graduate college we stop playing our sport or if we don't you stop playing as kids those with those pathologies don't those practices me pathways no longer need to exist because ultimately our bodies are lazy because ultimately our bodies are just here to keep us alive as long as possible so if there's a way to conserve energy you know using less muscle mass using less energy using less movement our brain is going to reward that it's going to say stay seated don't move your spine like that but the thing is is like that's where you know we're at this point of evolution where bodies are so smart and our jobs and our daily lives are so stagnant that we're reaching this point of like you know yeah sure we're living longer because you know form of suitable is and you know hopefully understanding a little bit more about the nutrition but does that mean that the quality of life is high like you know if I'm going to live to a hundred and from seventy to a hundred I'm stuck in a chair I will trade that for living to sixy and meet moving freely so you know I think that there's just a lot of things that go into play as to whether it's we're not playing anymore you know we're so work of so work driven maybe you know we're a little shy we don't want to go join the softball team but you know play is the first thing that you know is going to put your body into multi dimensions in terms of movement and you know that's why training you know training with people like me and a lot of the people I work with that's like I don't care if you're doing a body building show like you're doing a lunge of the rotation you know what I mean like you're doing your moving your spine because you know ultimately it's if it's about longevity and if it's about life it's like do you want to be doing this for a little bit of time or a long time right you know we're certainly not naive to the fact that yes you know we're in terror and your joints happens you're not going to be able to be the all-american quarterback that you were when you were 18 when you are at 60 but can you come pretty close probably between nutrition and recovery and the movement patterns and you're instilling to your programming you you can kind of stay right there your energy levels may decrease etc but I don't think we're giving ourselves enough enough credit especially in this country as we age I think this I think we've already started topic three for today but decreasing pain through mindfulness and movement you know whether this is dealing with acute injuries or chronic pain I think you touched on it before people saying no I can't run anymore you know my knee suck or you know no I can't I can't get on a bike or you can't even I just was in a car for six hours you're like no that's all the more reason to be going on a bike you're listening to it join up right so break down how you approach both sides of the spectrum there you know and how the brain plays a crucial role in healing not only for acute injuries you know breaking a pinky or you know dealing dealing with chronic back pain that someone's you know on the brink of of going to that surgery you know how do you how do you say hey no hey let's let's take a step back here and figure an athre movement I mean that that would be an I could go like so deep dive on the tangent just because like I work with physical therapists and I've seen so many doctors and like I just had a crazy shoulder injury and you know I hate to say this and there's my cats and flock but like I think we do live in a society whether it's doctors surgeons and a lot of physiotherapists like they and our food everything this country because of insurance they want you to stay sick they want you to stay and some shape or form in need and some form with an ailment you know to believe that you need to keep buying you know whatever it is you're joined supplement your pain killer you need to come back for your ultrasound and your little stretch session like you know that is the way that a lot of the industries working our country to say oh we have no obesity problem okay like let's just invent a drug that you know plays with your you know insulin and blood sugar levels rather than us just fixing and teaching nutrition like you know so the the quick fix and then I think also just like a lot of people want to have some self-limiting belief in like a bit of like a victim case because but that's what we've been taught you know like especially when it comes to PT like you know oh you spraying your ankle put a boot in it don't walk don't use it like that was the old school way of doing things well what happens when you stop using it you're losing your your losing your mobility you're losing your rotation you're losing the integrity of of the soft tissue surrounding the joint so if you're not moving it on you're just booting it in that ankle and that calf and then that quad is just atriffing because you're dragging your foot around like you're not you're not gonna get like you you know the the spring will go down physi inflammation went down but now you got a like that's completely a symmetrical in terms of its strength and you've got an ankle that doesn't move compared to your right so now you're working with you know some severe severe asymmetry and over compensation and then that's just gonna lead it might go from the angle and that's just gonna go to the knee so you know I just think that there's there's a lot of people who started with an acute pain and it just wasn't handled it right why and I'm lucky that I work with some of the peat knee and the the the leading physical therapist in the city where it's like sure like let it calm down but also like do not stop using it like even if it's as much as just squeezing your toes and like pulling your toes off the ground like keep blood flow keep the neurological connection paired because that acute injury is gonna turn into a chronic one because you want a boot or a cast for six months so you know when it's when someone comes to me with with you know with a chronic injury it's usually finding out like you know the epidemiology like where did it actually start and again if we keep using like knees and lower backs it's because no one looked at their hips you know and it's like how could you expect your lower back to ever get better whether you had an injury or not or you just have a weak hips and a weak core like and that lower back is just trying to create all this movement because your hips don't even have if they don't have the neurological connection or they don't have the strength and do it like of course your back's gonna hurt so I can't tell you the amount of people and this isn't me like tweeting my own horn but like guys who were like 29 like women who were 56 years old I've got one incredible client she was like fan of the opera Cirque du Soleil New York City ballet like incredible athlete but has one hip that causes her to you well pain and then if that you know driving traveling if the ql goes bad then it makes it way down her knee and it's because her left hip does not hinge it just doesn't hinge you know like her left glute doesn't activate the glute doesn't activate because it doesn't think that the integrity of the hip is gonna put it in a safe place so like that somebody that like has all the systemic stuff who she's doing you know whether was medication whether it was acupuncture whether it's massage like that's a chronic pain whether that existed from you know in a q injury we don't really know her having such an extensive dance career but like she gets to the point to where she's like I'm just gonna go in for surgery and have her cut and it's like when you do that then just what happens same as the boot on the ankle you don't use it you don't get blood flow yeah you do your P.T. but like you're starting even further behind so like if we can find a way if your brain to become dis sensitized of putting this hip in the right pop in the proper place not having an impingement and then strengthen the glute strengthen you know the abductor ad dr so this thing shows comfortable moving then guess what happens the q l pain goes away the lower back pain comes away then the knee pain goes away so that's somebody I've been working with for not even two years now and you know this is this was a chronic pain that she had had you know she's in her 50s she's had this and she was like 30 like 30 something especially something like the hip as well I mean that's just it's not a path you want to go down the amount of work you're going to have to do to quote unquote you know re-ignite those glute muscles create that connection again get those firing properly the glutes are just such an impressive system that you have to work with 24-7 right so to get those turn back on a such a hard job and I know it because I experienced it you know and same thing the amount of people that I can recall that are so quick to go into a I'll say low back because that's probably the biggest one that we see across this industry because they're trusting the the physicians that they're working with and I think that's also part of the not the problem I'm not going to say it's a problem to trust your physician I'm going to say that as a healthcare system we need to do a better job at educating people not only for things like nutrition but also how they need to move their body and why are we not you know recommending them to not only physical therapist but physical therapist that can teach them other ways to alleviate these pains and take things that's up further than just the standard six-week protocol right go take PT for six weeks if you don't feel any better we're going to surgery that there's got to be more of an elaborate process that's put into place but in my yeah just the back point on that is like when you get these people you know and they have poor hip extension or shoulder extension I don't like that when I don't want to do that one probably because it's exactly what you need to be doing so and I think that is just the hard truth that a lot of people are afraid to face they get to that point and they're like oh I'm going to upset my client they're not going to work with me anymore you know luckily I've been to the point where like I you know my clients have the trust and rapport with me and we're all like let's just try this because like if every it's the same as like you know we get into our personalities like you get into a new relationship and like see you got some trust issues from your previous relationship right and like you know you don't get a phone call for like a day or two and you immediately jump to conclusions like I'm not doing this I'm not supposed to be in a relationship it's like no being the relationship but work on what it takes in order for that chronic pain or that acute pain whichever one how you're feeling in that moment work on that to be able to become regular and normal and culpable and functional so you know anytime I have somebody who's like yeah I don't think that I don't want to do that one it's like okay we don't want to do that one but let's do a regression of that one because that tells me if you're brain you know conscious or not you're saying not to do something it's probably the exact thing you need to be doing and what that tells me too is it's that individual may not have ever been taught to work through pain right they were taught or they had developed the behavior of this is painful I'm going to stop now there's a different there's different levels of pain of course you know we're sympathetic to that but there does come to a point and I think I think if you or someone who has an athletic background maybe you're kind of used to working through those areas of discomfort I'll certainly say that from experience I'm sure you can as well and you know what I even find with you know I'll use my parents for example like you know this doesn't feel good I'm like well what doesn't feel good about about it right we're not asking those follow-up questions and I think I see we see that a lot in doctor's offices as well well what does it feel like and when you move this way does it hurt when you move that way does it hurt we're really not kind of doing that due diligence of understanding where it's really stemming from all we hear is this hurts go to PT here's a pill if that doesn't work here surgery so we've come a very long way I would say the last five to 10 years have been extremely transformational in this field but there's there's still miles to go for sure I want to move on to our fifth and our fourth and final topic excuse me you know what I will say before we move on we're we're going to be moving on to discussions around PTSD and depression if these topics are not where you're seeking today we thank you for listening in and we will see you next time on the bodybuilding.com podcast so game you know you love to say mind leads body follows it's in your Instagram bio you've been saying it since the day I met you I see and I'm as any interview that that you sit down to take you know let's let's I'm I'm really going to turn it over to you I want to know what what prompted you to pursue a degree in psychology specializing in neurochemistry and I want to know you know what personal experiences led you to the journey that you're on today yeah mind leads body follows you know that is has been my motto in a lot of ways you know it almost moved people that didn't want to warm up so much the you know the vulnerability in psychology and it was more just like you know do it light do it right form base fitness over just like you know crushing your body like having intention with your mind and then allowing your body to follow that but that was that's like scratching the surface but you know for me what mind leads body follows is that like as somebody who is competitive bodybuilder as somebody who grew up borderline morbidly obese barrier over weight 275 pounds in college never looked the way I wanted to look you know I had to find solace and peace and self respect and confidence in my process and you know so many people are obsessed with you know if we're going to call their journey like you know climbing the mountain to the sunset right to see this great sunset well what happens when you get to you know the top of the mountain you get to the peak and the sunset's got clouds and overcast and front of it how are you going to feel that right so like if you don't find joy and confidence in efficacy in the climb right which the what's getting you through the climb is your mind like you know if the sunset is that dream body that you wanted like in my history like it doesn't make a difference you know what that body looks like you know how low your body fabric percentages or what you think you're supposed to look like because if you don't build that efficacy on the way the air like you're just the same you're just the same insecure person you're the same person that's still in search of something that still has a hole who now just like looks a little bit different you know so like if the brain is not happy if the brain is not pleased it doesn't matter the body's never going to be able to overpower your mind so like if you can't find success in your day to day process versus your outcome like you can you can take as far as you want you know like I said body building competitively fitness modeling I was never happy I was never happy once I always could have went further I always could have been more lean I always could have booked another job like you know the body just more feel whatever you want to call it it's stuck with me from the beginning like from forever and majority of my existence was becoming all the things that I didn't have in childhood like I needed like a father figure I was the only overweight one in the family so I had to lose all the weight you know I was always expected to be you know football player my dad was an NFL player you know so it was always all these outcomes you know that I had to that I had to get myself to for me in order to feel good about myself and that's what I find so much of so many my clients I just have to lose 15 pounds you know like what happens if 15 pounds like you know do you like sprout wings and you can just fly like into the heavens and you just feel great like no you know then that's why then I kind of lead with the you know the questions of like what happens at 15 pounds in your mind or why 15 pounds and like while I was 15 pounds last on my honeymoon well you would just had your wedding you just had all of your loved ones show up for you to celebrate your love and your devotion for the your one person that you're gonna spend the rest of your life with so like what's your connection like with your family one the last time you're not a gathering how's your relationship with your spouse like do you believe that they don't love you as much because you don't look exactly the same way as when they marry and you like so we've been programmed to have all these beliefs that like our body is going to be the outcome for you know our joy or success and you know this especially in this field where for me it's if you know if the brains aren't healthy doesn't matter what you do with your body so that's why I just kind of try to get people to meet themselves halfway where it's like let's lose five pounds and let's call your cousins in your aunts and your uncles and ask if we can get dinner or let's talk about you know maybe your sexual relationship with your partner or how you're feeling about like your social life like because we've just been told that all of our issues come solely from ourselves and within and with our external self you know in society especially you know social media is just constantly forcing external validation so it's like your mind is the only one that matters and how you feel about where you're going it's solely your choice now yeah it's really hard to untie a lot of those knots you know to be able to be like I'm doing everything I can but when the rest of your world is like you're not doing shit you know it's really hard to convince yourself otherwise so I use that I use that mind needs body follows is to be like you know people walk out of a session like well I'm still time pounds away I'm like yeah but how do you feel right now how do you feel about the work that you just put in right now your brain how does your brain feel well I did everything I was supposed to do right okay and what comes next what's for lunch well I know what I'm going to do and you know I'm going to follow my meal plan or I'm going to eat my 80 20 great so that's your mind so like do not let the outcome be the the the the obtaining fact on how you where you hold your value and if you can keep that positive mindset that you're doing everything that you can the body will follow you know it will happen if that's the goal that will happen and I've been so lucky to be kind of keeping that mantra for so long with people that like I've got a couple people who look exactly the same they're a little bit stronger they're a little bit more mobile but like in terms of their their self-evigacy and where they hold their success it comes and there comes in their mind because like this is all temporary you know anything like how good you look right now especially from a bodybuilder like you know you're not going to look like that in two weeks so like why put that emphasis on there put the emphasis on the fact of like you know you did everything you could do accomplish a goal and that you had discipline and you showed up for yourself so the mind leaves body follows kind of mantra is just more about you know finding finding the the joy from within and the appreciating the effort that you're putting in rather than the body being your you know your measure of success and then you know if we can go into psychology yeah it's good with problems in the movie psychology I grew up I grew up in a pretty tumultuous household my father was an alcoholic in a drug addict because it takes a to the oxy cotton somebody who had his whole you know the world the world was his oyster you could do whatever you wanted he was somebody who always kind of did the right thing like college football and a fell and a fell in work out started the business business was successful married the right wife had the kids but like really didn't do much for himself so he kind of fell off the wagon when he like sold his business in retired really on my mom struggled a lot with like some BPD things and like once she got divorced was you know always kind of searching for external validation for you know someone to make her feel better so both of my parents I kind of took a role as a caretaker like really young and kind of learning how to be there for them which you know has has made me an incredible trainer in coach is because I know exactly how to put someone else's needs before my own in order to make someone feel safe and heard and you know and and understood in these moments and when I was in school I was like football on school and I made the HD and couldn't find a major that worked and as soon as I got into psychology we got into like paired associations and you know the way in which fear is created and the way in which doubt is created and in their minds and you know the actual like neurochemistry that goes behind you know just thoughts and actions I became obsessed because it made it allowed me to make more sense of my my childhood and myself you know and for a long time it wasn't so much made it was more so than everybody else around me so what led to this psychology was just a obsession of like understanding you know me I was definitely like addicted to fitness mainly through football but then I quit football and then the fitness became even bigger out that and you know I was I was an angry I was an angry athlete I was an angry gym girl or everything was you know that was my that was my outlet which was great it served it's purpose but like you know sometimes having that outlet be so aggressive as one like you know I was getting injured I was getting angry so like it was getting angry that I was injured and I couldn't work out so over training just trying to chase something out yeah just just you know eradicating the demons and trying to to subdue the anger and the weather was you know before it was it wasn't taboo because I had football so it was like oh it was just training for football well then when I quit football you know and the training didn't stop that's you know I went from a 275 pound defense alignment to a bodybuilder like so then I took it even further like then it was okay well I grew up in a household that had no routine I never knew where the next meal was coming I never knew if my parents were going to be home after school so then I'm in college and it's like I can cook all of my meals I can measure all of my meals I can know exactly what my workouts can to be able to know exactly when I look like so it became a sense of like OCD well you you've geared to the completely opposite and the spectrum yes yeah I where I had no control growing up I knew they control was gonna give me peace and then that was like you know towards like the senior year my senior year of college and it was just like learning all of these things were helping me make sense of them but now you make sense of everything that doesn't necessarily mean that you're gonna change anything so it wasn't really until like getting into personal training where like most of my healing actually began because I mean countering all these people with these different minds and there are different ways of thinking and I became fascinated with getting to know these people like interpersonal not just and you know training with me is not just you know it's not just a one hour we're lifting we're sweating it's deep chat it's talk therapy it's whatever you know the client needs a to be and in understanding you know all these like we all have holes we all have these you know these these insecurities and that's like the most beautiful part of other gym is like everyone's coming in because they're insecure like the gym needs this because people are insecure or they're like afraid to die young you know whether they're getting a revenge body because they're insecure about a breakup or you know they're just trying to admit some people that I just want to be better you know I just want to move better I don't want to be in pain so psychology someone who's seeking therapy and someone who's coming to training is like it's just a vehicle in which that you're trying to get there and that's where like I'm all forth therapy I'm in therapy I'll always be in therapy but for me the self-evegacy and the confidence and effort that you put behind your training if you're also aware of why you're doing it you know and not to knock any you know anybody's success in and just therapy but like the things that I've seen people overcome and the people that I've watched evolve while becoming more self-aware and then using that awareness to aid in their transformation and then not become obsessed with the end result not become obsessed with that 15 pounds but understanding that like I need this movement I need this hour to love myself because a lot of times when we're in therapy it's just we're talking about what's wrong with us and you don't get that ability to like rebuild your back you rebuild yourself back up unless you kind of take that after you leave and with training and psychology compared to the other it's like you you can do that if you have intention and you understand why you're in that room and that's where you know the obsession with psychology and the obsession to the human brain all really began not so much that just you know studying it but watching people kind of you know unveil you know their vulnerabilities and then also use training is a vehicle to overcome it yeah it's I mean it's so profound that you've taken really years of the experiencing that you're describing and you've been able to apply it with what you're doing every day and you've applied it even it fits up with what you've done over there if you want to tell people about what you've done over there I think that's tremendous as well but I mean it's just it's a testament to you as a person and really resiliency I think is the best way to put it as well and and and I don't think I don't think people understand how resilient the human brain really can be but taking one step further I don't think they understand the work that probably has to go into you know looking back at years and years of let's call it trauma right and taking that not only to use it for good but also you know to to channel that and healthy healthy coping ways so I would love to hear a little bit about you what you've done at fit-ups and how you how your experience transfer it over to their organization as well yeah fit-ups you know they've gone they've taken it to the next level with their dinner with their and it's one of the most beautiful things I've ever been a part of um yeah it was the only time to my career that I ever showed up to something nervous I was like I know my stuff like I can all can do this but like this is a lot different because you know these are some of the toughest dudes in the world do you have all these you know navy seals, ex-marines, ex-military who have been struggling with their own PTSD and they've been struggling with their own addiction and you know alcoholism and as far as they know they're coming to a camp to get like trained by you know celebrity personal trainers you know gain a certification so that they can become repurposed and get put into society in terms of you know finding jobs and whatnot and I was doing it I don't know like three or four times a year for like a couple years of going down and teaching like the first 12 to 16 chapters of their um it wasn't nasum I forget the one that they use but of their of their um of their texts to get them prepared for this test but every night they do I was just it was just called performance talk because performance was sponsoring it and one of the vats were government is tell their stories and for the longest time they were performing talk was literally just people about their war stories it wasn't so much about how they got to war how they joined the military and there was the first or so I can camp I went to nobody signed up for it and I was like I would love to give my talk and obviously I don't have not been deployed I'm in the military and I told my story and um it then really shifted things in the way in which that these young men looked at their PTSD because I've been diagnosed with PTSD three times from age 7 to 20 22 so um you know for them to understand that like some of them probably have been struggling with PTSD way before they got to the military and that's actually part of the reason why they joined the military you know it is something to take them away from home it is something to for them to distract themselves from whatever trauma or anything that occurred before they joined the military because maybe they didn't have a lot of options and have a place to go um it's kind of where it really came down to and you know veterans unfortunately have the highest way to suicide in the country so this put this program became more of a suicide prevention program than anything and you know it it became my passion because it was where I really both had the ability to show these guys you know the emotional end of being a personal trainer not just the physical end and what's so beautiful whole one of the things I guess the one of the few things in military really does right and their training is they they really teach these guys how to take care of the person in front of them much like growing up in my house I had to learn how to take care of my parents and put myself second so we you know found a really you know close empathetic title that so these men and women you know as soon as they learn the text there there's their program to just be these incredible trainers because it's just you know how do I put this person's goals needs ahead of my own and you know watching them blossom and then repurpose them self and you know assembly back into culture it's just like one of the most beautiful profound things that I've ever been a part of and I had one of the guys live with me for like three months like interning me and perform eggs and you know it is it is um one of the few programs out there that is actually combining physical fitness not just from the repurposing their career but also getting them to understand that like you know your your paired associations and your trauma is like do not have to be like something that you you know keep on your back forever like a lot of things of PTSD is kind of like when we talked about like a cute pain like you shouldn't write a bike you have bad knees okay like same thing with PTSD like oh your PTSD because you were in a helicopter or a parachute probably shouldn't be in a room with helicopters right or like we work out in a room that has some helicopters you surround yourself with some good people you know and you you know I'm not saying like full-decentedization but like you understand that like your safe and that there's a way to overcome like you know there's a way to work through the pain and I watched these got these men and women do it you know for a couple years and it was to this day one of the you know most proud things I've ever been a part of I got super emotional about it um just because to watch people who'd feel like they don't have options and are played by you know their diagnosis to be able to just lift us up lift themselves up but also lift themselves up by helping other people and that's something I feel like I've been doing for years so that's that's fit-offs it's incredible stuff yeah I want to end the episode with a word of encouragement from yourself and everything that you've been through and the incredible career that you've built as a coach I like saying coach because it can mean so many different things right you know someone out there who is struggling with mental health who is using the gym to chase away some demons what is a word of encouragement that you can give them that maybe does get them to ship their mindset to put mental health not not ahead of physical but at least let it have a seat at the table with their physical health um there's my and there's a million things I would say I would you know the one line that I do have in there is that you know our bodies are the vehicle for our minds right so again you're you know trying to get your mind as healthy of not healthier than your body you know if you can take care of your body brain will also you know we'll feel that and it'll feel good and doing that and you know if you can keep yourself healthy enough to gather as many experiences as possible right to be there for the people you love to be there you know to find those you know those lighter days you know the thing is is with you know people who are struggling with mental health like you know there's got this lighthouse tattoo on the back of my arm because it's like you know there's there's always going to be darkness right like there's always going to be dark days but if you really know darkness like if you know true darkness that means that you know you do have the capacity to find the ultimate light you know if someone's lived a pretty gray life maybe not that's had maybe not that happy you know I'm not saying that they're selling them shorts that's their existence but like for people who are truly truly struggling to understand that no matter how dark something is they're can't they're cannot be darkness without the exact opposite so like the light is there it is on the other side you know and to keep trusting in yourself whether it is like through physically you know physicality or just the discipline that you are actually taking the time to love yourself every day because whether training meditation your nutrition you were you were showing yourself love and I think that the shift a lot of the shift that I try to get people to take is not looking at these as things that I have to do all I have to do my dog to have to do my meal prep I have to work out like these are things that you get to do like you get to do this you get to show yourself you know show yourself love give your body love give your mind you know an hour that is solely devoted to yourself and that whatever you do in that hour you know it's a lot of times like that doesn't matter how many reps and sets you did like did you spend an hour solely devoted to yourself like how many people do that not enough so you know getting people to shift their focus from the end result of what you know they're working towards and understanding that like every day that you show up for yourself like that is the win you know you gather a lot of wins and then you know hopefully the outcome comes but I'm doing my best to get people to just not completely forget what their goal is but to focus on you know consistency is a superpower and if you keep showing up for yourself and you keep showing yourself light and you give yourself grace you know to be upset to feel things that you're struggling with you know rather than running from them and rather than neglecting them you know that is that's beauty and you know so many people like I said before like I used to lift angry and you know it wasn't a good lift unless I left completely drained but like now I use it more like a meditation where it's like well I'm working out but why not just because I want to be healthy not because I want to keep my body healthy to experience more things but so that I can have something to offer myself every day I can give myself a gift every single day and to look at physical fitness and anything that goes into your physical well being because so many of us are so tied to our bodies but not our minds you know what did I do I took my supplements today I drank my protein shake today like that protein shake in the supplements can be equally as joyful for your brain as it is for your body if you look at that protein shake as as a form of self love if you look at that hour and the gym as an hour of meditation for you to just be alone with yourself you know instead of just the next thing you have to do so you know my my my send away there just to just you know if you're going through something right now and it seems like you know it is the darkest of nights I can understand that like that dark night is going to be you know it can last a little bit or it could last a blip but how bright isn't going to look when the sun actually shines through. Gaps no impressive as always proud to know you proud to sit at this table with you today thanks for stopping up by to the BB Com podcast. Thank you so much for having me Daniel. Thanks for tuning in for another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 08 ｜ Kristen Lettenberger ｜ Pelvic Floor Health and Breathing [tr-1aEvORjY].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Daniel Bitz and today I'm joined by Kristen Lettenberger. Kristen is a doctor of physical therapy, certified strength and conditioning coach, and pregnancy and postpartum athleticism coach. She is a director of bespoke women, specializing in women's health, including pregnancy and postpartum rehab, and returned to sports postpartum. Kristen has spent the last few years of her career expanding her knowledge in women's health and pelvic floor rehab. Combining that with her power lifting background and love for sports rehab, she has been a unique asset for moms who want to continue exercise during pregnancy and return to their sports postpartum stronger than ever. Kristen has given numerous workshops on training during pregnancy, and returning to exercise postpartum, as well as hosted bespoke's first women's health panel on how to navigate pregnancy and postpartum. Her focus is to help people improve their overall health and performance in order to live better longer. Kristen, welcome to the BB Compacast. Thank you so much, I'm so excited. We had a quick conversation about this last week, so I feel like we can get into more detail today, for sure. Yeah, absolutely. For those who've begun familiar with our friends and partners over at bespoke physical therapy, Kristen joins us from their New York City locations with Dan Cam and the rest of the crew over there. Kristen, we've got a lot on the docket today that all athletes can really find some benefit from so let's dive into it. Awesome. Today's episode is brought to you by me today. Me today offers a women's daily routine with their busy lifestyle and mind. Their women's daily supplement includes a two month supply of easy to swallow one-a-day veggie capsules. Packed with 28 vitamins, minerals, and herbs to support general health and well-being. Me today also offers a skincare range that works as tirelessly as you do. Me today's supplements skincare, I'm Nuka Honey, unlocking your best tomorrow, shop now at bodybuilding.com. These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. So topic one for our listeners today will be understanding the pelvic floor. So this is a huge topic right now. We've talked about it a couple of times together and honestly a long overdue topic. In recent years, we've been hearing more and more about pelvic floor therapy, specifically catered towards women. And just as some contextual background for the users out there, a 22-study conducted with 25,000 women found that 32% experienced some form of pelvic floor dysfunction. UCLA health predicts that one and three women are currently affected by pelvic floor dysfunction. There's certainly no doubt that in previous decades we simply didn't have the science and studies. surrounding women's reproductive health. Let's talk a little bit why this has become such a relevant topic. Why pelvic floor therapy is exploding in the market right now? Why people are seeking this more and more on a daily basis? And really what really caused the general awareness that we're seeing here today? Yeah, I think this is a great place to start because pelvic floor in general has always been like a very small subset of physical therapy as well. So you get, if you like an end when you they give you a general kind of background of it. But you weren't really taught much. You always had to do some continuing education course. And I think now that it's been a few decades now, you see more women, especially younger youth kind of going through sports and then expanding that into college. And expanding that past college and then becoming mothers and still wanting to perform in their sports. And then you also see this trend of women into science. And so there's like a needs, right? Whenever research is done, you need some sort of need in order to kind of push the research forward. So now that you're seeing more women in sports, you're seeing more women scientists. You're seeing more researchers in those areas. They're pushing the agenda and that is going to help with funding. So you have more, like demonstrations of women still performing within pregnancy and into their postpartum. And then the women of science are like, okay, we need to figure out what's going on here. Like, is this safe because we've been told you can't lift more than 10 pounds while you're pregnant, which is ludicrous. Just think about like everything, like your backpack probably weighs more than 10 pounds. But exercises now being shown to be really beneficial for pregnancy and really beneficial for postpartum. So people wanting to understand how it works better. I think is really feeling the fire for pelvic health. And now that there is these studies coming out, like this 221 that you just mentioned, and showing the enormous prevalence of pelvic floor. And we're like, okay, let's do something about it. And I think that is also pushing the agenda for more research. And it's really, it's an exciting time to be a physical therapist and to be in sports. And to then have the information to give women, because we really didn't have it before. It was so anecdotal and a lot of it still is. It's very gray. It's not very black and white. And I think over the next decade we're going to see so much more coming out. And just a better understanding of women and just like last thing on this one is like, you know, we're not small men and I think, you know, Stacy Sims has said that. And understanding that women are different and their training is going to be different. Their nutrition is different. We've different considerations. That makes it a really interesting topic for researchers. And I think that is also going to help kind of drive this new revolution. Absolutely. I mean, I think, you know, we need to start with the anatomy, right? And this pertains to both men and women because public floor therapy is for both. And we get into that in a second. Let's discuss the anatomy of the public floor and by why both men and women benefit from preventative insurance and imbuminance here. Once we go through the anatomy, and Kristen has brought a friend with her, to help with our demonstrations. We're then going to break down, you know, what are the signs and symptoms that can be affecting every day function, sexual performance, and athletic performance as well. So if one, you know, let's break down the anatomy. Yeah, I mean, with anatomy, every regardless of your sex, everyone has a pelvic floor. It is the base of your core. And if you, I like the analogy of, like a cardboard box. So if you're bottom of the carpet box, you got wet, right? You pick it up, you load it up, and you pick it up. Everything just falls right through, right? So that's your pelvic floor. The basic of that box. And so you need a strong meaning of a compliant, and you need a coordinated pelvic floor in order to lift loads in order to support your organs within your pelvis. And I'll show you guys not why you're not having any things. Yeah, I'm pregnant. Yeah, so I left the, for those of you who are listening to an into our YouTube for the visuals. Yeah, please. Because I bring this into like all of my such sounds telling Danielle this before. But I, I left the organs, and this is a female pelvis. And you can, the first most, um, organ here is your bladder. And then you view uterus, and you have your rectum right behind it. So you can see how that uterus, starting pregnancy, is resting right on top of the bladder. So it really gives a good, different, like, a visual presentation of how why you need to peel up more, right? Taring pregnancy. But let me remove these guys real quick. And this is your pelvic floor. So you have like your deep pelvic floor here. And the five functions of the pelvic floor is support. That's one, um, it supports your organs. So it's going to support your, um, support your bladder. It's going to support your rectum. It's going to support the rest of your organs and your whole body. And that is really within this slink here in that pelvic floor. These are your levator and I because the second function is sphingtarric. So it's going to close your rectum. It also kind of works through your vaginal canal here. Um, you have your superficial muscles here in the near the vaginal opening. And this is the same for men too. They have these like, ishial cavernosis on each side of their pelvis. They have that bunjo, um, we'll just sponge your osis here. But it's more onto this after the penis. And these helped with maintaining erections and sexual function. That's another function of the pelvic floor. So you have your support. You have your sexual function. You have your stability because you can see how it connects in the back. So it's going to work into the extra movies and it works on stabilizing your core as well as like your SI. Another hip muscles. Um, swing terrac as the other one. And then it also works as a sub pump. So it helps with like fluid distribution and your lymphatic control. But regardless of who you are, you all have these muscles. And they're all working to support those areas. And they really do have a big impact on, um, you know, athletic performance. So if you think of that box analogy I gave you before. If you have a weak pelvic floor, imagine you're doing a one rep max squat. And your pelvic floor gives out what do you think is going to happen? It's kind of like very similar to when a woman is on the powerlifting platform and she pays her hands. Like that is a non-compile in pelvic floor. Something has gone wrong. The pressure has gone too far into the pelvic floor. Maybe it was in strong enough to maintain those loads. And so that's one sort of way of looking at it. So why you need a strong pelvic floor. And you can work on it as a man. Just we cue it a little bit differently than we do for women because this sensation might feel different to them. But they all have the same five functions. What does some of the high level signs and symptoms someone could be experiencing just from an everyday life perspective that may be related to pelvic floor dysfunction? Yeah. So some of the signs and symptoms might be either pain in your pelvis. You might be having like some spasms tailbone pain. That's usually very closely related to your pelvic floor. So if you're sitting on your tailbone and noticing it's really uncomfortable, it could be tightness within the live Vaynerani muscles of that deep pelvic floor you see inside. Painful urination. That is another one in continents. So either it's beagle or urinary in continents. And that's like a loss of control of your bowels. But say it's more under stress. So like if you sneeze, if you cough, if you're doing double under, if you're dead lifting and UP a little bit, that is sort of a pelvic floor dysfunction. Same thing if you like maybe it comes out the other end. And that's the other side of your pelvic floor. The less fortunate. The less fortunate one. It's also a sign of a pelvic floor dysfunction. But those are like the main ones. Usually it's pain, use you to in continents heaviness for women. Like pelvic organ prolapse. And for men mostly it can be like tailbone pain that I see a lot or painful urination and that not related to a UTI. So very similar to having hamstring tightness, having quad tightness. I mean all of these muscles can still have those negative attributions to them. Yeah absolutely. What about sexual performance? Let's break that down by that as well. So by sex. So each of those kind of superficial muscles here. So you have like your muscles along the outside of the bones. And you have the one on the inside. These guys work a lot and right here at the tip of the vaginal opening. You have your clitoris. And that is also like erectile tissue. And those muscles really work to maintain erections. And that's for men and women. It also helps with orgasms. So you want quick contractions of those muscles to help either push out the sperm. And to obtain an orgasm as a female. And so that's like one of the main functions within that. And so you have like trigger points within your pelvic floor. So like say you have not in your quad or like in the middle of your back. Or most people get them between their shoulder blades. This same thing can happen within your pelvic floor. And that can cause pain with orgasms. And that can cause pain with just penetration. And so understanding that you know your pelvic floor are a series of muscles. And they do react very similar to other muscles within your body. You can treat it a little bit easier that way. Because when you break it down it's like, Oh, it's like your bicep. You know, you like toward a little bit. Let's work on it. Let's massage it. Let's strengthen it. And let's like work on relaxing. Relaxing it and also contracting it. Yeah, restoring that blood flow to there. For proper function. Exactly. Yeah. And athletic performance. You touch on this slightly before in terms of a one-ret max. But what if somebody, you know, doesn't necessarily have the signs of symptoms. Isn't really experiencing pain. But how can this help with athletic performance by training the pelvic floor on a daily and weekly basis? Yeah. I mean, even if you're not experiencing these symptoms, there's it's like an endurance muscle like your gastroc or your sole is. So when you're running or running you're not really having any calf pain when you're running. But then when you do. So it's more that prevention idea. Also when you cue your pelvic floor, it engages your core and your diaphragm together. So they all work together in order to produce that pressure. I know we're going to get into this a little bit too. But by training your pelvic floor specifically, you can actually feel that bottom of your core. And you can almost produce more force and more force. And more power than through the rest of your torso. Because the stiffer you keep your spine, the more pressure that you can distribute 360 degrees around. The more that you can kind of push through. And that's that's one of the ways that athletic performance can improve with by training your pelvic floor. Makes total sense. Let's move into resolutions here. Let's, you know, let's skin the surface regarding what these movements look like. Both at home, what can be done with a specialist such as yourself or a therapist and person. You know, I feel like a lot of people just say, just look up a kegels video on YouTube, right? Well, let's, let's really break down what we should be doing. Maybe where we should start. Maybe kegels are a part of that, right? But it's not the only thing to do here. Yeah. It's like there's camps of no kegels and there's camps of all kegels. And I'm, I'm like in the middle. I've never been an extremist with anything really. Because I don't think it's that black and white with anything that you do during training. But some of those exercises include like my top three to teach my clients is how to use or diaphragm properly, how that works with their pelvic floor and that could be pelvic floor relaxation. With breath and contraction. So kegels is a contraction of your pelvic floor. And you can also kind of play with where the contraction is. So you can try and feel like a anterior contraction closer to the front of your pelvis or a posterior contractual or you're pulling your sit bones together. And that's more of like your levator eye-ni and it's working on your posterior aspect of your pelvic floor. And then I work on deep core exercises. So transvers abdominis. And then I get into bracing after that. So it's all like table work, maybe for the first 10 minutes. And then you got to see how can we then translate that to standing because that's when you're using your pelvic floor on the most load. The again, gravity. So you really have to demonstrate some activation in those areas. So I'll get them on standing and doing the same exercises. So they can really cue into that mind muscle connection. You read my mind. I was just hanging out mind muscle connection, right? Because this really isn't as easy as sitting here and flexing your bicep or the quads, right? And popping up your calf here. It's a lot more difficult. It's probably something that most people who come in probably have never even attempted, right? So I mean, what, you know, I'm sure there's frustration that's involved. It's right with first timers who this is completely new to. What are a few of the movements that you find really helped develop that mind muscle connection when they're first starting out? For sure. It depends on how they're learning. Some people learn tactily. And then that can mean actually insertion of like my digit during like examination and they have them contract around. And they feel that sensation or there's cues like pull a tampon up and in, wrap it or wrap your muscles around it. And that kind of gives people like, oh, that's what it should feel like. Or picking up blueberry. So it's like a lot of queuing. But I also, in the same thing for men too, like you can do rectal exams for men. That's usually how you test the pelvic floor is rectally for men. And you kind of can use your digits there as well. And you can sort of have that sensation of contracting your pelvic floor. But of course not everyone is comfortable with that. And you don't necessarily have to do those things. Being in a seated position, you're actually sitting on your pelvic floor. So you can probably try this now if you want to do it. Is you're thinking about when you exhale, you're going to contract your pelvic floor. So you're lifting up and in a way from the seat. And you're trying not to squeeze your glutes. So you just breathe in, you breathe out and you lift away from the table. And then you let the pelvic floor get nice and heavy into the ground. That type of tactile feedback is also really helpful for teaching, like first steps. And then you know your pelvic floor works automatically with your breath. So it's a lot of queuing through the breath and then just check tracking sensations. You know, a lot of first timers, you know, from both men and women. I'm sure probably have a comfort level to get used to as well, right? How do you how do you tackle that? You know, how do you kind of get them understanding, you know, what needs to be done? What is some of the language that you use with them, especially with someone who is, you know, Coming in a little bit more reserved, a little bit more uneducated on it, right? But they know that they they want to be there and they know that they haven't issued that they want to resolve. Yeah, I mean for any of my clients before I even like, okay, strip down. Let's go. Let's go for absolutely not. I would never do that. I would always ask so this is and this is why my model is so important because I can really demonstrate it to them. But it starts with a conversation of I can almost get a sense of what's going on before I even do an examination. So as long as my subjective is good, is like what the information I'm collecting from my client, I started gauge like what their comfort level is with internal examinations. And if it's not something that they want to do, no problem. Like I'll show you on the model, we'll demonstrate it together. Maybe you try some things at home that you feel a little bit more comfortable with. I do find that females are usually a little bit more open to it because we'd go for a got-on-clogical exams every year. We're used to someone kind of like prodding us a little bit more than I think men are. But there are comfort levels there as well. Maybe they're like, no, I'm not really comfortable with this. So then of course the model comes in. And we don't necessarily need to do internal exams to have an understanding of our pelvic floor. Is there ever a point where tools do exist and perhaps someone's not comfortable with internal exams at least to start? Would you then implement perhaps a demonstration of a tool for them to try at home? That's kind of your approach for that. Yeah, I guess it depends on what they're coming in for treatment. If it's like you're an incontinence usually just a bladder diary. So I'm like, okay, keep track of like when you pee, how long you're peeing for. You're fluids that you're taking in throughout the day and maybe irritants. So that's like incontinence one. If it's more of a pelvic floor pain. So they're having pain with penetration or things like that. There are tools are like pelvic floor ones. So you can use that very much like a mild facial release ball that you just insert into your pelvic floor and you press and you hold on the tender points until it resolves the pain. There's also things like dilators. And so that really helps expand the pelvic floor and get people up to a point where they can tolerate maybe an internal exam or taller just, you know, sexual intercourse with their partner. There's other tools for kegles. There's like lots of bio feed back tools now. LV is one of them. Those are just like insertable that they can do at home and they can play a most video games with their pelvic floor, like contracting the muscles and relaxing them. Those can be really helpful. Especially to know if you're doing the exercise properly or not. Those are a couple that I would do. I'm sure a lot of the times it really comes down to just muscle tightness at some point, right? That's really contributing to the dysfunction that they're experiencing. You mentioned the wand, right? I think that's one that we're seeing rise very quickly. But we're also seeing a lot of horror stories out there, right? Or just really stories about not even knowing where to start once they get it, right? They order this off of Amazon and they're like, okay, well what's next? So, you know, what's your recommendation for someone who perhaps got this under the advice of their doctor? Of course, first, right? What's step one for even implementing that tool into, you know, say, a myelfastial release for the pelvic floor? Yeah, start slow. I would say, and I think sometimes you're more or two aggressive into, like, Ooh, that's a point and they'll like really go out at your pelvic floor is small, strong, but also very delicate because the tissues are, it's like a very sensitive area. You don't want to go ham on a muscle. You definitely don't want to be strumming the muscle so much. It's more of a press and release press and release because it is an endurance type of muscle. And it doesn't usually respond well to more of that strumming that we know for the rest of our muscles. So I would recommend that. So start slow, start gentle, do it from maybe 30 seconds at a time. Don't do your whole pelvic floor. Maybe just start on like one side and then work to the other side eventually. And if you're really, you know, not doing well with the at home treatments, go in and and and seek some more professional help. And maybe, yeah, just go from there. And we're going to transition to topic two and, you know, you touched on on breath and how it's such an instrumental piece of pelvic floor and resolving any any dysfunction. So let's talk about injecting breath into movements, specifically heavy lifting. So for our lifters out there, this is a great one for you to listen into. So, you know, the power of intentional breathing is long when proven as a beneficial tool for athletic performance, but different types of breathing, you know, can be applied to specific situations. For example, you know, we talked about how rhythm might be different for a one rep max versus volume sets of eights, right? So one, let's break down the importance of leveraging breath techniques for all movements, but specifically where this comes into play for the big three, right? So we're talking squat deadlift and bench. Let's break that down. Yeah, I mean, breath is like vital for lifting. I think I teach breathing so much for my clients. It's insane. I like to break down by three breaths. You have your Valsava maneuver. You have your dynamic breath actually four breaths. So Valsava dynamic foundational and diaphragmatic. So diaphragmatic is more of that relaxation breath. Your Valsava will be more for your one rep max and that counting into your brace. Your dynamic is when you're breathing in going down and breathing out as you come up and foundationals when you're breathing out throughout the entire thing. Each of those have different goals for the performance. When it comes to squatting, delifting and benching, I typically stay within the foundational Valsava and dynamic breaths. The dynamic is the easiest one for people to understand. That is when you take a breath at the top. Maybe you're taking a breath as you're going so you're going down into the squat and then you're exhaling as you come up. And what's happening here is you're getting that core contraction through the concentric movement of the exercise. So as you're pushing up into that squat, you're going to be getting more activation of your pelvic floor, your core and your diaphragm. This really plays into how do you properly brace. So are you breathing 360 degrees around? And this isn't just for Valsava. You should be treating your warmups, the same way that you treat your one rep max. So you should be taking that nice deep breath in. You should be expanding 360 degrees around. So you're not putting too much pressure into your abdominal wall or into your pelvic floor. You're distributing it like a can. So when you step on a closed can, you can stand on it. It's nice and solid. If you break that seal, you stand on it. You crush the can. So we're trying to keep that can. Nice and close. Nice and compact. And you can see how that pelvic floor really plays into that for sure. And that is going to be your bracing. And that is huge. So it helps you improve your athletic performance and improve your ability to push through. And exercise, say like you're doing a squat or a deadlift, if you don't have a tight torso and you don't have that tight brace, your force production is going to be a lot lower. Love the analogies. Awesome to break down and different techniques for breathing. Let's talk about progressing breath, right? So say someone doesn't really know where to start with emphasizing breath during movement patterns. Where is a good place to start? Are we on the floor? Do we have our hands on our belly? How are we progressing, you know, implementing the breath to not only daily life but movement? Yeah, I mean, when a patient comes into see me, the first thing I'm looking at is how they're walking and where they're breathing from. So say like someone's breathing a little bit more through their upper chest. Then I'm like, okay, maybe we need to have them lay on their back. Have them learn to breathe into their back a little bit more or have them breathe into their belly a little bit more. Or say like they've been a yogi for 10 years and they breathe all through their belly. So they're doing a lot of diaphragmatic breathing. Maybe I need to teach them in a seated position with their hands on their waist how to breathe laterally. So really expand through that ribcage and then maybe supine like on their backs are and how to breathe into their backs. So they're breathing into the floor. Those are great places to start. I also like a quadruped position. So like on all four. So you're going to do a bear and you're breathing completely out into the belly into the side into your back. And then you contract and you like pull the belly up and you kind of create a nice abdominal control. That's a really great way of doing it because then you can lift the knees and you can get more core control through there and more core activation with that. So it depends on where they're breathing from naturally. So if their tendency is like their chest, maybe they have them laying down, try to breathe through their back. Tactile cues for it are super important. So like put your hands on your side, put your hands on your back, put your hands on your chest and try to breathe into those areas that you feel like you don't. You're not as good at breathing into. And that's a great way to start. And then I usually have people start by taking nice deep breaths and then trying to breathe. So it's like you breathe in, you get as much air into your system and then you contract your core. You like tighten it without breathing out first. And then you breathe out and you tighten that core activation. So you breathe out nice and slowly through your mouth. More with like a blowing through a straw. And so that is going to get more core activation going in. It's going to create a stronger brace. So instead of I love to teach people this, it's like taking nice deep breath in. And just say, and it's like, okay, your body just totally relax, right? There's like nothing going on there. And then take a nice deep breath in. And then breathe out through a straw. And you should feel your core really contract there. And that is what you want. You don't want that relaxation breath before you lift. Nice strong core. Keep it tight. Yeah, so breathing through a straw. So I teach you how to breathe in. Expand 360 degrees, like filling that can again. And then exhale through the straw. And then you can do if you want to work on the brace a little bit more. I have them take sips. So you breathe out. You can track that core. You take another breath in. You try to fill the torso more and more. And then short exhale. So you're getting short activations of the core. Like if you wear a weight belt, that is like a technique. So you breathe into it. You can track your core and you take sips in of air to increase that brace without losing the core contraction. You don't have a weight belt. Get a shot. Yeah. So you mentioned you can tell pretty quickly just seeing someone take a couple laps around the clinic. And then you can see that you're looking at the breathing. What are some of those body language cues that you're looking at to determine where their breath is coming from? Yeah, I mean if they're shoulder, they're coming up and down. That's a pretty good indication that they're breathing a lot more through their chest. If they have a lot of like tension, like neck tension and the front of their neck is like their clavicles are moving. That's another indication if when they put a bar on their back. So sometimes I'll just have like someone, okay, let's go try to squat. And say that they are familiar with a barbell. I'm going to put them under a barbell and be like, okay, show me how you squat. And all they do is breathe through their chest. And I'll like, okay, so let's try. Let's get to work. Yeah. Let's put your hands on your side. You're in a breathing to those hands. You're going to breathe into your thumb because usually people wrap their waist like this. So you can think about breathing out and your elbow should go away from you and then you contract your core. And so we'll work with those types of cues first. If they're like really having a hard time with breathing, I sometimes just teach them movement first and their body sort of like fall into place. So if you put a little bit of load, sometimes people like intuitively contract their core. But then you just like tweak it as they get better at a movement. How does this emphasis on 360 breathing prevent spinal injuries and back injuries, especially during heavy lifts? Yeah. I mean, it's crucial if you don't have a tight brace if you don't have that 360 degree activation, your spinal column is not going to be a stable. And so understanding that you breathe into your back a little bit more, that's going to sometimes usually put you more into a posterior pelvic tilt, which then can put you really what you're looking for as a neutral spine. So really emphasizing that 360 degree breathing, you're creating as tight a brace around as you possibly can. And that just stiffens your spinal column and that avoids micro movement. So where injuries tend to happen is when there's a breakdown in your bracing technique. And so you're coming out of the squat and you do like a butt wink. So you dipped down in it could be a mobility problem too, and that's like another topic. But say you dip down into that wink and then as you come up, you're butt kind of flexes and you're getting a little extension into that spine. That is either from mobility or lack of stability within your brace. And so that can cause injury into the spinal column, say you're deadlifting, right? So you're not able to maintain a nice neutral position. Within that lumbar spine, you go into a lot of flexion through that area under load. It's just a recipe for a discerningation. So maintaining a tight brace, really getting your lats engaged, especially for a deadlift, getting that 360 degree brace before you grab the bar and getting really tight into that position. Those help prevent sort of that translation of the spine from extension into flexion. Can you talk about the difference between a posterior and anterior pelvic tilt? Where should we be living for the most part? Or do we want that to aim for that neutrality? And then where do we want to deviate depending on the type of movement that we're performing? Yeah, so you really want to be in that neutral position a great way to sort of see where you are. You can film yourself when you're lifting and sort of see are you more prone to that extension and you're more prone to that function. So anterior pelvic tilt, I can actually show it again on this. Bring it on in. Yeah, so we have this guy here, I'll show it from the side view. But the anterior pelvic tilt is one, literally it tilts forward. So you get a lordosis through here, you get curved back. A posterior pelvic tilt is kind of like when you go backwards. And so that's going to flatten the back. So you're doing a dead bug and you flatten your back against the floor. That's a posterior pelvic tilt. So that's going to usually create a little bit more core contraction because it activates the core a little bit more by going into that posterior pelvic tilt. And it pulls your ribcage down towards your pelvis. And then you can get more activation with that. Where you want to live with lifting is in the middle. And some people train and it really does some people train more in extension. Some people train more in flexion as long as they've been trained in that way for very long time. Usually their spines become like strong within those positions. So you don't want to change a lifters position when they've been lifting for like a decade or more too much unless they're having pain. But if they're new novice lifter, yeah, once you try and teach as much of that neutral spine as possible. What about when we're just walking around? When do we want our pelvis situated, right? So if we're a little forward, do we want to increase our glute train than pull ourselves back? If we're sitting back, do we want to increase the core strength? How are we going about that? Yeah, I think a lot of pain is usually when you're in one position for way too long. So it's all about movement. You can't have perfect posture throughout the whole day. It's just impossible. So I think being able to go between those two very well and going from anterior to posterior. Say like you're standing at your sink, but you're having low back pain and you're realizing you're actually dumping your stomach in forward. Maybe you do want to pull under a little bit more and get more of that core control. And then say that fatigue, your core starts to fatigue. So then maybe you find that nice gentle position out. It's really, you want to maybe stay more in that neutrality position, especially when walking. But you can be in more extensions sometimes. You can be more, this is like going into it. They're never in extreme. It's always about movement and changing your positions as much as possible to. So you're not stuck always in one position. And that way you're more flexible with being able to tolerate loads in different areas. Absolutely. Makes sense. Let's talk about how all this applies to learning and applying, not to be redundant. So when we're applying our learnings into every day routine, what's a typical warm-up look like for you when it comes to breathing? Maybe you're about to load up the bar for a heavy squat day. What are you doing to get your core activated and to get your breath prepared? And will you feel the difference in reps when the breath is off? How do you know when your breath is off actively? And when you're performing these and how do you say, okay, let me take a step back, get back onto the floor, fix some things and then step back under the bar. Yeah, I mean when you've been lifting for a such a long time, you sort of know when you have a good lift when you have that lift and it's like, well, shit, that was not. That was not a good lift. You reset that one completely. I basically have the same warm-up I do do specific warm-ups for my squat, my deadlift and for my bench. Just based on the muscles that I want to prime a little bit more so I dab that for each of my lifts. But say, I think squat is a nice one because of the bars loaded on top of you. But I always start with kick-house. And that's one way I can get my breath really involved is taking a steep breath and rounding and then exhaling and coming through. And I'm just getting some movement through my spine, so it's not too rigid in one position or the other. So that I can really contract and play with my pelvis and see where the position feels good that day. I'll do like rolled greatest stretch and use my breath in there and like really expand through my ribcage and get that nice rotation. Because so much of power lifting is in that lateral kind of position where you're just going up and down all the time. You're not really going into rotation. So I try to add a little bit rotation through my warm-ups. And that just helps expand my diaphragm and expand into that lateral aspect of my breath. So world's great stretch for those things. And then I'll do like a bear like hold. So I'll come in. I'll practice my deep 360 breathing. I'll contract my core. I'll do my knees. It's like lighting some fire in your belly. Just getting some activation there and then bird dogs. So I love doing bird dogs. It gets that nice extension into your back. But you want to keep a nice neutral spine when you're actually doing it. So you're not kicking up too high. And then I'll do like a side plank. Those are like my top ones that I always do between at least my squats and my deadlifts. For bird dogs I always like to say, pretend you have a glass of water or line on your back. So you're glass of red wine and you're going to spill on your white carpet. Yeah. External motivator there. It's more like a slide back. A pose to kick up. Right. Yeah. You know, we would be remiss to not bring up how this all pertains to returning to sport postpartum. Right. So you yourself have specific training and experience with bringing new moms and new parents back to sport post one baby or fourth baby. Right. Let's talk a little bit about that protocol. Let's talk about what is step one and you know what are the steps that are to follow after returning them to sport or just everyday life. Right. It does have to be to an extreme sport and marathon running. And how do you really kind of gauge their progress? How do you know when it's time to move from step one to two to three? Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, it's such a great area for a lot of women. It does depend on how the birth was. And so if there's any trauma or healing considerations. But like the first things I start people with is breathing, Transursive Donna's activation and key goals. Thank everyone is doing just those three exercises because that's usually all the energy that they have to perform, especially early on in postpartum in those first few weeks. So those are exercises you can start right away. So I'm having them expand through their diaphragm again. Really try to get their core activated again, get the sensations of their pelvic floor going. Because in those first few weeks, lots of moms will tell you it just feels like gelo. It's hard to raw out of bed. It's hard to get up and stand. It can be really challenging to even go to the bathroom. And so by getting those three components working more efficiently, that can really improve their outcomes. And so we do that for like two weeks. You're just breathing. You're activating your TA. We're doing a little bit of core work. Maybe we're doing some mobility and you're doing key goals. Recreating the body awareness and muscle mind action. Yeah, exactly. That is the first step. And then from there you just start loading. Like you do some bridges. You do some air squats. You do movements that they're super familiar with. Say they were an athlete and they know how to do all these things really well. So we just try to be like, okay, you can have your rehab exercises. Those three exercises we start with. Now we're going to just add some squats into that. So I want you to take a breath in. Come down. Exhale as you come up. Really try to find that core connection again. Moose low. Move with intention. Mind muscle connection. So you start with body weight. Then you move into some banded exercises. And really depending on how they're doing. How much energy they have. How much time they have. We can get them exercising within six weeks of postpartum. It may not completely look like the way they are exercising even during pregnancy. But that it's like a great baseline for there. And how we progress is really how you're feeling and how you're recovering. So there's a lot of sleep deprivation of course in early postpartum. So I tried to maximize as much recovery as possible in those early stages. Because it makes returning back to exercise so much easier when you have the energy for it. And then you just load it. So we're looking at pelvic floor symptoms. Are they having heaviness into their pelvic floor? Are they having diced dices? Symptoms? Are they having increased pain? Are there any bleeding? And these are like signs of okay we're pushing too hard. We're pushing too fast because you're still healing internally for quite some time. And that's like hormonal, musculoskeletal. I would say at least three months for most of those things to come back into heal fully. And so within those three months you're just trying to build up capacity. Obviously extremely different protocols. Vaginal birth versus cesarean, right? Yeah. How are you, you know, dictating where you start based off of their birth plan and then, you know, how it occurred. Yeah. If it was a cesarean birth, sometimes the were restricted by the healing time of the incision. There's lots of tissues that were just opened up. It went through your entire abdomen like abdominal wall. And into your uterus. So like there's many layers that need to heal. So but I still start with those three exercises. You're still doing diaphragmatic breathing. It might be even more important for you to start doing that because you don't want that scar to get bound down. You don't want any scar tissue in that area. So as soon as we can as soon as it's healed, we start like scar massage. And that also might be the case if there's any perennial tearing as well. So you start, you can do some internal massage on that as well and that can help a lot too. But the time preen just gets shifted a little bit longer. So cesarean birth, they tend, it's usually instead of six weeks, is it like your go head from the doctor? It could be eight to ten weeks. So you're just pushed maybe like two weeks more. But someone would do really great and they can kind of bounce back a little bit faster. Let's let's head into one of our final topics that we have today progressing performance in power lifting. So you yourself, Kristen, you're an experienced power lifter and you're a strength and conditioning coach yourself. Talk through your background of where you started as beginner lifter. I feel like that's always fun to touch on right and hear about your original story on the platform right? And how you've implemented a little bit of everything that we've spoken about today to your routine and to your performance? Yeah, I mean, I was a softball player growing up and I took that. All the way through high school and played travel and love sports and when I went to college, I was a biomeger and so like I prioritized science over my athletics and so instead I took lots of gym classes. But it took like 10 it's and I took a weightlifting gym class and I was like, oh, this is really cool. Like we did some weightlifting in high school, but we didn't have like what the baseball had team had. I had a real strength in conditioning trainer and I was like, oh, I want to do those things. I want to be really strong. And I would see my brother like, like lift tons of weights in our basement and be like, what's going on? You're peeking through the door. I want to do that. Something like 400 pounds at 18. I'm like, oh my god. I think I'm fake you. And I'm like, I want to do that. So like, but I really didn't know where to start. So I started in college and I was like working with a bar for many years. Trying to understand form. And when I went to physical therapy school, I really started to understand anatomy, biomechanics. And that got me into like, okay, I am like gym rat now. And I'm not applying this to the lift right after class. I'm like, I'm going to the gym. I'm lifting with my other physical therapy students. And like, they're so much they're so strong. And I'm learning so much just by like working out with guys and working out with women who also did it too. And then I just started, you know, thinking my own programs and it was very, it was, oh my god, they were so terrible. I was just like doing total body workouts all the time. And so, but I started learning that way. And then I became a certified strength and conditioning specialist. And I started training people. And I learned so much from doing that because I was in a gym. I was working with other trainers. I was really learning some technique. And then I graduated PT school and I started becoming physical therapist. And I really got into power lifting during the pandemic. So I hired my own coach. I was like, I can no longer just write this haphazard programming anymore. I need someone to keep me accountable. Even coaches need coaches. I think that is like 100% true because you learned so much more by someone else. So I'm like, I can't do my 95%. Okay, I wasn't going as hard as I thought I was understood. Just a little wake up. Okay, I thought I was like, it was strong. And then like, oh god, just some pop-building. Okay, I'm paying to be humble. Yeah. And then my coach at the time, Lizzie, she was like, you're stronger than you think you're. Like, you should do some power lifting. No, I was like, what? Yeah, okay. No idea what it was doing. I trained for a power lifting meet. Like the July right after the process is like 2020 was my first time I competed. And it was exhilarating. So I went from like just doing barbell within a year of training with her. I was especially from my bench. Oh my god. I went from, I could barely do a barbell to bench pressing like 230. Like my body weight. I bench pressed more than my body weight at my first competition. And I was like, okay, this is, this is how you do it. And then you just like, you get into the technique and you're learning more. But this has been like now it's 203. So it's three years of just strict power lifting technique and working with coaches and really understanding. And you know, I went to Mexico and worked with like a special coach there. For a session and it's just like video after video after video. But like for a decade, I was just like a novice like lifter just like going to the gym doing some dumbbells doing some barbells. Not really knowing what I was doing. So now I'm like, oh, I'm in it. I'm really learning. Let's talk about the accessory work and the complimentary movements that you're doing to increase your big three numbers. Yeah. So let's start with the squat. You know, what movements are you doing to strengthen that from an accessory perspective? But then also what are you doing outside of just squatting, right? There's lots of things that we can do that don't involve that primary movement to increase your, you know, your PRs. Yeah, for sure. I mean, first is my pelvic floor. I like I work on step one. Step one. I work on my pelvic floor. I work on my breathing. I work on like my pelvic control. So in my able to maintain that nice neutral position, that is like step one. And then I work on my energy leaks. Like where I'm sort of like being in deficit. I have a hard time coming out of the whole of a squat. So I do a lot of pause squats. And I think it's also super important to take the load off of your back so that your central nervous system also has some time to sort of heal itself. And so in that record, I'll do hack squats. So like I'm doing different variations. I'll do belt squats on the machine. I'll do hack squats. You also need some single leg work because say you like step out of the rack. You're on one leg. So you need to be strong there as well. And you need to be able to maintain a nice strong pelvis there in that position. So Bulgarian split squats. You're also working on your quad. And your glutes and those are super important for your squats. So like yeah, single leg Bulgarians walking lunges, hack squats, belt squats, high bar, low bar front bar. Like hit every aspect that you can. And if that's the lift you need to work on, more you should be doing at least three times a week. And outside of just obviously going into a single set leg stance when you're re-racking, putting the bar back on. What's the importance of single leg and you know, unilateral exercises to contribute to heavier bilateral lifts. And also what's the benefit of lateral movements as well? Yeah, increase those. Yeah, I mean that's just helping with injury prevention, right? So you, um, and balance. So if you're working on single leg work, you're working on your pelvic stability, you're working on your core control. And then lateral movements, you're just taking yourself out of a position that you're training all the time. So you're going to be hitting different muscle groups, but a lot of these muscle groups are stabilizers for your pelvis. And when you're doing the heavy lifts, the main thing you're trying to control is your pelvic movement. And so by training unilateral and training, literally, you're making those stability muscles stronger. What about deadlift? Let's talk about what you're doing for deadlift. Oh yeah, I loved deadlift. It's my favorite. It's so, I love deadlift. I mean, I think everyone at a lift is like the last, it's the last one at a powerlifting me, and it's always so much fun for a reason. It's like you're lifting really heavy weight off the ground. Absolutely. You feel like a god. It's empowering. Yes. But for deadlift, like I do Romanian deadlifts, I do a lot of single leg kettlebell deadlift. Either a foot supported or non-support is like a single leg RDL or a deal on the wall. I do hip thrusts a lot of times to work on my glutes. But I don't, I think your squat actually improves your deadlift, but your deadlift doesn't really improve your squat. If you work on more of your squat, like my squat is weaker than my deadlift, so I work more of my squat and improves my deadlift. But I'll do things like a box deadlift. I'll do elevated. I'll do like a hamstring one. Deficit. Like all of those are really great variations. Would deadlift, there's a lot of tax onto your central nervous system, so playing around with your energy systems throughout the week of your training. Is also super important for deadlifts. Yeah, from my perspective and from what I feel, I feel like my muscle connection is so needed in the deadlift, ground in your feet to the floor, making that connection to your brain and where you want to drive that force. You don't want to drive it all into your heels. You want to ensure that you're distributing it pretty evenly in your feet back into the floor too. But then also it comes back to that 360 breathing you're talking about before you're lifting 250 pounds off the floor. You're sure is how better you are bracing all degrees of your back of your core of your lateral and obliques. Yeah, and you want your lats really engaged. So there's like other cues you can attach a band to the barbell and then have it in front of you. And that teaches you to really pull the bar into you and that engages more through your lats. That's going to help stabilize your spine. Bench. Oh yeah. Bench. My weakest, as strong as now. I think Bench is fun. I have a really high arch when I bench. So when I'm in trying to improve my bench, it's like different variations of the bench as much as possible. So I'm trying to work as many areas of my chest as I can to improve my bench. That could be like a narrow grip, a wide grip, pause bench press because in a powerlifting meat you have to wait for them to tell you to press. So you have to be really strong in that bottom position. Another one I love doing calisthenics to improve my bench. Like chin-ups, pull-ups, single arm, bench press, incline bench press, everything. Every press, every press you can also do you to do your bench press. But you also have to work your triceps. So you need really strong triceps in order to do your bench press. And I think set up is like even, is the most important thing. So really tucking your shoulder blades underneath you and driving your force through your legs is important to you work on your leg drive. Or you can work on things like a larsan press where you have your feet up on the bench and they're straight out. So you literally have no leg drive and you're just working your chest. And that's a really fun variation. I love doing that one. What are our couple activation exercises you're doing prior to bench? Especially to get your shoulders primed right into the chest primed, etc. What are you doing before you bench? Well, I still do my cat cow. I still do my rolled gray stretch because I like to get some mobility through my thoracic spine. I'll do band pole parts. I'll do mini band external rotation. I sometimes do like a single arm rose with the band. I'll do Turkish get-ups too. And that will help with my shoulder stability. Those are some of my favorite ones that I do for activation. And then if I'm feeling particularly a tight, I'll do like an arm bar with a kettlebell. Okay. What's one piece of advice out there that you have for power lifters who constantly find themselves played with injuries? What's one big takeaway that you have for them? Step back from the platform. Don't let your ego drive your lips. Yeah. Maybe the injuries are telling you something. Maybe there's an energy leak somewhere. Maybe we need to address some more deficits. And taking a pause from it and taking like a one or two steps back and actually making you come onto that platform stronger the next time. I spend some time working on your pelvic floor and your hip-hop. Yeah, breathing and pelvic floor and bracing properly. Absolutely. Kristen, lots of great takeaways today. It's always a pleasure to have a chat with you. Tell our listeners where they can find you, follow you and learn more about everything that you have to offer. Yeah, great. So I'm at the Spoke Treatments in New York City and Min-Min-Town. You can find me at Kristen, Lettenberger, D.V.T. You can at this along the Instagram. Well, Lincoln in the bank. Yeah, I think that one in the bank. But those are like that I do a lot of stuff on Instagram. So you can find me there. I have another cohort for postpartum mamas. It's a six weeks return to exercise cohort that I give. And that will be happening. I think sometime early next year again. I just finished one. So if you're new mom and looking for a place to start and how to get back in exercise, that's a place to. So you can see that on our website at the Spoke Treatments. Great. Thanks for stopping by Kristen. Yeah. Thank you so much. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at BodyBillin.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 09 ｜ Nikki Davila ｜ Losing Weight, Eating Carbs & Nutrition 101 [wL8drxLCyak].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, Bodybuilding.com listeners. My name is Danielle Bits and today I'm joined by Nikki DeVilla. Nikki's a registered dietitian and has a Master's degree in nutrition. She's been practicing dietetic since 2014 and is a current Bodybuilding.com athlete. She partners with her husband Gavin online fitness coach and fellow Bodybuilding.com athlete help others achieve their fitness and nutrition goals. She enjoys providing nutritional guidance across her blog and social platforms and has a passion for helping others achieve a healthier relationship with her body and food. Her specialties include weight loss and exposing common nutritional myths while ditching diet culture. Nikki, welcome to the Bodybuilding.com podcast. Hi, thank you for having me. I'm very excited to be here. Today's episode is brought to you by Feastbox Meats, weekly meal prep, hitting your macros and getting clean protein can be challenging, expensive and time consuming. The Feastbox protein pack presented by Bodybuilding.com promises a healthy, easy solution for hitting protein goals on a daily basis. Choose 1,100% grass fed and pasture-raised chicken, beef or pork all season fully cooked, chilled and sealed with zero additives. The protein pack is delivered straight to your door and has over 30 grams of protein for as little as 223 per serving. Ready to eat in just two minutes. Order now at Bodybuilding.com. To kick things off, it's extremely important to differentiate between a nutritionist and a registered dietitian. You yourself are a registered dietitian. Breakdown with that means for our listeners as a starting point. Right, there's the saying that we always love to say that every dietitian is a nutritionist but not every nutritionist is a dietitian. As a dietitian, you can be called a nutritionist. That's an RDN or you can just be called an RD, which is a registered dietitian. But if we get into what the actual definition is of a nutritionist, that could be somebody is very enthusiastic about nutrition, fitness. It's from personal experience that they want to help others as well as they might have taken like an online course and now they have a certificate. But if you're a dietitian, a whole different route in Sue's, where you have your master's, your bachelor's, your master's as of 2024, you go through a dietetic internship, which is 1200 hours of supervised practice. Where you're in nursing homes, you're in the hospital, you're in community, you're with kids in school districts. You gain that experience that, you know, nutritionist just doesn't have as well as after that. Once you pass all of that, you then get to sit for your national exam as a registered dietitian. Thanks for breaking down the difference there. I think that's super important. We've got a great episode cute up for you guys today. A few of the many things we'll be covering include achieving your weight loss goals, fasting, the y-behind protein and y-carb's are not the enemy. So let's jump into it with topic number one. This is often a big one for everybody out there, right? Weight loss. So we're going to break down all things weight loss. It's pretty easy to learn that you specialize in weight loss, Nikki is one as one comes across your social pages and a society that places so much emphasis on weight loss, with it still remaining as the number one fitness goal. What prompted you to one approach nutrition, right? But then to fall into the niche world of weight loss? I have found even through childhood. I have a very wonderful upbringing around nutrition, the importance of it. And I carry that through school and I remember looking at a college catalog and I absolutely know interest in anything else. And when I saw nutrition, I was like, that's it. That's for me. So the journey started to begin from there, but it's also a lot of personal experience and a lot of dietitians, not speaking for all of them, but we go into it because we have our own, let's say, issues around food. Or maybe personal experiences and through learning so much about nutrition, I helped myself struggle with this ordered eating and emotional eating and struggled with weight loss myself. So when I had that knowledge and experience, I became very passionate. So instead of just having those cooking videos on social media, I really wanted to bring light to the struggles of weight loss and that emotional connection. Awesome. So let's take it from step one, right? Let's dumb down losing weight. Forget the fads, forget their restriction diets, and overly obsessed tracking, especially with how many devices live out there today. What or say the top three things someone should be doing to originally set out on their weight loss goal? Yeah. I love that question because I know everyone thinks like, if I just started today, what do I need to do? And then they look on social media. They find 20 million things that they want to do in that quickly overwhelmed. So the first thing I always say is to journal what you're eating and that why behind it to include your emotions and not just follow calories or macros because if you tell somebody to rather than journal, you tell them to track it and then you want to an app like my fitness pile. They track their calories, but they have no idea why they're eating with their eating and they're more so focused on the numbers right away rather than what they're eating and the nutrients that are providing for their body. So journaling your diet, start to learn about yourself from their number two would always be to move more. I think as a society, we do not move enough and we think that sitting all day at your nine to five and then going to the gym for an hour is sufficient, but we should be moving more throughout the day, but enjoying your movement, not just exercising more, but going for more walks or doing things that you enjoy. I think that is very, very important part of fitness. That a lot of people miss, especially when it comes weight loss. The last one is to focus on your habits and not just a diet. I love to say to my clients that a healthy lifestyle is made up of several healthy habits. So in essence, if you're following and tracking your habits, then from there you can learn about yourself, you can change your habits because your current lifestyle is basically whatever you're not happy with, it's your current habits that you want to change. So from there, if you were to reflect upon what are my habits, how can I change them, how can I improve, and then from there you can create a lifestyle you want. But going from diet to diet is not going to help you, you're ignoring your habits and just focusing on the angle which is weight loss rather than habit change. So say someone has implemented these three types, right? They've maintained consistency, which is a huge factor in any goal that someone's looking to achieve. Let's talk about hitting plattoes, right? We like to say the first five pounds are usually the easiest, which is there's some truth behind that, right? So what happens after the first five? How do we get to 10 to 15 and beyond and break past the plateau that's so many face? Yeah, so when you are in a weight loss plateau, you have to kind of give it that outside look and perspective rather than being so focused on things you're doing, maybe the things you aren't doing kind of reassessing your journey where you currently are at as well as your expectations because if I was to give the generic answer of yes, focus more in your calories, more in your macros, look what about your physical activity? Are you moving enough? You know those three habits that I was talking about previously is very important but also understanding that you are going to lose weight a little bit quicker in the beginning like you said, but it's going to slowly trickle from there. Maybe you lost 15 pounds within the first month and then after that you're losing half a pound, a pound a week or maybe a month but your body is changing in many different ways. So kind of relying on patients as well as discipline because in the beginning you could be so motivated and that the end, you know, it's that this one that drives you through. So you know ask yourself, are you in a weight loss plateau? Are you really focusing on your habits? You know, did you try everything? You know, what can you change and really just reflect given honest answer before you just say, oh, I need to cut my calories more? Yeah, absolutely. Any disruption to a routine good or bad is going to come with that change, right? So if you've been in a pretty seditarian you say, okay, I'm going to go out there, I'm going to walk X on a step. I'm going to get to the gym every single day and you severely disrupt that routine that maybe you've been following for the past several months or years, right? Your body is going to quickly say, okay, we're changing, right? And it's going to pick up on that change. Now the body is going to also adapt to that change in the next month to month three months. So maybe you see great success in those first three months. You're crushing it. You're amped on the new routine that you implemented. But then you say, oh my gosh, I'm stepping on the scale and nothing's continuing. You know, the weight is in continuing to drop, right? How do we look at other pieces, other external factors such as stress, sleep, things outside of the kitchen, outside of the gym in terms of implementing, um, in terms of impacting or weight loss journey? Right. And I think that's a great topic to talk about because that's where stress, um, specifically if you are stressed at work and we kind of push that aside like, oh well, I'm just more stressed than usual. But no, I mean, your cortisol levels do go up and it's not that the recollection shift that you're, quote unquote gaining weight or, you know, it's not about that it's about that if you have increased stress, your cortisol goes up and then you're related to eat more. So kind of honing in a little bit more on what your stress, how are you coping with your stress, how are you managing that? What about your sleep? Are you rest in recovery? And then what about your relationships? Do you have a supportive relationship? Is there anybody that's sabotaging your relationship or do you have a support system within the goal that you're trying to reach? So it is very important to kind of evaluate those as well because it's not just about calories and calories out as a dietitian. It's, it's more so about your whole life and that whole approach. Yeah, the support system is huge. And again, that goes for those looking to run their first marathon or just looking to lose those first five pounds, you know, especially if you were trying to be a little more disciplined in the kitchen and say your partner is going to, let's say going a bit more rogue, right? You know, it's not to say they can't bring that food in the house, but I mean, that just that that support is so important for that for the aspect. Let's talk a little bit about fasting. That is something that our audience is always wondering about and we've seen that come to rise in and fashion in the past five or so years, right? Fasting is not for everyone, right? And I think that's an important road for us to go down right now. I think it also differentiates between male and female. I think it's going to play a role in what your specific goal is again, right? So let's first talk about how fasting can be helpful in a weight loss journey. Right. So I believe in fasting to an extent, right? I think it can be beneficial to kind of look at your window and when you're eating and when you're not eating because a lot of the times when I speak with clients, they have a lot of digestive issues. So we talk about, right? What is your window? Are you eating right before a bed and right before bed and a huge bowl of pasta and sauce and cheese? You know, is that disrupting your sleep, your digestion? Do you have acid, reflux, heartburn? So more from a health standpoint. When I look at fasting, I'm trying to think more about digestion and how that can help somebody when you shorten your window just a little bit, but that does not mean fasting all day. That's a very different story. So it is very individualized and how to approach that. So it is a very touchy subject. Yeah. Absolutely. I think that one plays into the 321 rule. Try not to stop eating three hours before drinking two hours before and devices one hour before. I think that that's helped me personally at ton. I find, you know, say the day got away from me and my dinner is just a little bit later than it originally is. That will throw me off because my body, it's going to want to digest first before we go to sleep, right? Before the brain can kind of turn into sleep mode. How can it be gentle, gentle? How can fasting be detrimental to a weight loss journey? Yeah. So when the main purpose of somebody that is fasting is cutting their window for weight loss, they're cutting their calories. And the biggest thing is that it does promote somewhat of an unhealthy relationship with food because it's seen as a punishment. Oh, now I have to fast till this time because I ate this last night. And that relationship is never going to bring you to the success or the body of your dreams because it's not sustainable. Those types of thoughts with weight loss. So it is very important if somebody was too fast all day long or maybe they fasted breakfast because they felt like they needed to punish their body because of whatever they ate previously, they're more likely to binge at night and that's when they're going to engage more on emotional eating. So it's not my best technique for weight loss but it is important. I think fasting just to be cautious of what you're eating. When you're starting your day, when it's ending digestion and so on. Yeah, absolutely. Digestion being the kind of key motivator here in terms of implementing a fasting routine. You know, say you're doing, let's say 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. right? You can still eat the same amount in that window, right? What you're trying to do as you said is you're trying to shorten that window. You're trying to not be eating from 7 a.m. to maybe 8 p.m. because your body's then taking that energy to digest the entire day. So what you're really trying to do is just a shorten that window. Can you still eat 2,000 plus calories in that window? Yes, you absolutely can. But I like to look at fasting as a helpful tool and nothing and all be all, especially for weight loss. Let's talk about fasting being a helpful, even detrimental tool for let's say athletes, right? Outside of the weight loss journey. Obviously the same probably applies. You know, it's certainly be detrimental if an athlete is underfueled. But then it can also be helpful if they are experiencing digestion issues as well. Right, correct. So I mean, there's that fine line imbalance. And of course, it's based on your training intensity when you're training. So if you're fasting and you have a big meat or you're training in the morning, but you've fasted since 6 p.m. then I before obviously you're not going to have enough nutrients and like a gym store to help with your performance. So it is very important that if somebody is experiencing digestive concerns, there are so many things that you can look at. What you're eating, what are the nutrients you're getting, your portion size, what you're in male frequency? So there are a lot of different variables that I can go into digestion and that could probably be a talk online. It's absolutely. So big takeaways for fasting. We're using that more so as a tool, especially eating and digestion. Then really more so it's about shortening that window and using as a discipline tool on your weight loss journey. Let's talk about the word detox. This word, I feel like this for you, this could be enough of the soda in it and of itself, right? Sometimes, or all of the time, or likely, this word can be quite triggering. What's your stance on detox cleans claims, whether that's through liquid diet, supplement aids, et cetera. There's so much out there. I could whip out a list right now, but let's break that down and what that means for you, because I think what's always so funny, you know, what I always tell people when I've told clients in the past as well is you have organs. They are doing the work for you, right? But again, let's kind of break that down. Let's break down how your body acts as its own detox system, but then also break down the negative stigma we've seen arise from this word detox in the nutrition and fitness industry. Right. So, I mean, you said that your body is detoxing every day, and it's specifically the liver, but there are many other organs that are doing that as well throughout the day that we don't realize we don't give our bodies enough credit. So, when somebody says they want to detox, I am a little bit more weary because I'm worried about maybe they are going through some health issues. So, their answer they think is, oh, I have to do a full body detox. I need to eat this type of mud from another country, because it's going to, you know, pull certain ions or, you know, whatever you see on TikTok, but those are just some examples of we will go to extremes before kind of addressing our health concerns. So, I think it's a perfect segue from what we just talked about with digestion. That's the main reason why people are looking for detoxes. Maybe their skin isn't as clear, maybe they have bloating, gas, nausea, you know, all of the above, and they're looking for something that cleans their system. So, I can understand why somebody who's frustrated wants a detox, but you don't have to go to those extreme lengths and invest. And all these expensive supplements or liquids just to have your body do what it needs to do. It's more so about, you know, what are you eating? And what are the nutrients that you're providing to your body so then your body can actually function properly? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, let's just, let's have a little fun here. I mean, let's talk about some of the crazy ones that you've seen out there you mentioned mud. I mean, obviously I've got juice cleanses our big one as well, but what are some examples that you've seen out there? There was one and I'm probably not going to do it's justice because it was wild. It was a foot bath with leeches to help excrete something and I don't know if you know. I have not heard of that one. That one's new. Yes, my one of my clients asked me and you know, I understand they're curious so I would never tell my client, oh my god, I can't believe, you know, you would say that to me, but sometimes we think the wildest things are going to be our answer like that's the reason why I haven't been losing weight because I haven't been doing this crazy, clenze that's going to change my whole life and my whole body and I have to do it for, you know, a week and then I can eat again. No, I'm not been sticking my feet and mud and water with leeches, that's it. Oh my goodness, you know, and the problem too, there's just so much of misinformation and you Google wait lost these days and these are the type of things that are coming up so you can't necessarily blame individuals out there for thinking that right? The best that we can really do is provide you know the guidance and let them know it can it can be much more simple than you're making it out to be right. You know, let's clean up the diet, let's you know get into a good movement routine, let's get that sleeping stress under control and really when you're looking at those four pillars, I mean at the end of the day if you can check those off like you're going to start noticing some change. Protein and we're going down the list here guys, you're going down the ultimate weight loss list so so far we've talked about, you know, the top three tips for starting your weight loss journey, we've talked about hitting plattoes, fasting detox, let's transition into protein. Everybody listening and I'm sure you'll love this one. So let's talk about the role that protein does have four losing weight and why following a protein forward diet, whether that's through animal based or plant based, right? Just all around protein forward diet is important for weight loss. Right, I think what the, what the average person doesn't know, especially somebody what I'm a nutrition expert and I'm talking to somebody about protein, they don't realize that our body at some point starts to biologically break down naturally and along with that we lose muscle mass. So especially as we get older and every decade we are losing more muscle than we've ever had before and then it increases on an alarming rate when we're older. So body really starts to transform and that's a lot that can be due to a lot of hormonal changes that again naturally occur in the body. So it is very important to prioritize protein because it's going to help you maybe obtain or maybe just even maintain that lean muscle mass that you have to care you through and the best thing about protein is that I mean especially if you couple that with strain training you can definitely gain more lean muscle mass but it allows you to have a little bit more freedom and flexibility of what you get to eat because you're burning a little bit more calories as well as it gives you that shape that you're looking for. Everyone tries to eat less to lose weight but protein is then going to give you that nice shape as a woman you're not going to get big and bulky from protein and lifting weight you're going to have a really nice shape and you're going to you know, and turn love your body. So protein is so important. I my personal experience I thought like I don't need protein I can I can achieve the body of my dreams and then I quickly learn about wasn't a possibility I was in the gym training and I was just spinning in the wind. So when I started to have more protein it really did change my body. You mean a great point for women specifically you know and historically let's say looking at the past 20 years right it's always not always but the you know perception is all have some salad. Right I'm just going to eat you know veggies super super light very very low cow no carbs etc. We're going to take carbs in a second but protein is really taken off protein. I'm saying this is protein's decade right now. Yeah. They're having a moment for sure and for for all genders for all you know walks of life and I love it because one protein is going to keep you fuller of course. You eat you know a plate full of protein you're going to be a bit more full and I'm saying it right. Right. So it also allows you to look at it from a positive mind frame. So if you can just kind of start your day saying all right I'm going to have one gram of protein per pound of body weight or I'm going to hit X amount of protein for my day as opposed to saying oh my gosh I can't exceed you know 1700 calories, 2000 calories etc. It kind of flips that narrative and puts a much more positive spin on it is what I found. Yeah I tell my clients that the biggest change and the more successful have when they think about their diet of what can I get to eat? Not what can't I eat so if I'm telling a client like all right we're going to start to work on your diet we're going to implement some changes and they tell me oh my goodness I can't have like chips anymore oh my god never said that I said but let's focus on having more fruits and vegetables right or protein as the example and as they focus on that prioritize that they feel good they feel satisfied and then they forget about the chips it's just not on the forefront of their mind but if you go into weight loss thinking like oh I'm just going to eat 700 calories that bag of chips is going to be right in front of your head thinking you can't get around it you obsessive out it you want it and that's why it's so important to focus on what you can do rather than what you can't do. Yeah absolutely let's talk about protein sources and not so much animal versus plant but supplements versus whole food right so where this supplement player role versus your whole food diet thinks of that nature. Yeah as a dietitian I will always prioritize natural states of protein whether it's animal plant based you can get a sufficient amount even with plant based which I think is so important for people to know as well but supplements do have their role and supplements all it is it's just supplemental to the diet so especially if you have certain goals and you can't get to a certain number if it's one gram per pound of body weight or maybe it's one point two whatever the number is the supplement just help you reach there and you know in the past I think they were kind of looked down upon especially with women but now that you know you implement protein shakes and things like that you can actually achieve your protein goals rather than thinking like how am I going to eat 130 grams of protein of chicken it's terrible right it's certainly helps I mean whether that's just a quick 10 gram bar whether that's not even you know a scoop of hemp seed and then you get 10 grams out of that having that shake at the end of the day and that's usually kind of I make like a nice cream is usually I like the frozen banana as a scuba protein some cinnamon and a little cocoa and that's that's satiating one it kind of cures that sweet tooth but then I'm getting another 25 grams of protein then in my day which is a great bump yeah and I love that you're coupling that with nutritious foods too yeah so I think that's really important to prioritize as well yeah absolutely we just talked about carbs a second ago let's let's make this the main topic right now carbs are no carbs that is the question certainly is so a low carb diet or a no carb diet otherwise not as keto some of the times it's often referred to as a quick way to shed weight and while can be helpful for a short term term goal let's talk about why carbs are a crucial macro nutrient to include in our regular diet as a primary energy source so one Nikki tell us what carbs do tell us by you know when we ingest carbs tell us what occurs in the body so when you diet when you eat and digest a carbohydrate it turns into glucose which we call sugar in the body it can then be stored liver your muscles or it does go into your blood and the most wonderful thing about glucose or blood sugar that people don't realize is that you have sugar readily available when your body needs it for life for daily activities for your brain function so a lot of people really demonize carbohydrates but at the same time they are a main source of energy for the body and to be able to think alone is very important to have carbohydrates so it also can transport nutrients throughout the body as well too your organ, your muscles as well as your nervous system so it's not just a carbohydrate it's something that actually helps us live our lives every day but again function at an appropriate level tell us a little bit about how carbs do player rule in weight loss right so often people do go to a no carb diet to you know lose those five to 10 pounds of looking to do tell us one how this can be helpful right but maybe some stipulations that that come along with it and then to tell us if this is sustainable long term so do you mean a no carb diet or limiting carb diet because they're to well let's let's go down the difference down all right so if you're limiting carb hydrate that has such there's many different meanings to that you could just you could before be eating a lot of carbohydrates the way too much that's why you are gaining weight so when you limit carbohydrates you're probably eating more of an appropriate portion size so that I think is beneficial so when people say like oh I'm eating no carb hydrate sometimes they mean that they're just eating less carb hydrates and again they're eating what their portions size should have been in the beginning no carb hydrate diets trying to think about if it's immediate and we call it a benefit is that you know you're going to lose some water rate that's that's the best benefit I could give you but obviously long term that's not going to help you long term because you're going to eat a little bit more carb hydrate at one time the water weight's going to come back on and that causes that fluctuation yeah I mean keto I think keto's who had its moment I don't think it's necessarily on the pedestal that it used to be right but maybe talk about some of the findings that we're now seeing surrounding keto that maybe we didn't know five ten years ago and why it's not sustainable for a long duration well there's a couple things that came from a dietary standpoint so whether they came out you know recently but I feel like dietitians have always known for a mainstreet for a year the keto diet so we'll start off first with cholesterol I mean I could have I could have a client that has high cholesterol and they go on the keto diet and I would tell them if there's anybody that shouldn't be on the diet it's you right because a true keto diet is around 80% is fat 80% so a lot of people would tell me oh well I'm just having you know monoun saturated or polyensaturated you know the quote unquote healthy fats but still with every monoun saturated or polyensaturated you're still getting saturated fat and that's what contributes to LDL and high cholesterol so that's probably the the first thing that comes to mind is that you have to be very careful of your risk of cardiovascular disease high cholesterol and so on and then the second would definitely be digestion I had never met somebody on keto that didn't have digestive issues because of the amount of fat that they were consuming and it just there's not enough of a balance and we need to provide our body with enough nutrients and my growing nutrients to have proper digestion so to be having majority of your diet as fat is just it's detrimental for long periods of time yeah for those of those out there who aren't a keto diet who have had success you know before you come with the pitchfork you know I think I think it's important to note that everything in moderation and everything is case by case and every single body out there is different somebody could have success with keto somebody could feel the worst they've ever felt in their entire life on keto same for gluten-free same for plant-based etc it's really about finding what works for you and learning more about your personal body as opposed to you know seeing what's working well for others you know we talked about glucose and and how carbs react in the body so right now a big topic in industry is avoiding glucose bikes so we are seeing people walk around with monitoring devices I think it's you know I think it's great that these devices are now widely becoming widely available to the general population however like anything right are we over monitoring at this point so you know let's let's talk about why we need glucose spikes throughout our day but it's right now I feel like we're seeing some people wearing some of these devices and again they're great devices and it's great to have access to that information but it seems like some people are saying well I'm trying to keep my glucose here and for those who aren't watching my hand is just going into my mind right let's talk about why glucose you know kind of the hills and valleys aren't important throughout anyone's day right so that's what normal digestion of a carbohydrate is so if anybody's confused out there you should be eating a carbohydrate it should be spiking and then with time it does go back down it might go into a little bit of valley but then you eat again and then it spikes again so it's a very normal response but spike means that it could be within the normal limits it's not meaning that it's going to 300 because you just ate something I mean at that point you might have an issue with pre-diabetes or you are diabetic so it is important to have those spikes because that's what helped you with if you're an athlete and you're training again with a normal limits as well as just an everyday person like we talked about before it helps with your daily activities your brain function so when you have that spike you're able to to move you know just to carry out your basic needs that you need to throughout the day if you were to be in a constant valley you wouldn't be healthy right there's no balance there so what I always tell my clients when it comes to blood sugar is that we learn you know when to eat carbohydrates what to eat it with and then from there you know they don't need to know the specifics about the number but if somebody does have a glucometer I mean they can use it as a learning tool but they shouldn't be obsessing over the numbers you know I had a conversation prior to this podcast about you know you're you're seeing exactly that you're seeing people where these devices right and it's now kind of causing them to spin out a little bit and I think that's kind of the trend we've seen I'm not going to name devices but just the rise in wearable technology over the last few years it almost adds more stress right so what is a pattern that you've seen and what advice have you given to clients who maybe have access to this device or maybe any device you know not allowing that to kind of tail spin them out in terms of focusing on their journey yeah that's a great question I mean personally I don't have any tools or devices I've given out but I have what I think is a super slow up is using like a calorie tracking app and then from there you know I have this kind of talk of this is your learning tool we're learning about what you're eating it's a way that you can track and then I can see on the other end but it's not about the calories it's not about the number but still at the same time I mean you're human you're still going to reflect almost number so it it actually takes quite a few sessions and conversations to kind of talk them through and especially when they see results as well that okay I can focus on what I'm eating and not the specific number in the app and I will still see the result I want so sometimes it's not just that one conversation that I have with clients it's often time a couple because when they're coming to me they most likely have disorder eating patterns which adding a tracker into it can be difficult so sometimes I take all of that away and I just say let's just journal and let's just focus on that just keep it basic you know oftentimes with these glucose monitors too you know people are posting them to their stories or sharing them on Instagram right um they're saying oh my gosh I just ate this and look where I'm at I'm like well did you need to eat that at that time so let's talk about timing the best time to consume carbs so maybe yeah if you were going to go back and sit at your desk they do need you know the bagel maybe not but let's let's segue into the consumption of carbs and how that plays a role and and your schedule of the day so historically the American diet has had a good portion of let's say carbs in breakfast right should this be more of a mid-dane inclusion dinner end of day and then where does that play a role in an athlete schedule so one let's just talk about timing of carbs when should you be consuming carbs based off of your activity level right okay so I believe it or not I don't have a talking general there is no specific time however what I like to talk about is consistent carbohydrates so out the day at your meals at your snacks and then pairing them with protein and fats to help stabilize your blood sugar and that's what's going to help you not spike as high is what you're coupling that with so it is very important to really focus on more so the portion you know maybe the frequency you're having it not so much the time because a lot of individuals say well I can't have them in the morning and well you just fasted all night long you need to have carbohydrates in the morning or I can't have them at night well did you eat enough throughout the day you know are you wanting to eat a large portion size of carbohydrates that night because you were lacking throughout the day how much are you having right before bed so there are a lot of questions that come with that but generally throughout the day you should be having carbohydrates meal snacks watching your portion sizes as well as kind of coupling them like I said with protein and fats and keeping as you said earlier keeping glucose in the body not letting yourself not letting the gas tank hit you basically exactly yeah you don't want that you mentioned you know if somebody is fasting do they want to maybe does that first meal that they have do they want to kind of be a little less generous with the carbs or do they want it to be a heavy carb meal when they're first breaking fast so if you are on e right if you're very very low and glycogen do you want to kind of go into that with your kind of I'm not going to say refute meal but your first meal back after fasting do you want that to be higher in carb or do you want to be somewhere in the middle I would still suggest somewhere in the middle again that's individual based on how we digest and absorb carbohydrates but if you think all right great I just fasted so I get to eat all these carbs now that's where the unhealthy relationship comes into place so being really mindful of why you're doing that does your body need it what is your training maybe you're not training are you going to go sit for hours you know a lot of variables there as well what about refueling after activity level let's talk about whether that's a strength training session for an hour in the gym versus you know maybe something a little bit longer like a two hour or on or cycle you know how should we be implementing carbs to refuel after workouts yeah great examples because athletes are going to need more that are more endurance sometimes my athletes are obviously feeling as you probably know feeling during your runs and things like that once it exceeds a certain time but it is very important to have a generous amount of carbohydrates after endurance training that's for sure but I think we're a lot of people go wrong when they're training as that you know you could work out for like an hour and a half I mean you're taking rest which is great right that's great for a high-perchrophy but at the same time you want to be careful that you're not going to say oh well I just worked out now I get to have this huge again full of pasta because I just have that but maybe weren't as active as you were should you be eating yes of course you're eating carbohydrates but again having that balance and you know having a balance plate rather than thinking like oh I'm going to go have like five bowls of cereal because I lifted so heavy now maybe we should have some chicken some you know carbohydrates whether that's a potato rice you know some good complex carbohydrates as well as vegetables let's talk a little bit about refeed days you and I spoke about this right so for example you know there are some people out there who will be very very low carb six days of the week and then that seventh day maybe that's a Sunday let's say they are eating a tremendous amount of carbs throughout the day is that beneficial how does one really kind of understand if they should be implementing a refeed day again you mentioned there is a significant difference between going low carb right versus going no carbs so kind of tell us what does refeed mean because I feel like that's a word that's used a lot and you know is is a refeed day completely necessary dependent on which type of diet you're on yeah so refeed day is basically having glucose to replenish your glycogen store so having more carbohydrates again differentiate between an athlete and endurance athlete or somebody who's training or like triathlon you're going to need some days where you're going to carabob and it prepare for you know your event to increase your performance or enhance that so I think that's very important to differentiate between somebody who's following a low carb diet or keto diet yes you can indulge in a refeed day but also being cautious of how much you need based on your training and what you're currently doing so it definitely depends on your training and your intensity duration for sure yeah it's a great point I also think we would be remiss if we left out cheat days right they cheat day. cheat days this has been around for a long time certainly as long as I've been working out um man where do we start with this one because cheat days cheat days are funny right because same thing if you've stayed super super disciplined throughout your week you did not allow yourself one single like chocolate chip like you didn't do anything out of the the routine and now again maybe I feel like Sunday's a big one right decision the fall it's like football Sundays they're getting all the food but you know tell us how you know maintaining discipline for those six days of the week and then having a 5,000 plus calorie day on a Sunday can have an impact on those six days that you would just work your ass for right yeah so cheat days they're not my thing and I don't recommend them because you can very easily put all of the work you done you know from say it was Sunday you did from Monday through Saturday you ate on this really low calorie diet or you you really stuck to your meal plan and then on that Sunday you have a good like we said 5,000 calories right you could very easily go right back into calorie maintenance just from a cheat day and the biggest reason why I don't love cheat days do I think you should enjoy a meal yes I think you should again being really cautious of that as well as how much you're having but two days essentially it creates on unhealthy relationship with food because if somebody who plans a cheat day then has something you know they're not supposed to have throughout the week they're gonna think man I failed oh I can't believe I did this I didn't do this on my my cheat day what can I do that's gonna help negate and that's where that unhealthy relationship with food comes so two days are I understand why people want to do cheat days and they want to be super strict and then they want to enjoy themselves on you know whatever day but again it just doesn't give you that healthy relationship with food and I always like to tell clients like what if you had an event on Saturday and not Sunday like that and it disrupts their whole diet and their whole mentality and they literally go into a panic mode because they think like oh my god I can't eat anything when I go to the event but Sunday I'll save everything for Sunday and it's like that's not living your life yeah absolutely that's kind of where the 80 20 comes into play right just maintaining you know your discipline diet making sure you're getting in a well rounded healthy diet your fruits your veggies your proteins etc yes your carbs right and then you know 20% of the time maybe it's maybe it's 90 10 for some people right you've been doing it a little bit longer right yes but for beginners you know that 80 20 like be proud of that 80% and allow yourself to have you know a little treat on a Tuesday night or you know a Thursday afternoon it's certainly gonna you know help with your success as opposed to going down that 5,000 calorie tunnel on a Sunday afternoon that's what diet culture really does miss is that you know we're so obsessed with restricting while we're eating but the most successful I see with my clients is when they start to allow foods they no longer obsess about them there's no more rules no guidelines they eat them when they want in their journey but they also at the same time prioritize nutritious foods and they don't have to worry about cheat days or diets because they know they can have them so that pressure is off absolutely I think this trends is transitions it's very well into our third and final topic for today healing your relationship with food and emotional eating so making as a dietitian you help others have a healthier relationship with food and their bodies by educating the importance of feeling their body rather than restricting exactly as you just said I think it's a great point diet culture is made as believe that achieving our dream physique can be done by punishing our bodies let's talk about some of their realistic reasons as to why people don't see success with their goals and what they can change or implement to hit those benchmarks I think we just covered a little bit about it right you know that 80, 20 you know kind of avoiding the traditional cheat day but first let's define emotional eating you know what is a common way of eating you see with chronic dieters who have trouble achieving their goals right so a lot of times when a client approaches me they start talking about the diets that they've done and what they don't realize is that they will try and you diet with literally 20 new rules to follow nothing that they want to do but they just want to incorporate it for weight loss and then they sweep all of their emotions to the side and under the rug so when they do finally fail at their diet you know okay I will say some do succeed but you know for the majority that you fail at some of these fat diets they're really upset and they don't understand why but they never addressed the reason why they're eating and oftentimes that's due to emotion so emotional eating is eating due to your current emotional state and that could be well and if it's eating towards your emotional state it's you're really ignoring your physical hunger you're not really in tune with are you hungry are you full you're probably eating past fullness you're probably eating because maybe you're bored you're stressed so out of emotion but at the same time I think a lot of people don't realize what emotional eating is they go oh I don't have that well again emotions are like boredom and stress right so it is very important to recognize that you know we're all susceptible to it but what extent do we do it and has that kind of been hindering our weight loss in our goals yeah I feel like almost in a way emotional eating has become kind of like a like a joking like a running joke right it's like oh it's fine I'll just I'm just gonna go emotionally right exactly I feel like I feel like we've all used at some point right certainly years ago but I mean one how do you really start to take this seriously right or how do you kind of you know do the work that says well yeah I actually am emotionally eating right and then too you know what are the steps that someone can begin to take to break this habit so what are some recommendations that you have yeah so the awareness part of it again will always be journaling I had somebody tell me one time what I love is you know if you were to journal your whole day and your habits and then you were like well this is why I'm not productive it's because of these habits so let me change them and then you work on them because now you're aware of them and then you create this day and usually you're doing again and you're very more productive and that's because of your journaling it just creates that awareness so if you are emotionally eating you should be journaling what you're eating and then the why behind it and then the scenario so once you have that awareness say a great example is your artwork you're at your 95 and it's gosh I remember these days there were like three o'clock and I was tired I was exhausted I was stressed and I wanted to talk that I wanted candy I wanted an escape but to me I would just eat it and not recognize like that's because of all the emotions so when you do finally pinpoint that scenario you then can change it so maybe you're changing your behavior so instead of getting up to get you know a piece of chocolate from the cafeteria you pack yourself a healthy snack but maybe it does include a little bit of chocolate chips so you still can get your chocolate fix so again kind of having that awareness to kind of pinpoint the why problems solve and then you know implement that habit change I found too it's important to start to understand how you feel after you eat something and so for instance if it's three o'clock in the afternoon and you did have say a candy bar instead of I'm not going to say apple because I feel like that was just so aggressively if it's like well I don't want to talk about it I don't want an apple and I want my candy bar well okay let's maybe like a vanilla bar is like some chocolate in the ass. Yeah there we go you know the vort that granola bar versus you know a straight up candy bar well how did you feel after the candy bar right did you actually get where you were looking for and the answer is probably not maybe for a couple minutes but like how did you feel in the next 30 to 45 to hour right so talk about that a little bit about gaining that intuition of understanding how you're feeling after consuming specific foods right oftentimes going now you're aware that your emotional eating then that's the next layer to it where if you're during lying and you write something down usually until my clients write before and then after what's the after state and allow the times it'll be like I felt really terrible and I felt like I failed myself so through their journey of recognizing that behavior they get to learn like all right that's a behavior I don't want to continue because I just didn't feel great after and it wasn't just physically it was mentally because you know you weren't taking care of your body so it is very very important to be kind to yourself to have a lot of grace because this journey could take several years to accomplish but once you do understand your behaviors in your emotions and how you feel after eating certain foods or maybe you did something for yourself where you didn't eat that we're talking about talk about right you went for the granola bar instead you'll be a lady you'll be so excited and you'll want to continue your journey so that's a whole emotional piece that is so important with everyone's diet I mean I don't care who you are it's so important to kind of recognize you know that our emotions are very closely tied to our grace and patience they're equally at play when it comes to nutrition habits right similar to you getting into a solid gym routine maybe you're going around your first mile or you know squat for the very first time it's not gonna happen overnight or you're gonna have mistakes along the way and again practicing that grace and patience it's it's gonna go a long way you know you mentioned food playing in a planar role mental health and I want to dig into that a little bit before we go into our our final piece for today you know how can food play a part in mental health and also kind of inflammation as well I think obviously those are two very different topics but you know how can you know a diet that perhaps is causing you to live in this constant state of inflammation how can that also play into one your physical health and then to your mental health right of course so I mean if you have a diet filled with processed foods and lots of sugar is you're gonna have more inflammation in the body our body digest you know natural sources of foods vegetables proteins whole grains with much more ease than something that is processed so it is very important to recognize that when you're having something that's filled with vitamins be vitamins vitamin C you know ADEK all your fat soluble vitamins your body is going to digest it you're gonna feel good it's gonna be able to then you know go to its primary source of being able to reduce inflammation especially like a fruits and vegetable diet why talk about micronutrients so much and all the vitamins is that we don't realize that that's how we can heal ourselves and that nutrition really can be the source of you know a lot of our ailments that we do need but it is very important to realize that you know inflammation and especially mental health they're saying can all reside in the gut so if you aren't eating things that you know do that wonders for your body like that processed food or all that sugar and actually can impact your mood that my body connection and then therefore as well then you eat something maybe again quote unquote off limits and then from there it causes more inflammation and negative cycle yeah absolutely and there's there's a reason doctors today you know especially doctors dealing with cancer patients right there and they're advising that they seek out you know diets that aren't going to cause inflammation they're telling their patients really cut sugar processed sugar from their diet so let's let's talk about sugar I think that's an important piece too and let's talk about the difference of sugar coming from your apple versus sugar coming from that candy bar right um there's processed sugar and then there's obviously natural sugar I think there are a lot of people out there like oh my gosh I can't have fruit no eat fruit right so let's dive into this a little bit yes that's probably the biggest misconception is that all sugar is bad but there are different types of sugar so will your body respond to processed sugar and fruit sugar the same probably you're probably gonna have a spike it's gonna respond you know pretty identically however how it's digested in the body and how it treats you is a very different thing so I love when I have clients coming to me and they tell me that they haven't had fruits in years and I like guess what like you're gonna start eating fruits again and we're gonna take out the processed sugar that's in your diet because they'll say oh I'm not gonna do any sugar I'm not gonna do any fruit and they won't have fruits and vegetables because that's an easy habit change for them because they haven't been having fruits and vegetables for years but then everyone's in a while they'll fill you know that that urge or temptation to food they'll you know fall to that and then they'll have something that's processed and I say again we're gonna prioritize the fruits and vegetables the sugar that's naturally you know able for your body to digest you know efficiently compared to something that is processed and again that's that mind body connection where like you feed your body good food you will respond really well and then you'll feel good and then that's what helps you continue with your journey and what does process mean to you I feel like there are a lot of people out there they don't understand you know well what does that mean I know it's it's not a term that I love to use because use the role we will find a nutrition we would learn that like a bag of spinach is processed because it was taken anything rinse and then put it in a bag it's frozen like everything's processed but obviously you know fruits and vegetables like that we live with some type of processed foods within our diet that is still considered healthy but things that are all process and manufacture you know whether it's in a plan or a base whatever it is that's where I kind of draws the line where it again something manufactured in a lab compared to something that's grown in a field that it's very different vary degrees of being processed right I piece of candy versus a piece of fruit you know I always like to look at it well did it come from the earth I forget about that that's forget about the fact of what happened from that farm versus your table that's a whole difference subject that we'll save for another time you know especially by country right but you know did it come from a tree the ground etc and asking yourself that question it's like just kind of almost kind of helps people realize like oh like yeah this is considered a whole food you know this came from you know agricultural farms came from a tree this came from bush etc versus was it chemically or genetically modified in order to create this piece of food that I'm putting them to my body yes exactly I love them okay awesome great stuff we're going to try out a mini segment at the end of this episode we're doing some rapid fire falcer fact with Nikki I'm going to list out 10 statements she's going to state whether those are falc or fact and give a brief explanation behind those because those those social media trolls out there where we we know you're coming for it so number one Nikki breakfast is the most important meal of the day now you start out with the best one that's my favorite I'm going to say fact with explanation I don't believe any meal is the most important but I think so many people stop eating breakfast again for reasons to lose weight and not really think about how can I am I diet provide my body with new trends so I love breakfast because when I introduce breakfast back into my clients day then they have a healthier relationship with food number two carbs lead to weight gain yeah I'll keep this short that's false number three eating right before bed can lead to weight gain false four are all artificial sweeteners are bad false five restricting calories leads to weight loss so hmm just a little sentence here so yes technically true fact right however there are many other variables number six hydration has nothing to do with weight loss that's false seven all diets are bad that's false eight stress is not impact weight loss it's very false extra false nine losing weight just means eating less false 10 high protein can help with that burn fact we love protein here we love protein so the body of the comment is presented by protein today's episode is brought to you by feast box meats the feast box protein pack presented by body of the link calm contains high quality protein delivered right to your doorstep we're talking locally sour beef chicken and pork that is fully cooked sauce and season just re-heat and it's ready to eat in two minutes the protein pack promises a healthy easy solution for hitting your macros weekly meal prep and providing a clean energy source for you and your family start your order now at bodybuilding.com you know making before we wrap here you know a number four really caught my eye all artificial sweeteners are bad I think this kind of plays into our process conversation right talk about artificial sweeteners we're seeing a ton of new ones out there I think in the last couple years too maybe not new but maybe it becoming a little more mainstream right we're seeing stevia we're seeing a monk fruit we're seeing a couple others right can you break those down a little bit what should people perhaps be avoiding what do you consider it is like an okay you know especially if you know maybe it's like you're putting it in a drink and that you have twice a week versus having it in every single week break those down a little bit perfect so anything that's derived from a plant I'm okay with right I'm perfectly fine with that it's the other ones that can have adverse effects and you know some of my clients who have some type of artificial sweeteners like sugar alcohols can experience a lot of GI distress I think that's something really important to look at in your diet if you're having some digestive issues but if you're having things every once in a while it's perfectly fine like you said twice a week not a big deal especially even if it is in our official sweetener that isn't quote unquote like the best but if you're going to be having a little bit more often I think the plant derived ones are definitely the way to go and what are some of the plant derived ones like this the stevia the trivia a lot of the ones they'll have a little usually have a little leaf on their package there you go look at the leaf are really good yeah it'll tell you if it's derived from a plant it will definitely be on the label and I think that's important to know but I don't know I am a dietitian that believes in sugar and not so much artificial sweeteners like I want you to enjoy your food I want you to have sweets I want you to have things that you think are off limits but more so I want you to focus on your portion size and how often you're having it because you can have food and like we said it's so important to you remember that in any journey you're in focus on what you can have what you can have and when you want to enjoy something you can enjoy it that's a great note for us to and on today Nikki thanks so much for stopping by thanks for shedding light and some long time controversial topics not only in our community but you know in the world of health and wellness tell our listeners where they can follow along for more info so my socials are at Nikki I'm just gore the dietitian we also have a website my husband and I as previously discussed he's also a bodybuilding.com athlete and that would be the RD and CPT.com you can find lots of good information and like we said before that's where I like to my blog post and just kind of get some sound nutrition advice in the world rather than whatever revolves in the social media great thanks so much Nikki yeah thank you for having me thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way conf

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 10 ｜ Josh Whalen ｜ Sex, Drugs & Testosterone [HqqULr7C2n8].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding, I'm Lysner's, my name is Daniel Bitz, and welcome back to the BB Compa Cast. Today I'm joined by Josh Wallen. Josh is the founder of Bloakes, a rising telehealth service geared towards prioritizing men's metabolic health. More importantly, he's a proud husband to a supportive wife, Katie, the founder of Joy, an equal partner in women's metabolic health, and is a proud dad of two. He's a former Chicago Lions rugby player who still seeks movement and adventure, whether that's helly skiing, jamming out in concert crowds or hitting the gym at home. His journey to creating blocs began a few years ago when he started feeling, well, old, low energy, lack of focus, a dwindling drive, and yep, even some failure to launch. Every treatment he saw, either gave him a one-size-fits-all approach or told him to accept his new normal. Neither were options. Josh left his longstanding career in corporate America to become an entrepreneur and take destiny into his own hands. Today, Bloakes is creating the future of men's health care. Josh, welcome to the pod. Thanks for having me. That's quite the intro. Excited to have you on today. Guys, this one's for you. Men, happy men's health month, though I will say to our ladies listening and it's important for both sides educate themselves on today's topic. Just a brief intro of what we have in the docket for you. We'll be defining metabolic health and what that means. We're going to be breaking down to testosterone. Men's sexual health, weight loss, and we've been tackle anti-aging at a high level. So all great things that tie well into this month of November again four men's health month, Josh, let's dive in with topic one. Today's episode is brought to you by JustMeets. Are you eating enough protein to maintain your testosterone levels? JustMeets is a no-fuss, all flavor, home delivery protein service. Choose from the products of 12 premium meats with new flavors released regularly. Elbit your plate with options of beef, chicken, or pork, and say goodbye to long days spent in the kitchen for meal prep. JustMeets makes it easier to hit protein goals and stay fueled for the journey ahead. Learn more at JustMeets.com. Defining metabolic health. So I feel like this word has been thrown around a lot lately, but what is metabolic health? Yeah, it's a cluster of risk factors. And there's a whole slew of them, but we're talking about it more now because we are living an unhealthy state. We have obesity rates that are above 70, 74% including weight loss. Including weight, over weightness. But those clusters of risk factors include blood pressure, increased waistline, triglycerides, cholesterol, LDL, HDL, even BMI, although I think that sometimes deceiving. But there's whole slew of them, blood sugar content. Also goes synonymous with insulin resistance. Yeah, absolutely. Talk a little bit about each of those, right? How do each of those play a role in your daily life? And I also want you to hit on BMI, right? Because I too think, based off your tone, that is becoming a little bit of an outdated metric for us to engage with in terms of measuring overall health. Yeah, I mean, talk about BMI first. So I'll give you an example. I was just with Dr. Folkers, who's one of our clinical partners. Guys, five, nine, maybe five, eight and a half, 215 pounds. We lift it yesterday morning. He put up 365, six times, 400 pounds once. And there's not an ounce of fat on that guy. But clinically, from a BMI scale standpoint, he would be considered overweight. It might even be considered obese. I haven't done the actual calculations, but even me, I would be considered obese. So I think it's outdated. I think it needs to change. And I think sometimes there's maybe too much of an emphasis on it, especially when it comes to insurance and getting things approved, such as the GLP one medications that we'll talk about. But I think it sometimes may be evaluated on a case by case basis. So talking about some of those other risk factors, blood pressure, anything when 35 or 130 to 85 or higher is considered metabolic, Lyon healthy, waistline. That's a big indication of where you're going abdominal fat, visceral fat, men, 40 inches or higher. When in 35 inches or higher, and I think that's probably the first telltale sign that you're likely metabolic, metabolically unhealthy. But it has a cascade of effects to everything else that's going on inside and under the hood. But you truly got to take a blood test to really check. Speaking of blood tests, tell us a little bit about blocs and what you're doing with blood tests there. We're doing a lot, and we're trying to make it simple. We follow the kiss model, keep it simple, stupid. For men, it's three options. And a lot of it depends on the depth of what you're trying to achieve. Also budget. We believe that everybody should get access to blood testing and an affordable rate. But we have three testing models, $99, $2, $49, and $5, 99. Really, it's going to cover as much as we need to prescribe certain medications. And then some, we look at blood in only one funnel. It's got to be comprehensive. It's not one disease in two disease, and it's certainly not reactive. We believe in proactive and preventative health care. So our even our most simple blood test starts at 40 biomarkers. Goes all the way up to 74. And we're measuring damn near everything in the body with those. How often should we be in an intestine? And we're going to get to age in a second. But just let's talk about general health and wellness, right? What's your recommendation for frequency? I think at minimum, once you've grown out of your childhood, you should be getting tested at least twice a year. And there's a lot of reasons for it outside of just reacting to things. But getting ahead of a problem before it becomes a problem, should be the model in healthcare. And a lot of times you can catch something before it becomes a problem. But a lot of times it holds you accountable to your health. And I think that's something that we're sorely lacking in today's society. It's even coming from primary care docs. I mean, how many times have individuals been gaslit from other doctors? I mean, I have family members who walked into actual medical clinics, where fighting obesity, who were not told their overweight, and they were told their fine, well, I even had the same problem. That's why we're here because I was gaslit as a patient. I had so many issues going on, not just my low T, but I was never consulted on those. Tell us a little bit more about your journey and your experience and what got you here today. Well, it's, you know, it was over a longer time period. As you mentioned in the intro, I was a former athlete. I played rugby at a high level. So I knew my body, the really the genesis of why we're here is my wife. She was the, she was the push that I need it. And I say this example often because it actually works, but it's kind of like snoring. When somebody in that relationship is not optimized, or somebody is lacking something, the other person is the one that's truly suffering. It's, you know, if you had asked me, then at that time, I probably would have said, yeah, I'm okay. You know, my sex drive seems fine. Looking back at it now compared to what I am now, I'm a different man. I was 40, 50 pounds heavier. So my journey started probably like most guys and most gals. When saw a primary card doc, when saw a few of them. And I was fortunate that I just kind of threw a hell Mary at a friend who could become in one of our business partners, Dr. Folkers. And kind of where you're like, whoa, Houston, we got a problem here. Our testosterone levels are equivalent of a 70 year old man and then unhealthy one at that. Looking back now, I can't believe it took me that long to figure it out. I can't believe how poorly I was guided through these primary card docs, through doctors that were even friends, pain management, doctors, surgeons. It's become a niche, but more importantly, people need to learn how to own that journey because if I would have just settled, if my wife and I would have just settled, we'd probably be divorced. I'd probably be even heavier than what I was then. And probably be facing a hard attack in my 40s. Thanks for sharing. You brought up our next topic testosterone, right? That's really, you know, I would say the root of our discussion today for guys out there breaking down men's hormonal health and introduction to testosterone. And so first of all, what is testosterone? Yeah, it's a human hormone. It's a hormone that is very, very vital. It's a master hormone for both men and women. And it is a sexual hormone that does so many, so many amazing things in our body, whether sexual function, physical function, building lean muscle mass, helping a brain fog. We talked a little bit about metabolic health. If you're metabolically unhealthy, it's almost a guarantee that you're going to have low T symptoms. You know, it's another epidemic that we're not talking enough about, just like insulin resistance, just like metabolic health. And, you know, it's something that, you know, 50, 60 years ago, we weren't talking about because we've changed. We, you know, live secondary lifestyles. We have an obese population. We're living in a world full stress, both micro and macro. You know, we have these things, these phones that we're constantly on that we're constantly getting these cortisol release. You know, the emergence of processed foods of changed testosterone levels. And, you know, I think in order for us to start adjusting to it, correcting that optimizing people, we got to start talking more about it. What are the signs and symptoms of low testosterone, generally? Yeah, I mean, we talked a little bit about metabolic health and this real fat. I mean, one of the quick signs is, you know, are you packing weight in areas that you don't? There's the obvious sex drive. Are you experiencing some sexual performance issue? You don't necessarily, I'd say, a correct outest function, but performance issues. And there's a whole litany of things that can go with that. You know, just overall physical drive. I can tell you when I was going through my journey and struggling, especially as a former athlete who used to work out four or five, six times a week, I hadn't seen the inside of a gym nor did I want to see the inside of a gym in weeks. You know, we even had a gym in our house. I had no excuse. You know, brain fog is another thing, but those are the probably the most common things. And then, you know, something that we constantly see in both men and women is low energy levels. It is, you know, we work with a guy that's a big UFC guy by the name of Dan Henderson. And, you know, trying to get, you know, his straight answer is always fun, but he always says, I had just more energy. I wasn't on the couch anymore. And if that can just motivate you, that's enough in itself. You mentioned, you know, we weren't thinking about this 50 to 60 years ago. I would argue, we weren't thinking a lot about this 10 years ago, right? And what we're starting to see now is a slew of younger men experiencing lower testosterone. What's feeding that epidemic? Yeah, I mean, I think there's a lot of things that we covered with the same, you know, audience. But, you know, I think you can really align yourself with the emergence of process foods in the decline of our metabolic health and the decline of testosterone levels. But, you know, secondary life cells, guys are not moving as much as they used to. They're not as physically active as they used to. There's a whole slew of reasons. I mean, we are now in a new category of testosterone, which is secondary hypogonandism. That's something we never talked about. And, you know, you can read as many statues you want that talk about hypogonadism, which is the true definition of low T. And in some societies, it's 250 nanograms per desolated to 300. But there are so many guys living with low T symptoms. Because when we look at ranges, we're looking at optimal ranges, somewhere between 800 and 1200. But there's a whole lot of guys that are in that in between phase. And then there's a whole lot of guys in the hypogonad phase. You know, I think this status, somewhere around, I think it's 45% of every eye over 40 is going to experience low T symptoms. That's a lot. And there's a lot. You know, like you said, I mean, also I think lifting heavy is a huge component too. That's an important factor. Not only to get out there and move and go to the gym, but lifting heavy and that applies to men. And women we've said it before in this podcast too. It's important, not only for body composition, but for hormonal levels that were talking about. Today, you know, I think you and I had a great conversation on the phone prior to today. We talked about that knee jerk reaction that often comes with TRT and hormonal replacing. And all of these things, you know, that I think have gained a negative stigma over the last several decades. You know, you said it best. You said oftentimes these are, you know, slightly or even so drastically attached to the use of antibiotics steroids. Let's talk about, you know, maybe how TRT got the bad rap that you're that I think still, you know, exist today for a lot of the general population. And let's talk about really the differentiating factors here. Yeah, I, you know, I think a lot of our negative connotation comes from the 70s and the 80s and the 90s were guys are, I mean, this is the term juicing where they're, you know, high alpha antibiotics steroids stuff that we don't even prescribe that we don't even have access to. And there's a whole black market, even though, you know, TRT exists legally. But the key differentiator is there's there's a dangerous low end of it spectrum, which we talked about, high alpha go nanos, and secondary hypogodinanas. There's also a really dangerous side on the opposite end of the spectrum where guys are taking antibiotics steroids. Well, beyond what even a lab core or quest test will pick up. I mean, that's 15, 16, 700 nanograms per deceler. You're running risk on both sides of that heart disease, autoimmune issues, cancer, stroke. And that's why you're seeing in the bodybuilding community, guys are dropping in some cases like FIs. And they're not taking what we consider replacement. And that's the key word. We were replacing what we think should be there at a healthy level. We're incorporating labs on a significant basis. Yes, about how often guys should get labs when you're on a therapy. It's even more. For me, I'm getting anywhere from four to six comprehensive labs a year. Sometimes when you're in your first kind of round of treatment, it might be six to eight. But you've got to be measuring things outside of just testosterone. PSA, your estrogen levels. There's so many things that go with that. There are different delivery systems in which you can go through testosterone, your replacement therapy, right? There's capsule and oral. There's injectables. What is, what would, first of all, what's a root that bloke takes, right? And typically, what are the difference between those two and how they're reacting with the body? Yeah, all the above, we take a lot of time to try to push people more towards subcutaneous injections, more often per week versus one per week. But, you know, a compliant patient and a patient that is comfortable with some type of technique is better than the uncompliant patient. The only thing we don't do is pallet therapy. But, you know, trokey's are effective, creams are effective. What we have found is testosterone by subcutaneous injection two to three times a week. You're going to have your most optimal ranges. You're going to have your least on a peaking valleys. And you're going to be able to manage other markers that are pertinent as you scale on testosterone such as estrogen. Because your estrogen is going to rise with your testosterone. It's a given. You also want to be looking at things like comatic rid, the viscosity of your blood. How viscous is your blood going to get when we do it in multiple doses over a week. It tends to minimize that risk. You mentioned estrogen. I feel like that is a dirty word to some men, right? They hear that. And, you know, some of the guys they won't touch tofu. They won't touch high soil foods out there. Like, no, absolutely not. That's too high in estrogen. But I mean, the amount that you're going to have to consume to even get to that point. But I, I digress talk about why that's important, you know, in a male's body. First of all, they probably don't like tofu because it's soft. I'm kidding. I don't like it. First of all, food that came right. Men and all, that's that's spot on. You know, when we look at estrogen, we don't demonize it. It is a healthy, healthy hormone. The important thing is that it's at a range that is relative to your testosterone levels. And we have calculators for that, but it is inevitable that when your testosterone raises, especially in the exogenous form, even in, in, in, in doginess form, it's, it's going to raise with that. The, the point of labs, the point of doing these injections in those therapeutic doses is to minimize that, that, that, that increase. Some guys are just more prone to it, but estrus is a very good thing. I mean, too much estrogen, not enough estrogen can, can lead to a lot of other issues. Heart issues, erectile dysfunction issues. I mean, we've seen guys bottom out their estrogen levels. For whatever reason, they're, they come to us. We inherit these type of people. They haven't had a really strong erection in months, you know, and a lot of times it's just, you gotta turn that estrogen back on. Right. Oh, we see in that happy medium for all levels. Let's put it all together for testosterone. Let's talk about the, you know, detecting the signs and symptoms through getting your blood work done to now going on therapy. And then when can we expect that to start having impact on your lifestyle? You know, what we typically see is, the, the, the, the, the, to talk about the impact. We're seeing it happen younger and younger. You know, we're seeing guys in their 20s and in 30s come in with, with secondary hypogonism, like it's going out of style. And that, that's typically somewhere between three and 500 nanograms per desolator. In terms of the impact, these medications are effective and usually very quickly. You want to be very careful about the person you're actually seeing, because something that we've seen a lot. And this isn't to to rain on, you know, primary care docs and turn them at docs who who practice this. And it's maybe just a piece of the puzzle, or this is all we do. We're an inch wide amount of deep in these therapies. You, if you're taking an exogenous form of testosterone, it's shutting down that body's natural production. If you're not taking enough, oftentimes guys come to us with lower than when they even start it in a sub-opt more range. So it's important to find the right specialists, but oftentimes guys are feeling, you know, some type of movement, some type of impact within weeks, two weeks. We always typically say whether it's in cloma, or cloma, which are the certain categories or testosterone, allow no less than 90 days. Yeah, I think we'd be remiss also to say, this isn't the only thing you need to focus on, right? You have to focus on other lifestyle areas. You have to focus on a solid nutrition plan. You have to emphasize movement. You have to get good sleep. You have to lower stress. So all of these external factors are going to play into the success that you're seeing with TRT and HRT. Yeah, I mean, we talked about metabolic health. You know, what is it? One in three Americans are, you know, suffering from, you know, metabolic syndrome, one in two adults suffer from insulin sensitivity. Those things don't, the should not happen. Because those things are an absolute correlation to low tea. Talk about cortisol stress, sleep. If you're not managing those things, you're going to have a decrease in testosterone. I read a study at the Army Polish. I think it was on some Army Rangers where they weren't getting adequate sleep. And they were, they're measuring their guys testosterone levels. And they saw anywhere from a 50 to 75% drop. The same thing, you know, which stress, it is an antagonist to healthy hormones in general, healthy body. You know, there's, you know, they're saying that, you know, this role fat is gained through stress. You know, and those are all things that you just got to be aware of. And you got to, you know, you got to get ahead of it before it comes a problem. I wish I would have been getting tested in my 30s, you know, my wife and I went through our field fertility issues. And we had four miscarriages. And not once did an OBGYN or a primary care doc after hundreds of appointments go to the hospital. Of appointments go, Josh, hey, man, you're back on a few pounds. I want to go get your testosterone levels checked because the reality is, guys testosterone levels can drop from 50 to 75% with the woman. Their estrogen levels can go up. That's a recipe for disaster. And of course, your stress is going to go up. So your cortisol levels are going to change. You got to get ahead of that stuff. I think all that lead us into a really great third topic for today. So let's talk about men's sexual health. Her monolumbalances can impact sexual health for both men and women. And Josh, you know, you've been very open publicly with your personal experience. Things like low libido amongst a couple others. Let's say malfunctions, right? How did this persist until you saw it out the guidance? I know you mentioned your wife is a big catalyst for this. And what remedy served you best? So tell us a little bit about what you're experiencing, specifically in terms of sexual health. I mean, my wife says a better I had zero, zero sex drive. And she reminded me of that often. And I didn't listen once twice. So I was fortunate that I had a wife that wanted that in our relationship and wanted to push me to get better. But to be honest, I just changed. I looked different in the mirror. I just did a before after pick of me recently with my son two and a half years ago. And just last week, the changes in saying, I cranged you and I look at myself. So, you know, whether I was admitting to it then, I was not comfortable with my skin. I looked different, my clothes fit different. You know, we talked about metabolic health and waistlines. I was somewhere between a 40 and 42 in choice. I was metabolically unhealthy. I was the classic candidate. My waistline right now is 36 inches. So I've lost almost four inches off that. My blood pressure was always off. You know, I used to go to the IV bar just to, you know, sometimes check my blood pressure. It wasn't good. You know, there was a couple of times where they're going to turn me away. But, you know, you just got to be cognizant of it. You got to notice these signs and symptoms early. You know, it'd be open about it. Like, I think we have to start talking about masculinity different. You know, it's been demonized as well. And I think we have to be redefining it. There's a conscious masculinity. And we consistently talk about mental health and how much of a role that plays. And talking to others, I think this is in the same category. The physical side, the mental side, they all go hand in hand. And you know, if it's not somebody like your wife, maybe it's just a buddy just like, too. I don't feel the same. What I do think is happening, is there is a little bit of a movement that's happening. Guys that are comfortable in their skin are talking about it. They're more open about it. I feel like it's my obligation to talk about it. I've never run a business in my life where I've been more passionate about something and wanting to share something. I think guys were a little bit more of that line mentality. This is like, man, I kind of want to be at the mountain with everybody. I want everybody to fill the way I do. You took the words right out of my mouth. I was going to say this has to come with a certain level of vulnerability. And when it gets to a certain point, you kind of just have to put that you go to side. And when you're out with the guys and when you're out, just happen a night. Talk about these things, right? It's likely going to help more people in that group than you probably think. Yeah, it's funny. So when I first started this business, I had a relative passway, but I was with some of my family members. These are middle Iowa people. And they're 50s and 60s. And I told them what I was going to do. And we just were getting blocs off the ground. And I called the three-beer role. So you got to go hang with your boys for at least three bears. Because at first nobody had an issue. The boys were like, oh, that's intriguing. You know, the guys were like, what are you doing? And you got three bears in them? Guess what? The whites were coming up to me. These are my ants, by the way. That my uncles were going, hey, Josh. Things aren't the same in the bedroom. So you got at least get around somebody who you can have three bears. Or whatever that rule is, to just get comfortable. And how do you, you know, like you said, you mentioned your wife again? And how do you continue these conversations going with your partner? Trust is a huge factor there, right? And again, kind of putting both he goes aside and just being open, and moving on to another, ultimately, make things work long-term. So it tells a little bit about, you know, even the current conversations that you continue to have. Yeah, I mean, you got to be honest with your partner. You know, you got to ask questions, like, hey, is there something I could be doing more of? And, you know, I can tell you my energy levels changed so much that I was more productive. I was cooking further. The family, I was just more active. And I could tell there was a ripple effect just by loving that. You know, and I think if you're just honest about it and, you know, like anything else, that's for feedback. Yeah, absolutely. We've mentioned weight loss a couple of times here, and we're specifically going to talk about weight loss for men. Oftentimes, we don't really realize how much of a role hormones play in weight loss, and even athletic performance, right? So hooding and unweight loss specifically, how can irregular testosterone levels serve as a potential blocker for it losing weight? Yeah, I mean, you have to understand that I don't consider testosterone to be a weight loss. But they go hand in hand with it. You have to look at what testosterone's really good at, and that's building lean muscle. And if your body is lacking testosterone, that means it's likely lacking lean muscle. Thereby making it harder to lose that visceral fat or that bad fat that's been sitting on you. So they go hand in hand, you know, there's these new medications out that are, you know, true weight loss medications. But I will tell you, if you have a low tea, you're likely to get a low or low fat, you're likely battling some type of weight issues. So it doesn't hurt to have optimal testosterone levels, and it's certainly going to help, you know, especially as you're building and growing and, you know, building lean muscle mass. I mean, I will part of the journey, do we say, okay, maybe it's time to get the hormone check. Maybe if someone has gone out a couple years ago or a year ago, six months ago, and they say, this is just not working. I have my nutrition dialed in, I'm moving, I'm doing all those things that we've said in the beginning. We need to be doing at one point does someone need to say, okay, it's time to get tested. Yeah, I mean, the easiest thing is just get a test, right? It's not a big deal. There's so much access in it, and it's beyond blogs, right? You know, you can get, you know, at home test kits, they're not as accurate, but they're super accessible. And you can do it in the compines of your own home. You can go to a doctor. I would recommend you go to a doctor that specializes in this, because we've, we've had countless stories with patients going to primary care, doctor, internal medmethox, and arguing about giving their testosterone on the mobile. Check, I think every guy, as a region, I think every woman, as a region, especially in their 20s, needs to have at least one to two baseline labs a year, so you can see how your body's aging. And when are some of these brand name drugs that we're starting to see now that, unfortunately, a lot of people are seen as kind of, you know, that one stop shop, and but it's really more so. I mean, let me know if you disagree or agree a band aid in a way, right? Maybe it's going to give you those immediate results that you're looking for, but long term, you know, what kind of breakdown what we're seeing and feel free to give some examples that you mentioned before. So are you talking about the GOP? Yeah. Yeah. So there is, you can't, even if you're not in health and wellness, everybody's talking about those impact, right? I kind of feel like it's getting demonized to a fault. And I kind of look at it, like hormones over the last 20, 30 years, you know, our testosterone. We demonize the hell to that. And now we're understanding the importance of it. Here's what you have to look at with obesity and being overweight. There's two things that are leading cause from that. That's hard disease and cancer. If we can eliminate that or reduce that by allowing people to get an edge in weight loss, I'm all for it. What I don't agree with is the reckless abandon of perscribing it without suggesting and holding your patients accountable to lifestyle changes. And that's the most important thing. Listen, I've done it all. I've tried some luteide, I tried to resept with side. I had my ups and downs. But 100% I actually saw monumental change when I decided to do the work when nobody else was watching. That was exercise. That was getting my steps and that was actually watching my diet for the first time. You know, good, better ugly. I was managing my calories. I was effectively able to do that. So I think they're amazing drugs. I think they're going to change the world. But only if there's something parallel to that. And that's that accountability piece. And I think the unfortunate thing is there's only a handful of people that are doing that and doing it well. I think we are doing it well. Everybody gets a coach. But that is a crucial part to these things being effective. Because you can actually out eat these medications. You know, you feel like shit too. You're going to get nauseous. You're going to get acid reflex. And then you're going to have a belly that doesn't agree with it. So you have to still manage your diet. You mentioned a coach and you had the consultation that initially takes place. But talk about that accountability that takes place within blocs and how someone can, you know, read the benefits of that one's day. Join. Yeah, I mean, listen, clinicians are amazing doctors and nurse practitioners. Oftentimes they want to stay in their lane. And oftentimes, I don't think we have this issue, but they lack bedside manners. And sometimes it's just building trust. It's building rapport with somebody to just talk openly like this. I think that's where a case manager is so effective beyond, you know, their salary. And it allows people to just put their guard down and say, listen, I don't lose weight last because I like shit. You know, okay, honest, let's get back on the horse. You know, let's let's let's make some change. How about are you lifting or you're walking? Somebody to just walk them through there and run parallel with them. And that's what a coach provides. And how does that process work with lox specifically? Yeah, I mean, we are, we are fortunate enough that we see the value and massive impact of coaches. So everybody comes to us, whether you're getting a lab or whether you're getting a peptide or whether you're getting a GOP one medication. You're going to get a sign of coach. You're going to get a sign of clinician. We've seen a higher retention rate because that, which is extremely positive. We've even seen a referral rate go up because of that. So, you know, from a business side, we know it's working. But even from a feedback side, we know patients are really enjoying it. And I feel like that's, you know, a pretty large differentiating factor between what you're doing and maybe some other test kits out there, right? Because like you said, the accuracy is a little bit lower in those if not much lower. And they don't get that piece. No, I'm so marred doing it again, but to have that personnel and that board certified doctor, that nurse practitioner who can say, hey, you know, I noticed this or hey, I'm feeling this or hey, you know, this doesn't feel right. Okay, well let's talk about it. Let's get on a phone and set it up and let's figure it out together. Totally. I mean, and oftentimes you can, you can adjust course pretty easy, you know, if if something is all, I mean, you know, you can easily adjust a dose. You could tell them to scale back him super nauseous. Well, let's scale back. Let's let your body adjust to that. You know, people want to lose weight right away, but you got to let your body settle in. There's receptors, more amount of receptors. GLP1 receptors through your whole body. It's a drug. It's a therapy. You're going to feel it sometimes bad, but if you do it and you have a coach that's aligned with you, that process can be mitigated to where there's almost no risk. And I feel like having these type of ongoing relationships with your provider with your medical team being able to call them email them having more access to them than I feel like we even had five years ago, right? And I think the pandemic fueled a lot of that with the rise in telehealth. I mean, that does wonders for your home life, too. Your wife and your husband and your family, they can only take, you know, listening to it so much. It's not only listening, but they don't have the answers that your medical, you know, guide is going to have for you, right? So yes, you can then and yes, you can talk about how you're feeling that's a healthy piece of relationship in home life, but I mean, if you can bring this directly to the person that you're working with who's going to have those answers, it's going to help everybody. Yeah, let's let's look at things before telehealth really was on the scene and you really got to look at COVID because that's what expedited it. Still to this day, the average time it takes for a patient to see an actual physician is 21 to 26 days. That's a long time. Okay? The average time it's taking out of that patient's day by the time they leave their house by the time they get back to their home is anywhere from three to four hours. And we know it's a grueling process. We know it's a still waiting room. We know you got to manage parking, all that stuff. Sometimes I feel like we have we have too much access to our patients, but we have unlimited text messaging, which is a very effective form of communication these days. And it's all a double compliant way of unlimited emails. You have consults that are mixed in there. I can't tell you because I deal with it myself with just standard doctors. I mean, my son, you know, had a knee injury jump on a trampoline. That process was a pain in the ass. If that was brought to me from a tell-a-house perspective, I would have paid triple double. You know, it would have been insane. I feel like I just broke my pinky finger of all things and abiking the accident back at the summer. I mean, the toll it took on our life over this little pinky finger. I tell you, I'm with you right there on the same boat. Today's episode is brought to you by JustMeets. JustMeets is your protein routine provider. The hardest part of meal preping has never been easier. Simply order your meats, prepare for delivery, and reheat with the included directions. Play it up with your favorite sides for delicious and care-free meal. Learn more at JustMeets.com. Let's let's segue into our final topic for today, Josh Aging and anti-aging. So, you know, earlier we did mention, yes, younger men are indeed experiencing low testosterone levels, but let's talk about 50 plus, right? What starts happening in the male body with the aging process? And again, what should they be looking out for as warning signs of declining levels? Well, if you're not careful, it gets really fast. You know, your body is consistently evolving. You know, there's two schools that some people think aging is a disease. Some don't like the FDA does not recognize aging as a disease, but it is an absolute, there's an absolute increase as you age. You're going to be more likely of hard disease, more likely of cancer, more likely of all the mean issues, more likely of metabolic disorders, obesity, all those things come with aging. So, it's a hot topic. We're right in the thick of it. You know, we consider ourselves to be a company that really really focuses on health span, which for me, long Japanese part of that, but if I'm going to live longer, I want to live healthier. You know, I would hate to have 20 years of my life for a month healthy. I think that's what we do really good job out. Let's talk about longevity and anti-agent. Again, two words that are taking the spotlight post-COVID. And again, no one's immortal here, but if we can expand our life span, if we can add quality to the years of our life that we are here, I'm all for it. So let's talk about anti-agent. This is a word that's being thrown around a lot, especially with the rise of something like NAD plus. So first of all, what is an NAD plus? That's a coincidence. I'm that lives in every cell, which's interesting about NAD plus is you have the most NAD in your youth. And by the time you're middle age, you have about half. The beauty is it's easy to substitute whether it's intravenously subcutaneous intramuscular injections, patients typically fill a nice little energy boost. It cleans up your mitochondria function. It's great for a sol year repair. I don't know if you know the fundamental thing that is rather inexpensive, that could add a lot of life to you. I mean, it's proven that it can help increase life span, health span, energy, all those good things. What's the time in place to begin those in a routine? Now, I mean, listen, listen. If the science, the governing bodies say that when you're in your youth, that's when it's peat. Any time you're aging, it's probably a good time to start considering that. I think one of the interesting things is you don't have to wait for a reaction to be proactive. You don't have to feel like shit to start doing that. And as a clinic, we kind of have two patients. We have patients that are very symptomatic, that are reacting to those symptoms that was me. And then we have these proactive people who are like, you know, I just want to live the best version of myself. So, you know, it's not a loaded question. But it's a question that I think you know, you should just start owning your journey as soon as you can. And if an idea is part of that, you should certainly do it. What are anti-aging remedies that we're seeing out there today? I mean, we have growth hormone peptides like some moreland. It's a growth hormone, it's a credit card. Meaning it's going to stimulate your body's natural production, never shutting it down. You know, we deal a lot with glutathione. It's a peptide made up of a few different molecules. What's really interesting about NAD and glutathione, it's great for insulin sensitivity. We talked about that with metabolic health. All those things combined are phenomenal, just for longevity and health span. That's what you're seeing. I mean, I don't know if we'll see like a cure for aging, but I definitely think at some point there's a lot of thought leaders. There's a lot of money going into this Saudi Arabia's put, I think, a billion dollars towards aging. You know, there's a lot of ex-Google executives who started a fun just for this. I think we're going to start understanding the aging process differently. And we're going to start increasing health span. Yeah, I think all of these interventions are great. It's awesome to see the, you know, it's awesome to see the progression that we're seeing today. I read something interesting. You'll enjoy this. It was an article from Fortune Well this week. And it was about a woman who's ranking number two in longevity scale. And there's an individual, I'm not going to say his name, but there's this individual who is spending $2 million a year on his health. And it is taking blood from a 17 year old son and putting in his body. So the length that he is going. And he ranks six. So he's four spots behind this woman. This woman spends $27 a month on a gym membership. She is a single mom, 55, 17 year old son. She gets up, does her strength in her cardio. Maybe a sauna two or three times. He eats, you know, a lot of veggies goes to sleep at a decent hour. And she's four spots ahead of him. So I think all of this is great. You know, when it comes to an aging specifically and a deep lesson, things like that. But it goes back to, you know, the root of our discussion of these life-child lifestyle changes. You have to start there. Yeah, I mean, you know, we, this, this is why we're talking about metabolic health. You know, if you really want to extend life. If you really want to live a healthier life, focus on your metabolic health. Focus on your caloric intake. Focus on ensuring that you don't have the stroke fat. Focus on your, you know, your blood pressure. Focus on what is going in and out of your mouth from a food perspective. Carbohydrate sugar, stress, sleep. All those things are so important. And those are free. Yeah, absolutely. Josh, you're always wearing an amazing hat that says, fuck sick care, which I'm still. I'm still waiting on one of those. I have one. Awesome. I'm going to put it on after this. Give some context behind the mission of Blocks and joy and really what you're trying to put out into the world. Yeah, that's a great question. I'm very, very passionate about our sick care system. And I think I get a little bit of a seat at the table because I've been in health care for 15 years. I've worked for big, big, med device company called striker. I've owned an operated clinics. I've taken insurance. I've not taken insurance. And I've seen the likes of big insurance. I've seen the likes of big farm. I've seen the likes of big foods playing a vital role in our system. You know, we want to disrupt that space. We want to build an ecosystem for anybody to come to us and just live a healthier life. And we want to ensure that we're not prescribing medications to them, prescribing medications to fix those medications. And I think when we can take patients from obese to managing their way from low tea to optimal tea, then we're doing our job. And you know, it's going to take time. There's a lot of money that's going against us. But there's a community and there's a tribe that's following us. And it's really cool. We wear these hats. I wear it all the time in the amount of comments unsolicited that we get. People are noticing that and they don't know us, but they know what's happening in our health care system. And it's a big rabbit hole, but we're just doing our part in it. Josh, thanks so much for stopping by. We're excited to see what the future holds for both folks and joy and bodybuilding. And we're going to see what the whole family and bodybuilding is going to do. Thank you for having me. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at Bodybuilding.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Ep. 15 ｜ Kristina Centenari ｜ The Power in The Pause [RqMEBD5lm9c].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding, a calm listener. His name is Daniel Bitz and welcome back to the BB Compaqqa. Today I'm joined by Christina Centenari. Christina is a Nike running coach, tonal strength coach, and wellness entrepreneur in New York City. As a former division one athlete, she struggled with both physical injuries and her own mental health. She's devoted the last 10 years of coaching, helping people get stronger and move with less pain. She's worked in both rehab and performance settings with everyone from professional athletes to the active again population. She specializes in strength, performance, and mobility, as well as breath work and mindfulness training. Her background as an elite athlete who struggle with anxiety and depression has molded her holistic approach to coaching today. She's a competitive runner having race 11-half Ironman's, wonderful Ironman and seven marathons, and his passionate about how breath work and mindfulness practices are crucial to achieving an optimal state of both body and mind. Christina is so excited for our conversations today. Welcome to the podcast. Thank you, Daniel. I'm so excited to be here. Absolutely, so we want to go back in time with you because you have an interesting path to where you are today. Topping number one, everybody, the athlete in me. Christina tells us about your journey on setting out to becoming a collegiate athlete which you did but it came with a tradeoff which was your mental health. This is deeply personal for you and Ironically for me too. I think it's going to be a great conversation and it's one that isn't had enough outside of college campuses or perhaps even on college campuses as it's a current in real time. So number one, take us back to a time in your life where becoming a collegiate athlete became a very real possibility. Was there pressure to make that happen or did the seem like the pinnacle of what you had been dreaming about growing up? Yeah, it is not talked about enough. So I'm really grateful that I have the opportunity to talk about it today. I would say it was a little bit of both. It was something that I knew I wanted to do from a very young age. That being said, I, for some reason, put pressure on myself at a very young age to reach this goal. There are actually two concepts and psychology that I think about for some reason I developed around 12 and one is called the audience effect, which is essentially when you think when you start to realize as a human being that other people might be observing what you do and so you sort of tweak your behavior based off of that. And as a tennis player, I don't know if I said that, I fully tennis. In growing off an in college, I became very self-aware of my performance. And my results and if people saw that I was winning. So I wanted to win and I wanted to do well, but I also wanted, you know, my coach to see me and I wanted my parents to see me and I wanted my friends and colleges. So that that audience effect, I developed that like maybe 12. And then there's a second concept called the spotlight effect, which is sort of similar. It's when you think everybody is watching you more than they are really. And again, at a young age, I just figured I had all of these eyes on me. Even though I probably didn't have as many as I thought. And I started developing this mindset of achieving goals that weren't necessarily for myself. But they were for how it looked on paper, how it looked with a ranking, or, you know, a social status, or to get to a certain, you know, college conference. So that pressure I definitely started putting on myself. And it was emphasized when I was injured. My crucial years of college recruiting. I had this shoulder injury that I couldn't figure out. And it really put me in this mindset of scarcity. You know, I was never good enough. I was afraid. I wouldn't get to where I wanted to be. All of my friends were being recruited and signing and it was end of my junior year. And I couldn't hit a forehand because I felt constant pain in my shoulder. And so I sort of developed this mindset from like age 12 to 16. I mean, of feeling like everybody was watching me of not having intrinsic goals, but having goals based off of external outcomes and a feeling scared that I wouldn't ever be good enough. And so, you know, it's kind of a loaded answer. But it just goes to show that a lot of this, like, a lot of the mental health stuff that I dealt with later in life, started developing at a young age. And how do you think that impacted the years to follow and even today too? You're a little bit of that fishbowl effect as some may call it as well. And just the overall pressure is that maybe you just put on yourself. Even if you weren't necessarily getting this from a parent, a coach, you know, college recruiters, etc. Yeah, it completely translates. I love using sport as a lens to talk about other things because it's like the best metaphor for life. The pressure that I put on myself in tennis is the same pressure that I put on myself to get to land my first job in New York, right? It was a job that was flashy and sort of like elite at the time to be there. And I wanted the name, like I wanted the logo on my shirt, just like I wanted the college on my shirt. And I think that whether it's a sport or it's a job or it's a relationship like our culture is our culture doesn't really teach us how to have more of a perspective. It just emphasizes what we label ourselves as I'm a tennis player. I went to this school. I do this as a job. Rather than I'm a kind person, you know, I'm caring. I treat others well. And those are like the foundational aspects of being a successful human being. But it took a lot of trial and error and a lot of reaching a goal and not feeling fulfilled for me to finally realize that. You get to campus. You start life as an athlete. What happens physically mentally, emotionally, take us through that? Yeah. So perfect example of reaching a goal and not feeling fulfilled. I made it to my dream school. I had a very narrow perspective on where I wanted to go. I wanted to go ACC. I wanted that was essentially it. I barely even visited the campus. That was just like a signed ACC. I'm good. I got to campus and I still felt like I didn't belong there. And I felt like this longing to do more and to be better. And so my next goal was to play in the lineup. I needed to play in the lineup, right? I made it to my dream school. But not for a moment that I really soak that in. It was just like the next thing. What do I have to do next? To prove myself to who? And, you know, being in an environment where you don't feel like you belong, you might not feel like you're good enough. I would step on the court every day and I just could barely hit a ball. And so now I'm at this ACC school. It's a lead and I'm with incredible players. And I'm in this incredible program and I can't hit a ball. By the way, that's called self-doubt when you show up to something and you don't believe in yourself. And so then you can't perform. And so I spiraled. I spiraled mentally first. I just felt that when you don't feel like you belong and you don't feel like you're good enough and you don't feel accepted. Which is like, by the way, all of just what humans want to feel, all of those three things. You're going to feel really alone. You're going to feel really lost. And that spotlight effect is going to height be heightened. You're going to feel like you're the only one. And so that's how I felt. I spiraled mentally and then that also took a toll physically. I developed a pretty severe eating disorder which happens in also an environment where you feel like you can't control a lot. I could control what I put into my body. And, and yeah, I mean, I think that spiral led to a place of just not knowing at all who I was anymore. If the only thing that I could define myself by was a tennis player, now I didn't even feel like that. It's an isolating effect that I don't think everybody truly understands because I think from the outside looking in, you look at a collegiate athlete and they're like, oh, the jocks from high school have now just elevated and they're now part of a different team and now they have, you know, X, 10 fold what they had before in high school, right? It's very isolating. You're now competing with a group of individuals who are at the same level that you were. They just plucked the number ones from each of these schools and now put them into a group of one another and now they have to compete against the best from Jersey and New York and South Carolina and XYZ across the country, right? That's what, that's what, I mean, from a division one perspective from my experience. That's what you're met with as a freshman. It's intimidating. I couldn't lift the bar when I got to my weight room and I have people next to me girls next to me who are Benchie and 185 and I could have Benchie and 85 pound bar. It's intimidating. It's isolating. The fact that you yourself experiencing, you know, blockers with eating and developing and eating disorder, that's a whole different component that I think a lot of people don't realize as well. When I was a freshman, when we were getting our BMI and our body fat taken for us, we were getting skin-fold test taken as a freshman and I in my life had never even been through that process and I didn't know what it was and being told that it's bad, right? And I don't even know what any of that means in relevant to numbers. So you're going through this extreme transition and you're all alone, you know, no longer with your family, your friends from high school, etc. And now you have all these expectations. I'm only to perform on a core on a field, etc. Now your body's being poked at. You're telling that you need to run this fast and lift this amount away, etc. So all that to saying a very long one would say it's a huge transition. And I've had, I had teammates who dropped out in the first day. I had teammates who dropped down the first month. I had people who who transferred schools hoping to get a different experience elsewhere. People don't really understand that turmoil that occurs at the collegiate level and this is D1, D2, D3, it happens at every level. Tell us what happened with yourself and your own situation and where you went from there after experiencing that. Yeah, it's interesting because you said that so well, like your experience is, or yeah, your experience in what you saw of your teammates and that the whole collegiate athletic experience, especially as a female, is when I thought I was alone in it, but now 10-ish years later, I'm like, oh my gosh, so many people have dealt with this. And I just remember being like in the locker room and getting new gear so that there's this kind of ironic scenario all I wanted in high school was to wear the gear, right? Yeah. And now we're getting the gear and I'm like, I hope I fit into these small shorts because I don't want to tell coach that I need a medium. Like, and I, you know, I think that again, this isn't talked about enough and there's so much nuance and complexity to what happens when you are not taught the tools to self-regulate and have like a bigger perspective. I was talking to somebody about this recently and and I was telling a similar story and they knew me at that time in my life and there was a lot of other stuff going on, right? My teammates weren't that supportive. My coach was an awesome. Like, I sort of was a part of a program that was high level, but the internal workings of it didn't make for a very supportive environment. And so the person I was talking to was like, you're putting a lot of this on yourself when you were affected by a lot of other people's actions. And when I was 16, I definitely played the victim, right? Like my mental physical emotional spiral is because of my teammates and how they're treating me. It's because of my coach and not playing me in the lineup. But at this point in my life, I look at all of that and I take ownership for the fact that, you know, that's, that's not something that I can control. I can't control my teammates' actions or behaviors or my coach or anything else going on. All I can control is how I show up and the energy that I bring. And so I think that, you know, that was a lesson that took me 10 years to learn. And if you were to tell me that at 16, hey, you can't control any of this other BS, like all you can control is your energy. It would have just gone over my head. I wasn't able to grasp it until I went through all of the really hard stuff. And so I went through all of the really hard stuff up until I had a complete mental breakdown one day sophomore year. And I remember the day I was sitting on this bench and I was talking to a teammate and I just started like hyperventilating and that's never happened to me. And I don't even remember how I got from that bench to my coach's office, but somebody called him and said I was having panic attack. And so at that point my coach drove me halfway from North Carolina to Virginia where my parents drove down from Baltimore to pick me up. Middle of the school day. And I didn't realize that I was never going to go back to that school or that program and I didn't realize that I was never going to pick up a racket again but in that moment I just needed to get out. It was now looking back like the most transformative experience. I took the rest of that year off and figured out who I was without a racket in my hand, which was a journey and continued to be a journey in the years falling. But I think you know to answer your question of what happened is I went through the hard thing and I completely broke like I hit my rock bottom at 16 and then I started learning how to climb from there. You let us into a really great transition for the next piece of this section is talking about the identity crisis that occurs during that transition period between a elite collegiate athlete to everyday life and you're obviously ended sooner than you anticipated. How do you cope without the sports specific attachment? What tools did you equip yourself with during this transition period? Now you were going through it you said sophomore year so you were even a bit younger than what most people usually it's that 21-22 mark where we start to see people having to deal with that. How did you do it? What tools did you use to get through that piece? Yeah so for context at this point I was a complete shell of myself. I was 589, maybe 115 pounds so I was like skin and bones and I remember being home and Baltimore and being so severely depressed that the only thing I wanted to do was lie on my deck and like in wrapped up and clothing and like 70 degree weather because I was freezing all the time and I just wanted to lie there and I cried a lot and you know I talk about this process in particular because I think it's adjacent to like the withdrawal process right when you're so when you're so used to having something that starts to define you and all of the sudden it's ripped away from you like Velcro like that trance that what's the word I'm looking for that you know transformation is not going to transition. Excuse me is going to be aggressive. It doesn't have to be that way. Some people graduate college and they finish their sport the kind of a tough time but it's not like aggressive transition um so so mine was aggressive but I do think that the lesson whether no matter what that transition looks like for you the lesson is so invaluable because something later on will happen in your life where you will feel like your identity is wrapped up in it. It could be a job. It could be a friendship a relationship those are three things that I say a lot because later in my life that is what I found to have my identity wrapped up in and and I think that you have to start to do the mental work to figure out what else defines you besides a sport job or relationship and it has to be about other people it has to be at the core something self-transition about how you treat other people. And this goes back to your sentiment in the beginning that episode boxing yourself in right you are limiting yourself limiting yourself from becoming you know the person that you are more than capable of becoming by only defining yourself as one specific thing and it's unfortunate that we see this specifically in this conversation with college athletes right because typically I mean that my goal starting at 12 years old similar to you the goal was D1 that was the goal in my household and that was not I was an only child that was not coming from my parents that was not coming from a coach that was entirely for me I would deny going to the movies so I could sit there and and hit a ball off a tee for three hours instead of going in the movie as I became just so overly obsessed with this sport and sitting there in my room watching YouTube videos of Nike inspirational videos and that was it it was just a one-lane. I had other things I had other hobbies I had friends but this would always come first and then I same thing I stepped on campus and my world was rocked and same thing when I stepped off of campus my world was also rocked and it wasn't until the years after I would then dive so head deep into becoming the best in corporate or the best in whatever it was that I was pursuing it took about five years after college to start to realize weight I am not one thing I am all of these different things I have all these different talents I have all these different avenues of which I can you know quote unquote define myself with you know I think for me anyway my light bulb moment was when I realized that I was still me my body was still mine and I can choose what to create with that very simple knowledge. I can become the best athlete I've ever been without being part of a traditional team without being a collegiate athlete practices became the gym it became the track the long run yoga my routine how important isn't for everyone to think of themselves as athletes to show themselves the same kind of love that collegiate athletes are elite athletes even professional athletes to go that far to mimic the routine they do by moving intentionally eating clean practicing mindfulness and prioritizing sleep why should everybody treat themselves like an athlete yeah I will try and keep this as clear as possible because I think it's really really important and I I'm going to answer this question with like three bullet points the first one is that in my experience as an athlete in my experience working with very elite at high level athletes who are successful in their craft you have to like just know in your soul the fact that your body and your mind are not two separate things they are the same and you have to treat your entire system as so so when I was growing up I pretty much pushed my mind to the side tried to get it to shut up and just wanted to get out there and hit balls like you I would sacrifice everything I would it I like to do in my free time I don't know play tennis like the there was no mental emotional muscle building it was all physical so you have to be able to understand that like your body is going to tell you some things that your thoughts won't and your mind is also going it's it's extremely powerful so it's going to be able to control your body in a very powerful way so that's the first bullet point the second one is that I think high level athletes do this very well and I encourage everybody to think about this in their daily life is where you are putting your energy our energy is our most valuable currency it is the most valuable thing we have that we can control and what we give our energy to is like what we give our life to and when you start to really understand what that means you start to see where in your life you're giving energy to things that maybe aren't serving you and so I think that elite athletes are really careful with where they're putting their energy nothing moves without energy right so you're in control of it but you have to direct your attention and your awareness in a way where you're you're expanding that energy to get something valuable back and then the third thing I would say sort of what I touched on in your last question which is just having a purpose that goes beyond yourself so I think as athletes especially tennis players we are very selfish I when I was growing up it was my schedule it was my tournaments it was what I wanted you know where I needed to be on the weekends do I have my towel and my water and my shoes and my rackets like it was so selfish and self-centered and the most elite athletes that I have worked with and that I've observed have this purpose that goes beyond themselves and if they didn't have it earlier in their career then maybe they developed later in their career and you can see that transition that change like if you agacies a great example earlier in his career a little bit of a head case you know all he wanted to be was number one in the world and then it gets to that spot and it's not fulfilling him and so later in his career he starts giving a lot of his earnings and his money away to charities that he cares about and getting involved and you see not only his performance but his personality elevate and so that last point is something that I encourage everybody whether you think of yourself as an athlete or not you should always be asking yourself what am I doing that is going beyond myself. I love it you know and I think I think people who follow a routine like this and take these things seriously whether they are novice athlete a marathon runner a weekend warrior whatever label you want to put on it I think we throw too much shade at those people because I think we need to reverse the narrative of what we consider normal I think we need to stop looking at blowing through $100 and getting drunk in a bar every weekend as normal and I think we need to start normalizing people really prioritizing their health and wellness I think we've started to see that shift specifically in the last couple of years I'm fine with the people doing their ice baths and the people who are putting sonas in their backyard I will not hear me throwing shade at any of those people I think we need to do a little less of that just kind of get people on the same narrative of what longevity can look like and make that the norm. I want to transition into topic number two what are we running from breaking down the mental health of athletes and are we running from our fears or towards our dreams can be both are we overtraining because it's a central part of our healing process or are we using as a crutch to avoid dealing with it at all I can confidently say I've certainly done both separately together at various points in my life what about you? Yeah I think my one word answer is both and then I'll go into that and say that I'm the same I at one point in my life at some points in my life still I find myself using now I run as you mentioned and I use that as something to run away from something else in my life and sometimes I have a relationship with running that I'm definitely using it as like a catalyst to push me forward towards something bigger than myself. I think that when it comes to overtraining in any sport the the pain pleasure areas in our brain overlap and so something that can start to be give you pleasure like running can take you out of your head can give you that like hi when overdoing it can become something detrimental. I I say this to my athletes now and I and I say it because I can empathize so much with being in a state where it's the it's the thing that I'm using to run away from right but my my question is is there something else in your life that is giving you pleasure besides running I can't remember who said it but I think yeah I can't remember who said it but somebody said that addiction is the progressive narrowing of something I give you pleasure. So with myself growing up there was nothing else in my life that I felt you know fulfilled with besides tennis and the outcome in the result and I notice now you know the run culture is booming which is amazing there are so many people getting into the sport which is so beautiful and at the same time that pain pleasure sort of overlap relationship can that line can start to teeter and I think that as long as you are doing something that makes you happy you're always going to be walking a continuum of doing maybe too much of it at certain points in your life and it's really important to just be mindful and check back in and ask yourself do I feel like I need to do this right now am I stressed so I need to go for a run or else I'll be more stressed or do I just like it is there something else that could be an outlet and if there is nothing if you can't think of anything you don't have to tell anybody but you should be honest with yourself and start to figure out other things that act as an outlet. Yeah I don't think it's something you necessarily ever master I think it's something you have to hold yourself accountable to and learn what those signals are and listen to the check engine lights right on your body I think I've gone a lot better at that in recent years too. I mean for me COVID is the perfect example I went out and did COVID happen gym shut down I said okay I still can run I went out and did 350 mile months in a row total close to 500 miles fractured both of my feet stress fractures right I all the serotonin from every other out in my life had been depleted had been taken away I think I had writing and I had running and I wasn't feeling too inspired to write at the time so I was like let's lay self and get outside and just slam our feet against some pavement for a couple hours each day and that's a perfect example right and I knew at the time but the mental grip and that's the mental grip that that time in history had on me there was just nothing that was going to stop me in order to cope with what was happening in the world um now I think there are a lot of learning lessons that could be taking out of that and you listen to signs of your body you know you can you can understand what that check engine light means for you whether that's being under recovered whether that's being the brink of becoming injured your the more experience you become as an athlete and the more you check in with yourself and understand what your body's telling you the more you'll kind of avoid these you know for lack of a better term you know disaster situations obviously now now the running's taken away now we have nothing so we don't want to get to that point you know and you hit on a little bit before in addiction exercise movement working at working out whatever you call it it can be an addiction essentially anything you're doing excessively to the point that it's causing an intense urge it's dictating your schedule and your life it can be classified as an addiction and oftentimes we don't recognize something as inherently you know quote unquote good as exercise as an addiction but what's the danger and I think we just touched on it and not recognizing that you are in fact addicted to working out and one of the repercussions of the all gas no break mentality injuries one of those but what else is on the list yeah so again it's this it's addiction is this progressive narrowing of something that gives you pleasure and if it if it comes down to just one thing in your life then you need to sit down for a second and really look at yourself um or else you don't look at yourself and you keep moving in a direction that is going to lead it to some sort of you know destruction um self destruction honestly um and I think that uh you know to combat anything in our life that we are addicted to it could be exercise it could be sugar it could be you know something more serious right um the most understated tool and weapon that we have is mindfulness and so when I say sit down and look at yourself I literally mean sit down stay still and look at yourself and and if you first of all you have to want to get over it right you have to want to know that maybe this thing isn't making me feel good anymore and I want to move past this or I want to sort of use it in a different way so that's number one number two is to sit down and self reflect and to ask yourself like why you are using it the way you're using it right why am I using running as a way to escape what am I escaping from and then take a look at that thing and figure out how else to address that in your life um I think there's a lot of power in the pause and I think that when you know we especially in New York City my gosh we live in this culture of constantly moving from one thing to the next and again the run culture has evolved so much since COVID especially and I'm noticing people who are just starting to run and they're doing 60, 70 mile weeks and they're coming to me saying Coach KST why does my ankle hurt and I'm like all right there's layers to this so first of all how many miles are you doing why are you doing that many miles what else is going on in your life like are you sleeping are you eating right so there are like all of these other factors that you know when you can just take a pause that pause will give you this better you know idea of where you should go next but if we just keep ramming through our feelings and not really looking at them we're going to continue going down that road that in the end is not serving us power in the pause I think you just named today's episode I love that um I've learned my biggest lessons during injury during the downtime of injuries it allows you to do that self work it also like you said provides you with that check-in of why do I feel so terrible all of a sudden because I can't run because I can't go to the gym etc I should I should feel sad about this thing happening right and then I can't do the thing um that stability releases those feel good chemicals in my brain but I shouldn't feel this sad and I want to talk about the mental impact of injury and the toll that it takes on anyone this is not not just athletes this is anyone you know your general gym go or to your elite runners um speak about your navigation of injuries and know the two of us can probably sit here and share war stories for hours at this point but talk about how you typically navigate yourself through an injury and one of those were pretty recent yeah well first of all injuries are so tough like like I don't want to sit here and pretend to just be like if you have an injury like think positively like and absolutely not injuries are so tough in depending on the context of your life and where you're at they could mean a lot because they could completely disrupt a routine they could completely throw a stake in your identity and who who you think you know what you think that's kind of defined by and also feeling pain is hard like the sensation of pain in your back in your knee it's it's it's real right that's another thing sometimes I hear I won't get in the nitty gritty of this but you know the pain is in your head I've got that growing up with my shoulder because we couldn't figure out what was going on with my shoulder there was no there were some microtairs but all overhead athletes had the same sort of thing and it shouldn't be this bad and it's in your head like you know this pain is not in my head like I want to be out there but I'm feeling something that's holding me back so I I say I start with that because injuries are hard now at the same time pain is a message in your body that something needs to change and that could be physical pain emotional pain mental pain spiritual pain right like something that you are doing is putting you down a path that you need to detour from. Growing up again this is another one of those lessons where you don't learn it until you go through the really hard thing and you make all the mistakes and you approach it in the completely wrong way and you push through and you don't learn it until usually you do that right and so all I can sit here and do is encourage people to really understand that pain is a message in your body that's something needs to change it's not the end of the world it's not career ending it's not going to disrupt your you know entire identity but maybe you need to sort of cut the volume for a little bit maybe you need to understand that you know your hips aren't working right and this is affecting the way that your feet are landing under your hips when you run and when we can take a look and we can when we can approach injury in a way that is like what is this saying to me and how can I get more out of this rather than one of my losing from this you know what am I missing out on the scarcity mindset if we can approach injury in a way that it's actually going to give us something if we listen to it it's completely life-changing and I know you know as well that when you deal with injuries and when you overcome injuries you're almost always stronger on the other side yeah and for me you know I'm not exactly happy go lucky but I think after you experience it and enough times you have to develop that mindset otherwise you're just going to crumble you know for me I think the biggest ones that I can speak to I've had I had three hip surgeries so while I was in college and at the time that was kind of my breaking point that was my my world is completely ending this is over I didn't accomplish what I came here to do and this is where I am now and I fell into a very very dark place and and state of depression during that period at the same time I came out of that with so much knowledge about the importance of glute strength you know importance of course strength all these things that I weren't was not doing prior to these injuries that then made me a better athlete I got a out of college I would have a stress fracture here there I would tear this in here there every single injury I'm not going to put on the list made me stronger and made me a better athlete and now here I am today capable of things that I wasn't capable of 10 years ago and it's all it's because of these skills that I was able to collect through each of these surgeries I think it's a great way to look at it I think it's easier said then done because the two of us sitting here have had a lot of experience in this department and somebody could be listening to this who maybe they have a strain lower back and this is their first time dealing with it and I like yeah right well you know that's I can't get there you can get there you just kind of have to work with professionals and kind of you know power through the mindset of of getting yourself into an even better position than you were prior to this happening because now you have that opportunity like you said you pressed pause and it may not been pause that you necessarily asked for but we can harness that for the better um I want to talk about breath work um you yourself have ventured into the breath work work world tongue twister um specifically over the last couple years and it's so important you've become a breath work in breath training coach can you walk us through the intentions at play one incorporating breath work how it can help ease the tension of missing workouts due to injury and create space in your mind for that acceptance and peace we're talking about yeah definitely so just to start like a couple years ago if you were to tell me that I would be so passionate about breath work I would have been like you're crazy I roll I mega I roll like cafe de lulule reservation for one like I would have just been like okay no throw me in an iron man like so I want to start with that because when I talk about breath work now I am speaking to the people out there who are like me I'm really trying to communicate with them I was very close off and I will call myself ignorant to the way in which it completely transforms you as a as a human being in both brain body performance all of it I got hooked on it from a performance lens of course if if I think something's gonna make me a better runner I'm like okay I mean I'm in so I took a class with a wonderful coach I've never taken before and he was also a coach right so there are some breath work practitioners out there that and I had taken classes before and it was it was a little bit like woo woo for me and I was resistant to it and the way that this guy spoke was so logical but also supportive and also motivating it was actually a breath work and an ice bath class and we did the breath work portion I ended up holding my breath for the first time in my life for like two and a half minutes and that's when I was like wow this could help me be a better runner and then we went into the ice bath and I wouldn't put my shoulders in this guy was like sternly but supportively he was like put your shoulders in like so there was no like only if you want to it was like do it it's gonna help you so I got hooked he really inspired me and essentially how I explain breath work is how I explain explain the benefits of breath work is that we all have this voice in our head that is loud and depending on our journey to get to where we are that voice could be saying you know you're not good enough to be where you are I've always struggled with this which is ironic because I feel like I've been pretty successful in my career but I still walk into a room in that voice will be like you don't belong here you're not good enough a walk up to the starting line and not once in my career as an athlete have I walked up to a starting line or or walked up to a match and fully believed that I could do it like that I could win that voice would always be like you can't and so what breath work does is instead of quieting your thoughts it taps into your system on a physiological level right so you're by by breathing in and out in a rhythmic way and cadence maybe that you don't usually do in your normal life you were literally shifting around your blood chemistry and in turn that's gonna affect your brain and then before you know it that voice is quieter and it's not because you told it to be quiet it's because you're practicing your breathing and your mind is listening to your body and so I it's the the benefits and the value are infinite whether it relates to emotional regulation stress relief or performance and how I try and put language behind this is is first knowing who I'm talking to and what they need right so if I'm talking to somebody who wants to run a sub three marathon I'm gonna try and explain the benefits of breath work from a performance lens but if I'm talking to somebody who maybe has like really bad headaches and it's stressed all the time I'm gonna start to just bring them back to this like breath awareness so that we can start to manage stress better breath has the power to slow things down too right you just touched a little bit on it for anxiety how can we leverage breath work and in more of an immediate state of I'm on the I'm on the bring of having to panic attack I'm super nervous about this presentation I'm about to give I don't feel safe in this environment of where I am right now what's your recommendation in terms of breath work in those situations yeah so so many different types of breath work there's long there's just like training you know I mean you can do something that's gonna you can pop an adville and that's gonna relieve pain in the short term and then you can do all your mobility work and that's gonna relieve pain you know for and in per longevity so when it comes to breath work it works the same way in those moments the first thing that I would say is I touched on this a little bit but breath awareness is the number one lowest hanging fruit that everybody can be conscious of and then use so what I mean by that is that you and I are sitting here now that I'm aware of it I'm I'm aware right that I'm I'm breathing up into my chest and my shoulders are sort of tense right they're sort of like elevated towards my ears and if I would really think about it the air is not sort of pushing and pulling through my belly and that is the wrong way to breathe when you're breathing thousands of times when you're taking a thousand breaths you know a day thousands so number one in those moments like even walking in here right I was a little nervous for this and I noticed all of that happening and so what you got to do is you got to again start from that physiological lens you can't just tell your brain don't be nervous about this pitch don't be nervous about this presentation it's not gonna work so come back to the physical uh physiological lens start with bringing that breath from your chest down into your belly and you will feel relief you won't feel like 100% relief but you will feel relief and then there are ways you know I would say they're like breath drills is a term I may coin in terms of immediate relief where you could you know the physiological size is one right it's a double inhale pause followed by a slow exhale that's one breath that'll give you some some ease and then there's something called a reset breath which is where you exhale all the air out and then you inhale through the nose you pause at the top you notice where you're holding tension you let it go and then you sigh you pause at the bottom until your brain tells you to breathe again and when your conscious of all of those steps it's gonna pull your thoughts away from what you're about to do and it's gonna just bring you back into this like more grounded state of mind again you will still feel nervous but it's just how you're using those nerves and how your you know making sure that you can enter into a room and and function how have you yourself harness the power of breath in your running in your strength work where does that come into play when you're moving your body again I'll start with the fact that I never paid attention to this growing up I got pretty far without paying attention to my breath I did but I there was there was a capacity that I wasn't fulfilling and I wish I wish I knew as as a 16 year old what I did now you listen to the you listen to joke that you listen to the brown all of these guys are doing this now it's such a hack you're when you can leverage your breath in terms of quieting down the alarm bells in your head right before big moments we have the alarm bell we feel nervous you can use your breath to sort of tell the limbic system which is the fear system in your brain to chill and to more tap into that prefrontal cortex which is going to allow you to just think clearly it's going to allow you to problem solve you know when you're mid race and you're at when you're in a marathon and you're at mile 16 and you're feeling fatigue start to see Ben what happens when you start to feel fatigue is you start to freak out about it oh I'm hitting a wall fatigue is uncomfortable right at least thoughts come flooding in but when you can interrupt that cycle and then you start to feel more tired it's a cycle and when you can interrupt that cycle with a breath you will literally disrupt sort of that spiral of thoughts and so whether you're going into a boardroom or whether you're at mile 16 and a marathon your breath is a tool to just take the remote control and your brain turn it down and stay calm great thanks for sharing those I want to hear more about the breath work drills maybe we'll create a couple shorter segments let's move on to topic three for today how do I start running so we're moving out of more of the mental talk we're talking about more physicality now running is hard the hardest thing about running is its demand for work required not only to get better but to simply maintain your current state of fitness so it's a constant grind you and I know this well you especially you have days where you feel like you can run forever others where you doubt yourself before you've been getting through that first mile that certainly happens to me a lot but when you get to the point where you're achieving flow state you'll never look back or seeing on my first question is how do we get more people running you said it yourself we're seeing more people running which is fantastic but how do we spread the word about how magical running can be if more people won give it a chance and too quite honestly pushed through that initial discomfort because I feel like that's a huge one totally I think that I'm a big proponent of leading by example right so I can talk and talk and talk about things and encourage people to do things but if you are running yourself and you're bringing energy into it and you're making it look as fun as it is that will attract people to the sport that will attract people to anything that you're doing is the energy that you bring into it now that's that's too fold in the way that if you want to start running and you're of the mindset running is hard I want to do it but it's hard which like or I get this a lot right we had to run as a punishment growing up so I want to run but it's just feels like a punishment and I'm like okay well we can start there but at some point this is what I touched on in the beginning the energy you bring to something is the most valuable thing that you can control so if you keep showing up to your runs in this mindset of don't really want to be here it feels like punishment but I'm here it's kind of constantly give you that back so at some point when when you decide like I really want to do this I accept that it's hard but I really want to do it you show up and you bring your energy and it's more about energy than time right so when you're first starting people are like looking at their watch and they're like looking at how long you know they went on a run for and I'm like yeah but how did you like show up in those 40 minutes and if you could show up better in 20 minutes then cut that run down to 20 minutes show up as your better self and you're going to get way more out of it so that's where I would start now more literally as a running coach what are your recommendations for someone out there looking to run their first mile their first 5k where do they even start? I would highly I'm not going to have any tech watch brands sponsor me after this statement but I would highly recommend running at first without a watch you are it is so easy to get a attach to data it is so easy to get attached to an outcome and I think about if you're just starting to run like you're starting a relationship like you don't want to start a relationship on this foundation where you don't trust yourself so to build trust with yourself and running you got to go in and so so take the watch off take all the numbers out of it set a timer on your phone for 20 minutes and get out there and run for time and that's how I would absolutely recommend everybody start. I totally agree I think we've fallen victim to the move rings and the PRs and the competition with one another I think I couldn't have said it better myself if you just remove the tech format just for a second especially as a beginner starting something new and just to take the time to analyze how your brain and body feel after that the runners high is real people love to laugh at that but it is real and you will feel it and that doesn't matter if you start in five minutes 15 minutes or 25 minutes you'll feel a difference in your body after. What do you know a five K. Right? Hey coach I want to win my first five K. I want to do the turkey trot this year right how do I even get started what kind of runs are we going on as a brand new runner no experience maybe they ran a mile in the past. Yeah again number one is I highly recommend that you're going for time on feet over distance so if the goal is a five K that is awesome and like you will do it but you're starting at a point of you know if you're really just starting to run maybe it's maybe it's five to eight minutes and again you're showing up in those five to eight minutes and you're you're showing up as you would for like a big meeting like you're showing up as you're best self because if you show up for those five to eight minutes dragging your feet and with this attitude of you know I want to do this thing but I don't want to be here like it's going to take a whole longer time to progress to 10 15 minutes and like feel good about it so tangibly time on feet over distance and then I would also try and figure out systems that you can put in place for yourself where you know you'll actually do it it's like the essence of being a human to say that we're going to do something and then we don't do it so whether you think of it as systems or you think of it as habits try and figure out ways in your life to make it easier for yourself to get out there and do it could be putting your stuff you know putting your shoes out overnight and sleeping in your run close it could be sometimes I actually do this I don't bring anything to work and I'm there in my run shoes and clothes and it forces me to run home from work and if for any reason I decide to not run home for work I'm just going home on the train in my run close I'm like oh gosh you know so so set systems in place to kind of keep yourself accountable in that way I love it so I'm about the power of cross training talk to us about why strength training will remain as your superpower through the journey of becoming and being a successful runner. Yeah so strength training is something that you know even before I became a coach I remember in college the gym is somewhere that I found peace because I could not hit a tennis ball because I had so much self doubt on the court and so the gym is somewhere where I excelled I really got along with my strength coach and I went in when I you know off hours right and so I think that first and foremost before we talk about the physical benefits being in the gym can be really really empowering with the right support and in the right environment and then the physical benefits of strength training for running are immense like I mean I won't go into a TED Talk here but if you're going to go out and put volume under your feet on the road that's going to translate to a lot of impact in your body and the only way besides progressively overloading the volume in your run program the the way to fast track your body being able to handle all that impact is to go into the gym and throw some heavier stuff around. You provide this stimulus that is controlled stress it's a controlled overload of stress and with the right controlled overload of stress plus the right recovery you will get stronger to handle more out on the road and I like to sort of steer clear from a lot of the science stuff and hopefully that you know keeping it in very simple English terms like that is relatable for people. How is our cadence going to vary? I think something we always get in from the audience is well you know how many times should I be strength training how many days a week should I be running well our answer is always it depends what are you training for what's your goal right you guys hate it but it's always going to say we're always going to say it depends. Let's give us an area though let's say someone's training for a half marathon right how often do we want to be in the gym and sharing that we're getting our strength work in and how are we dictating what we're doing right what's the difference between we have to have those off seasons right we have to give our body that break that's winter for a lot of us here in the north east you know what does a strength program for a runner look like in the off season versus you know peak resusing where we're doing a couple of runs we're doing the nine plus one we're doing all these things that are happening during the running season yeah so in the off well the it depends answer oh my gosh yeah what I'm quote off season yeah no no risk the the end up the it depends answer I have given so many times like in this way like it depends because I know that the shade I'm about to get is just like intense but yes if I'm going to speak sort of very generally here for somebody who maybe have be getting our intermediate runner running a half marathon if you are in your off season in terms of strength you want to work more towards like max to sub max strength right so so and ideally that's you know you start by laterally right your work your squat your work your deadlift your work your bench those main lifts and then you make sure that you have a very strong like unilateral base of strength as well but that off season is going to look heavier in the gym if you're doing less on the road then you can do more on the gym if you're doing more in the gym if you're doing more on the road do less in the gym so as you get closer to your race and as the mile start to increase right you're doing more on the road so now we want to keep the volume in the gym low you're still going to be getting stronger from that so we're looking at like a six rep range for lifts that are working you know lateral strength your working rotational strength as we rotate when we run but for the most part keeping it very simple and like not over doing it is just number one runners will over do it and runners will over do it everywhere because we're just gonna over do it over a two or a half and then lastly like as in this three part phase you know as you get really close to your race then I like to call it maintenance work so you're really honing in on your mobility you're making sure that you're staying springy and all your tendons and everything are like nice and healthy and bouncy but you are really being smart and keeping that volume to like a minimal amount as a runner when do you feel your best what are you doing when you're like my runs feel good I feel strong my head space feels good I feel like I'm giving myself enough rest what does that look like for you yeah I think that um it changes a lot for me um I mean I've been running for like seriously for like eight years now going from Iron Man to Marathon to like limbo and um so I think that and it's kind of context dependent on where I am in my life but generally speaking having a strong physical strength base is huge like I have PR a bunch of races adjacently to PR and lifts in a gym so it directly translates but even more so I would say that the if I can really hone in on the other pillars in my life sleep nutrition and stress if I can really get my sleep right if I can kind of lock in my nutrition doesn't have to be crazy strict but like just make sure I'm feeling enough you know and then mainly for me is is stress if I can really mitigate or you stress in a more productive way then I feel my best when I'm running and if one of those things is sort of out of whack I'm gonna feel it I think stress is something we don't talk often enough about and I feel the same exact thing if I'm having a stressful week at work if something within family life or personal life is stressing me out more than usual and I try to go out there for that run one my head may not be in it or it could be could be that polarized effect in in terms of what we were speaking too earlier my body will feel it though my heart rate will be higher I will feel inflamed my breath will be more rapid so I think if you're not feeling your best Christina just named all them right it's about what maybe are we over training look at that first what does my program look like am I sleeping enough because I know a lot of you out there are not well how are we feeling are you feeling enough because under feeling is becoming a huge topic I think we show a bit too much with strength and not enough grace especially if you're someone who is very active on a weekly basis and the number four stress and that's number four just because it's listed number four is not last if anything that one needs to work it's way a lot higher on your list and you know I think there have been a couple of situations that we've said in this episode both of us using exercise as stress relief and thousands if not millions I'm sure it is millions of you do the same well imagine how much better you would feel if you went into the gym any if you went out to that run if you had less stress in your life less stress in that day that you just experienced so I think that's super important thanks for hitting on it top egg number four for today we're going to wrap up for this one this is due for discomfort the importance of doing hard things I myself I like to challenge myself to extremely hard and extremely hard event once a year I take part in other races events I travel throughout the calendar year but once a year I really try to kind of go to war for lack of better term on something I've never done I call this being due for discomfort so that can be a half iron man having worked my way up to that full just yet hundred mile bike race a cold-plund cab maybe it's an unexpected injury like I'm experiencing right now this is something new for me and it's very hard so that's my hard thing for the year you know maybe it's writing a book you know recognizing that your due for discomfort is how you evolve as a human being in you Christina you love to link neurological studies and practices into the work that you bring to clients the tonal community your social content can you walk us through the importance on a neurological level of choosing to do hard things in life yeah yeah so I think that you know I hear the word resilience a lot it's a buzzword and everybody wants to be resilient that's that's sort of like why we throw ourselves into hard races and hard situations but sometimes people come into like come to face adversity in their life and want resilience and wonder what like where it is and and I start with this because everybody wants resilience but resiliency is built only by doing hard things and so there are going to be like mountains that we climb in life and there are going to be challenges and if we can put ourselves in these scenarios where we are practicing doing hard things willingly it will build our capacity to handle those real mountains and those real adversities when you're in a rehab setting right when you're injured to rehab that injury you are applying a minimal dose of controlled stress to that body part to that joint and with enough of that controlled stress and recovery over time that muscle will get stronger probably stronger than it was when you came in and our brain works the same way so we have to apply minimal dose we're not overloading ourselves with stress that's a conversation we just touched on but a minimal dose of stress to our brain exposing ourselves to something that is challenging and just like our muscles get stronger the brain is also going to get stronger it is so infinitely trainable but you have to put yourself in hard situations in uncomfortable situations in order to grow that muscle. I think everybody has a different hard too right my hard is not your hard is not our engineers hard right it could be running their first marathon or it could be running their first mile to our point earlier today it could be lifting their their own body weight or lifting 200 pounds in the bar it's really hard is such a it's a hard means so many different things and I think the comparative narrative is a path that you want to lead yourself down I think social media has contributed to this a lot I think we love to scroll and see this person doing these races and this person losing x amount away and this person going to this place where you've been wanting to go for 10 years it's we have to stop and you have to just kind of meet yourself where you are right now and figure out the best path for to where you want to be and your heart is going to look it's also going to look different in various stages of your life you've noted on this too hard for me I can't even imagine doing what I do today 10 years ago and I'm sure I hope to be seeing that in 10 years from now too I hope to constantly evolve. I will say to that point start interrupt you know it that just sparked like a very important thought there are you know two years ago I was in a very very tough emotional place like similar to the rock bottom I hit when I was 16 and in that year I was supposed to race a half iron man world championships and my body was not ready for it my mind certainly was not ready for it I could have gone I could have done it I could have pushed through but my pain points mostly emotionally we're telling me that something needs to change and so having that that half iron man world championship was my dream for two years to make it into because you have to qualify it was my dream and I finally did it and the year I hit my second rock bottom I decided to pull out of it and that was my heart that was so hard for me to face it was so hard for me to accept it was so hard for me to think that I was enough without doing that race but I I look back on that time and I'm like wow I grew so much from that and so I just you know tell this anecdote because to your point everybody's hard is different it could be doing an ultra marathon or for some people it could just be like getting out of bed going outside and like grabbing a coffee that day and either one is a tremendous win and I could have agreed more and not doing something is as part of it too not doing that race not staying in that relationship not you know continuing something that doesn't feel good to you mentally emotionally or physically anymore is just as hard as choosing to do something as well so I think that's a fantastic point point thanks for sharing last one Christina how do we meet ourselves with kindness and this kind of ties in perfectly to recognize and accept the fact that everyone has a different level of hard I just hit on this right but you know what is your process of deciding what kind of hard you need right now and choosing to challenge yourself because I think there are points in our life where we will fall a little more complacent and that's okay maybe you have emotional stressors that aren't allowing you where you want to be physically right now but how do you meet yourself with grace and kind of say okay I can press on the gas a little bit okay I'm ready to step on the brakes yeah grace is a huge word and then the second word that comes immediately to mind is compassion and I go back to like advice for a first time runner is you know show yourself compassion when you're doing something that feels challenging or you're not doing something and that feels challenging right show yourself compassion if you can't get to a workout you know we that tension that we feel comes from the fear center in our brain and so if we can you know apply a little bit of breathing and mindfulness and reflection that is all going to lead to more self compassion which in turn is going to lead to compassion for other people and so I mean that that is my biggest piece of advice compassion is it's grace but it's also patience and you're not allowing yourself a whole past for like everything you're not letting yourself become a couch potato but you are just be you are letting yourself be okay with wherever you are in that moment because I think that is when we feel the most resistance is when we feel like we should be somewhere else we should be doing that too we should be that is not self compassion that is going to lead to self destruction so compassion is my main word Christina thanks so much for stopping by today it's been so great to watch you on your journey the last couple years since we've known each other I'm excited to see where you go next tell the audience how they can fall along and the rest of your journey yeah so you can follow me on Instagram at Christina with a K under well let me say that again my name is spelled with a K so it's at Christina underscore centonari I you can find me on tonal you can find me in the Nike Running Community here in New York City I'm one of the coaches and yeah I'm not on any other social media so thanks for stopping by Christina thank you thanks for tuning in to another episode here at BodyBilling.com stay tuned for more stories along the way there

=== FILE: The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Episode 05 ｜ Rachel Mariotti [M_F8jQW3M-w].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com. Miss Neres, my name is Danielle Bitz, and today I'm joined by Rachel Marriotti. Rachel is a licensed mental health therapist here in New York City as well as professional fitness coach. Her main focus in mental health treatment is building habits in order to grow mental resilience while addressing the physical and spiritual side of a person's being. Rachel began her work in a psychoanalytic clinic setting, treating patients with depression and anxiety. While in pursuit of her license, she started her own practice called mental hygiene, which is focused on building habits around mindfulness, emotional awareness, and breaking down negative beliefs through understanding words and reactions. She's been featured in Women's Health as a Mental Health Expert, was hired by Nike to speak on the Mind Body Connection, as well as by Athleta as a Mental Health Advisor for their Women's Online Community. Rachel has her master's degree in applied psychology from NYU and an NCSF certification in personal training. Rachel, welcome to the B become podcast. Thank you, Danielle. For the conversation that we have today. Yeah, I'm looking forward to this conversation. We had a good phone call before this, so I'm looking forward to it. Yeah, absolutely. I was telling you, we've worked with a number of your colleagues at Body Building so far, shout out to Gabe, and Megan and a couple others of the crew. So I decided to bring you in, excited to introduce you to our audience. I think we have something really valuable for everyone listening out there today. Agreed. Let's get into it. When we first spoke a couple of weeks back, you were telling me a little bit about these six pillars of wellness that you typically like to start out with when you have a new client or athlete that you're working with. What are these six pillars, and how did they really affect our daily well being? Let's break those down. Yeah, so to clarify, the six pillars is an assessment tool I use for mental hygiene clients. Not for personal training clients. And really, I'm not telling people what to do with these six pillars. I'm more so gaging their expectations around where they're at. And the six pillars are exercise diet and sleep, are the first three, and then relationships, mental health, and purpose are the latter three. So the first three are really looking at the body, and how a client who's wanting to work on a specific area of their mental health, how they're handling their body. And what their expectations are, and I have them rate each pillar one to ten. So it just gives me, it's really, it gives me a sense. This is done on the first session, and it gives both of us a sense of, okay, actually, didn't realize I could spend more time in my relationships, or I can, I didn't realize how much I wasn't connected with my purpose. Meaning, my work, or my general life purpose, which many of us seem to lose sight of that, we value our work so much. That it becomes our, or it feels like it's our entire self-worth, and we're spending less time being present in other areas of our life outside of work. So the latter three pillars are really where more sensitive, important conversations come up, the body side of the being is also important, and there's some information in the sleep before losing sleep, usually it's tied to our mental health, what's keeping you up at night. So it's just a gauge of how someone's handling their life. And I guess I never called it six pillars of wellness, but you can consider it that, but I don't strictly label it that. You hand in a couple minutes ago, you said, we put a lot emphasis on exercise and work. Is that typically the same pattern that you're seeing a lot with the clients that you're working with, where are those six pillars are, they spend a majority of their time, and where do you try to really coach them and guide them and to spend in a little more time? I think it's not an over exaggeration of people working out too much when we fill out the six pillars, or at least I don't see people rating themselves too low. Generally, everybody I talk to is in a good mental space and meeting their expectations with their exercise and diet. I've had a few clients who are maybe a little too extreme with their food and that ties into the mental and ties into other really ties into other areas of their life. When it's all said and done, when we're being extreme with food, but yeah, the purpose pillar and the relationships pillar where we spend the most time usually, and mental health is kind of reefliction of those things. Can you give us an example of maybe a recent client and the process that you typically follow? Sure, let me think of the most recent one is someone who does overwork themselves. He's a doctor and he has his own practice and he's running into a new situation. His exercise diet and sleep are actually in a great place, but there's some road bumps happening in his work and it's causing more resistance and not conflict, but stress in his family. So that's when we focus more on present thinking and understand, okay, well, where are the thoughts coming from and are they too extreme? Can we dial them down a little bit in order to handle the moment and a high stress to work environment? But another example is a woman I started talking to who's on the social front can, she's yearning for more social connection, just based on her environment, not as many, she's not a New York city, she's in Canada, but you know, she's more socially isolated. So her connection is through the internet really. And you know, it ends up tying into mental health. You start spending so much time with yourself. You spend more time in your head. You compare yourself to other people on social media and in those cases I see diet and exercise and sleep in a good place because if those aren't in a good place then everything is starting to lose its stability. So usually when, so there are a couple flags that I see when exercise diet and sleep are in a great place, it's still a yellow flag to me. I'm like, okay, well, this is stable. Something else is unstable. That's not always the case, but I'm starting to form that theory. Awesome, yeah, in the clients that you typically work with, what are some of the blockers that we're running into the most? Is it anxiety? Is it depression? Is it more so just dealing with everyday life and learning how to truly balance, right? And we like to throw around the same work-life balance, right? You can also argue that there is no such thing. We're kind of, there's no such thing. There's a sweet and there's a such thing. But in the United States there's such a thing. Exactly, so how, especially in the United States, how do we begin to even kind of cope with the overwhelming daily lives that we've kind of embedded ourselves in? Well, New York is just completely abnormal place to live. And people come here because they want to work and they want to further their curious. So there's already a mindset that you buy into. And so I don't really compare New Yorkers to everyone else, but there are bigger general trends. I think, to go back to your question, anxiety is what I see more than depression with my clients and with myself. I've maybe that's a Vibe attracts your tribe type of thing. I talk about mental health on Instagram. I have a certain way of talking about it. I have certain experiences and therefore, garners are certain audience that reaches out to me who maybe end up want to do mental hygiene sessions. But generally, I see more anxiety out there than depression. That's just what I see. But I look at it as a positive thing. People do want to better themselves. And with that comes anxiety. I mean, if you want to better your career, if you want to be better than the next person, you got to start working harder and you got to start going into unknown territory with what you're doing with your life. And that's a recipe for anxiety. But it's useful. And I know we'll talk about athletes, athletes having anxiety, but it's very channeled. And there's a lot more pressure. And there's a goal. There's a cleared role, which is different than life. There's no clear goals with once you get out of college, unless you are a doctor. Right. You say mental hygiene, and that's the name of your private branding, right? So why mental hygiene? Why not? What led you to mental hygiene as the naming convention? I started mental hygiene in 2017 when I was at the clinic. And hygiene was the first word that came into my mind. And I'm leaning actually more toward mental resilience now. But mental hygiene is hygiene, as you would think of it for your physical hygiene, or things that human beings have discipline themselves to do in order to... In order to... Yeah, I mean, I mean, 300 years ago, where we brushing our teeth, I don't know. Maybe we were, but dental hygiene has certainly become a discipline, because we've recognized that it actually impacts our health. But we actually had to train ourselves to brush our teeth. At one point, we weren't brushing our teeth. And maybe in other areas of the world, they still don't do that. I mean, but things like that, and taking care of your skin, and taking care of your physical hygiene, taking showers. I mean, I know these are very rudimentary things now, because we can laugh at them now. But what about our mental side of things? You know, our brains are now computing far more content and information now than we were five years ago, 10 years ago, 50 years ago. We're way more connected. So where's the discipline? Are we going to be 50 years behind? Who wants to learn this first? So we can survive longer at a better quality. I'm signing me up. Same. So I think that's what I've been curious about since I moved to New York, really. I mean, I moved to New York, and I was like, whoa, there's a lot more people here. This is a lot of stimulus from where I move from where, from Ohio. Yeah. Shout out to Midwest people. More at simple. And there probably is a better quality of life. But I chose not to do that. And I stuck it out. I'm still here for 13 years. But I think for the better. But I realized that that made me really curious about just human interaction, human behavior, and psychology. And I learned more about my own mental health through my behavior and my body through working out and going to the extremes of it, going to the extremes of diet, and physically being burnt out from it. I was also in my 20s. Everybody does dumb things in their 20s. So I give myself some slack there. And if you're in your 20s screwing up your nervous system, I think it's normal. I don't think it's normal when you reach your late 20s and your early 30s considering maybe we're growing up a little bit later now. The end of adolescence is technically now 25, not 19. And that's been said by psychologists, not just making that up. So there's societal shifts that cause us to develop a little bit later. And maybe we have more time to screw up, which is good. But when I was in my early 20s, it was so extreme that it was damaging. Eating disorder, just very extreme thinking. There's no room for middle ground. So it's a lot of negative thinking. And the high high anxiety can lead to depression. And especially that layered in with loneliness and inconsistency with friendships and specifically in the city can feel really depressed. So the way I handled it was exercise and diet, but too extreme. And that eventually, and this is how this is really formed for me. It was my relationships, but really my purpose that led me to some kind of stability. And then I was able to be like, OK, I can actually be a little bit more gentle. I actually feel like I can be more gentle. I feel more safe to not be so hard on myself with extreme thinking about food or extreme thinking about working out. And I think I really have made a leap in the last two years. So and that came with a lot of, I think, in some ways, spirituality, I moved out of New York and came back. And that gave me a lot of perspective. And a lot of perspective about people, my energy, about fitness, and moved to South Florida, which was very fitness-oriented city. But for a different reason, it's not to blow off your stress and to numb yourself. It's because people actually enjoy fitness. And they want to move their body. And they just want to feel the pain of them. And they want to work out six hours a day. And I actually think that six hours is way healthier than the two hours that New Yorkers want to crush themselves. And maybe things are changing. And I'm holding this earlier period of my New York lifestyle and kind of conflating that with what I see in the fitness industry. I think people are generally more balanced. But I still see an over-exertion of the nervous system, just visually. And it's too much. Yeah, you may have added point. I mean, anxiety translating to very intense balance of exercise, very intense balance of movement, just to sort of kill that voice, die that voice down a little bit. And just go for a long run. OK, I feel better. Great. I got a quote unquote. I got the demons out. How does someone begin to recognize that that is anxiety? Maybe they don't even realize that they're overworking in their outworking themselves to just the point of pure physical and emotional exhaustion at the end of the day. How do they really begin to take a step back and realize why, what's feeling that? That's a great question. And I hope I can answer it clearly to get maybe got some people to balancing out their physical body in their mental state. It's not always clear, though. I think if there's negative thinking or fear driving you to the gym, even if it's just a little bit, and these come down to the automatic negative thoughts, we call them ants. And this is coming from another psychologist that calls them ants, automatic negative thoughts, that if there's a little bit of fear driving you to the gym or doubt about your body, you need to take more time for your mental health and not numb your mind at the gym as much. I mean, I don't have that fear. I haven't had that fear going to exercise in the last, at least two years. And maybe even longer. And that's a blessing. Because there are always doubts and body image conflicts that I've had, even if they became more subtle, I could recognize when they were not existant. And you can observe how you go about your diet also because it seems like those are paired up, exercise and diet are paired up in the fitness industry a lot. So that's when I think you can start to understand, OK, maybe I could pay a more attention to mental health. And there's a professor in New York, his Alan Watkins. He is a TED talk. It's from like 2017. I watched it a few weeks ago. I don't know a lot about this guy. He said something very important in this TED talk was that in terms of emotional awareness and the importance of it is that we will numb ourselves first by going out on the weekends drinking. I mean, that used to be kind of a culture and it still is. And it's fun. You know, the work culture has changed, but people go numb themselves by binge drinking on the weekends. And then it turns into you become obsessed with work. Or you start to distract your mental health with work or sex or working out. You go to the gym, pump some weights, and your mind becomes numb. It's not meditation. It's not mindfulness. Yes, you might be present when you're working out. And I think it's great. Honestly, we should all work out the adequate amount to take care of our health. But I think it's good to start questioning, OK, well, how much are we spilling over into numbing, maybe what we could be thinking about a little bit more, which is our emotional health. And as it relates to our relationships and our own self, our own self worth being OK with what you have right now. And knowing that there's plenty of possibilities and opportunities out there, too. Move your life in the right direction on the spectrum of time. Right. We talk a lot about aesthetic driven goals. We talk a lot about body dysmorphia, specifically, and probably can pertain to a lot of our listeners out there, who may have experienced it in the sport of bodybuilding. Or maybe just as athletes in general, and this is going to start to shift our conversation into more athletics. How do we get to a point where we're not purely training for the figure that's looking back at us in the mirror, right? And when we're sitting in there in the gym, and how do we begin to differentiate a performing body versus maybe a quote unquote aesthetically pleasing body, because those two aren't mutually exclusive to be able to perform and be a top of the line marathon runner or triathlete or cross-fitter or bodybuilder. That's that say bodybuilding, right? Let's say it's performing sports, right? You're going to need to focus on performance over aesthetics in order to get the glute strength that you need to be a premier cyclist, to get the course strength that you're going to need to be a really great swimmer, right? So how do we kind of begin to differentiate the line between training for performance and training for aesthetics and without getting too wrapped up in aesthetics when performance is the goal? Yeah, it's a really good question. And the first thought that came to my head was that we as human beings, especially given our media structure, we all have a hard time living in ambiguity. It's really difficult for someone's mind to be saying, I want to be strong, but I also want to be for women. I want to be lean and slender. Right. And or I want to be the athlete that I was when I was 22 or 17 or whatever age, but I also want to look good for a partner that I'm trying to attract. So that just takes time. I think it's my message would be don't be too hard on yourself. That will all sort itself out, which doesn't really people's anxiety in the now, but I think if you sit and think about it and understand what you're saying to yourself, what's the value of trying to be like you were when you're 17 and trying to sprint as fast? It makes you feel good in the moment, but if you're on, if it feels like you're a hamster on the wheel, what aren't you looking at? And if attracting a partner is more important to you, are you ignoring yourself? And are you ignoring something? Maybe attracting a partner is more valuable to you. And maybe that's a scary thing. You're not going to figure it out by running 15 miles an hour on the skill mill. You know, it will help you feel alleviate in the moment, but when you go back home and you feel lonely, I'm referring back to my 22-year-old self. You have to sit with those thoughts and start to redirect that anxiety into, okay, I'm going to accept parts of myself and try to attract a partner if that's what I think I want and see how that feels. And I guarantee you, in that moment, you try to pay attention to the other feelings, you will feel relief. Even if it doesn't work out, there's anxiety in trying new things. I mean, the dating scene in New York is terrifying for a lot of people, but why does it have to be terrifying? It can be a new experience and in the process you are learning about yourself versus numbing yourself with work or work outs or whatever it may be. Right, and this may be talking to trainer Rachel and Coach Rachel for a second here, but I mean, it's fair to say that we have to choose between aesthetics and performance at the end of the day. So I mean, if you're going to run the New York City marathon, I mean, your body's going to do what it needs to do. If you expect to perform well and I'll use myself as an example here. I mean, 18-year-old Danielle going into a division one program and immediately putting on muscle that I didn't, I was building muscles that I didn't even know I had at the time. That way. And me being fearful during that period because seeing upper classmen at the time and seeing what they look like at 18 versus what they look like at 21 after a four-year-of-that type of strengthening and conditioning, I was scared. I was like, I don't want to look like that at the same time. This is the body. You sort of need to build to perform well on this sport. And I think I fought with your sport, self-ball. So I was a power athlete. It was about that first step. It was about getting your hips through a swing as powerful as you can. And you didn't want to look. And I didn't want to, yeah, I didn't want to quote unquote get bulky even though the term of women getting bulky is just so outdated at this time. And I think I really fought that hard. And I didn't fuel myself. I didn't feed myself the way I needed to for those four years. And I don't think I reached my highest potential because today I'm sitting here doing half ironman's and 18-year-old Danielle wouldn't even dream of doing that. And I'm feeling myself properly. I have more muscle than I did at 18-22 during that program, right? And I care a little less about aesthetics at the end of the day because I'm like, oh my gosh, look, I can go and do a half ironman for five, six hours. And my body can do these three movements for hours and hours and hours. And a more proud about that at this point than I was, you know, that I think I can say in the four years of that program because I'm just so, I guess I'm grateful that I have a body that's able to do this. And I want to continue to push the limits to see what else they can do. And worry a little less about what my body looks like in the process of doing that. Yeah, yeah, I totally understand that. And I can resonate with that a little bit being a track athlete and college sprint athlete where you really get to put on some serious leg muscle. And I was eating like, felt like a linebacker. I'm like, this is a lot. And I feel heavy and I didn't necessarily like it. And you know, 18 to 21, the scope of our long-term values is very narrow. So that's the time where you screw up and there's all these extreme thinking or extreme types of thinking. When, you know, how old are you now? 30, 30. So yeah, I think I'm 33. I know at 40 I'll have completely different views. I mean, some overlapping views and values. I'm sure. But I think as we continue down the road of time, our values become broader. And that is a relief on our nervous system. So the, you know, 20s, the 30s is extremely volatile but I see there can be a lot of room for improvement with emotional awareness. And even in our 30s, given that we are all kind of tied to social media and connection and comparison and I think managing that is important. But yeah, I think to go back to your point about aesthetics and to conflict there, the ego is very strong in early 20s and there are parts of us for me specifically, sports played into my social status. So I'm under this belief coming from my 15 year old self that if I'm good at sports, people will like me. And that was a conditioning that happened just being in middle school and high school. I saw that I became better at sports. I started making more friends. That felt good. Keep doing that. And it could be a reason why I went into fitness. I think I don't see it not tying into why I decided to choose fitness as a career because I looked at myself in my early fitness career, Instagram posting and I'm posting how I'm athletic and I'm posting. I can jump on a box that's higher than you. And I can sprint faster than you. And this became, you know, this helped my Instagram following. But you know, I don't have that many followers, but it's certainly plays with your ego all the way through your 20s. And you think this is important. I thought it was important. And maybe it is to a certain degree with business, but it's really not that important. So it's the message and the message is more important. And I found that my message earlier on in my career with fitness, which is why I went into mental health as a professional was that work out a lot and be athletic and be lean like me and be cool. That was my message, basically. And it was not healthy, you know, behind the scenes, I'm like spinning my wheels on how I'm looking and am I going in the right direction with my life and I'm feeling anxious. I'm feeling depressed. And I'm putting my extreme workouts on a pedestal like you can be lean like me. But I guess I didn't also, you know, market the fact that you will be anxious and depressed like me too if you do this. Right. So I think my bias when I look at fitness in general is that I don't think everybody's like that, but I still believe that we are overtaxing our nervous system by numbing ourselves with exercise too much. And I think it becomes an identity at a certain point, right, especially younger athletes, you know, let's talk about athletes specifically here for a second, even though we've really moved into that, you know, how in athletes mindset transitions into mental durability. And I think we're kind of talking about the negative side of it right now. So let's keep that going and then we'll flip it to the positive. If an athlete starts a sport, let's say eight or nine, they're starting early in early these days. I mean, they're combing for scholarships at 11, 12 years old. At this point. So, you know, someone starting to be crazy. Yeah, yes, let's talk about it. You know, they're starting to sport eight and nine. They're getting really, really great at the sport 10, 11, 12. Okay, 13, 14, 15, let's start recruiting. Okay, now I have to be number one because that would be sought out by the one scout that's gonna be coming here to look at thousands of athletes in a weekend. Okay, now I got into college. All right, now I have to work my way into the starting line up. Okay, great. Number one, now I want to be all American, right? Okay, now I want to go pro when I'm done with college. So this starts from such a young age. What happens when it ends? Because it will end and that's what a lot of people, younger people don't realize I didn't realize it at a certain point and became my identity. My sports certainly did. When it ends, they are facing complete mental crisis. I mean, they are experiencing, in, for lack of a better word, and identity crisis. They don't really know who they are without this sport, without the training, without somebody telling them where they have to be and when they have to be there and how much they have to practice for this one thing that they've set their sights on, right? So let's talk about that range, that time span, of where it's such a fixated duration, and then that ends, right? And what happens? So how do they transition in a normal life? Sure, yeah, well, it's something that a lot of people can relate to for sure. You know, spending that much time in a sport, I was in gymnastics at age four, and I really didn't stop sports until I was 18. And for those that are out there following that scenario, more extreme going elite, all American and pro, and then it comes to an end, I think it can end up in a crisis if there are, depending on a lot of things. I mean, if you're not emotionally aware of what's going on, you're generally not between the ages of 10 and 25, let's just call it 20, but you know, the emotional awareness aspect of the fact that this is not necessarily, how it's, this is not sustainable, this type of effort. And if you're emotionally aware of that, if you are seeing a counselor and you are seeing a therapist or one of the two, and your parents are supporting you, no matter what type of performance you come out with, that helps, but the ego in that process, if you are becoming that good, and there's not a really a lot of emotional awareness, it could end up in a crash and burn the scenario, and you know, that can get pretty ugly, but generally most people don't, you know, end up in worst case scenarios like suicide from that and such an identity shift, because they end up having something else to focus on, like work or, you know, getting a job, and then that transition is rocky, or more or less rocky for certain people. But I do think the emotional awareness and counseling through those times is very important, which is generally why we should all be going to therapist, even if we're in a more subtle transition, like going from 38 to 40, you know, or when you enter a new decade, or when you break up with somebody, or when you move to a new place, or whatever transition, when you lose somebody, there's always transitions happening, just not as greatly as that. So I think, you know, to speak to your audience, there's a lot of athletes, just recognize, you know, what parts of your ego you're still holding on to that, you can not like go of, but maybe attach to and put value to your new identity, whatever that may be, whether that's, I wanna be a good stand-up person to attract a partner or to sort of family, or, you know, I don't know what it is. I don't have the best advice here. I'm still figuring it out, my life, you know, my identity crisis right now, if you wanna call it a crisis, it's not a crisis, but I'll become, I'll become a mother in two months. Who the heck knows, I'm gonna handle that, you know? And I think, I've done a good job of letting go of my ego as an athlete, I think, I'm pretty sure. You know, I still wanna nice body after I have a kid, but I don't think I'm going, I think I value more being gentle on my nervous system than, you know, having a six pack or even just having a lean stomach, I mean, I would like to have a lean stomach after having a baby. I know that, but I don't, I don't, I think when it runs into me, having negative thoughts and me taxing my nervous system, then I'll say, okay, well, so be it, I'm not gonna have a lean stomach for another six months. I can handle that. I think I'm confident that I'll have that mindset. Just because I'm okay not being 25 anymore, you know? And you know, willing to put yourself through the stress that it would take to cut that timeline in half. So, you know, let me, let me, let me be less stressed and get to that finish line or get to that goal in six months from now, as opposed to making myself absolutely crazy and getting there three months from now. Even if that was a cheap, cheap, a one, very well could be, right? You could immediately get back out there and run yourself into the ground that would be ill advised, obviously, but you could, and I'm sure there are people out there that do it, but to have just, let's say, emotional maturity, let's say, to just take a step back and realize my body needs time to heal, my body needs time to go through this transition right now. And I'm gonna prioritize mental health over the physical right now in terms of getting back to what I'm hoping to get back to. Yeah, yeah, I think, I was thinking while you were saying that the support that I have and the support that anybody has from a partner or good friends really matters. And none of this has done alone. I mean, I think my emotional maturity is the result of taking risks to find good people to support me. So the taking risk part is anxiety, but once you verbalize where you're at in your life and you find acceptance, you can start bringing in people that can support you for who you are right now. And that does relieve your nervous system and that makes you feel safe enough where you're like, okay, I don't have to look perfect all the time. I feel, I have people that look like me, the way I'm in, the way I'm right now, that's great. So, but you have to be willing to put yourself out there and accept yourself the way you are right now to get those people in your life. I really believe that, it's all a reflection. So it's a little bit of risk taking in terms of accepting yourself. You know, yeah, absolutely. You know, not only the personal support, but also just the professional support just going back to the life of an athlete, we're seeing more and more implementation of mental health resources in the collegiate landscape. Even at the high school level, I'm even seeing it. Shout out to where I went to school after university on Long Island, they just hired their first director of mental health for their athletic department and I'm like, wow, and I just took a step back. I'm like, that's huge. Yeah, it's a big deal. It's massive. It's massive. And when one of us, you know, I experienced a couple injuries, my teammates experienced a couple of injuries and they kind of just shuffle you over into the general counseling department for the university, which is fine. It's great that that's part of their process, but to have someone in there now who has a viewpoint of the day-to-day of what these athletes are going through to really understand what it means that they're now injured. They're now taking out of this sport. They're not going to be able to physically exercise for three, four, six a year, right? That's massive. And I hope that continues. I hope we continue to see that shift at those levels. Yeah, it's all a matter of the spectrum of time that you're working with as an individual. I mean, if your anxiety is just about performing for the next three years, then the counselor is probably going to focus on the next three years versus, let me make you more emotionally mature for the rest of your life. That's not realistic. So yeah, I think, but the micro is being able to manage your mental and those micro months or years, especially when it's something as big as an injury and you can't perform super important. And that will translate into the emotional resilience and being able to shift gears in other big life transitions for sure. What's your advice for an athlete and any sport and any, let's say, level of the emotional and mental role of course, that's surely to come when they experience an injury. Everybody's going to get hurt, everybody's going to get injured at some point and it's always going to depend on what you're experiencing of how long you're going to be out. But what's the first piece of advice you have to offer someone when they get hurt and they can't do, they can't go through with their daily routine? Well, well, I, fortunately, I haven't been through any serious injury where it set me back. But the first thing that came to my head was to have, to have the support system you need. I think most people naturally seek out comfort through other people when it's something that large or significant, but to keep your mind moving, to keep your mind moving on something that you enjoy. If you're physically disabled short-term, there has to be other things that you may be interested in that may, you may find joy in. So it's all about a matter of where you put your attention. I mean, if I were to get seriously injured right now and I'm disabled, I would probably tell myself what's other things that I can enjoy with my mind and to keep my mind active and, you know, for survival reasons, but for, you know, also not, beating myself up and getting in my own head, it's all just a matter of where I put my focus. And that can be the, you know, that's the same advice that they tell somebody if they're in their own head, if they're looking at Instagram too much. It's really a matter of where you're putting your focus. You know, you can put your focus on comparing yourself, but you can put your focus on things that you enjoy too. It's harder for some people depending on, you know, their psychological profile and their time perception and all of that. But yeah, injury, you know, I've had some mental hygiene clients that have been through a long history of injury and it's some of them are chronic and it's almost become part of them that if they don't feel injured, if they don't feel somewhat not as good as the other people, then they actually lose their identity and that becomes another problem. What about something you just said remind me, I mean, what about the individuals out there who they have to feel sore? They always have to feel beat up. If they don't feel beat up and just absolutely wrecked and love those people. Like destroy my family entertainment. Seven days a week. Well, I used to be me. Maybe not seven days a week. I think more, you see more men that are kind of like this. You know, I have a couple, there are a couple colleagues that one of my colleagues at work, shout out to Jason. He works out with his buddy all the time and they're always just going hard and his friend joked around that, you know, I'm always in zone four every like 45 minutes. And they both look great. But, you know, I think to each their own, at the end of the day, if your mental is struggling, then maybe that's time to redirect some of the attention. If you wanna go hard seven days a week and you can manage doing it and you could perform that well and you can maintain good sleep and you can maintain your hormonal balance and you can maintain good relationships and you can maintain, you know, taking risks to find a partner or find new friends, then go hard seven days a week. That's amazing. Yeah, but if one of those things are starting to falter and cause issues for your mental health or your nervous system, then but you have to pay attention to these things, you know? Right, absolutely. Let's talk about the positive effects of being an athlete and transitioning into everyday life, right? You know, let's go back to the eight and nine year old who worked so long, you know, a decade plus, to become the very best that they could be at something, right? How does that translate into relationships and the workplace and just everyday life, you know, past the college level or past whatever level it is that they couldn't go or tired from? I miss the first part. How does what translate? What are the positive benefits of being an athlete and, you know, being a, okay, let's say, competitive performance athlete, right? You've gone through extreme training, you've been a part of a team dynamic. How does that translate into just normal life? Well, when you're an athlete, you have to be present. So that's a positive. You have to be present on the field that you're as Sam Harris, who's a neuroscienceist, he would phrase it, you know, when you're an athlete, you're as close to the present moment as you can be and that's the same with sex. That's why these things are euphoric and they feel great because we're so close to the present moment. So I think that's a, that's a great experience to be an athlete. When else do we get to be present? I mean, 50% of the time our attention is diverted to other things, not the present moment. That's true, it's 47%. We are not thinking about the present moment. So being an athlete automatically, I'm like, well, that's a great experience and you're moving your body and you're challenging your body. You're making it more resilient by risk taking. That's a huge positive. So automatically the body remembers that it, it has a store of that memory. And I think if that's something that you want to repeat through exercise, that could be a positive experience. It's a positive experience to challenge your body through exercise. And you can certainly be present and you keep your breath on a rhythm for 60 minutes, 45 to 60 minutes. So those are certainly positives. Maybe short-term, more short-term positives. And I think the discipline, the discipline to get yourself up and push yourself. Now, once again, going back to the subtle fear or doubt that people may have to drive themselves to the gym is not discipline. And let's be clear. If you have a little bit of fear because you're looking in the mirror and you're saying I ate too much last night, I need to go to the gym. Maybe some of that's discipline, but you're more being driven by fear. And I think it's important to distinguish that. But the people that are getting up and pushing themselves and actually balancing their zone to cardio and their strength training and their mobility. It takes discipline. And I think being an athlete, you have a coach and you have a schedule and someone pushing units. That's a big, important translation into real life and taking care of your body. Absolutely. Longer of points. Let's shift, no pun intended to the great shift. How a post-pandemic society places emphasis on longevity. Let's talk about why it's taken a pandemic for us to put a little more emphasis on longevity basic goals as opposed to performance and aesthetic basic goals. Sure, those types of goals still exist. But why are we a little less focused on burning ourselves out in our 20s, our 30s and 40s? And we're our mind is shifting to the 70s, the 80s, the 90s. What do you think has caused that shift? Well, I think the pandemic obviously was a frightening thing. To be clear, it scared the shit out of a lot of us, especially in April 2020 in New York City, specifically. I mean, I was wiping off my grocery bags and afraid I was going to kill somebody, you know? So I think just to be mindful of that, it was a scary time. But it also caused us to slow down and accelerate certain parts of our lives, the things that we may have been not paying attention to. And see what happens when the world stops, when the stock market stops, when you're sitting at home and you don't have to follow the same inertia of the day, it's an actual physical slowing down. And when you're able to slow down, then what I saw and what I did with my life, you know, when I see this with a lot of people in New New York, was they actually started to take action on the things that they've been thinking about, which is moving out of the New York, having kids traveling the world, you know, not being a super spreader, but traveling the world. And so I think that's the same thing that I'm, that's the same message that I'm trying to say of working out too much is maybe, is maybe making you overlook the moments you could be slowing down to take better care of your long-term health. But I agree with you that it's shifted our focus to longevity. They're certainly that word is popped up more. Women's health has been more of a conversation. I've heard more about periods than in the last year that I've ever heard. I can't believe I'm 33 and I'm learning more about periods and like, wow, that's just great. Yep, all new memories. How does this one goes? This information come about. I hope guys learn about it too. I think it's important. I want to learn more about men's hormonal health. But yes, I think we think more about our 70s and 80s because we were able to slow down and recognize that there are values to thinking this way. And when we're better at connecting the dots long-term to now, it's an immediate relief. You start to solidify your values and that has a big impact on our mental health. Yeah, I view it as this giant, oh shit moment, right? It was a, I mean, they're not living up to sort of my own expectations, not in an extreme manner, but also I'm doing way too much. And I was someone who fell into that category of the second I didn't have to go into office and fully remote now, shout out to PottyBillin.com. But at the time, my routine was get up at five in the morning, trying to go to the gym before I go to the office. You're in the office all day, six o'clock. You're going and doing maybe another yoga class after work. You're going to meet up with people afterwards. And you're looking at 18 hour days. And then you're getting six hours to sleep average, right? Today I get eight and a half, nine hours to sleep. And I feel the best that I have. So just I mean, just seeing shifts in sleep, habits, seeing shifts in nutritional habits. And then of course, the physical habits, too. Do I really need to be putting in 100 mile months as that necessary, right? So I like to call it the Oh shit moment for all of us collectively and just to take a step back and we need to have nine hours. Jeez, I'm jealous. I'm track it on a watch. Yeah, I have a loop. Yeah, I have a loop. Yeah, I have a loop. I try to sleep on my, or a ring. It's not a plug for them or anything. But I like tracking my sleep. No, let's get into them first. I mean, when these devices now, I mean, they have started implementing a female cycle tracking, right, administration tracking. And that kind of bug, it bothers me some reason. Why? I don't know. How can you track someone's cycle through a ring? It's just, well, it's the same as HRB, I feel. I don't feel that we're at the, let's remove the devices that we're talking about. It's like Donald's offering salads. Like, that's kind of a stretch. Yeah. Yeah. But just, I mean, accuracy aside for a moment, just the fact that the fact that you, the point that you made, right, we're talking about it now. It shouldn't have taken this long. The fact that we're talking about it, the fact that efforts are being made to help female athletes across the globe really implement this into how they go about their training schedule. And I want to talk about that. You were a really great piece recently. All you read it. Yeah, I read it. It was great. We'll link it in this episode. But it was just a really great first person experience of how the menstruation cycle impacts your daily life. Not just your training routine. I would love for you to just tell everybody a little bit about it. Well, yeah. And I don't want to lose the men here. But I think it's important that we all support each other in our own hormonal health. And guys, listen up. It's important for you. I'm not going to dive too deep here. But I think the culture of fitness has driven women to work out too much and not pay attention to their hormonal health. And now that's becoming a conversation. So it makes me wonder what's going on with men. Men have their own pressures of making more money and providing for a family. And that's the outer pressure or societal pressure that. And then I don't know in terms of body image for how it goes for men. But men have a circadian rhythm, men have testosterone, men need to have sleep. And women, we have a circadian rhythm, but we have the infrared in rhythm. This is something that I learned as of the last year. I'm not an expert here. This is coming from a podcast from Alyssa VT, who started the flow app. And I use that here on the kiss on pregnant. And what I talked about in the article was my journey in losing my menstrual cycle. So the infrared in rhythm of a woman is during her reproductive years, she has a cycle. And it's a fluctuation of estrogen and progesterone, essentially. And those things cause different energy balances. So when estrogen is rising or falling, you may feel more tired or fatigued or whatever. I don't know the exact rise and fall. But there are four phases to the cycle during a woman's reproductive years. So paying attention to that is important. And the article that I wrote was that your menstrual cycle can be your therapist if you don't have one. And a funny enough and I'm happy to have heard this from other podcasts, there's like Tim Ferris and Andrew Huberman. And they had mentioned that if you are taking care of your reproductive cycle, and I think that goes for men too, that if men have a low sperm count, maybe it's time to reassess what you're doing with your mental health and physical health. And for women, if you're not having a cycle, what's going on with your nervous system, what are areas of your health that you can focus on? And that was my therapist. That's what I said. I paid attention to my cycle. I lost it for seven years. I was overworking out. I mean, I was working out too much rather. And I was being extreme with my diet. I was doing intermittent fasting. I was doing stupid cleanses. And I didn't have a period. I was also very stressed. And I think things like irritable bowel syndrome and infertility and irregular cycle can be tied to a series of things. And some of it is genetic. I can't speak for everyone. But exercise, stressing the nervous system too much was something that I recognized in my journey. And also now being pregnant, I started ramping up my exercise again. And I like to do intense. And this is part of my ego seeing other people on Instagram wanting to compete a little bit, showing that I still got it. My doctor's like, no, it's just slow down. Just relax. And there's part of my feelings were, there was a subtle feeling of shame. And what's wrong with me that I can't work out as intensely as other people who are also pregnant, that are working out. And then I kind of came to terms with it. I'm like, there's things that I don't know. And honestly, what's the bigger problem here? What's the bigger value here? Is keeping myself healthy so I can keep the baby healthy. I mean, it's another human. And then there's also part of me that's like, I don't mind now working out, actually. But I don't want to get too cozy there. I mean, I know I'll discipline myself. But my message from that experience is that the stress of New York City and my psychological profile and maybe the added stress of walking and doing all these workouts is just too much on my nervous system. And so first came the physical adjustment, but really it's a mental adjustment too, and acceptance. So putting the devices away for a second and throwing them out the window, right? How important is body awareness, especially for women and in relation to menstrual cycles, right? Just check in with yourself, right? And I know that sounds much more easier said than done, right? But you can really start to understand the patterns of your body and what you're going through. And in week one, I feel like this and this is how I feel in between. For me, the week leading up to it, I am, it's tough to get out of bed, right? And I am sluggish and I am irritable. And I just feel huge. And everything about me just feels wrong. And I take, I slow it down, right? I just focus on some zone two. I just, I lift a little lighter. I'm not trying to do my block training, right? So I think body awareness is a huge piece there. And I think I think at times, we become a little too reliant on some of these devices as advances they are. And I've been wearing woop for three and a half years, every single day, I think I have thousands of days logged. But I think I do become a little dependent because I'll see a red and I'll say, oh, I can't, I can't go and run that seven miles today. Or, well, especially if you're iron-man training, you want to be very specific. Right, right? Or I'll see the green, but then I say, I don't, I feel awful. It says 93% but it feels awful, but I guess I have to go and push through that three hour block anyway. So how important is it to develop body awareness? Well, the thing about the wearables is if you have an OCD personality, you know what you're signing up for. So if that's part of the reason why I stopped wearing the Apple watch is because I would obsessively and just muscle memory wise, check how many, if I filled the rings. And even if I, if I didn't have it, it's just like if I didn't have ice cream, I wouldn't eat it. You know, if I didn't have it, I wouldn't check it. No. And there would be more mental peace. So I think, know yourself. If you're an obsessive type person and you know you're going to check it, well, then work with your extreme mindset when you check it. And sometimes that's the thing. If it's, you see the red, then it can be psychosomatic, then you actually feel red. That becomes tricky. And you know, if you didn't look at it and you're like, I feel green. And then you look at it and I feel red, and then you're like, well, I know I feel green because I said it before I looked at it. You know, whatever. But I think it's, it's, you know, I could tell, I've kind of, and I train myself with social media too. Like I know the times of day when I go on to social media that I'll be more vulnerable and I'll just keep comparing myself. And you know, there aren't specific times of the day. It's not like 2pm. I feel more vulnerable. It's just like, okay, I know myself and I purposely try not to look at it because I'm protecting myself. And but I also know that, okay, there's parts of being able to see the watch and understand my body at the same time is important. So it graduated exposure, if you will. Yeah, so I mean body, body awareness really translating to actually just self-awareness at the end of the day and just knowing yourself best. Right. So yeah, you've mentioned it a few times. So you're expecting congratulations. Thank you. Let's talk about it. Let's talk about it. I'm very excited to talk about it. Break it down. Seriously, you know, talk about, you know, we have here training for pregnancy and that can mean a lot of different things. Right? Or you said right before we started how about not training for pregnancy and just taking a beat, right? Tell us, I mean, just walk us through your process and just walk us through the learning experience. This is been, especially as an expecting athlete. There's so much I want to say, I'll try to make this structured. But for me, I have my own experience and that will influence my conversation here. And in my experience was that, you know, I lost my cycle and I was working out too much and then I stopped, you know, as of last year, I took some time off. I just don't, I'm not as extreme about working out and I think it played a role into me being more fertile. And I think I wasn't expecting, I wasn't planning to have a kid. And that moment happened and I'm like, it was a big decision of like, okay, well, how am I gonna prepare for this, you know, and then I accepted the fact that I'm gonna be going on this journey and then I'm like, okay, let me rent my workouts back up because I want to stay fit through this and then the doctors like, no, and so, so I'm like, okay, well, I'll just go back to not working out which helped me become pregnant in the first place and maybe that's my body. I think zooming out there's a big shift happening for women and it's, you know, there are these headlines or women are going to college more and women are becoming the breadwinners more and women are strong and strong as a new skinny and even though policy is regressing, women are becoming more aware and women's health, you know, most scientific studies that are done on medicine or generally around men and ties back to military and protecting our country and a bunch of other things that I'm probably not aware of but women's health is becoming more known and it's building on this momentum that strong and strong workout and make our money and do it all and like, wait, is that the best way? Women don't have to do it all, don't they? To be worthy, it's your meaning of life is specific to you and it doesn't have to be a breadwinner, mom that's accomplishing it all. And, you know, for me, it's less about being a breadwinner and doing it all and it's more about, can I maintain a good balance at the edges of my potential and edges of my potential, emotionally, edges of my potential professionally, edges of my potential physically without, compromising something. That balance is the challenge. And I think with women who are trying to get pregnant, understanding that background noise of women have to do it all and I have so many thoughts about mothers trying to do too much already, well, we'll see what happens. You know, I know there are a lot of alpha women that want to kind of do everything for their kid and the guys like, well, what about me? You know, I'll just go back to work. It's not like that, but I think there could be some shifts there. So, working out specifically, I think it's really dependent on what your doctor says first and tying that into your overall values of, I will first keeping the baby healthy and or if you're trying to get pregnant, are you trying to do it all? What are you trying to do too much of? And are you compromising your mental health? Are you compromising your nervous system? Do you have irregular periods? So facing some of those truths first, it's all dependent, I don't know if I answered your question, but I think the message here is be aware of the overall narrative that's happening for women and understand if you can deviate from that and still keep your balance and how that could benefit you. And looking, let's say six months from now, right? What's your mindset? Are you, is your goal to go back to be the athlete and to continue the training that you're doing pre-prignancy? Has your mindset shifted? Given sort of, let's say the downtime, right? And the downshift that you've quite honestly had, you had to experience during this time, right? Has your outlook on your personal training tendencies changed during this? Yes, my outlook on personal training for my clients has never changed. It really is about longevity and challenge. For myself, my mindset is, I'm not worried about what I look like right now. I mean, yes, it's important, but there are a lot of other things that are more important and specifically mental health. Big identity shift, I know that in the next year, two, three years, really is gonna be, I'm preparing for that of the identity shift that motherhood brings. And there are a lot of resistance, there's a lot of resistance in me, still I could feel. So that is a priority. And being present is hard when you're not accepting some of those shifts. So I think it's more about the mental side and the identity shift that's gonna happen, identity shift from my professional life for a little identity shift from how I used to perform. Body definitely goes through physical, traumatic experience, having a baby, whether it's natural birth or a C section. So it's, you know, your body can change for the long term. So I don't know, there's a bunch of unknowns that once again, like if you're injured, going back to that conversation, if you have a cute injury, it's one thing, but if you have this like longer term injury that's gonna just kinda hang around and it's gonna change how you box jump or it's gonna change how you run or you might not be able to run as far. That's a different mental shift. So I think I'm capable of the mental shift. It's just about knowing what I'm gonna be working with first. Right, kinda reintroducing yourself to, this post pregnancy body, right? And just starting to understand who am I now and what kinda one of my capable of now. Do you wanna have kids one day? I do. I do. Could you imagine having one right now? No, I can't. I can't. I might say my partner is the opposite. He is like, when you are ready, I'm ready and like that's fantastic to know, but I am not. He's the best. Yeah, you're the one that has to do it. Okay, yeah, exactly. No, I don't, you know, for me, I'm still in that mindset of, I've come to realize that it's not an end all be all. You can still be the athlete. You can still, you know, achieve the same things that you're achieving now after. I'm not as naive to that. I think I used to, I think I used to view it as, oh my gosh, I have to accomplish all these things before I even think about having kids. It's not like that anymore. I think for me, there's still, there's still just things I want to go and do without having to think about someone else first. It's kind of a silly question, but I mean, how are you going to instill movement into your child's life and how are you going to kind of set that standard or reverse set that, be that role model of movement being such an important aspect of life? Yeah, it's a great question. And I think the first thing that came to my head is that I want there just to be a lot of love and support. And that's priority, I think I want that to stay the priority no matter what. And, you know, shout out to my partner because he's very supportive. And I don't think I'd be this confident and excited if I didn't feel the support from him. So men matter and as parents, deeply, deeply matter and are superheroes also. And I think the narrative for women is driven by the media. It's also driven by women for positive reasons, but the narrative that becomes in our subconscious, especially for men might be that, you know, we'll shit, no, being a parent, I don't have to do much because the women does it all. That's not true. No, it needs to be balanced. Yep, especially for a woman's health, like be there, take, take six weeks off of work. You know, I know that sounds crazy, especially for bankers and lawyers, it sounds completely off the wall, but take that time, really take that time. And support your partner through her physical health, so she could get some sleep and so you could bond with the child. Really. So I think men are superheroes also. I don't want to discount them because it really is a team effort. And I think women can lean more into needing somebody, including myself. I hear that whole heart of them. I'm happy that you have that person because I can attest to having someone pretty great too. And shout out to Can if you're listening, you should listen, this is our podcast. No shout out to Chris. So people know his name. Thank you, Chris. Yes, Ken and Chris. Awesome. One last question, what's one piece of advice that you can give for expecting parents out there? Oh, man, I don't know. Come on, that's a big question. You're gonna end it, big. Advice for expecting parents. Wow, I mean, it's a big zoom out of life. And whether you plan it or not, I think it's such an exciting thing to happen. I mean, you're creating a human. It's insane. So I think that's just, you know, it kind of mall over that excitement and live in it because when else do we feel that excited? And that can carry into love and joy and just kind of really being present with that. I'd say don't think about the future, just be in the now and be excited about whatever you're feeling. A really great topic that we spoke about at large today. I just stayed in the present moment. Rachel Marriotti, thank you so much for taking care of you. This is awesome. Tell our listeners where they can fall along in your journey. Oh, you could follow me on Instagram, Rachel Marriotti. That's one R and two T's. And I just started to tick talk. So I talk about mental health on there with a bunch of bunnies and flowers. And it's fun. I'm more on Instagram. So if you follow me on Instagram, you can give me some love, some of your message, a follow you back. That's it. Awesome. Give our follow everybody. Next time we have you on, there's gonna be two of you here. So a pest of luck with a little bit of your journey. Congrats again and wishing you well wishes. Thank you so much. Thanks for watching. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for tuning in for another episode of the BB Com podcast. Stay tuned for more stories along the way. Yeah. Uh-uh. Uh-uh.

=== FILE: The Daily Buzz Interviews Jamie Eason - 2013 Bodybuilding.com $100,000 Transformation Contest [XlAzU47pvoI].txt ===

. . Promotional consideration provided by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

=== FILE: The Expendables 2 Behind The Scenes -- Bodybuilding.com [8fPC1HKhaM0].txt ===

Hey, buddybuilding.com. What's up? It's your boy Terry Cruz. And I am sitting here with UFC Hall of Famer, Randy Kulture, and also with the living legend, Dolph Lungren, and we are here to promote and tell you about the biggest action movie of the summer. Come on to you August 17, 2012, in theaters. And we were also, you know, how we got ready and how we prepared for the biggest action movie on the summer. Just sequel, expendable, too. Here we go. Hey, I'm Dolph Lungren. I played Donna Jensen, who's a Swedish drunk, and he'll speak for the movie. And he managed to sort of become part of the team and his pictures, instead of being his off-beat character in the first movie. So, it's a lot of fun for me. Have the biggest knife with everybody I think, and I'm the creationist. Well, you know, I am Terry Cruz, and I play Hail Caesar, who's the weapon specialist in the group. In the group, all of us, we all have our own specialty, and with me, one of the unsung characters in the movie is my double-812.gun, which is one of the best guns that was ever created for an all of all time. I've ran into a tour at Lake Tolroad, an expandable steam, Tolroad is a kind of a college that you get. Miss Fit, Emily's a textbook, and I get it. And a lot of ways, these crazy guys are a family, so he kind of sticks up for the guys, and it pulls the unit together a lot. It's fit of those two, there's a lot different than the expendables one in that. Everybody knows, and it's waiting for what's coming. Everybody's waiting to see, you know, how much bigger and better, and the way it's different, is that it is bigger and better. We added Chuck Norris to the cast. We added Jean-Claude Van Dam, to the cast. We actually shot in Europe, and basically blew up Bulgaria in many, many ways. That country will never be the same. Well, you know, the last picture I was kind of the argument out, you know, the crazy squeeery, kind of ran off, I was with the good guys, with a bad guys, and this one I stuck with a group a lot more. So I got to know these two clowns, not just two friends. Well, you got to write them. I got to know these two guys, and very well, and, you know, I know, slide from other movies. You know, you have to kind of keep joking and keep the light, because the conditions are very harsh. I mean, you run some little town, little Bulgarians, you know, 30 degrees, and you're up to five, you know, and so I really enjoyed it, and we're out of the whole thing about expandables that you have guys who are who are actually proficient in something real. Not only actors pretending to be somebody that they've actually done things in real life, for real, and I think that's why the film is special, you know, and these are guys that men, other men, and we look up to in real life, not just on screen. That's becoming more unusual, you know, and movies, you know, I think that's why I'm really glad to be part of the film, really, you know, proud to be part of it. When you see the expendables to, it's one of those things when you see all your heroes, everything that everybody that you've ever believed in, when you watch the movie, all in one movie, the power that is just too incredible, it becomes more than just a flick. I think on August 17th, it's going to be literally like a mask where everybody to come and really see what this is all about, what you believe in your whole life, and what you always thought you would never see with all these names and faces together, and it actually happened. You know, but I was going to say, like, as far as training goes, what I learned and what you learn on movies, you should sort of simplify your regime and how to make it more efficient. You know, when you do four months on a picture of what we did, you become used to it, and it becomes part of your arsenal, you know, training. So anytime I go away now, say, like, to do another film or publicity, you kind of know how to simplify your workouts, so you can keep it efficient, right? Break it down into the bare bones, and yeah. You absolutely essentially have to get in. You know, how a lot of extra having a glimmer, or a workout partner's your things you're used to having. You've got to just break it down right down to the root of what you need to get done to maintain and stay in shape. No, I kept my training the same as where I would use to get in great shape for a fight. Obviously, it's a little bit for a little less intense, a little less sparring oriented, a little more striking conditioning oriented, going into the film. But making a movie is a crime, just like the training camp for a fight. It's a long process, long hours, long days, and so you've got to not only physically but mentally you've prepared for that, and definitely think that approaching it like a fighter, helping out a bunch. I'm usually in pretty good shape, so I didn't train much different, I knew I had to stand next to this guy over here. And this fool over here. So I have to go to Dr. Lomo, and also like, if you hit the bag, and you'll like sparring what you should do, you get kind of thin, you know, and why are you? But you know, in the film, you want to look at the Lomo musklers. So I think I probably, I was about 10 pounds every then I am now, what I did to film. Lomo showed us an arms, because that's what you see. When you wear them, you're kind of t-shirts, you're just stuff like that. So that's got to how my program cheers. Because we're all kind of a different schedule to different things. You can't rely on being free at the same time to work out together. So you have to kind of individualize your routines. You can bang it out. You have the time to bang it out, and not be reliant on somebody else to make sure that you're working out in. But I think the most important thing to remember is, you know, you're talking about a guy who's officially an emotionalized, you know, an X-Men film player, and you have to see champion for all actors now. You know what I mean? You're an actor. And the big thing is, who cares how big the guns are? If you can't act, if you can't amode, if you can't project that emotion, and people could identify with you on screen, you might as well just be in the background. You might as well be nothing. You can't really compare yourself to another person and do that kind of challenge, because your greatest enemy is yourself. It's the lines. It's getting your character being the best character you can be and knowing your place and this whole steam and script. It's not about the physical stuff. I think all three of us, who are the physical stuff is the part with time easy. That's an easy part. That's the fun part. That's the part that we get to play those action scenes and actually throw guys and shoot stuff. That's the part that makes you smile, but actually kind of finding a room to your character and tapping into your stream of experience to be able to, in some way, represent that guy and tell the truth. That's the more difficult part. That's the part that takes time and energy to develop. And also, when you talk about the long hours, we weren't near a gym, so we had to ask if the hotel would extend their hours for us and then God they did because we were all panicking at first like how we're going to get our workouts in. It's not like in the States where you have a 20-per-off place over here. It was very, very limited to slide himself with down and made their arrangements with the owner. And they extended the hours early and later. So whatever we needed, we were given it. I'm truly thankful for that. Actually, it was a really nice day. We got a great hotel. We did. It was a really nice hotel. It was more than adequate for everything you needed. When we invaded that hotel, we invaded that place. It changed the dynamic. I don't think it'll be the same because everybody saw how committed we were to the health and fitness. In Europe, it's almost given you thinking Europe that they're all European body building and the whole thing. But it's just not as big as it is in the States. It was a hard shoot plan. I got a lot. We're in Eastern Europe. And we literally, we had a chicken breast. We had our vegetables. But there was a lot of beef. Over there in Bulgaria, beef was not a big deal. So we kind of had to improvise a lot. Lots of protein. Culturally, the different food, Bulgaria. A little more, came into Greek food. All the vegetables were organic. There were brown right there. There was no crazy food to keep the markets. Like we're used to seeing. It was a little bit different. And I kind of like it is. It was a change of pace. It's been Italian food. They were bringing the pasta right in for Italy. It's fresh. It was too good. It was too good. There's a plan. Try to find them, kill them. There we go! Be sure to check out its Findables 2 when it hits theaters August 17. For more content like this. Make sure you check out Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: The History of the Squat ｜ Squat Every Day [m0KzGXyCzbs].txt ===

They called the squad the king of exercises, but it's more than that. It's the first exercise you ever did, and nobody taught you how. You invented it. We all did, even though we didn't know it had a name. Some of us stop squatting as we grow up. Others put immense loads on their backs and squat to break records, or to build superhuman legs. At its best, the motion is the same as when you were a child. You sit down. Then you stand back up. As an exercise, the squat predates bodybuilding, powerlifting, and even Olympic weightlifting. Its roots stretch back into the days when weight training was the domain of professional strongmen who performed incredible feats in front of wide-eyed audiences. You know, I started when I was very young, and I had been around the sport mind-tired life, but I got away from it for a long time, and went into bodybuilding for a while, and I got into powerlifting for a while, and then I came back to weightlifting. I think the reason why I've had success as a coach is because I've had a lot of questions that I've learned a lot over the years. Generally, when you get stronger in the squat, it makes your entire organism stronger. I've proven time and time again that just when you're physically stronger in the squat, everything will increase. Your arms will gain size, your chest will get bigger, your bench press will go up. Everything gets stronger because your organism is an entire whole in a stronger. So in the past, I've researched the history of the actual squat as an exercise, and I went back as far as the modern day Olympics in 1896, and I found that it had actually predated that. So I started looking to old circus performers or old-time strongmen to try to find out how it started. What I found was, you hear names like Arthur Sachsen or Lewis Seer, other strongmen from the past. As I researched further, I found out that it came from a guy, and he referred to it as Professor Lewis Atilla. And one of his students was, again, a Eugene Sandow. He became very popular, not just because of a strengthless because how he looked. And ultimately he became the first bodybuilder, and 19-in-one-e-held a competition for bodybuilding. The reason I bring him up is because he had a book that he wrote in 1894, and it was a physical culture of training. And in one of his exercises, he clearly describes what's known as a squat and used that exercise. And so I believe that Atilla was his coach and taught him how to do it. So I believe that Professor was the guy who actually invented the squat as an exercise. Sandow's worldwide fame for his strength, and just as importantly his physique inspired countless young men and women to follow in his footsteps. But unlike his immense bent presses and other unique lifts, his version of the squat was a light one done with small dumbbells. Took another 30 years for someone to push the upper limits of what could be squatted with a heavy barbell. The reason was simple. How would they get it on their back? The way that they would squat in the past, there was no apparatus. You know, there was no bracket. And all the barbells back then were shot loaded, which means that it was a globe type barbell that was a fixed diameter and a fixed size. And to make it heavier, they were just poor shot inside the globe. So they were able to take that barbell and just stand it up on its long end and then grab the barbell and tilt it and catch it on their back and then do a squat. And then set it back now on those how they squat it back then. Same way when they did a one arm bent press, they would load around their shoulder, lean to one side and press. In the 1920s, Henry Steinborn earned a name for himself by squatting more than 500 pounds for five reps with a barbell that he tipped over onto his back. With triumphs like his and the increasing popularity of squatting for training in the Olympic lifts of the snatch and clean and jerk, the stage was set for the squat to take its place among the great exercises. So let me guys back then, we're more interested in just becoming bad asses. Like, what can I do to challenge myself? It was a different mindset. They weren't doing it because they wanted to look a certain way. They're doing it because they just wanted to be strong. So they would see how much can I put over my head with one hand, how much can I do with two hands anyhow? In the sport of weightlifting, was revived in 1896 with the modern Olympics and they had the one hand and the two hand lift. And after that, you still have the strong man and the circus performers doing everything. But as the Olympic movements gain traction, more people start training with weights. They wanted to compete at that high level and they became having world championships again. And so when people are doing snatch and clean and jerk, they found that they would start doing squats as a system exercises into it evolved to where you had in the 1950s. Well, and guys like Paul Anderson, you can show it up. Anderson, a gold medal winning Olympic lifter in strong man, popularized the Barbell squat as a stand alone lift by putting up unheard of numbers. His personal best squat was a monstrous 1200 pounds. His best official squat was 930 pounds in 1965. He trained relentlessly squatting tractor wheels and 55 gallon drums from a hole in the ground. His accomplishments made him a celebrity whose name was synonymous with strength. That's pretty much how it started to change because, you know, people saw how powerful he was and people like him from being immense squatters. And that's pretty much what change when people saw how much core strength they had. You know, they started becoming more mainstream people want to look like these guys. Not was available through mail order, they could order your barbells and plates and racks and things started to spread. And this is how it started to transition. People started to become more aware of what they're doing. This is how things started to build where people could grow is because the information was now available and so was equipment. And just like now here in the modern day where the internet is so accessible, you can get anything you want very quickly. So when the magazines and back then to that era was what helped spread the word and people could start to see how it was growing. By the 1960s, squatting had become mainstream. People could order racks and barbells through the mail and read and magazines about how to squat to increase strength and build better physics. But in the 1970s, a new generation of bodybuilders and power lifters redefined what was possible by using the squat for leg development. So really the first person that I saw that had just a straight freaky squat was Tom Plats. So Tom Plats in Franco Colombo were really the two people that I actually watched or read about to really had good squats that were strong and also could do for reps. So that comes from mostly gold narrow bodybuilders. So that's really early on in my career who I kind of looked to from a squat standpoint. Tom Plats was a guy that when I first saw his legs when I was a kid, I was just, I was blown away. The changes of game for me like that was one of the things that was wrong-pressive. And but to see in his physique and his legs, I managed to glue my mind. Athletes like Plats, Anderson, Steinborn and Sandow showed the world the possibilities of the human body. They made squatting look easy even under weights that should have broken them. Together they helped cement what has become one of the cardinal rules of strength training. If you want to be big and strong, you need to get under the barbell and squat.

=== FILE: The Incredible Shrinking Man ｜ Jesse Shand Lost 350 Pounds [8svuSIYQu74].txt ===

Our next speaker is a very special guest indeed. One of our own community members actually, who began his transformation on our own forums and started that transformation weighing nearly 700 pounds. And to date, has lost over 350 through the help of our own forum members, our content and the work that you guys do on the site and hear to talk about that experience, please give a very warm welcome to Jesse Shand. In May of 2013, I was almost 700 pounds. I hadn't left my house in years, I hadn't seen my friends in years. I couldn't even fit into my own shower and I hadn't shower them well over a year. I had long since given up on my life. What's up everyone? Webbress here. Got my boy. And today, I'm going to start my cutting phase after a wildly successful 25 year-bulking phase. I was always a heavier kid. I was still active playing basketball and that kind of thing. But I slowly started to get more reclusive. And as I started spending time online playing online video games and that sort of thing, I started going out less and being active even less. And that's when my weight really started to balloon up. And I was trying to excuse to tell my friends that I wouldn't do activities that they were wanting me to do. They stopped calling eventually and they stopped trying because they knew I wasn't going to come through or hang out. I basically ceased to exist. I think I was at or very close to 700 pounds. I never thought it would be possible to get the weight that I was at. As far as I knew, there was no personal scale that you could buy in a store or anywhere near me that would weigh someone at my size. And when I first started weighing myself, I had to use two scales, put half my body weight on each of the scales and then do the math to get an accurate weigh in. The heavier I got, the less I started even caring to look at myself, I would avoid the mirror. I never took pictures of myself. So kind of crept up on me. I mean, I knew I was always heavy but I didn't really realize the extent of it until I started losing abilities to do things I was doing before. I started being unable to fit in my seatbelt. So I was driving a car without a seatbelt for a long time and this is dangerous and I was always afraid of getting pulled over, having the seatbelt and the shoulder strap without actually plugging it in. One day I got up to take a shower and I noticed that I couldn't even fit in it with a shower curtain staying in. And that was a big shock to me. I had so much self-loving at this point and it was just getting worse to where it was easy for me to keep doing these things because in my mind I had already messed up so much and one more mess up wasn't really going to put me in too much worse of a condition and it was just a vicious cycle that kept going until I got up to this massive weight. So I knew my health was terrible and I was fully expecting that I wasn't going to live very long and that's really I given up shortly after that. I wish I could say that the reason I came to the bodybuilding that comes because I was ready to make a change but that's not the case at all. The only thing that drew me the bodybuilding that come was that it had a reputation for having a deep internet culture that I completely avoided all the fitness forms. A moderator kind of quickly found me and he gave me this ultimatum that ends up saving my life. He told me I either have to take down the avatar not having the avatar or post a real me. Being the typical troll and the negative person I was I thought, okay, well you want to see the real me, I'll give you all the real me you can handle and that's how the right got started. The thread I started was called Ask the Fatest Man on the Miss Anything, Miss Being the Missaliniest Subboard and it was posting all these pictures, these real, you know, gritty pictures of myself full body. I thought I was going to be getting a lot of disgusted image macros and stuff and while I did get some of that that's where people started to try and help me and they actually believed that I could undo some of the damage I did and that was something I wasn't expecting. It wasn't like I hadn't tried to lose weight and in my mind at this point if I couldn't even lose the weight when I was only 25 or 50 pounds overweight there was no way I was going to have the will power to drive to lose weight when I was hundreds of pounds overweight. Had this image in my mind that it would just take hours and hours every day of dedication, working out to you throw up so I wasn't willing to do any of that. So I had all these excuses but the members of the form are really persistent and trying to convince me that this could be done and giving me steps unique for my situation and it kind of took the thread and turned it back on me. Hey, how does one say I've gotten some really good advice here and I'm going to try and stay in contact with you guys and keep in the thread and keep updated with my progress and what I'm doing and hopefully you guys can give me some tips on what I'm doing wrong and you know how to stay motivated. I really do appreciate the help and the thread has been more useful. I didn't even mean for it to be life-changing thread. It was just kind of an interesting topic but I'm glad I posted. You know that night I was supposed to have eight chicken case ideas and some cheesy broccoli rice. That's what I had planned already and instead a member told me I should just cut it down to seven cheesy case ideas and you know even though that's only a couple hundred calories it was a start. For dinner today it's going to be chicken case ideas and wild rice. On average day I pack away a lot. Ten or eleven of those boys. Today I'm going to try maybe six or seven. When a member told me that I could just flop around it seemed so silly to me that it seemed like it would be the perfect workout for me to do and so I just turned my webcam on and immediately started you know just flopping my upper body. I was very surprised it just how you know tired I got from something so simple. So from there it was really easy for me to be open book about every point in the process. What's up everyone? What press here? I'm using this video to list off five short term and mid term goals that have one. Cut food intake by 25% 2 increase water intake by 200%. I already started 3 talked with social worker about getting medical assistance. Number four increase activity by 100%. That should be easy for me because right now my activity has spent at zero percent. Increase hygiene by 100%. Because I had this throughout the people encouraging me it naturally led to me logging all these activities when I would do a workout I would log it when I would eat something I would log it. Sergeant on brush here reporting in and while I cannot talk about my assignments I can talk about my condoms that was performed today. I woke up at 0700 hours. Next came child time. I had two standard issue peanut butter sandwiches and a Greek yogurt as a side arm. So I got to where if I wasn't making these posts all these people who were supporting me would know that I hadn't done it on that day. Boom day two. Alright so date five today's day six and you know what that means. Random dancing day. Doing my condition everything that I was doing was home-based. I started out doing just body weight squats you know something you needed nothing for. I remember with kind enough to send some fitness bands so you know I used those. Anything I could do to get my body temperature off anything I could do to start breathing fast. Uh oh god. Gold dumbbell duck does that. I'm just gonna do some arm press sitting down raises. That's way more physical activity than I've had in a while. More physical activity I tried working into my life. The more I realized how badly I let myself go. You know my legs and feet would be so tired after walking. My feet would be hugely swollen. They'd almost you know look like balloons when I first started. And so it was really apparent just how bad my health had gotten at that point. One video I made that really kind of sticks in my mind. That's the day I did 50 laps. Now to explain what this is a lap is just walk to the kitchen and living room. That was one lap. So you know it was only five or six steps from there. And you know walking 50 dees is now I look back on it and seems so silly. 50. I have to say no cuts. I 100% know breaks. No sitting down. 15 a row. I might roll around five k. I was so excited that I was able to do this and it doesn't seem significant but that was building serious strength in my legs and suddenly I was seeing these benefits coming and it snowballs from there. I always like to silly your suggestion so you know when someone told me I should play a Wii tennis. So one video I had I was just playing a Wii tennis game and recorded that. So I was you know finding new ways to do things. I was you know dance around. I was getting up more often. These small steps were kind of combining to make full workouts in the day. To where I was actually moving and burning calories quite often. I always had this picture in my head. You know you see these rally TV shows where people are working out until they throw up. You know people are passing out from working out. That was always the image I had in my head and that ended up being not the case at all. I ended up just being big results with just consistent effort. Hey Ryo. I'm Ross and every day I'm every day I'm Ross and I'm about to drop a pound maybe drop a hundred to. I'm about to drop it where my front is you. I took this kitty wool on to the yard and I filled it up with hose water. And it was freezing cold but I didn't care because for the first time in years I got to bathe. Now you can imagine with me not having shower in New Years. I wasn't going to clean from this but it didn't matter because what it gave me was a huge boost morale and it gave me something I hadn't had in years. It gave me hope. All right guys just woke up and stand for a while. So I 51 so there you have it and I'm not too surprised because I cheated in with myself last night because the anticipation was just killing me. I started posting the big events. You know anytime I had a milestone I remember I was able to suddenly shave my face. Another time I was able to drive a car and that was huge for me so I of course commemorated that event with a video. Man feels good to be here out of bed. This is like sound they air with past the window. The field of the mansion underneath the vibration is near and wheeled. The first time I was able to go see my doctor. This is you and there are you doing? Come on, come on, come on, come on. Good. So what's going on? Today is the first day and probably four years that I've actually been outside my house. Really? I had made a thread on the body building that I'm pouring. It was kind of like a joke thread and ended up being a thread that I got last tour and encouragement. I started a dieting. I didn't know workout seven days a week something like that. And everything's going good about 21 pounds. Great. I was thrilled. And I feel like the least I can do for all its support I got is to share these events and make it a community event because to me it is a community achievement. It's not just my achievement. All right guys, well I'm not there shower time. Check it out. But yeah, that first time it was awesome. Good boy. When you be, time will be showing you guys to say how to make a real simple smoothie. But the stuff is really good. I'm going to go ahead and cheers. One of the biggest things that was done from the community that helped me is they banded together and got me a gym membership that I never would have been able to afford before. When I first started I couldn't really fit on a lot of the machines. I didn't have the balance to do free weights a lot. So I had to start with swimming which is something that you know is good on the joints and it's really easy for someone in my size to have done at the time. It was really hard for me to do that first. But I just tried to keep my eye on the fitness. But now not only am I getting encouragement from people on the form who I'm not seeing. There's also people at the gym are constantly coming up to me and complimenting me. A lot of people have seen me from when I started. They don't even know my story. They don't even know how much weight I've lost and they're coming up to me and just telling me you know the difference that they're saying just since I've been at the gym. Hey everyone, my breath here and today is one year. 356 days of transformation and it is just amazing to me that a year has gone by so quickly. There's so many things in my life that have changed it. You know, I don't even necessarily connect to the fitness. Suddenly now I care about my hygiene and I find myself actually caring about the clothes that I put on and find myself wanting to make sure I'm at least someone groomed when I leave the house. Even my eating habits and stuff. I find myself trying things I never would have. And now you know I find myself being a little enjoy fresh produce and things that I never would have gravitated to before. I find myself wanting to get more into sports and physical activity and do fun things outside the house and I am suddenly hanging out with my friends again and things that I never would have imagined myself doing. You know I feel so much different now than I did then that's really easy for me to almost become detached. I don't feel like the same person at all. Yo, all right, we're going live with the wand. Here we go. 392.2? Oh man, dude. That is such a nice loss. I am so happy. Now in 300's on a way to 200's now. Man, it is so hard to believe that it's only been in not even a year and a half. Thank you guys so much and there's a good day. I don't want to feel like my journey is over and I want to always have something that I'm striving towards. And you know sometimes I go back and I like to look at those early videos to remember where I came from and where I was. I didn't have any future to look forward to. I didn't expect one. Feeling so much better and I just feel like I have limitless possibilities now. I can imagine now, you know, a couple years later that would still be here in front of you if it wasn't for bodybuilding.com. So when I say it saved my life, that's not just words. It literally saved my life. So much want to thank everyone who has given me the support because it has made such a monumental impact on my life. I definitely still have some things I'm struggling with. I still have a tendency to want to binge eat when I, you know, eat something that I know I shouldn't eat. I still have natural want to just keep doing that because I feel like I already screwed up so I might as well really screw up and that's something that I really have to be conscious about not letting myself do. And that's another place where the community really came through. Bodybuilding.com is still my number one source of motivation. I still post my way ends every time I do. I'm still posting my milestones there. I, you know, thought that a lot of these people, I thought they would just be completely disgusted with me. I didn't think, you know, they would have any interest in, you know, even talking to someone like me once they found out I was the fastest man on the thread. And the way that they've been helpful and the way they've really reached out is something that was completely new to me. What I found out quickly is that people who bodybuild their fit, they actually have respect for people who are have a lot of weight to lose and are trying to make an effort. When I heard that the miscos in the news I had no idea what it was going to be, whether it was hacking Mark Zuckerberg's Facebook profile, you know, or some crazy thing that somebody posted or something funny about debating how many days are on a week. You know, when I was really excited to see that it was something super positive like this, not just funny, the miscos amazing area. Something I'm super proud of having started and watch flourish over the last 16 years. But now to see something even more positive like this and get the recognition, I feel like our members deserve for what they're doing every day. What's a huge amazing milestone for our company. When you hear about bodybuilders and people in the fitness, like you have the idea and your head sometimes with somebody that is, you know, super vain, cares about themselves and you don't want to go talk to them because they're just going to make fun of you if you're not on their level. But what I found in our industry, especially on our site, is that people want to help. I want to personally think, Wiggy Wanka, Hoka, Build a Bro, Mighty Matt, and it for fitness. I also want to thank all the other people that all were part of Jessie's journey. Every one of you had a major impact on Jessie's life and the other people that are now following the story. One of my most popular videos was one where my mom, you know, she's thinking about you building community. She's always encouraged me. She never gave up on me even for a moment. I just cannot believe the outpouring of support for my son. I'm choked up about this because you guys just don't know what you have done for my son and me. You know, you're actually saving my son's life. So one of my biggest goals right now is to get to a point in my life for not only am I not dependent on her and, you know, not burdening her, but I also want to be able to support her and give back to her some of the support that she gave me. The biggest advice I can give you is to not make it too complicated. It really is as simple as consistency and you really do have to start small. I feel like my future is just open to any possibilities and at some point I'd like to work with people who have a lot of weight to lose because I feel like I'm in a unique position to where I can help people out and understand some of the things that they're going through and some of the mental hoops that they have to jump through to get that done. And, you know, I hope to be able to make an impact on people's lives in a similar manner to what's been made on mine. There's somebody at home right now watching this video and you're thinking that maybe it is now possible for you on your journey, whether it's to lose 400 pounds or more or whether it's just to get in a little bit better shape for whatever it is your goal. Jesse shows you that it's possible. It really is Jesse's amazing determination and willpower when most people would have given up for him to be able to do that with the help that he has received. It was an inspiration for all of us here at BodyBoddyMod.com. I was just completely off the rails and, you know, it's decided to make a troll thread on a bodybuilding form and you know, started from the faddest now we hear. So my message to you guys is that what you're doing is not only making a difference but it's saving lives and I know that there's millions of people you're helping but I'm so happy to be here as an example of someone whose life you gave back and humans have so much potential and so much limitless pop abilities and mine were all gone but you gave it back to me and now I feel like my future can hold anything. So I just want to thank each and every one of you for what you've done and I want you guys to know that you're making such a big difference and thank you guys for letting me speak and thank you for hearing me tonight.

=== FILE: The Last Stand： An Interview With Arnold Schwarzenegger - Bodybuilding.com [T_Xz6x-QTDU].txt ===

of the We have a situation. I've seen enough blood at the death. I know what's coming. Are you sure? Oh, it's... Boy in a way, it's really not much different than doing a cameo. I mean, it's like you're in a set and you're to the acting and you handle the weapons and all those things. So I think we've got a great warm-up when it did expandables. When a slide gave me a chance to work for four days and expandables, which made it look kind of like a rock for weeks and a movie, because they shot so much footage from six in the morning to late at night. So then when I was finished with that, I went directly then to New Mexico, instead of chewing, you know, last stand. Every never got the feeling like, oh my god, I have to work very hard to get back into it. I just slipped into it in a natural way and felt actually very good about being on a set and doing the scenes and handling the weapons again, doing all the action, the stunts and all that. And then working with a very talented director, Kim Chi Woon, was also very helpful to get me into it, because he was very passionate, very enthusiastic. When he explained the scenes with an interpreter, of course, from South Korea. He was always very much into acting out everything and doing the stunts and showing you how to do it. Sure, I'm sorry for that. I'm a violent fugitive, making it run for the Mexican border. I'm not going to let that guy come through our town without a fight. It's really a character that has been an expert with a SWAT team from Los Angeles, but in his years, 20 years of working with a SWAT team in LA, he could shut up several times. And so he's now at an age where he felt like he should actually retire in a small town where he originally came from. Some of them we call the town. Is Chef? Almost did a recognition playing clubs? Well, it's Medea. She'll be a quiet weekend. It's a low key town. There's him and there's three deputies and there's not much going on. And I play the sheriff and no one is expecting much. No one is anyone expecting any violence in this town or anything. That's why we only have three deputies. But then over sudden, we realized that there's a gang of mercenaries of the most dangerous criminals, drugloads that are descending on our town and trying to get through our town to cross the border to Mexico. We've got a cartel with heavy firepower headed towards the border. And there's a strong chance. You're coming your way. And of course, no one has any confidence that we are going to go and stop them. No one has to have the confidence that we're going to stop them. So they felt like they should just run over us and just ignore us. And they run the whole operation through the hell eye. And the sheriff. And so it's a story about being the underdog. There are no one expects anything. And then an aunt, me and my team and the town's people kind of rise up to that challenge. And the movie is about what it takes to get to that point and convince everyone to rise up. It will be part of the team and not to just continue talking about it. Let's look the other way. Let's just then let them go through the town and nothing will happen in the north. And I just stand up and say no. You know, I was born to fight for the rights of the people. And so I take on this huge gang of most violent people with all of the guns and weaponry that they have, the outcome. How are we going to go up against all that firepower? It got an idea. She's my little Nazi killer. And so that's what Johnny Knox still comes in. One of them would be a deputy and be depudized. But never was because he's goofy. I never depudized him. But now I have to because I need the manpower. And I know that he's a good shooter. So I have to get all of this town's people together and depudize them and then we together. Basically confront this big gang. So it's an action movie. It's a fast-paced movie like the fast and the furious in the way. It has car chases and car races. But unique ones also to the cornfield, which was of course the most fun thing to do. The race through the cornfield with 80 miles an hour. We do the Camaro against the Covet and then bang into each other and all this. There was a terrific and this great fight scene. It is a comic relief like two lies. Thought he was working there. Hey Ray, how you doing man? Good to see you. You're looking jacked, right? You've been working out? Give me the damn thing. When you're doing your training, your nutrition, your supplementation to get ready for this role. Did you approach it just like you used to back in your body billion days when he irrigated ready for it? What if your major contest? Well, you know, first of all you realized that you're now a little older than seven years ago or nine years ago when we were maybe determined age to three. Times have changed and you have to prepare much better and much more. You have to work out harder. You have to do more cardiovascular training, more stretching, more warming up for the scenes. But what I noticed was that everything is possible if you prepped the right way. I think we had a good stunt coordinator that knew what everyone's potential was and I had a good time doing all the action again and doing all the stunts again. Each role is different and so therefore we have to prepare differently. I remember that the last film we did, which was called 10, it's a police trauma. And then we had to again have a totally different training because they are the director and the story. It was such that you had to do so much training, tactical training with the actual early SWAT team and really practice with the weapons so you handled them exactly the way they are being handled by the experts. So it was besides the physical training and training with the weights. You had to kind of train for that also so they did look totally believable. So every movie takes kind of a different preparation. All right, so tell us what's next for Arnold Schwarzenegger? We have this movie coming out now in January 18th and I think that people will be pleasantly surprised by the movie and then the next movie is kind of come out in the fall which is the tomb with Sylvester Stallone. Then after that we have 10 coming out which is in January next year. And so there's a lot of stuff and I'm very fortunate that after I left the governor's office that there were so many offers and so much demand for me to do movies. And so there's a lot of movies that I mean in the last year I've done four movies and since I've left the office and we will be doing more movies this year and next year and so it will continue on including Conan and the secret to twins which will be called Treblets and so I'm looking forward to many movies. We cannot thank you enough for the time that you spent with us today and I would look forward to seeing you in future movies and be sure to check out the last day on January 18th and for more content like this check out bodybuilding.com. I'm looking at them comes through town. We're not a fighter. Very nice. We're not a fighter. We're not a hero. And I'm the sheriff. But my stand. Drive safely. We can start January 18th.

=== FILE: The MASSter of Growth ｜ CT Fletcher Motivation [6WA9oVJk54U].txt ===

I'm CT Fletcher, the world's strongest drug-free business. You probably don't know me now, but you will. You just wait till it's over with. This is my home. This is where I do my thing. I'm the best baby. Check it out. In the sea of people just saying things for money, I just saying things for notoriety. I want to be known as the voice of truth. And I want to be known as the guy who came from the street. All people to be able to say they see a part of themselves in me. Bye, baby. The history of my family is steep and strict. I had a grandfather that they called, new because he was reportedly as strong as a fucking new. They said that this guy went out in the woods one day and his job was chopping wood. So he went out there and he chopped all his wood and loaded up his wagon. He was headed back to the meal with his wood. And the fucking wagon guy stuck in the ditch. And the fucking news couldn't get it out. They couldn't pull it out. So grandfather knew, went around to the front of the wagon and said, Unhit Stimpych's, unhit Stimpych's, fucking news grabbed the harness, put it around itself, and pulled up fucking wagon out of that ditch. I've been hearing stories like that every time I can remember. So strength was a very, very, very big thing in my family. My dad brought me my brother, a set of weights with a call a pig, when I was in junior high school. And we worked out with that. That was my first initial introduction to weightlifting. I was hooked at the admiration that a pair of bigger than normal arms got in. That's what hooked me. It more than anything walking down the street, walking down, camping Boulevard, and half somebody said, damn, look at that motherfuckers arms. That's what did it. I started out wanting to be a bodybuilder. My biggest goal was to be Mr. America. Mr. Olympia is the big thing now, but when I was a kid, Mr. America was on the cover of Life Magazine. I found out that if I really wanted to be Mr. America, I might have to do some things that I didn't want to do in order to achieve that. So I knew I was strong, I knew I was strong from birth, I turned the powerlifting. So I was a powerlifting. Greatest job for you, Vince Precip, all the time. After my open heart surgery, I had no choice. I couldn't lift $700,000, no more. I just told him, I never lift weights again. And I said, fuck you, I'm gonna find some way to do it. So then I turned to very high volume high repetitions after that. I met that is always the same, no choice, I get me no choice. No option, no plan B, because I fucking said so as usually answer it. That's my mindset, my attitude has a lot to do with my upbringing. My dad was a soldier, he was also a preacher, and he was also a very child abusive mother. So he abused the fuck out of me, so he also gave me no choice. Same thing to military, just I never woke me up in the morning and said, Mr. Frutch, it would do please do this, he said, get your fucking ass up and do it. If you ever had to murder to say, why? It's standing handshrie, my drill sergeant and my dad was because I fucking said so. That's why. Hi, go. One part, six, one, the fucking, nine, one, the fucking. I think that's where my style came from. It's just a no choice method of training, I had to say. I threw the rule book out a long time ago, a lot of guys study it and they come up with formulas on what's the perfect amount to do and volume and you know, all types of things like that. I guess my training method be more on the instinctive, if you're mostly a state to come in and the bottom line is until you can't do it, you fucking more. That's more what's, what's, what's CT, how many reps that I do? How many? When you leave the fucking ZM, you should be drained, you should have a hard time making it to your car. I don't care what your level is or how much ability you have. Just make sure that you leave every fucking thing that you have on that TM4. There's a satisfaction that comes with knowing that you gave your all. He's just like a fighter even if he loses the fight, but he knows that he did every fucking thing that he could and is powered to win that fight, then there's a certain satisfaction with knowing that you gave your all. The big thing that they say is my method is overtaining and I'm saying overtaining is the fucking mythical creature like a fucking unicorn and don't got them exist unless you're looking at the reading of fucking fairy tale. overtaining is the fucking myth and you heard it here first. The human body is capable of amazing fucking thing. Just try it to dumb mother fucking try it for yourself and you don't see, don't put no limitation on yourself, put your mother fucking self and see what happens. Just see what happens, prove me wrong, try it out. It's very hard to hold your body and it do dip at the same time. It's not pretty. When you did many double cheese burgers, I didn't support it. I used to eat any fucking everything because I felt like that is what it took to maintain my size. I had to eat stupid quantities of food in order to maintain the size of it. That's why I didn't know what he did. I just want to be stupid. If I made your concern was not it looks. If I just wanted to be a big side walk craggy mother fuck. Now I eat my four meals a day. I try to get a 50, 40, 10 on a protein cart that is no problem for me to eat the same thing every fucking day because I'm not eating because something tastes good. I'm eating for the fucking results. People say, oh I hate dying food. I can't die because the die is too tasty. So fucking bad. Mother fucker, you ain't eaten this shit for the taste good. You're eating because you want the results that it's going to give on the way that you look. That is the main purpose of dieting. But city flutcher is not through. I'm just getting started. Hold on. I'm a bad man. I question myself a lot growing up as a kid in a abusive home. Why did I have to live in here every day? Why, my dad's kids with single and front door are like fucker, I have to grow high. Why did this happen to happen? I saw something. Why why did this happen? Later on, when I had the open heart surgery and I'm not able to breathe. Sleep with my back up against the wall for six months. I sit on the floor. I couldn't lay in the bed. I couldn't lay flat because if I did, I was suffocating. I just asked myself why. Why did this happen? Why did I have to go through all this? Why? And now the answer is clear. My purpose is to try to help somebody else. When the people come and they tell me that I heard your story. I heard I didn't want to do the child abuse. I heard I you came back from the injury and then that came me the pussy. That gave me the drive to get through. So that's my fucking purpose, man. Because of what I said. Man, it was all worth it. All worth it. Every did it. I got a new magnificent obsessive news that is to try to change as many people's lives on the plan. The most powerful motivational speeches that I have ever heard came from people who told me I didn't do something. I was bound and determined to show them that I could. For more articles and videos just like this one, keep drumming back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: The Top Features of the New Bodybuilding.com App [5uiAz4xb6kM].txt ===

Welcome to theBodyBuilding.com app. The journey to a fitter you starts here. Created account to access all content, including premium workouts. When you're ready to get moving, jump into a guided workout, program, or choose to build your own. Our follow-on workouts feature certified coaches who are here to help you reach your goals. From strength and high-pod you beat, the body recomp and recovery. There's a coach for every occasion. If you're in for the long haul, our programs range from 4 to 12 weeks. Keep you on track for the months ahead. Booking to take things in your own hands, build a workout, stack free developed workouts, or go for goal, and build a multi-week program. The sky is the limit. Measure progress by connecting your health of us. From heart rate monitoring to calories crushed. Stay in the know with user personalization. Done with deadless for the day? Connect with other users to trade tips, share workouts, or find your next soulmate. Those who lift together, stick together. Ready to get started? Download the bodybuilding.com app today. See you in there.

=== FILE: The Top Health Benefits of Sauna Therapy ｜ Ep. 20 ｜ Peter Nelson ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast [R5nZx7-vvfY].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Daniel Bitz and welcome back to the BB Compa Cast. Today I'm joined by Peter Nelson. Pete is the founder of C.C.U. Lifestyle, an Ohio-based brand whose purpose is to make wellness premium and simple by fostering connection and health in every household through sauna and co-punch. Pete has been a fitness enthusiast his whole life. He was a high school basketball standout who ended up pivoting across bit, weightlifting, and ultra-run in-during college. He's ran 27 ultra-marathons in one-day inaugural and Artica 50K Ultra-Marathon in March 2024. Pete, his wife Paige and their two children currently reside in North East Ohio receives new products or manufactured. Pete's passionate about giving back to veterans and individuals who have been affected by cancer. Pete found in the annual Helen Hogg's back in Durance Race series in 2023. All proceeds from the event go to an individual or family diagnosed with cancer in need of funds for medical care. Through the element of hot and cold therapy, Pete believes we can not only live healthier lives but more intentional and longer lives. Pete, welcome to the BB Compa Cast. Did I know they get so much for having me? What an opportunity and excited to dig in? Yeah, likewise, Pete. Thanks for stopping by today. I'm excited about today's topic. I'm passionate and fired up about today's topic. Everybody we're talking about hot therapy, sauna therapy, contrast therapy, all of the therapies today and really what he can do for us on a physiological and psychological level. So number one, today Pete, I want to talk about building CSU. So you're the founder of CSU Sanna's handcrafted Cedar Sanna's Made in Ohio. Talk a little bit about the origin story. How this wasn't an industry, a new industry for you, but a new found mythology that you marketed sauna therapy to a post-pandemic world. Absolutely. So I got in my prior professional career, I was a personal trainer. And through the process of being a personal trainer, then managing a gym and then owning the gym, we found that sauna would be a great recovery modality for our athletes. And so we naturally purchased a sauna. We actually put it at our own home. And through that buying process, we found out that in Ohio there was no dealer or wholesaler for this specific manufacturer that we bought from. In this manufacturer, which is a phenomenal manufacturer, specifically, they're in the late 2010s and up nerds into that 2020-2021. They were known as the most premier in premium sauna manufacturer in North America. So we ended up getting the rights to become a wholesaler of that of that sauna manufacturer and through that process, we ended up becoming the authority in Ohio for anybody that would want to buy a sauna to that manufacturer. They would have to go through us. So we got the learn the sauna business. And in that sauna business, specifically in that first year, we would probably have one to two sales, maybe every other month. And we got to understand what people wanted in sauna, what people didn't want in sauna, the temperature ranges, and then COVID hit. And just like any business, we had to pivot. And in that time of COVID, we ended up hitting a period where there was 12 straight months without a single sauna sale. And it became so alarming because as a side hustle, yes, you are putting time into it. But as we were doing like a time audit, we're like, this probably is not the right move for us at this at this juncture. So we ended up deciding actually to dissolve the dealership about two years into that portion of what C.C. was at this time. And then there was a morning where my business partner and I nicked at us, we were doing an early morning trailer run. And we kind of both looked at each other like, we should dissolve this. And then 10 minutes later, after making that decision, we're like, wait a second, what is the problem here at hand? And we kind of went through the whole list. And we said, well, the lead time through too long, there was decreases in quality of craftsmanship. There was, there's too many sauna companies out there that are pulling, you know, product from Asia and different countries, nothings US, or US made, the heaters aren't right. And it wasn't something that was very marketable. And so we started going down the line of, all right, hypothetical solutions, what should we do? And we started creating solutions to those problems at a very high level. And by the end of that run, the decision was made that we were going to pivot into manufacturing ourselves. So it was August of 2022 that we really got our manufacturing off the ground. We pivoted the business from being a whole sailor of another manufactured to be in our own manufacturer where we have a 65,000 square foot facility in Northeastern Ohio and Amish country where Amish craftsman handcraft and hands liked every single sauna. And so all of our wood comes from Idaho. We ship it into Ohio and to Burton Ohio where we have Western Red Cedar. It's Millland site, hands-lected handcrafted and we ship it then four weeks, if you choose, very, very simple options. So when somebody goes to a sauna website and they want to purchase a sauna, we were really flustered with how many different options you needed or were to the customers disposal. And the other thing too is that you had to be super well educated to understand, like, all right, if I'm going to invest $10,000 into a sauna, I want to be not only as educated but I want to be as informed as possible, we wanted to eliminate that completely. So what we did is we started looking at what skews people wanted, not just that from like the shape, but also the size, the heater, bucket ladle, the whole thing. It needs to all be part of this one package. The only option that we give our consumers is whether or not it's going to be indoor outdoor, which is the difference of a roof kit or non-reef kit. And that's allowed us to be able to scale. So we're in month 21 or so and it's far exceed our expectations and it's been so fun and now we're sitting here and being able to talk about sauna therapy. What does seeshumine peat? Yes, so seeshum is actually a finished concept and there's no perfect translation to the English language and seeshumine's perseverance to nasty bravery and grit. And believe it out, there was actually a John Wick ask movie that just came out about a year ago called seeshum. And it's about this man who doesn't speak and it doesn't speak a single word the entire movie, but the guy just doesn't die and he just he displays this grit in this perseverance to be able to get through super difficult situations. And that's such a great way to be able to describe seeshum because it's this ultimate level of perseverance where if you think about like a challenging situation, there comes a point where you want to give up and you want to quit and then seeshum begins, right? So it's like that next level of determination for you to be able to get through really, really difficult experiences and difficult difficult challenges that life's presenting to you. That's a great story behind the brand. I want to ask you the question out front, why sauna? Why sauna therapy for you specifically? And you know, what makes you so passionate about it where you chase down the stream of starting a global brand or a domestic brand right now with seeshum? For sure. If you would have asked me five years ago that sauna was going to be my you know, lifeline for how I was going to support my family. I would have laughed at you. But it was through the experience of sitting in the sauna with my wife and then having my friends over and then seeing the research start to come out starting in 2018 2019. And it just became not only what people are viewing as a trend in the United States right now, it actually to me is something that is here to stick. And so what I viewed was like this is an opportunity for us to be able to start getting people to foster connection with themselves more and the people that are in the sauna. But actually it started to build tangible health. And sauna in itself is an exercise mimetic. It's not a substitute for exercise. But it's a way for us to be able to build better relationships. It's way for us to be able to expedite recovery. It's a great way for us to be able to get the cardiovascular effects of zone two training when I'm in a sauna. And to me, there's a fine difference too between all the different sauna modalities. The reason why we're in traditional sauna is because all the research that's coming out not just from performance, but also from longevity is pointing to 176 degrees to 2112 degrees. And that's where again for us, it's like this is very simple. Let's just produce saunas that are super hot, high quality craftsmanship, and do so to where we can start to develop a community around it. And that's all we need to do to be able to start scaling a brand. And so now where we're at is being able to continue to create quality, but also at the same time, be able to do it at mass production. And that's the biggest thing for us is being able to embrace that challenge and forge that CSU that the CSU concept that we've been talking about within our own business. You're pointing out we're talking about high heat and we're talking about dry sauna. So we're not talking about steam rooms here, we're not talking about lower infrared, we're talking about high heat and dry. And I want to point that out now at the beginning of the episode, because that's really what we're going to be speaking to when we're talking about a lot of these benefits that are associated in the conversation that we're about to have. I do want to help educate our user before we jump into things a little more granularly. What is contrast therapy? And where does that come into play in pairing with heat? Yeah, for sure. So when it comes to contrast therapy, we're looking at deliberate heat exposure in deliberate cold exposure. So you're basically going from a very hot environment to a very cold environment. For most people right now, it's either they're hitting a hot tub and in for insana, traditional sauna steam room, and then either doing a cold shower or they're doing a cold plunge. And there's different effects to that that essentially create a bodily high for people, and it becomes very addicting for some people too. But contrast therapy in its essence is starting to create to me probably the more significant psychological responses that we're looking for for people, and it's actually helping decrease depression. And when you when you separate the two though, like cold exposure and sauna therapy in itself without pairing, there's tons of benefit. But when you combine the two, all of a sudden you're looking at this cocktail of effects to where it's almost starting to also point toward longevity benefit. There hasn't been enough research done on contrast therapy for us to be able to say like this is the exact specific protocol for longevity, but there is stuff specifically pointing toward depression and being able to cure that. And if there's one thing obviously right now in the United States is that there's a lot of people that are anxious, having anxiety, have depression, and are looking for ways to be able to cope with it that are healthy that don't have consequence. And contrast can be a great form for that. I think it's a really great way to slow down my history of contrast therapy. I was first introduced to it back in my collegiate athlete days, but that was more so from a physical recovery standpoint. It was, hey, we have a double header tomorrow. We need to do recovery remosals as quickly as possible. Go hot cold, hot cold, hot cold, right? There was no discussion about the mental aspects of it. Now you'll feel it. Now anybody out there who has done it or if you haven't done it, you know, proceed with caution when you're trying anything new, just do a couple rounds to start. Don't go crazy. You will feel a significant difference in terms of your breathing patterns, in terms of what you're the speed at what you're speaking, the speed at what you're thinking. You know, for me, here in New York City, things move very quickly. Once I hit the sauna 200 degrees and I do a couple of rounds with 38 degrees in the coal plunge and I do that three, four times, I am a completely different person. My conversation with you will be night and day, comparative to what it was 20, 30 minutes prior to that. So there's a lot of great stuff happening here and I think the fact that it's going mainstream is a tremendous win for everybody. And to piggyback off that, Northern Europeans have been doing this for hundreds of years. This isn't a trend that's over there. This is just starting to migrate to the United States. And if there's one thing that Americans love to do, it's that they love to sit. And so it's like, why wouldn't I create this complete alternative to where I just sit in this sauna and be able to do so with people to where I can't even use my phone because it's so hot or the keyboard gets so watery to where I can't. The keyboard doesn't function. So it's a time for me to be able to connect with myself, the person across me and do so to where there's zero consequence. And I'm a big believer of creating alternatives in your health that don't have consequence. And it's going to aid in your ability to sleep, aid in your ability to be able to like you were saying, be able to have great conversation with people and be more productive. It's to win when. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the Scandinavian countries have certainly been the leaders in this front. You go to Norway. They have floating saunas that you can take out and rent for a couple of hours. And you know, you can jump into this, it's like a sauna, it's crazy. You jump into the sauna. There's obviously a room where you don't have to be in the sauna as you're floating down the the Bayer, the river. Then you jump into the water as your contrast. How great is that? Yeah, you can't beat that. No. And there are more and more cities are certain to come out with that. Again, it's here to stay as a result of the research that's certain to come out. But it is important to note that the Scandinavian countries didn't have the research to their disposal while they were doing it. They just intuitively knew that they felt really damn good. And when I feel and sometimes we need to stop lean on the research so much and just go off a feel. And when, you know, to me, I don't need to know the research to know like, I've got this incredible response to my sleep or ring data. I also support it, but just like my wife and I are more connected, I can sleep great. I stay asleep and my runs are improving. Just because I'm using sauna. We've become data reliant for sure in a lot of in a lot of ways, whether that's trying to be our running time, trying to be the amount of, you know, weight that we're lifting, et cetera. Just do what feels good. I think is what we all kind of need to get back to after the last 10 or 15 years of tech innovation. Yeah, if there's one thing that, again, the US loves is they love competition, they love data. And it's just part of our culture. And sometimes it is important to get away from that. And sauna could be a great mechanism to be able to do that, to be able to disconnect. Yeah, absolutely. Topic to be physiological benefits of sauna. So we're going to get into a bit more detail here. So as you've said, you know, we have loads of data and science that nods to the overwhelming amount of physical benefits that's on this brain. This ranges from decreased risk of chronic and cardiovascular diseases, improved circulation, decreased blood pressure, cholesterol support, the list can truly go on here. So let's start with that heart health. Let's talk about heart health and heat use, including, you know, the potential decrease in mortality rate with higher use. Let's talk a little bit about hearts. Yeah, for sure. So in 2018, there was a massive study with a number of, a number of participants. And it was a pretty evenly split population between male and female, really between like 40 to 55 years old. And what they were really experimenting with and trying to be able to study in point fingers on was cardiovascular risk for any sort of cardiovascular event. And what that research ended up pointed out is that in the controlled environment from 176 degrees to 200 to 12 degrees Fahrenheit to where the top of their head was at that range of 176 to 12. Their feet could have been a little bit cooler, totally normal. What they ended up finding out was that cardiovascular disease and any sort of cardiovascular event from four to seven times weekly from five to 20 minute sessions went down by 40 percent. And which is incredible and all cause mortality, which means that any sort of death related to any sort of health event went down for that exact same amount. So that 40 percent. Two to three times weekly saw a decrease in 24 percent. One time weekly saw a decrease but not as much as that two to three times or that four to seven times. So if you're looking for a minimum fact of dose for sonotherapy as it pertains to longevity to be able to live longer, live better, you're looking for to seven times weekly at that 176 to 12 for five to 20 minutes. And you're going to notice that duration is pretty extensive from five to 20 minutes. What that tells you is that that person who was being studied is either new to sonotherapy or they've been doing sonotherapy for a long time. And regardless that the physiological response that was starting to occur in the psychological response that was starting to occur was that they were trying to get each of the participants to be able to get that point in the sono session where it starts to become uncomfortable where that dynoirfin experience or that dynoirfin response starts, which is the opposite of endorphin. So it's like this fighter flight type of mechanism starts to happen in the body and it's time to get out. Your goal is to be able to stick through that for a couple more minutes and then get out and then you get that amazing door from rush type of experience after the sono. And that study was so monumental because what that ended up pointing out was that it is truly all about heat. It's not how it's not the mechanism so like this isn't really to redlight therapy with infrared sauna because infrared doesn't get up to that temperature range. But we need to be in hot environments and do so consistently. And this is probably one of those times where we could truly say more is better, right? Four to seven times weekly has the same amount or the same effect. But when you look at it and you look at it from a 10,000 foot angle, it's no surprise. Thins, there's for in Finland, there's one sauna for every two people. So most families have two saunas. This is literally part of their life and they do it every single day. And they're also some of the happiest people in the entire world. And it's no coincidence. They're also living really, really long lives. And I think that that's something that the US needs to start to grab a hold of here. Their sauna use is similar to bathing. I mean they're doing it either. It's hygiene, right? You brush your teeth. You take a shower. You hit the sauna. And maybe that not in that order, but it's a part of their daily routine. It's an ingrained in them. It's where they break bread. They do dinner. They go out in the sauna and then they position it in a way to where their body's able to naturally cool itself off and then they get into a nice deep sleep after. When we're talking about sauna use, so okay, our goals four to seven days. Like anything, we're going to work our way up there for currently at zero. Right? So start with that one, two, three, and work your way up there. Get your body used to it. Don't stress yourself out. You know, need to go from zero to seven overnight. Is there a good time? Is there a best or better time to do the sauna at the time of our day? I would say the biggest thing for people is do it when it's most convenient for you because at the end of the day, you want to be able to do it most consistently. Right? I'm not going to put it into a part of my schedule to where all of a sudden become the chore for me to sauna. So for my wife and I, what we typically do is we do it prior to bed. And the reason is because we've got two kids and it just makes sense. I can set it from the app on my phone. We jump in the sauna if the kids go down and then all of a sudden that induces a deeper sleep. Now, there's two parts to, or I should say there's two avenues that you could approach it. If you are truly trying to optimize. So if you were to take the convenience out of it and look at the research, it's either post-exercise or it's prior to sleep. So for the post-exercise, you get the cardiovascular benefits that you're talking about, hard health. You're getting extra zone two training. So zone two training is where your body is at your heart rate between 60 to 70 percent of your max heart rate. And more trained athletes that could open up even to larger ranges. But what that does it gives you an extended period of being able to build a aerobic foundation prior to post-exercise. But the other thing too is that it's going to allow you to be able to build stroke volume, be able to build a aerobic base. But also do so in a way to where you get the extended benefit from your workout. So I could get growth hormone release post workout with sauna therapy. Again, I could build stroke volume. I could build my body's ability to naturally cool itself off post workout. So like, do you have that? And then you also have on the opposite side sleep. So when you look at your body's ability to be able to thermoregulate, so be able to decrease or elevate body temperature based off the outside environment. And I'm in a sauna and my body temperature is increasing while I'm in the sauna. And then post session without water or cold immersion therapy, my body has to naturally cool itself off. What's the same exact thing that's occurring when I'm triggering my parasipathetic system while I'm trying to sleep? Or just prior to bed? So my body prior to bed based off the circadian rhythm is going to try to decrease my body temp below baseline. Well what the sauna does is it actually tricks the body to go in deeper below baseline so I could get the bed quicker, triggering a deeper sympathetic or parasipathetic nervous system state, and also be able to stay asleep. So based off the data, not to keep kind of about the data, but like on my ordering, I was able to get more REM sleep, more deep sleep, and I could stay asleep, and also be able to get to sleep quicker. As a result, to be positioning sauna, one to two hours prior to bed. Prime in yourself to kind of just wind things down for the day. How do we navigate hydration ever doing at night? Right? So we've just just sweat out how much, you know, of our water, how we replenishing that without breaking our three to one rule, right? I'm drinking water too close to bed. So how are we juggling that? That is a, that is an individualized question. You will know based off of more frequent sauna use prior to bed for how much you could tolerate with hydration. So my biggest recommendations are you're not just doing water while you're in the sun that's water with electrolytes, so something with higher sodium content, because you, yes, you are a perspiring, which means that you're creating all sorts of like toxins, but also, you know, there's a lot of salt in your sweat. So you need to be able to replenish. For me, what I typically do is I do about a half gallon of during my sauna session and just post that would get me within and about half gallon within a, about an hour timeframe, and then I will do my best to use the bathroom prior to bed, and then that should keep me there. As you're starting to experiment with the amount of water, you will probably wake up during the night to go to the bathroom that's totally normal. You'll figure out based off of more frequent use what works for you. Right. What that sweet spot is for you individually. You touched on it a bit before, long and respiratory function, some zone two, I think this is a really great tool. Use myself as an example. I was coming off of a pretty major surgery back in February, pretty limited because it did impact my abdomen. Couldn't do much, but was hitting the sauna within two weeks of that surgery just to get my lung function back to where I wanted to be, and I felt it, right? I was, you know, two and a half weeks off of not doing anything pretty bed-written for that recovery, and for me to go into that 200 degree sauna for, you know, 15, 20 minutes. It was a workout for my body, so I want to expand a little bit about that. How can we releverage this as active recovery days? How we can we can slice this in when we're not able to do the cardio we're able to do right now. What does that look like? Is there a cadence to it in terms of duration, temperature, things of that nature? You touched on a little bit more, but let's talk about injecting it more so from a training functional perspective. So when you're looking at the entire perspective for a week, your goal should be around 60 to 80 minutes of deliberate heat exposure between that 176 to 200, 12 degrees. Your body's going to naturally over time while you're in the sauna, increase the tart rate. I've seen some people getting even up to like zone 3 and zone 4, and the sauna depends on how heated after they are. But as it pertains to the training and you're a benefit to be able to, you know, improve your running time or being able to improve your recovery, especially from injury. I do believe that based off the, based off the science that if we could get between like the 15 to 20 minute range, ideally like that 20 minute range around 190, that's typically where I may come. I'm able to improve my recovery. But again, from like a protocol standpoint, that's just heat. If you combine it with cold, that's a different story too. There was a protocol that was able to increase growth hormone as it pertain to training. And this growth hormone protocol was once every 7 to 10 days, and it was two bouts of 30 minutes in the sauna, which is a long time. If you ever been 30 minutes in a hot sauna, that is mentally daunting. With about a 5 to 6 minute cooling period in between, that could be done with cold water, cold water immersion or just naturally cooling yourself off. And then you would wait three to four hours in the new repeat, that same cycle. So two rounds of 30 minutes with in the sauna between 176 to 12, ideally like in that 180 to 195 range. And then six minutes cooling, three hour period, and then you repeat. And that produced this incredible like 16 fold growth hormone response. Now, I'm not saying that this is the right thing to do, but that research that came out based off of that was telling you that sauna could be massive for being able to build lean muscle mass, be able to build, obviously like cardiovascular function in a way to where you're able to continue to like improve your running, your rolling, whatever your mechanism for other exercises. But I thought that was really interesting because there's a lot of people that are trying to improve their body composition and their aesthetic and that could be a good protocol for them to do it. But to me, like, I find there to be benefit and doing the three to four times weekly with my wife for about 20 minutes at a time. Now, we're not saying you're going to get the biceps. You've always wanted to just buy him the sauna every time. Right. But you know, you're talking about the release of the growth hormone, which is extremely beneficial, especially after strange training workouts. Now, on the contrary, if we are introducing contrast therapy, there's a lot of chatter out there in the industry of cold therapy being detrimental to those strange workouts. So, how do we navigate that? What are your thoughts on that based off of some of the research that we've seen coming out? How do we want to finally balance our sauna use tied to strength therapy? Is there a window that we want to wait if we want to do the contrast therapy after, which will include the heat and the cold talk a little bit about that? So, let's talk quickly, cold as it is. Individual. Yeah, cold with training. Based off of what has come out, we want to try to limit cold therapy three to four hours after your strength training session. The reason being is that it has tons of anti-inflammatory benefit. If I'm trying to build muscle mass, specifically like postwork out, my body is very inflamed. And my muscle has already been broken down. And if you start to blunt that effect with cold therapy, all of a sudden, you're not going to be able to get like the similar lean muscle mass gains that you otherwise would have if you'd let your body just naturally repair itself. But if you look at it from a just overall longevity standpoint, there's no problem with doing cold therapy post exercise. If you're looking for 100% body composition, building as much muscle mass as possible, then keep that three to four hours after. But when you start to structure in contrast therapy with sauna and ice, it's still about the same idea, right? The sauna inflames the body and then the ice is an anti-inflammatory benefit to the body. So those obviously counteract each other, it's based on dilation and then based on constriction. So with sauna therapy, yes, it's great post exercise. It's able to continue to expedite their recovery process, then inflammatory process even speeds up even more. You want that post exercise. But if you're going to do contrast therapy and then right after a training session, I probably wouldn't recommend that. If you're looking for full on muscle mass gain, I would probably keep that three to four hours after your strength training session. But if it's a roebit training, it's a different story. You could do contrast after with great benefit. For me, my favorite time to hop into the cold plan just after a longer run. I mean, my feet are on fire, my calves are on fire. Everything is just super inflamed from that New York City street impact. So dunking myself into that cold plan for even four or five, six minutes feels really nice after that and then I'll always end in heat. I don't like to walk around and cold as well. I think inflammation has seen as such a negative, but I think we need to take hold of that narrative before it gets too out of control. Probably already has because I feel like on every website. It's like get rid of inflammation. There's a time and a place for inflammation. It's important. It's going to help your muscle of a grow. It's going to help you progress. Sometimes we need to be in a flame state in order to work out what our body needs to work out. Now, we don't want to be in flame 24, 7. That's really more so what we're trying to get out of, you know, especially if you're dealing with maybe autoimmune issues, things of that nature. That's really what we need to get under control through stress management and some of these modalities that we're talking about today. But yeah, I mean to your point, the percentage of people likely listening to this, even who are so fixated on, you know, the smallest percentage of getting that hypertrophy versus them probably just want to feel better and function better on a daily basis. I think the benefits of just jumping in if that's more convenient for you after you work out far out way, you know, what some of these studies are telling us. You're exactly right. And inflammation into itself, the body gets inflamed because it's trying to heal itself. That's that's why inflammation occurs. Now, some people are chronically inflamed, which is a, which is, it's a problem, but cold obviously helps de-inflamm or, again, anti-inflammatory for the body. And I think that as long as we don't geek out too much about the science and just be more intuitive to, toward how we feel like you're saying, sometimes we just need to do what feels best. And that's typically what's going to last be more consistent long term is being intuitive to, hey, this actually felt really good. I'm going to continue to double down on this because I enjoyed how I felt. And there's nothing wrong with that. So sometimes you need to lean away from the data on that and just be intuitive. Yep. How does sauna use help with heat adaptation? Really, homeostasis control and learning temperature regulation for the time outside of the sauna. Again, you touched on this and your body adjusting to get in at us back to that regular functioning state. How can we use this maybe in the summer, particularly, to help us deal with increasingly hot summers, maybe you live in a permanently year-round hot place like Arizona, right? So how can that help your body adapt to everyday life when you're not in the sauna? Yeah, certainly. So our body, again, everybody's internal body temperature has a slight fluctuation from day to day based off of number of physiological principles, the external environments and whatnot. So on and obviously increases internal body temperature. The skin gets hot. Naturally, the body's going to start trying to cool itself down from the inside. That's why we start to sweat. So sweat is essentially our ability to be able to thermoregulate and keep body temp down. When I step outside of the sauna, yes, my internal body temp is high because I'm trying to sweat and to bring it down. But the more frequent sauna, the more frequent our sauna use is the better we become at sweating. And some people don't want to sweat more, but what that means is actually we're more metabolically, more metabolically efficient. So I'm able to decrease body temperature more rapidly. I'm able to keep a lower heart rate as a result. So let's say it's mid July, mid August. I'm going for that long summer run mid day and it's 90 degrees out with tons of humidity. I'm more better set up to be able to keep my heart rate down because I'm able to be more heat adapted as a result of frequent sauna use. And that's really important. Everybody that nobody wants to hit that 10 mile run and then six, seven miles in, you hit the wall because you weren't heated adapted. And being able to do that in preparation for the summer is obviously advantageous for people. But being able to let the body naturally cool itself down post sauna session without cold is a great way for the body to be able to obviously adapt to what the sauna's doing. And then you can apply that for your summer workouts. But similar to the better train, the aerobic athletes out there, a great measure for aerobic fitness is how quickly your body could go from a zone three zone four zone five state back to homeostasis or baseline. It's the same thing like how quickly can your body get back to baseline and baseline body time post sauna session. That's a really good indicator for aerobic fitness as well as heated adaptation. I'm glad you touched on the sweating component because I feel like, you know, it's a bodily function and it's fairly normal. And I think, you know, if we look back at maybe our athletic days, as always, you were looking at the sweaty kid and you're like, what's going on with this guy? Well, he's actually pretty adapted, right, in comparison to maybe some of the others who take, you know, 20 30 minutes to kind of get to that point. I want to talk about sweating and skin health, the detox effect, all, all, tiptoe around that word, lever, you know, leveraging after especially things like massage and acupuncture and things of that nature for me. Whenever I get my acupuncture session, I'm immediately hitting the sauna within 60 minutes after that just to help my body process to get some of those toxins that were released. Some of the great work that we did in there and you haven't checked out that episode, please go back and listen more. So let's talk about skin health and the benefits that come with heat use. Yeah, so this is where I want to bring infrared into the play too. So there is a lot of benefit to infrared sauna and traditional sauna in the setting. Obviously, like, yes, the standard should be 176 to 12, but there are, there is more research starting to come out now on infrared sauna as it pertains to skin health because it, because naturally it's going to increase your body temperature. So it's going to increase circulation, you're going to sweat. So the whole point here is to sweat. This could be through exercise. Like, yes, there's a lot of, like, byproduct to our, you know, cellular waste when I'm trying to excrete, you know, different types of toxins through my sweat, with exercise, but the same thing holds true for traditional sauna as well as infrared sauna. So yes, there's great, there's great skin effect because you're in that inflammatory state while you're in the sauna. The, the temperatures high, you're starting to sweat, pores open. Yes, it's great to be able to release his toxins. But I've noticed, and this is kind of fun. Like, one of my, one of my good friends is Jelly Roll. He sent me a message the other day. And he was telling me how one of his, while he was in the CSU sauna, he had this pimple on his face. And he said, like, the size of it went down as a result of him sauna more and more. And it was there for a long time. And he said, it's like nearly gone now as a result of sauna therapy. And I was like, man, nobody's ever talking about that with skin health. But you'll notice that some people, like, when they're doing sauna therapy frequently enough, they look like they're glowing. And that's not a coincidence. You'll notice like, like, you know, to me, like, when I, when my, when my wife had both of our kids, there was like, sometimes, like, during her pregnancy, that she was like genuinely glowing. And like, that's like the same look you'll see when somebody is saunaing 4 to 7 times a week. So I think that from a, like, vibrancy and, like, an aesthetic, yes, 100% do sauna therapy. Whether that's infrared or traditional do it. But it's one of those things where you have to give yourself the eye test from your looking yourself in the mirror and say, like, hey, this is actually benefit of me or is it not? But sauna is pointing toward that because of the excretion of all the toxins through our sweat and the perspiration, yeah, 100% there's great benefit to skin health. And when we say detox, you know, obviously, it gets a bad rap, but when we're saying it in this context, we're talking about, you know, helping organs like your liver and your pancreas and couple, couple of these key functioning organs, to create the waste that maybe they need a little more help to creating, right? It's kind of expediting those processes, moving digestion along. That's a huge one for me. I'll notice all light down on the sauna. I'm like 12 minutes in at 200 degrees. I hear my stomach. The digestive function is moving. I want it because I'm relaxed. And I'm kind of getting into that relaxed state, but then just the heat and there's a there's Chinese medicine that goes back thousands and thousands of years of the heat application and how we want to maintain a warmer, you know, body temperature throughout the day, which we will talk through in a second about what's ideal to end in hot cold. It's probably depends like everything. But let's talk a little bit deeper. What's happening under the hood when we say detoxing in a sauna and sweating, you know, what are we helping internally? What are some of those functions that we're helping? Yeah. So we consume so many different products, whether that's like how we inhale things, how we consume things through food, through our water, things that we become in coming touch with. And there's a lot of heavy metals within our body, like lead, mercury, and whatnot, arsenic, and through sweating, we're able to get that out of the system, specifically with sauna. And yes, you could get that with actual exercise, but when you talk about exercise and how you're like load in the joints and whatnot, it's you don't have as much of an exercise, you know, waste by product when you do it with the sauna. So when you're looking at under the hood and like the GI tract, you point it in the exact right direction, yes, it helps with being able to digest your food, similar to like how if you were to, you know, consume your dinner with your family and go for a walk after like there's great benefit and more research coming out on that that we just need to continue to be active because it's going to help us break down the food, become more about metabolicly active. The other thing too is also helps convert some white white fat cells to beige and brown fat cells, which are more metabolically active cells because like the mitochondria is more dense. And sauna therapy, walking, just low impact, low aerobic zone one zone two, post meal is great. And from a look underneath the hood, it's kind of like a white wood knife as opposed to drinking a beer post or grabbing dessert post. It's what kind of one of those like non-consequential type of modalities that you can start to implement post post food. Yeah, help those processes carry out. I think a lot of us just eat dinner and then we sit on the couch. Maybe we're sitting on the couch as we're eating dinner and then that's it. We go, we go horizontal, right? The more you can help your body, your body likes to move your blood likes to circulate, your organs like you to to be walking around. So if you're not walking after dinner, maybe you're hitting the sauna now. The last point here from a physical perspective, Pete, was what I just mentioned a couple of minutes ago. Where do we want to end when we're doing contrast training? So there's a lot of different, you know, there's a lot of mixed opinions about this, you know, for me personally, based off of how I feel, I don't like to end in cold. I feel that one it depends on where I am in my cycle. In my, you know, in my menstruating, my ovulating, especially during those times in my month, I really try not to end in cold because I do find that it is disrupted to those processes. So ladies, that's something to definitely taking count and I think we need more research that pinpoints this. But then to, you know, for me, I have a history of just a bit slower digestion. So for me, I like to end in that steering hot. I feel everything moving and it just sets me off in a really great way. That's not to say that I didn't pair my solenoid two, three rounds of cold punch, but I'll always end in that hot. Is this more an individualized approach based off of feel again, P or is there more of a science in terms of what goal we're chasing after with the use of contrast? So to preface, like we were, like what we were talking about earlier, contrast therapy does not have a ton of research yet. Yes, there's individual research on just solenoid and just cold punch and there is some research on the contrast therapy, but what we're kind of looking at right now is like the anecdotal evidence or the smaller research that's suggesting different effects. But if you're talking about sauna and cold and what to be able to end on it all depends on your schedule for your day. You can end uncult with great benefit earlier in the day. However, going back to why sauna is so important to sleep, we want to end on sauna prior to bed because your body is going to naturally cool itself off back to below baseline to be able to trigger a deeper, quicker time to go to bed. If I were to end uncult prior to bed, say one or two hours before, now all of a sudden, my body's naturally below baseline. Now it's going to compensate even more past baseline and now I'm more awake because my the skin is obviously colder. So now my body temperature inside is trying to heat up to be able to compensate for what's happened to my skin temperature. So if you're looking at from a timing perspective, I would highly recommend that you go towards sauna to finish prior to bed. If you're looking at it earlier in the day, say morning or afternoon, there's no reason why you shouldn't finish uncult. Your body when you finish uncult is going to naturally start to warm itself up back to baseline. In similar to like how sauna is, the more that you could let your body naturally get itself back to baseline itself without introducing sauna or cold plunge to be able to get it back to baseline the better. So yes, cold immersion is great to finish off with, just do it earlier in the day if it's at night, finish with sauna. Great stuff. Let's move on to topic three. So psychological benefits of sauna. So in tandem with a lot of the great physical benefits come a plethora of mental and emotional benefits and social as well tied into that, which you touched on, which I want to dive into deeper. One of some of the most beneficial mental gains that we can see from sauna use. So sauna is an environment to where it's so hot that you can't use your phone. Whether that's by yourself or with somebody else, it's your psychological trigger yourself as you step through the door that this is my time to set out. And most people don't have that time ever. Specifically like here in New York City, I'm sure that people are always go go go and for you to be able to have that psychological space that is your time for 15, 20 minutes if you're doing multiple rounds of hot and cold and then even better. But that space for people because it is that because you step through that door and you have like that psychological release, it is decreasing, about depression. And there was a recent study last week that actually came out that same effect with infrared sauna, which was great because there hasn't been enough research on infrared sauna to say like how beneficial it actually is. But I think that it is a by-product of people just having that time to be able to just decompress. But from the psychological perspective outside of depression, you look at anxiety. Well, there's a lot of people right now that are dealing with anxiety and around medication. Now this is a medical advice by any means, but having more frequent sauna use in that environment that is very, very, very, uh, difficulty hot between that one 76 to two 12 and you get that diner from response where it's like fighter flight time to get out. It's challenging and you get that you for a post session when you get past that two to three minutes of or even four or five minutes of man this really sucks. I really want to get out but you're fighting yourself from wanting to get out. You start to develop some confidence there and there's a lot of people that are lacking confidence right now in their body image, how they carry themselves their interpersonal relationships. And I've noticed that because we're in this sauna with two to three to four, sometimes like eight different people who we've never met each other and there's no phones. What else are you going to do with then talk with people and develop interpersonal relationships and have great conversation and make fun of each other and the whole gambit and then you step out and then you get that that feeling of wow like I went through something very difficult and I'm better for it. So you get the massive cognitive boost, you get the confidence, you also get the decreases in depression and anxiety. It's so from a psychological perspective, yeah 100% sauna is great and is definitely being attributed to that on all the different modalities of sauna right now. I also think it's a more approachable way and we touched on this in our last episode with Alex Silverfagan. How do we have some of the more vulnerable and open conversations with people that maybe is a little less approachable over a cup of coffee right? And it's usually well let's go to a yoga class and on the way home on the sidewalk maybe that's where that conversation is going to happen. Maybe it's on a family walk. I know my best conversation with some of my family members older are one we're on walks in nature right? But similar to the sauna to your point where I go to sauna, you know there are people that I don't know and at a time there's six of us in their conversation breaks out 10 out of 10 times and 20 minutes goes by one helps the time go by a hell of a lot faster and then too like you like you said that morale boost you feel good and I think that's an overlooked benefit of community-based fitness is just the morale and just the comfort that you get out of that and think about how much better you feel sometimes sometimes you need to go kind of demon chasing on an individual workout but think of the difference of how you can feel maybe where you don't feel like you kind of had your best one on one workout and then maybe you went to a group class or maybe you went into the sauna with a couple people and just internalize that, recognize that and see how you feel after and then just start doing more of what feels good. How can we combine breath work and sauna use? Breath work is we've seen a massive increase in the market of people kind of chasing after breath work. I'm sure no doubt that's coming with the rise of anxiety and depression and where we are as a society right now. Do you have any tips for leveraging breath work in the sauna? Yeah so I would even say it starts prior to the sauna session so if I could get into the sauna or prior to the sauna decrease my heart rate by doing some box breathing so say four second inhale four second retention of the top or second exhale four second retention of the bottom and be able to decrease my heart rate and then step into the sauna. I'm already starting to trigger that parasipylic nervous system response and that's what we want. Now like you mentioned you could chase some demons in the sauna if you want depending on where the heat is for most people like one ninety to two hundred degrees and you'd be too hot for you to start to really engage in that more relaxed state for breathing. So if you're looking at like good breath work in a sauna I definitely would recommend on the low-round of that one seventy six to two twelve so between like one seventy six to eighty five to where your nostrils aren't necessarily burning. If you ever been in sauna and your nostrils aren't that's pretty common totally normal. But as you get into the sauna it's all about posture and doing your best to relax, relax your shoulders and then also focus on belly breathing. So more the more I could breathe through my belly less of the chest typically again I'm able to lower my heart rate there which is kind of like a fun it's a fun workout into itself of trying to keep your body or your heart rate down in the sauna because yes body heat's going up your body essentially do some a fever in a sauna so heart rate starts to jack up so breathe and actually keeps it more steady. And again if you're ideally able to start that breath work prior so let's say two minutes of box breathing for fours on the inhales, retentions and exhales. Step into your sauna session do 15 to 20 minutes and then do the same thing after you're going to be able to come down in your body time quicker as a result. But it's all about like kind of triggering that parasitin genetic nervous system in a way to where it just completely relaxes you. That's the whole point of breath work is to get into that completely relaxed state to where you're able to completely keep everything else that's going on in the world behind and for you to just become completely into the present. And if you've ever done it with a group of people on a sauna it it's really crazy because everybody starts to connect with each other without even talking you're just focusing on your breath. And so when you when you take a step back on on the breath work tons of benefit to that with sauna when you add it with cold exposure, same thing. I highly recommend doing box breathing in your cold plunge. If you've ever been if you've never done it in a cold plunge have fun with that for your first couple sessions you probably won't be able to do it because it's that hard. But you could start getting cold the cold immersion benefits start in at 60 degrees Fahrenheit and lower. So I would highly recommend that you get into cold exposure at the higher temperatures of like the 50s and or 60 to 45 degrees and get yourself immersed with that and then start to integrate the box breathing. Yeah like anything right I think the more you can practice it without being in those harder situations the more successful you'll be when you're ready to implement it into those situations. The biggest piece of advice I think that you would probably agree on for anybody looking to tackle the very first cold plunge is just breathe long inhale long exhale you know immediately the body wants to get out and wants to protect itself it thinks that you're in danger happen to me when I was doing a half-iron man in Indian Wells water was 52 degrees. I was in a I was in a full wetsuit. It was the day I learned about neoprene caps though. So people around me had these neoprene caps on I just had my single hat and I dunked my face in to do my first couple of strokes and I quickly quickly immediately my body wanted to get out like I was zoned in ready for that race knew I had to do to a tip or pair for that race but it's so crazy how quickly our body can just take control and immediately say no get the heck out we are dying right so you know when you're when you're doing your first cold plunge just breathe through it don't try to be a hero by going too much and saying thank for sauna you know I don't think you need to push the limits and try to be a hero in your first go just kind of work your way up there see what you're comfortable with and then when you get to the point of understanding some of those cues with your body and saying oh no I can go another 45 seconds I can go no there minute right so it just takes it's take it small. Pete I want to leave today with one final question and I just want you to give our users a piece of advice when they are looking to implement heat use for the first time right so again how do we start small and conservatively but start injecting it in a way that can be useful to our long-term health so when it comes along to him health it's all about sustainability and consistency we don't need to go into sauna's at 200 plus degrees we don't need to especially up to that two-twelf most people get tons of benefit starting at 170-60 degrees so do your best to find a traditional sauna and get in for at least five minutes do it four times a week and you're going to start to see tons and tons of benefit not just from the psychological aspect we talked about in the recovery and growth hormone the whole thing but you'll start to notice that your productivity improves your ability to be able to be more focused at work improves your sleep improves is the whole gambit. I think people just need to get started and stay consistent and in the US there's a massive lack of consistency we just need to do the simple things really well and do them time and time again and do it consistently and sauna's part of that equation for most people if they're trying to try to get more out of life. Pete thanks so much for stopping by today we're excited to see where CSU goes tell the audience how they can fall along in the rest of your journey. Certainly so you can find us at csulifestall.com that's s-i-s-u-lifestyle.com or at c-su underscores sauna on Instagram you can follow me personally at Peter Nelson i-i Instagram as well to be able to see some more of the behind the scenes stuff with us building the brand and training. I appreciate you sobbed by the studio today. Yeah thank you so much Danielle. Thanks for tuning in to another episode here at bodybuilding.com stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: The power of positioning 💪 Are your rows optimized？ [M1Com4Pxvsw].txt ===

There's a difference between like only using your lats like for example if I only wanted to activate my lats on this row I would say more so bunched over and let them drop and just pull directly to my lats like this You see how this would only be a lap row, but I want to prop test up so we could hit lower lats like a bar ball row But more so doing dumbbell So this is gonna be mid back lower lat upper trap instead of just like so this would be a lat row That's fine, but we want to do hit the mid back and the upper back To your waistband everything you do when it comes to a row pulls your waist Because if you pull a pie you're always gonna hit upper back But you want to target lower lat always

=== FILE: There's always that one guy. IG：brodieshredz #gym #bicepcurls #workout#gymbros#gymcommunity#gymmemes [eLrscTL4e84].txt ===

Oh, five. Hey, these are warm-ups, by the way. Oh, for sure. We all thought somewhere. Not. Oh, yeah. No, for sure. I was actually going to grab the 15s, excuse me. Yeah, but I'm sure. Yeah, sure. So, you know what? Next two is a warm-up set. So I'm going to go ahead and grab the 20s, where the little bat, a screw, screw, the 25s. 20s. Okay. Hey, actually, I'm going to go ahead down here. 30s, more muscle. Well, it's weird. It's kind of felt like your fake weights. You've had them just mass-out their top rack. It's top rack, that's adorable. I'm going to start at the 50s, bottom rack of their stuff. So, that's fine. 50s. 50s, 50s, bottom rack of their stuff. 50s, bottom rack of their stuff. 50s, like, ah, 60s. 50s? Yeah, you're just not going to get it. Yeah. Did you better do that? Yeah, you should do it. You're chic girl in that shit. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Yeah, that's a dude's rude as hell. Yeah, I'm going to, man. Yes, get out of here.

=== FILE: This is Bodybuilding.com： Athletes Version - Bodybuilding.com [QZ2Vfje--KU].txt ===

A lot of times when I'm interacting with people at an expo or whatever it may be, back home, training in its field, they don't have the money or the financial assistance to actually hire fitness professional nutritionists. I say, what's your goal? They say, my goal is to change my life. I want to be fit. I don't really know what to do to train. I don't really know what to do with supplementation and eating. What do you suggest? You know there's a cycleboddability.com and they have more content to lead you in the right direction. When I first started out, I was a guy who'd walk into a store or go on a bottom of my common. You're kind of looking in labels. Like, okay, this is the ingredient profile, but I didn't know what any of the stuff did. I didn't know what creatine was. I didn't know what BCAs were. I was just watching our member some of the 60s second videos and just the ingredient right up and all the different articles you have. That's how I learned. And that's really where how I started. I love bodybuilding.com because it was a place that I could find not just supplements. Whenever I was younger and I wasn't quite ready for all the proteins and the added in supplements for my diet. But I found that it was a place that I could get so much more information. It would be a bodybuilding that comes always been a destination resource. To answer all those things, A to Z. Everybody that I have ever met working with bodybuilding.com, they are the nicest and most genuine people that I really ever met. And they really do care about the customers. Their reason behind their success is the quality of the people and the quality of the message. And to me, having done two trainers with bodybuilding.com, I'm just floored that I even have the opportunity to work side by side with them. They are responsible for all the inspiration in the industry. And you have the power or the energy and the commitment and the focus and the drive to change the lives of so many people. I mean, it just sets the standard. Not too out of the industry but throughout the world. Bottom and on top remains a front runner to deliver customers information. To deliver them freedom of choice. You guys share all of the information. You guys tell the whole story without only a little bit. For the absolute novice, who wants to go hit the gym for the first time. In all honesty, I do tell them, hey, go check out part of the.com. It's really key for us to give back credible information and give it back to all our users. This is a really tough industry to really learn this so much, misleading information out there. It needs to be a source where you can actually find true information that really help you reach your physical or athletic goals. You guys reach around the people all around the world and looking for ways, all different types of training, pulling from different types of training styles to nutrition to help put that together to create the very best content that you can find anywhere. It's really rare not just as a retailer but as a media destination for a publisher to remain kind of unbiased and really just say, hey, we want to arm all of our readers and all of our fans with all the information so they can go and pick the plan, pick the program, pick the product that's best for them. Whenever you're new, trying to reach your goals, it is so important that you have people around you that support you. It's really just a huge family. So if you truly want to change your life and make that transformation, you have everything you need right here. It's a life with a two minute drill. It's no time for timeouts, play like you got nothing to lose and go for the win. Everyone has their own flaws and they're not flaws but to find beauty in your strength. Over the time you get so caught up in what you want to look like, you kind of forget where you came from to really enjoy that journey. I'm a spoke on a very large wheel and it's unbelievable to be able to share that message because that's our lives. That's what we do and we're so passionate about it. They're like-minded and they set that trend and unbelievable powerful message.

=== FILE: This is My Life - Show Us Your Beast Body - Motivational Video Finalist [Hduf9MZyY1M].txt ===

I was 19, lost in my neck, broke it, up for the disc, right-man's hit into my vertebrae, set about two years. I lost all my weight, got to press. I'm John Meve, 26 year old bodybuilder. I work full time, I take care of my house, thank you everything I got into. I still find time to get it done. Some days your tire, your feet down, you don't feel like doing it. That's when you've got to push on, you know? If I can come back from this, you can come back and do anything. I don't think I'm super mine, I'm super down and I'm always there, fly right down, cause we always care, shine that light, I'll be right there. Cause I know that you need me, you see that fit alone, I go solo, anyone wants a hop-up, go on whatever I got, push them a little in it, like I push myself every day. So we're disfossilting here when they got such a chance, just as my life, and if you hope to play high, I'll save you when I'm so cool, but for everybody that saved the world. When you were close, got you there, I don't think I'm super mine, I'm super down, yeah, I always there, you can tell me a thousand times, but I never gonna leave, I'm always here, cause I know you need me, so you can stop me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, you know, world, nobody's gonna hurt my girls, if you knew I was a butcher, go from the pages, see you smiling, but the music beats up, not super man, but I am just lacking, cause I got my life, and if you hope to play high, I'll save you when I'm so cool, but for everybody that saved the world. You're the way that you find it, but for all you can do, and you're fun, just you never, you feel like you're all feet down, and you want to quit, so that last breath. I need to teach you, you can do.

=== FILE: Three-move Calf Workout ｜ IFBB Pro Jake Alvarez [fRUikJ__bbg].txt ===

Today our workout is cast. A lot of people won the black calves or two, just have a difficult time building and straking the calves. For one thing, I feel like a lot of people just don't train calves correctly. I see a lot of people who bounce the weights around, use too much weight or don't work out calves the way they work out in the other part of their body. If they were doing chest, you don't see people bouncing the weights around, but that's what I see when people train calves, especially on the C.D. calf raise, but still. When I train calves, I like to work them out just like I work out any other muscle part, which is making sure I get a full stretch on the muscle work and getting a really hard, full contraction at the top of each rep. This calf workout will only take about 20 minutes because we're keeping our rest time's low. So today's calf workout is three exercises. Exercise one is standing calf raise. Exercise two is seated calf raise. And exercise three is calf press on leg press machine. I recommend including these calf exercises at the end of your leg day. The first exercise is standing calf raise. We're going to start off with one one offset and four working sets. Each working set should be eight to twelve reps to failure. I do a warm upset to make sure I have proper form on the exercise. Also to make sure my foot placement is correct. The way I train my calves are pretty much the same for all my calf workouts. I want to make sure I'm stretching out my calf muscles and also getting a full hard contraction at the top of each rep. So for each rep, I want to make sure that I'm stretching out my calf muscle. Flexing as hard as I possibly can, getting that full contraction, and holding it for about a second, challenging them so that they will grow and they will get bigger and they will get stronger. There are different variations to do the standing calf raise. Today I actually did it with the Smith machine. Certain gyms do have specific standing calf raise machines and those work good as well. For the second exercise we're doing seated calf raise. We're doing one warm up and four working sets. For the working sets we're doing eight to twelve reps to failure. For the seated calf raise, you're actually going to be targeting more of the solius muscle. The solius is part of the calf muscle that is actually hit it. But by developing it helps make the calf look bigger overall. With the seated calf exercise, I don't like to use my body weight to help assist myself, but I do like to lean back slightly just so I can balance out my body weight and the weight on the machine. Exercise number three is going to be calf press on the leg press machine. We're going to be doing one warm up with four working sets. For this exercise we're doing six to ten reps to failure. Just like all my other calf workouts, I want to make sure I'm getting a full stretch at the bottom. You want to make sure that you bend your knees slightly to allow the weight to push back on your after it's been stretched out, you want to make sure that you're getting a full contraction and flex it, flex it hard. The full workout breakdown for this workout is on the page below. Here on Bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions for me, you can contact me on my body space or my Instagram. For more free videos and articles like this, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Throwback Shoulder Workout with James Grage and Whitney Reid - Bodybuilding.com [9k_2NwrpOfI].txt ===

You know, when you grow up, you grow up in the gym the same way I did. You know, we grew up in gyms like this. They were small, there was nobody in 3,000 square feet old, no name equipment. I mean, half the stuff was made by probably people at the gym, you know, they iron workers put the stuff together and you know, it wasn't totally different than anything you see today. It wasn't like now, you know. Now you've got access to so much information, you've got bodybuilding.com where you can get on and you can research all these different workouts. I mean, have that. You know, we had had the magazines and then you had the old big dude in the gym. And that was the guy that you went to for all your advice. You know, when I started training again and you know, it's been cool for me to, you know, to put some intensity back in my workout. We're going to go through a shoulder workout today. This is a crazy shoulder workout. This is one that you can't do all the time. I don't recommend doing this. This isn't like an everyday shoulder workout. This is something you come in and you do once a month to just really blow it out. We're going really hardcore. We've been, we've been hitting this, you know, off-knowing for the Pascal for months. And that's been great. It's been great. It's my fancy gym bag. I like that. Let's do it. My lead off. Yeah. I guess I have like a blue collar work ethic. And in my opinion, that's what it takes to be successful in the gym. You know, everyone wants fast and easy. Fast and easy. Show me the nutrition plan that's, you know, fast and easy. Show me the work I plan that's fast and easy. And there is no fast and easy in building your physique. It requires hard work and it requires patience. But emphasis on hard work, you know, everyone wants to, you know, they want the latest scientific discovery and nutrition or the latest breakthrough in training. You know, show me the university study. Oh, I don't want to see the bro science. Right. You know, it's, it's real simple. You come in here and you work hard. You work your ass off. You put some effort into it. Like you go into the gym now. You see these guys in there and, you know, they got their shirts cut all the way to the side. And so I see him like, you know, they'll do the like, pretend to, to wipe the sweat out of their eyes so they can flex their abs in the mirror for the girl next to them. There was, there was no Instagram picks back then. Oh, dude. Now you go to the gym. I mean, it seems like there's no the main concern is getting a good, good picture. I can have a cool filter for Instagram. Well, for us, we didn't have cell phones. But if I would have brought a cell phone and taken a selfie, I think I would have got a selfie. No, no, no, no. You said where your guides can't use that word selfie. I think I would have got back here. Shoulders. Shoulders and traps are those body parts that no one wants to train. It's like nothing exciting about them. It's like, that's the coast day. What are you doing? Shoulders abs calves. It's like my easy day. But actually be the day you go in and just kill it. Because nothing's going to make you look bigger than having big shoulders and big traps. You wear a shirt. You go wear a sweatshirt and still look big if you got big shoulders and traps. And cool thing about this, the single arm dumbbell presses. You can't cheat. You know, seated dumbbell presses. You can kind of slide your butt down and use some upper test to press that weight up with this. There's no cheating. There's no hiding. Do I think there's another great thing about having a train partner? There's no better way to get stronger and bigger than by training with someone who's stronger than you. So I like train with it to stronger than I am. It pushes me. It slips out.. Don't think about it. It even rockets super claustrophobic...大哥! It's okay, I'm gonna relax the turn it hurts so Barton isКА mejor. for the health slap I'm gonna have! ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. Ahhh. So he can get 10. I could eat. I could easily. Push out and say he's. 50 pounds heavier stronger but. That's. See, manage to train with someone bigger and hit and strike bigger. I feel muscles. That's what it's all about. Ahhh. Oh. Oh yeah. Good set. You set. That's how you build muscle. I want to fill you there. Hold it. Pop it now. So full ball movement here. Oh. That will get you hard going right there. You don't see this much anymore. This is a total body workout. He is having explosive hips. And that strength to power up. There you go. That's better in cardio. You know, he look around here. There's not me machines. This bench is. No. His free weights. This is good. Most machines are just a different way to try to make you feel like here's something that's hard and making it easier. This isn't supposed to be easy. No. It's supposed to be hard. He's supposed to come in here and work your ass off. Grab a bar. Put some steel in your hand and move it. Why make me look bad with you? You're making it look too easy. Oh. Make him look like a superstar. You're not going to struggle. Let's go. Nice. Close. There you go. Looking good. Almost done. Nice. I'll put some cows on your hands. Look at that. That's a good one right there. I'm going to save that one. I'll put that in my pocket. I'll go my scrapbook. That's it. That's it. Easy. There you go. There you go. And a couple extra. Oh, that's so good. Now that's just be the day. Let's go. That's it. That's it. There you go. Get up. Come on. Give me some presses. How many did you do? Four. Four. Did you? Four. Let's go. Come on. There you go. All right. All right. All right. Only did. Three actually. Yeah. Just for that. That's the lead book. That's the lead work. Peppies. Oh shit. I got a bunch of it when it comes to gym. Oh yeah. We can go down the list. One. Not rocking your shit. You know. Look, it's again, it's about respect. You know, you do late press. So what, you're the man, you can go in, sack 10, 12, 14 plates on each side. But what about the 125 pound lady that comes after you that wants to do leg press? You're gonna make her on rack of thousand pounds. You're not the man at that point. Have some respect. Take care of the gym, have some respect for other people. So that's a big one for me is just respect. Here you go, squeeze it at the top. You don't need to go so high, just stop right there. There you go, squeeze it, squeeze it. That's a, I said, it's a hell of a pump right there. All that lateral, that little, little baby, baby, weight right there, so much weight. No. It's not about, you know, how much weight you live like? I can't tell you how many times I'll go pick up something off the dumbbell rack and some dudes looking at me. And whatever I pick up, he'll want to pick up five, ten pounds heavier. He's over there swinging it. Looks like he's having a convulsion. Trying to get the weight up. MUSIC You could give me the lamest workout on the planet. And let me do it for a couple of months, and I'll get results with it, why? It's not about what you do, it's about how you do it. It's about how much effort you put into it. It's no magical workout routine. All right, that's hard work. But I say come on. It's a little bit fun to me in my shoulder. But there's a lack to cast it, and then there's just pain. I can't hear where it's most bored. And we're only halfway down. No, come on. There you go. Ah! Come on. Ah! Oh, yeah. Brute delts. It's just the past couple years. I've really been working on that. And they're really isolated. I feel like you need to do a number of movements to get the blood in there. And I think it's more about that. It's not putting you weight on his forehead. He's only doing it just to maintain his body position. Start putting weight on your forehead. You're going to start tweaking your neck and your back. So don't lean on it. And if you feel like you got a lean on that bench to get the weight up, drop down and weight. Most people in the gym think I'm a dick. And it's not that I'm a dick. I just, I'm focused when I go on there. I'm there for a reason. Oh, good. See that angle he's pulling back. You're a delt poppin' up. Oh, my god. Let's go pull it. Let's go. One way. Squeeze it to top dude. No elbows. Keep those arms straight. Oh. All right. Just 12 reps there. What do you think about weight on those upright roasts for dumbbells? I don't know, but could you pick up something heavier? She's, you got it. Come on. Come on. There you go. See a lot of guys doing upright roasts. And they get real narrow on and they bring their elbows up real high. You don't have to bring your hands to your chin. Get your elbows right parallel with your shoulders as plenty. Come on, wait. I straight arms. You know, she's squeezing it back too, because your traps just don't bring your shoulders up. They also bring them back. Don't do this weird roll. You have to hear and something. I have to see this weird, like they're rolling the boat or something. So it's a bit of a move. Yeah. Just squeeze back. What'd you do? Who's 21? 20. Oh my god. Take your chair. Come on. Pull it. There you go. Drifting on floor. There you go. There you go. Nice. See this way I have a train partner. Counts, because once you start getting tired, you'll say, That's good enough. I'm good. I got a pump. I'm good. Big traps. You're big traps. You trap some of those muscles. I remember as a kid watching the original incredible Hulk watching Luke for a ignore. Do most muscularness. Oh, yeah. Tras popped up. Oh, I don't want to look like that. What a little kid. Don't you know that. Always the first thing they do is try to push their next floor. Look at my neck is. Nice. The other vans have a train partner. You got someone to rack your waist for you. Last one. Pull it. All right. So we will finish it off with the pressing movement. This is another one that I'm not too familiar with. The best way to think of these. Instead of a shoulder press, where you're not just using your delts, using your triceps, this is almost like the same as doing a chest fly. Difference between the chest press and the chest fly. So this is the equivalent on shoulders. So imagine keeping your elbows at 90 degrees. You're going to go down and you bring them up. My elbows don't move. What a push chest start with. I'm good. I'm good. I'm not going to come from that. What do you think? 30? What do you think? Do I wouldn't go any heavier than that? I would even start first set. 25? I could. I'd help me out with these. Got it. There you go. You go really turn these up here. Thumb down and you peek you up. And then drop them down. There you go. That's a good stretch. There you go. I'm telling you these will burn. These are nasty. Don't go too heavy. You want to use good form. And you don't want to drop the dumbbell on your head. You don't need much weight. It's a great way to finish your shoulders off. Yeah. Is that over the top of the floor? Yeah, you like that? Yeah, that's how I turned it on right there. Oh, I just turned it on. Come on. And if you don't know what movie over the top is, then you're a lot younger than us. Yeah. I just stayed with them. Yeah, I'm going to stay with these. I got a good pump. Oh, man. I tried to get not only that controlled and centered, but at the top of the range on motion really squeeze it. Nothing's going to make your muscles burn and sore the next day like a good squeeze. All right, let's go. Come on. Come on. Up. Up. That's seven. You know, I can easily just quit here, but not pissing off. You're going to shake it off. I'm going to finish it off. There you go. Squeeze. There you go. I'm not doing that. Sure, just because I quit. Nice. Come on. There you go. Oh, come on. There you go. Is that three? Is that two? That's two. That's two. That's much more than two. That's two. That's two. That's two. That's two. That's two. This is the spot you. That's good. Oh, boy. Good work. How far does it don't spot each other? They got to get to the way. What am I going to do? My job to lift it for him. How's he going to get stronger, fellow? It's just way. Nice. Nice. Yeah. It's music. Let's go. So that's it. We've hit our traps, blasted, hear your delts from front to back. It's just, that's an all around killer shoulder trap workout. So like you said, this isn't something you want to do. It's a fairly every week. That intensity was really high. Took us about 35 minutes to knock through that entire workout. Go on to the gym, work hard, show some heart, put some effort into it. That's what gets results. Hard work and consistency. Guads can't use that word self-esteem.

=== FILE: Tips to Lose Weight #weightloss #fitness [zIDow9eLaHc].txt ===

A calorie deficit doesn't just mean eat less food. You know that, right? There's only two parts that go into making a calorie deficit. The calories coming in that you eat and drink each day. And the calorie is going out that you burn each day. But the problem is when most people think about creating a deficit. They only focus on the first part of that equation, which is to eat less food. Or by thinking that the only way to increase how many calories you burn is to spend more time exercising. But that's not necessarily true. This is your TDE or a breakdown of where you burn calories in a day. And to most people's surprise, exercise is usually the smallest part. With the majority of what you do burn, coming from places that aren't the gym. So yes, you could just work out more or starve yourself. But that's probably not the smartest way to do it. And it would make a lot more sense to focus just as much on the bigger pieces. To create that deficit. Like your non-exercise movement, the other 23 hours you're not in the gym. The calories you burn from digesting the food you eat. Like eating more protein, which burns 3 to 10 times more calories being digested than carbs or fats too. And other factors that play a role in boosting the biggest part. Your BMR, like building lean muscle mass, your sleep and stress. The point is a calorie deficit isn't just if you exercise more than you can eat. It's if you're in tired life burns more than you eat. And once you look at it that way, you don't have to eat nearly as little as you think you do to make progress.

=== FILE: Total Upper-Body Workout ｜ Kathleen Tesori [3RcDkEOJV8c].txt ===

Exercise is my source for strength, energy and empowerment. I never feel better than when I'm kicking butt in the gym. I'm Kathleen Tassori. The goal of today's workout is more muscle building or maintaining your muscle. We're going to be supersetting everything and we're going to be hitting all the major points of the upper body. That's why I really like this because you can go into the gym, you're going to hit your shoulders, your back, your thighs, your trice. So this workout should take about 30 minutes, possibly 45, just depending on how busy the gym is, how you're feeling, let's get started on our first superset. Alright, so our first superset today is going to be pull-ups, right into dips. I really want you to go all the way up, all the way down and really can track those muscles because we're only doing 5 to 8. Let's go. Alright, so make sure that you lean slightly back, go all the way up and all the way down, nice and slow. Remember, we're only doing 5 to 8 reps. You've got this. Feel the goal of the pull-ups and the dips is for the pull-ups, you're going to be really focusing on your laps and your back, whereas the dips are going to focus on your triceps. And from there, we're going straight into dips. The important thing is to keep your arms nice and close to your body so that it runs your body on the way down and come up. Again, we're only doing 5 to 8. So focus on going all the way up and all the way down. The reason why the rep range is kind of low is because these two movements unassisted can be very difficult for people. And so I like to make it a realistic goal for people to try and get close to doing it unassisted and so the lower rep range makes it more achievable. Alright, that's the first set. Go ahead and take a 30 second breather. Our second circuit is going to contain rows, superset with chest press. And for the rows, we're going to do an 8 to 12 rep range and the chest press, we're going to do a rep range of 15. Now I put these two exercises together because you can do them all in one location. Okay, so you're just going to lean like 45 degrees back. You're just going to pull it all the way. And I don't lean forward. I just allow my arms to go all the way forward and I pull straight back. Squeeze those shoulder blades nice and tight. So the rows and the chest press, we're going to move up into a higher rep range because it's an easier movement and so we need to increase it to make it more challenging. Alright, and then we're going to go straight into chest press. So a lot of people think that you have to switch workouts all the time. But I challenge you if you have a favorite workout, do it a couple of times, get really efficient at it. And then what you can do is you can increase the amount of weight that you do, you can decrease the amount of rest. I like to go nice and slow. It really helps to build that muscle and exhaust your muscle easier without having to lift heavier weight, which is a great way to reduce injuries. Alright, that's our first set. So ahead and take a 30-second break. So my first set was a little bit light for me, so I'm going to increase by 10 pounds this time and see how that feels. I'm going to keep my core nice and tight and if you notice, I'm not rocking back and forth because I'm doing the whole movement with pulling with my back. I think that people should change up their variations each week. And you can do the closed grip and then the next week you should do the wide grip, that way you're balancing and you're achieving that balanced physique. Alright, let's move straight into our chest press. A lot of women are afraid to work chest. They feel like they don't need to work the chest or they're worried about over developing or whatever the fear may be. And you know, it is perfectly fine women to work your chest once a week. It's part of developing the overall package that overall physique. Alright, so our third circuit is going to be a lap pull down, super set with dumbbell pull overs. And we're going to be doing both of these exercises 8-12 reps. Alright, I always like to lean about 45 degrees back and pull straight down until I actually touches my chest. Make sure it's a nice and slow and controlled movement. You don't want to be like moving around like this. Nice and slow and controlled. You should be feeling this in your laps. So really squeeze those shoulder blades together as you're pulling down. The hips stay low because it increases the intensity and really increases the amount of stretch and work out that you're going to feel. You'll be feeling this in your lap and your chest area. You're going to be feeling a really good stretch but just push through it. Alright, go ahead and take a 30-second break. Grab some water if you need. We're moving into our fourth circuit which is going to be rear delts, superset it with side lateral raises. We're going to be doing 8-12 reps on the rear delts and we're going to be doing 15 reps on the side lateral. This movement is really small and you really can't do a lot of weight. What I like to do is I like to relax the shoulders. So drop your shoulders as low as you can. And then what I want you to do is I want you to keep your shoulders and almost like your shoulder blades flexed and contract a full time. I'm using 5 pound dumbbells and I could definitely feel the burn on that. Now we're going to move right into side laterals. So I'm going to start with 12 pounds but I might have to drop it down because we're doing 15. So I'm going to see how far I can get. So again, when you relax the shoulders down, don't hunch them up. Relax and down. Make sure your abs are nice and tight and throughout this whole exercise and also remember to breathe in and out. All right, here we go. So you know that it's on all my movements. I like to go nice, slow and controlled. I'm going to drop down the weight to finish my last five. For the rear delts you'll see people just swinging their arms like trying to just get them up with explosive movement and I think it's better, safer and healthier to do a slow controlled movement and don't worry about the amount of weight that you're lifting. All right, we're going to go straight into side laterals. Then roll your shoulders down, don't have them like this. Roll them down if you start to go like this. Take a pause, take a breather or drop the weight, okay? All right, I'm going to drop the weight. The important thing here is we want to hit our reps even if you have to go down and weight. The form is key to getting that nice, beautiful shake. The first movement we're going to do is called a W curl. And the W curl is where you put your elbows right into your sides and you're going to be curling upward like this so it looks like a W. The important thing is to not rock and not try and get them up like this. You're going to stay nice and controlled. Keep a really good posture and keep your elbows into your sides. Also keep that core in and make sure you keep a nice consistent breath and really focus on squeezing the biceps. And then my favorite exercise I call this the finisher, the bicep finisher, but the technical name is static curl. So what we're going to do is we're going to keep one arm at 90 degrees like this. So this arm is going to stay the way the entire time. You're not going to drop it down here. You're not going to have it up here. It's going to be 90 degrees and keep that hand open. And then you're going to curl with this side. We're going to do 15 each arm. Just really isolates. You're working two different kind of movements. You're curling, but you're also holding this arm though with the static arm in an isolation movement. So it's working both arms. Now I'm going to make this the 90 degree and I'm going to be curling with this arm. Both arms are burning. But we're almost done with our workout. It's our first superset. We're going to stay nice and controlled. Keep those elbows in at your side. That's probably the most important thing. Let's go 8 to 12. I like to save biceps towards the end because it's a small muscle. It's easy to work out and it's a great finisher. Because technically when you're working your body, you're indirectly working your biceps the entire time. So I like to save it for the end to be the last finisher to totally annihilate them, burn them out. And go straight into the static curl 90 degree, curl with the other. Don't let that arm drop below 90 degrees or above 90 degrees. So I would save this workout for those weeks that are really busy where you know you're only going to be able to hit two or three times a week or also when you're just about to maybe go out of town and you want to hit your whole upper body. The full breakdown of today's workout can be found below right here on bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions about today's workout, anything that you heard me talk about or any exercises, feel free to comment below on this video. I'll be checking back everywhere on every social media I'm Kathleen Tissori. For more free videos and articles from athletes like me, make sure you check back on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Train Abs with Ashley Conrad - Bodybuilding.com [2g49neLSmVw].txt ===

Hey everybody, I'm Ashley Conrest, Liberty Fitness Trainer and owner of Clutch Body Shop Los Angeles. I feel my clients that you may recognize who just take digs, brother Cooper, Kate Hudson. Today I'm going to be taking you through a abroutine that I used to get brother Cooper and shake for 18. I've got most nice eight back abs. And we're going to be using Mr. Brandon Poe as our fitness expert taking you through the routine so enjoy. The first exercise I'm going to have Brandon go through is the Weight of Jackknife. I like to start out with this exercise because it engages both a lower and upper abs as well as a serratus. The first exercises that I usually do with any workout are going to engage a large number of muscles so that you're already 15 the first 30 seconds in. I love making people go into a little bit of pain. So go ahead and lay back on. And so I'm going to give Brandon the ball and what he's going to do is he's going to bring it straight back. He's going to put his feet out and he's going to come up in the ball and his feet are going to meet at the top. Yep, perfect. Yep. So you're going to go through this until you can't lift your legs up anymore. I'm going to have him put his feet straight up at 90 degrees. Just like a 90 degree crunch. The ball is going to come to about right here and he's just going to come up and tap my handle keeping his feet up. Good. It's going to come up with this exercise. He's done this by keeping the legs up. You're engaging your lower abs and then I'm having him come up with the ball which is also blasting the upper abs. You get that great definition. Make sure you keep your head. I only want his head coming to about right here and then back up to avoid neck injury and to make sure that it's just the abs that are firing. He's not using any momentum. The legs are starting to come down. Good. So that's the failure. Now we're going to do this. He's going to go into a basically-awaited bicycle. So the first thing that's going to happen is he's going to come up with the ball like he's going to do a crunch. So about right up here. Good. So the upper abs are engaged. Now he's just going to do a simple bicycle. Bring in the knees way in. What this is going to do is it's going to get right into the serratus. It's those kind of lines that are hard to get that people always ask, oh how do I get these abs? This is a great exercise for that. So I just squeezing, squeezing, squeezing with the ball, bringing the knees in. Great for the obliques. He's going to hold on to the bench. For the stabilization, I'm going to bring us feet straight up. And this exercise is hard to explain unless you do it. It gets really deep into your abs. So what I'm going to do is bring his legs all the way up and he's just going to tap. He's going to go from here. So straight up, 90 degrees. You don't want to cheat and go this way or that way. So you're going to stay right there. He's just going to come straight up and tap my hand. So just pushing straight up through the hips. You feel that? You feel it through the entire core area. Good. So you can see that his legs, let's give him a rest. What happens is when your legs start to fall this way or this way, you're not engaging the way that you should. So the goal is to keep your legs straight up and down and push just straight up. The second you feel yourself cheating, give yourself a couple seconds rest and try and go right back into it. First of all, there we go. Engage. Good. Now opposite arm, opposite leg. There we go. Good. Brawl. Brawl. Good. You're going to pop up. So you're going to push yourself up. Good. You don't shift down. Stay right where you are. The only thing that's moving is your leg. So keep this totally solid. Good to bring it out. Good. Good. And then you're going back down. Good. So you want to stay strong through here. You do not want your abs sinking down. That's what's going to put pressure on your lumbar. Getting back up. Say strong through here. Good. And then back down. Good. What we're going to do is he's going to go all the way to the other side. Good. And then I'm going to have him turn around. But turn around for me does not mean coming out of position. I want to keep the abs engaged again. We're not resting. So go ahead and ran in. He's going to come to the end. Come all the way up here. Come all the way up. So like right where I am. Good. Then you're just going to kind of hold yourself in place and turn yourself around. There we go. So once ran in, flips around. I'm going to have him transition into the next exercise, which is an armicral. Okay. So what he's going to do is he's going to keep his abs. Let's see what the shirt is. As abs are going to stay up his knees are going to hit the ground. And his feet are going to go out. So his calves are pretty much serving as a dead weight. And what he's going to do is he's going to really extend that elbow out and pull himself across the floor. What this is going to do is he's going to keep the abs engaged. And as well, really bring in the serratus and even the lats. So he's a great finisher. Anytime you're. I mean at the end of a of a back routine. I do really want to get into the lats as well. Kind of doubles as that. So go ahead Brandon on the show. There we go. So you can see the legs are really holding him back. So he's really having to pull and use his abs to bring himself across the floor. Brandon is as you can see on the ball. But he's going to do a crunch, but he's going to add into it a weighted fly. And what this is going to do is not only work that kind of crunch motion, but also bring in all those great side muscles, which I love to isolate because that's, you know, you can have these guys, but everybody wants to be shredded through here. So this exercise is great for that. So what he's going to do is he's going to extend his arms out. And he's going to come up and end about right there. So he's coming up and out and up there. Control it. Good breath. Good. Good. Perfect right to there. Don't over extend. Good. Good. I'll pull the wall higher right there. Good. You feel that? Good. So you don't have to use weights. Obviously, if this is too difficult, you're more than, I mean, especially if you're at the end of a routine. Body weight is just fine. You'll still feel that. And using the finish off with a very isolated crunch, keep your chin down. Yeah, now come up to my hands. Good. I backed out right there. Good. I'm sure you're breathing. That chin talked. Good. This just blows out the abs. I'll feel them seizing up. Get that great. Those great hard lines. Good. So you want to keep your hands right on your thighs. You don't want them coming up. Good, right there. And then straight to me. There. There we go. Don't let your hands come to go back. Good. Good. That's different. Yeah, that's different. It's different when you keep those loose. Hands down. That's just, it's that slight change in angle. It makes all the difference. So that wraps up our abhorcee. Again, you're going to circuit this five times. This workout shouldn't take you any longer than 20 to 30 minutes. Again, intensity intensity intensity. There are no rests during this circuit. Can you do these abs and you use the weights at the end of whatever muscle you're doing? It just gets that extra bit after doing tries or chest or shoulders. The burn that you're going to feel in terms of not just your abs, but also your arms, the definition, the tightness of that muscle. Certain exercises if you're doing them correctly. You can only get to like seven or eight. And if you're squeezing and holding and just focusing solely on the abs, you're not going to use your arms or your legs or momentum to try to, kind of you're like, oh, I have to get to 50. I'll generally wait until, you know, the person cannot bring their legs up or they're at the weak failure, they're more respite, not for long. One of the things that I recommend is you might catch and hate because people think you're checking yourself out. You can kind of flip this bench like with a mirror here. And so you can check your angles every so often to make sure that you're not cheating yourself. I see people do this at the gym all the time doing pushups or playing like this. They cheat the second thing they go to drop this drops as well. You're not engaged in your abs and then what happens? People get home and they go, oh, why does my back hurts so bad? Well, because you're leaving your back totally exposed, so you always want to stay straight as a board. People tend to lock themselves into a machine. Me being a former athlete, we don't do just back to front. You're having to move, you're having to twist, you're having to do all of these things. What tends to happen is if you've got your legs locked in your trying to twist and you're trying to do all these things, you can hurt your back because of your discs unless your form is totally perfect. You've got your hip flexors, totally engaged, you're not isolating here. When people think core, they think pilates and girls want to have that. But for guys, powerlifting, getting your bench press up all your max weights up, core is essential. For more content like this, more Aberteens, more exercises to get your body and Keller Shape, please visit Bodybuilding.com. I'm SilverDeterrater Ashley Conrad and thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Train Abs with Mario Lopez - Bodybuilding.com [QBh5D0xa2C4].txt ===

Hey, what's up, I'm Mario Lopez, host of Extra and also MTV's America's Best Dance Crew and was on Dancing with the Stars Not Too Long ago. It may have seen you say by the bell growing up and Ole Missa other things. They got a book out right now called Extra Lean Family, which I'm very proud of. But today I'm at Geals Gym here in Burbank, California and I want to put you through a great circuit training workout where we're going to focus on the acts. Spring is here, summers around the corner, guys are going to be running around with their shirts off because it's hot outside first thing. Everyone's going to look out, is the midsection. So let's get into it right now. All right guys, so we're going to be doing four different exercises in our circuit training today and the first one is hanging leg raise. And we're going to go to the point of failure, losing being is just working with body weight, no sense in putting a number on it because some people might be able to be only 10 reps and some other maybe 40 or 50. So depending on your ability at the moment, we're going to push ourselves with this one right off of that. Here we go. So while I have the most energy and strength, I like to target the lower abs because that tends to be people's weakest area, mine too. Right into it here. All right, that was exercise one. We're going to go immediately to exercise two. Come on. All right, here we are with the decline, weight of crunch for me. I got a 45 pound plate here. We're going to do about 15 to 20 reps. All right. We have a great exercise. We got a partner to give you this and it all. And we continue. We're going to do an drop shot. For, you can just jump it off and continue with the drop set because you're just not a little bit more. Just using body weight. You want to look fairly, right? And you get a deeper, do some twists with your bleeps. Really feelin' it out. All right, I just got done to go immediately to exercise three which is double crunch. You want to start off with your feet, six inches off the ground and behind your head and you want to crunch it. All right, great exercise. It's summer coming. It's on you. This is an exercise that really just looks the whole new section. So you can't go wrong with double crunch. Our fourth and final exercise that cable would shot. You get lower, we did upper abs, we hit them both. This is going to be working all that as well as your obliques and your core. So you want to do because we're working with a weight here at least 15 to 20. Okay, the form is very important. Nice wide base. Start with your hands in the air and put it all the way down across your body. Put it the other way like this. All right, so we just completed a really effective and tense abs workout. And what you're dealing with some heavy weight, so you don't want to do this ab routine in the beginning of your workout or even in the middle of a workout you want to save it for the very end. You want to do it last because you really want to push yourself and you really want to focus on the midsection and give it your all and you need your backing and core to be working. So it's very important that you maintain the great form and keep it at the end of your workout. I typically do this workout about two to three times a week. It takes about 20 to 30 minutes to get through and for my full abs, circuit training routine, just check out the page below and for other great content like this, of course check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Train Beyond Your Potential - Show Us Your Beast Body - Motivational Video Finalist [YZ2v9VH1gKQ].txt ===



=== FILE: Train Hard & Eat Right For One Solid Year： Louis Sheppard Testimonial (3.5 Min) [cuI40oZtAFw].txt ===

You're looking at a man today who lost about 105 within a year. And the reason why I'm here is because of bodybuilder.com. The reason why I'm breathing today is because of bodybuilding.com. I dare friend of mine that I grew up with. He passed away over heart attack and he was 37. I was looking at his casket. I didn't see him. I saw me. I got a wife. I got a six year old son and a one-year old daughter. I couldn't let that happen. I decided to look on you guys website, a founder website, and look at how the transformation page was. It was a gentleman there. He was about my age, 39, 360. He was 360 about the same height, 510. And in one year he lost about 100 pounds. He said, okay, this is me. That didn't move me as much. What reading the story really did because as I was reading the story, why he did it. He was on a couch. What is wife? What is daughter eating chips? And as I'm reading the story, I'm on a couch with my wife. What my son and my daughter eating chips. And that kind of put everything in perspective for me right there saying, wow, this can't be right. This can't be life. I shouldn't be doing that. I promise myself, I said, I'm going to give myself one good year. Eat and clean and work it out. After the year, I couldn't kill us. I just wanted to get through one year. If I could get through one year, yeah, I could get through two years. I could get through three years. But I just said one year, if I can make it through one year, things will completely be changed. I hit my 100 pound mark and I was in tears. Reason why I was in tears for two reasons. One, I shouldn't have gotten to that size. Second reason why I was crying, because I just know I lost the 100 pounds in ten months. It's funny who you are inspired. I'm trying to be like some of these guys and I'm trying to be like, some of these guys. I'm trying to be like, some of these guys. I'm trying to be like some of these guys, and girls who's working out and doing shows. I'm trying to be like, you guys. But they all tell me, no, you are inspiring us to work out harder. Because you're in the gym every day. You and the hardest working person that we have met. I had no clue. Even when I started, you know, the first three months. And I only lost five to ten pounds. Individuals, hey, you keep coming here. Oh, you, you, you, you muscle guy. Why are you talking to me? You know, I'm feeling all big and out of shame. But I'm inspiring other individuals. And not even know it. Why the build it I come saved my life.

=== FILE: Train Large ｜ Jay Cutler Living Large ｜ Mass-Building Workouts, Training Tips, Nutrition Plan ｜ Ep 2 [aBQ09FUdZW8].txt ===

You know, you're asking me if I get sick of being a bodybuilder never. I mean, I love lifting weights, that's what I do. I'm gonna take it, come on. Ah, back on the shelf, come on. Almost every night, seriously. What is it coming in? When's it coming in next? What do you think people think? The most can't believe that they can get that big. Oh, they are just winning. First time you say, I'm, it's a lot of looks. Everyone goes shake this hand, interrupts his workouts, takes pictures. Well, thanks very much. But Jay, it has never turned one person down ever to take a picture, to do an autograph, to talk to someone. He's always been out of his way to help everyone out. When Jay comes in, everyone wants to be like Jay. Not like Mike, everyone wants to be like Jay. The biggest achievement that I'd never expected was to give the motivation to a lot of people when I was just trying to be motivated myself to go to the gym. You know, I train in public because I don't want to be surrounded and locked in the lifestyle to the extreme. I mean, I live in it day and day out. You know, I'm cooking and training and never stepping out of the shoes of being who I am, and that's Jay, color, the bodybuilder. So, for me, I have my own sanctuary, which is pretty much my office that, you know, here. I look around at the achievements. I'm surrounded by what my life from the beginning to now has become. So, for me, it's enough for me. And yes, I have some function equipment in the gym, like cardio vascular, and that kind of things which are necessary in the morning. I don't want to have to drive to the gym, so that allows me to be able to get in what I need to. And of course, I leave all the weights to the gym. They have the most weights. I like to do variety. You know, I move heavy dumbbells, so, you know, I work anywhere between 25 to 160 pound dumbbells most often. So, that'd be kind of a big collection to have in your home gym. And the way I look at it is I'm always going to wait trained, but not to that extreme. You know, I think when I retire, I mean throwing around 100 something pound dumbbells, I mean that's probably not going to happen as much. So, it's kind of pointless to build something that's not forever. You know, I think the biggest misconception is that we do things really extremely different. And that's not necessarily the case. It's very, very basic. What a professional bodybuilder does. And I'm just speaking, I'm my own behalf. I mean, I've been basics since the beginning. You know, I had certain monogenetics that was outclassed with. You know, I started a specific diet. I stuck with the basics of training. I get a common question all the time. People approach me and they say, Jay, what's the secret? What's the secret? And there is no secret. It's the secret is. Is progression, consistency, dedication, day in, day out. The certain body parts I do like to train harder. You know, I might train arms. Little lighter, whereas, you know, back training, late training is a lot heavier and harder. What I like to usually do is structure. You know, rest days around those training days because they just sometimes it can be pretty intense. Yeah, anyone asks me, what are you training tomorrow? I usually have an idea. But if they ask me what time I could even tell you the time I wake up in the morning or time, go to the gym. And if I tell you the time, even an hour before I'll never be on time, that's how I work. I don't have really scheduled training partners. I have people that picked up and trained with me here and there. They kind of know just, just, I'm on call and, you know, just let me know an hour before. So, of course, they can get food and get the training where it, where to meet me. I'm done there. I'll still have... let's do some dumbbells. They're stiff and when you don't have a team, you know, have a structure where it's like, you know, a time schedule where you're, you know, expecting people to show up or some places going to be open. Vegas is, I mean, that's why I train here. It's the best place to train at. It's like an athlete's playground here pretty much. We just, we train 24 hours a day and eat 24 hours. And I mean, nothing is no weather variables. Everything is just in tune with what you're trying to do because you can just make it any kind of structure you want. And the result will be the same each day. Every day's similar. I mean, I don't listen to music. So, like, you hear these stories about guys listening, who's a good named up and going. For me, it's not really an emotional thing. We're, I'm very driven to do what I do and I realize the job on hand. So, I don't need that extra anger or any kind of frustration to train any harder. You know, I surround myself with people sometimes. If I need extra motivation, I'll get some of the go in the gym and push me. I get some people pick up some weight sometimes. I want more stuff with that kind of... Well, I'm going to do one more stuff with that kind of humor. Everyone knows what I do in the gym. You know, everyone always trains harder than you. No matter what you, I train as hard as him. I could be a size if I had the opportunity to work, not work, and go to the gym. So, no one, you can ever teach anyone training advice. We talk about spending money for food and all this other stuff. I mean, that's when a thousand dollars a week on tissue work is crazy. Anyone that weight lifts weights, you're tearing down muscle tissue, so you're going to have breakdown of the tissue that's going to get it keys to other tissue. So, what we're trying to do is, it's take the stress off that muscle, keep the muscle healthy. And, of course, flexible, pliable and it's going to help with muscle growth. It's going to help with flexibility and it's going to help avoid any injuries and even fix injuries. When it's something so tight, you're not going to get the blood in there, like you need to. And that's what happens, like, with a lot, like, my hamstrings get super tight. So, when I train my hamstrings, I don't get, like, say, the pump that I might get when I do chest or whatever else. You have super tight muscles and no flexibility and no stretching. Your muscles aren't going to grow. This is going to help with all that. This guy's, I guess, think is a car parked, or I train. But he's the specialist in this act that release him. He's probably the guy in Vegas that, I mean, I haven't gone to him since 2003 or four, has he been a staple of my success in my career, absolutely. So, I wanted you to hamstring and the flat force and shoulder. I can get in. Whatever he feels. I had last week gone from yourself. But I do want to get this hamstring that inside canal. That where we were last time. When you wake up, you get in there and then, you see how that feels. But you can feel there's a spot on the inside of the hamstring too. Yeah, that's actually a pretty sore guy. The normal person, if you're looking at the quad, I may only have a couple inches of tissue. If you look at the ATM hocks, I mean, it's 30 passes to the two. And he's getting bigger. I mean, Jay's dense. So what happens is, especially with the inside of that tissue, those fibers in here and stick, like a paintbrush, with the fibers all here and here together. So as they start to stick and bind, it creates a scar. And what I'm doing is I'm finding those areas of concern. I'm taking a contact on them and I'm holding a translated context. I'm not highly compressing the tissue. Even though there is compression, I'm trying to get those fibers to break free. So they can fill with blood. Ah, oh. Ah, it's... Oh, my goodness. Oh, my goodness. Ah, right there. Oh, oh. You have to laugh at her so much, no? That felt amazing though. So much of her. The biggest, the most impressive thing is that each year it gets better. I do with a lot of world-class athletes, thousands. You know, a lot of guys post season. There's a big change in their physique. Jay's days pretty much, that's best to men, if you will. You're around looking great. Right in there, bud. Yeah. There's the hamstring. Yeah, that's a hamstring with a little bit of a doctor. Good, come back. I don't know what that looks like on camera, but it's like... It gets up by how hard he's working. But when he raises your head, there's things like... Like, we discussed this, the necessity of certain areas on my body. He's like, you know, a lot of places where people won't, you know, go to really really leave what stock, you know. He's like, well, you have to get in third places. It may not be the most comfortable, but... You've got to put in the time. And he does that, whether it be my table or the gym. I mean, you have to have a pretty trained eye to even see some of the areas of major injury. And Jay's had his very share of injury. He's worked through it. If you were to look at the recovery rate in which he had on the bicep, you know, it's a little bit of luck. Great surgical, but great rehabilitative effort. I mean, just sometimes that you can't rehab. It's like putting together two ends of a paintbrush. That's a feet, man, right there. That's a huge feet. He worked for. You can see a little bit when I do a front-lash for it. See that, you know. You can see it as... You can see in the right light when you get on those stage lights you can see it. Because the belly tour too. That's why they told me it won't, you'll never have flexion in your arm again. Twice that I'm never going to compete again. They told me it would never be hard if it'd be soft. So when he healed the guys, like, I don't know how they healed, but he said we tied it super tight. So let's hope that he heals right and he healed okay. And it was hard as a rock like right after. It made it bigger, so now I gotta... Yeah, that one's this one's gonna be bigger now. Go! Up here! Push it. The unique thing about me is I don't have a set schedule, so it really varies on day to day how I feel and when I train is determined on how my body feels. Typically I go by the basic guidelines. I try to eat three or four meals before I train for sure. Most importantly is my sleep. I'm sure they sleep enough, which is really only about five hours or night, four to five hours. But typically I train really, really late. I avoid the crowds. I don't go by any set schedule and I don't train on a specific body part schedule. I just train specifically how my body tells me that I need to. So if I'm scheduled to do back or chest on a certain day, I might switch it and do leg. Sometimes I grew body parts differently. It kind of go by feel, but I'm really sore, I'll take a day off. I don't have a set day off schedule, like those quick people take a Sunday off. I don't do that. I just regularly go by feel and that's helped me gain great success all the way along my career. It seemed to be the best thing for me. Okay! Go! Up here! So I like to keep the weights ready heavy and do lower reps. Obviously, what happens is when you train with as much volume as me, you can't do as many repetitions, because you'll just burn yourself up. I mean, you have to have one or the other. You're going to do less weight, more repetitions and less sets. What you're going to do a lot more sets heavier weights and less reps. So I choose to do the heavier weights, less reps, more volume, pump the muscle, keep filling it up, hit the angles. I wanted to have obviously freakish body parts. It was never really like I want to rise on me type of thing. It was never an ego I want everyone to notice me. I wanted to look presentable where I walked around when I wasn't in contact shape and I just was big and round and people admired the muscles. I think pretty much I've secured the legacy and the competition stage. I really don't have any real specific goals as far as my physique as far as I'm not going in the gym and saying, well, I need to have my legs up too much as big or anything like that. I think with me it's more on the aspect of the legacy of Jay-Color and where it's going to go from here. I'm going to take a look. I'm going to take a look. I'm going to take a look. Mentally you have to be in a little crazy. People approach me and they say, Jay, what's the secret? What's the secret? I don't like eating anything. If you ask me what my favorite food is, I don't have a favorite food. I don't look forward to eating it all. You're a living legend that's what's amazing about what I do. I'm going to take a look at this all the time.

=== FILE: Train with Laura Bailey - Bodybuilding.com [cCsIyVwOq24].txt ===

Hey guys, this is Laura Bailey. I am here at Powerhouse Gym in Burbank, California with Bodybuilding.com. I have been featured in numerous fitness magazines. I'm also a psychology instructor. I competed in approximately 32 shows and I won over half of them. Come along with me, you guys, as I showed you more about my training, nutrition and supplement and you get to know more about who I am. Before I actually started competing, I was a collegiate athlete. I ran track across country, especially rising in the long jumps and tripled jumps. Herdles and the relay. I got full ride scholarship board track and academic. Pretty much after college, I kind of went through that transitional period, you're gaining weight, you're trying to get back of shape and I decided to get a gym membership and that came with some training sessions. My trainer convinced me to go ahead and try to train for competition. And so I did it with the difficulty was not having the coaches there to push you every day to wake up and go to go to practice. I had to go to the gym, all my own to meet my trainer. Probably one of the best things of the coach because I was a collegiate athlete and I was meant to buy other coaches. I had that ability to actually take the knowledge that I had acquired and helped my students out and the athletes that I was working with. But it was nice because I would actually get out there during cross country and run with the girls and do the sprint work with the girls and do the start to my jumps. So they were able to see okay, my coaches and just tell me to do this. She's actually doing it with me and I think they had a lot of respect with the fact that I was doing the workouts with them is intense as they were and saying shake them off. Actually everything in my opinion, everything I do is a competition. I can be at the grocery store and it's like okay, I gotta be the first one to the line or something but I'm always just driving driving to do to be the best. So even when I was coaching my girls on the track, when I would be out there running with them, if I didn't get the times that I had set for myself, you know, I was pushing myself with. And if I pushed myself, that was pushing the girls and when I finished coaching and went to the state and started competing, it was the same thing. Except you had to be more self-driven more self-motivated because you didn't have that person there with you all the time. But still that competitive drive is just something that I've always had. Whether you're in the gym or are on a track or in a sport, you see the beginning and you see the goal. You see the end result and you neglect to see all the work to have to be done in between and you don't see the interest of these other day the day work that you have to do. I think it's more about looking at the long-term goals but you also have to set several short-term goals, intermittent goals of the tween to help you be encouraged and continue to get the motivation. Find a picture, find a goal, find a dress, find an event or something that you want to work toward. To surround yourself with a good support system, document, journal, take pictures. So you can see your transition and progress. Now I told you guys a little bit about myself. So let me show you a little bit about my beliefs and philosophies with my training program. I have to enjoy what I'm doing. I have to have fun. I have to like it. Essentially I work out five days a week with weight six days with cardio. So I'm working out Monday through Saturday. A lot of heavy resistance, a lot of plyometrics. So a typical week at Mondays is I do legs. My leg routine takes about an hour and incorporates heavy weights, squats, a lot of plyometrics. And I also do about 30, 45 minutes of cardio. Two days are back and shoulders. And I also couple that with 30 minutes of cardio. For cardio, just a preference. I either prefer the stermil or treadmill. On Wednesdays, I tend to do biceps triceps as well as 30 minutes cardio. Thursday is chest pretty like day because I'm a woman. So maybe 20 minutes of chest workout. And again, 30 minutes cardio. Friday might be more back and or shoulders cardio and Saturday. If I do cardio, it's typically on the track. Sundays are all straight. Got to have an off day. Sunday, off day means no gym. Sunday means no looking at the gym, no thinking about the gym. I still eat pretty clean but I don't go into the gym at all. I've actually under estimated importance of rest. It's definitely in the city. I've seen people that go seven days continuously and end up burning muscles. They don't understand why they're not progressing. But I mean, your body rebuilds itself and repairs when it's resting. So rest is definitely an essential part of working out and building muscle just obtaining a better physique than a lot of people tend to mess with me. Most of it is set to reps. I'll do circuits if I'm short on time but that's rare. It's pretty standard. It's nothing fancy. It's a lady. Lift heavy. Okay? It's going to help you gauge muscle mass and the muscle mass in turn helps you burn more calories and more fat. With my cardio, I just like to do high intensity 30 minute cardio. Maybe 45 minutes. Every now and then I might do the fat burning cardio rarely though but I typically like to do high intensity just because I don't like cardio. I like to get it down and dirty and get it over with. Sometimes when I hit a plateau, honestly I'll rest. I'll take a couple days off. I think maybe my body just is tired. Other times I might switch the days that I'm doing the workout and I've also found a switching the order that I do to work out. It's also a different. For women I've probably said a couple of things. If you can find a women's gym, women tend to come more comfortable. There's not a lot of men around or if they have a regular gym that has a women's area. That's a good option. I see another women in the past see somebody that's in shape and asks them if they're performing the exercise right. If they're in there and they see somebody that's pretty fit, I would encourage them. Don't be afraid to ask. Most people pretty willing to help. You can get on body space and check they've got amazing workouts where you can actually type in your body type and you can see what type of workout, what type of goal you're trying to get and it actually gives you a print out of all the exercise, this type of food, nutrition and the duration of your workout. So that's my overall approach and philosophy on how I do my training. If you want to get the whole program, check out the page below. Now let's move on to my nutrition. Okay my overall approach to nutrition is the same when training. I have to enjoy what I eat and I have to eat. Pretty much I do about six to seven meals a day. I wake up pretty early, about 4.30. So if I'm getting up there, I get about seven meals a day. Usually I'm doing every three hours sometimes too if it's a smaller meal. I usually tell people it's kind of like when you start a fire. It's put the kindling on the flames because it's slower burning and it starts to burn hotter rather than just throwing a big log on there. So it's just like putting fuel in your system. Your body is constantly being fed and it allows to metabolism to continue burning rather than if you just eat once in the morning and once in the evening your metabolism turns on and it stops. So the whole goal is to speed up your metabolism to help with burning the fat by fueling your body with several multiple small meals a day. It helps that process. I don't like to use the word diet. I know people have some people like it's some people going to me. You hear the word diet and you automatically think restriction. I like to tell people that it's more about finding the food you like to enjoy. Finding a way to make them healthy and then you can eat as much of that as you can. So it's not about restriction. It's about eating more but it's about eating better food. Protein. I like ground turkey. Chicken. I like all kinds of fish. Salapia or dorky protein powder. Me personally I used when I was working on bulking. I was doing about one and a half to two grams per body weight which is a whole lot of protein. But now I scaled back. So what I essentially do is just do one gram of protein for body, per body pound and that's how I do it. I don't believe in cutting carbs. That's not my thing. I'm probably one of the few people that don't count my carbs as far as grams. I just know I'm going to eat three or four servings of carbs. I measure it. I don't do it by weight. I just measure it by size pretty much. I'm a sweet potato junkie. I like sweet potato fries. Southern style potatoes. Meanie is just a red potato or a white potato that's sauteed oatmeal good ground rice and good. I pretty much eat the same year round. When I first started I had a lot more building to do. So then it was more contingent upon whether I'm trying to prep or show or the way or gain muscle. But now it's pretty much to the point where I can just tweak it minimally. My diet's pretty much the same now because I've adopted this lifestyle change for the past three or four years. I don't believe in she anything. I call them bliss meals. She's got such a negative connotation and I feel like it should be something you work for. You earned it. I personally would do a cheat day but it would turn into a free fall. So over the past couple years I've learned to basically scale it back and do a couple cheat meals. I think it's necessary because like I said I don't believe in restriction. You want to eat it. You've earned it. So those are my thoughts and beliefs on nutrition. Remember, without nutrition, you're setting yourself up for failure. If you want to know more about my nutrition plan, check out the page below. Now let's talk about supplementation. Supplements do just that. They supplement what you're not getting. As far as performance, they're necessary because you're depleting. There's a lot of your stores. So you need to replenish that with some type of supplement. My whole theory is less is more. I don't believe they're taking everything you need to hands on. So the things that I take daily are a multivitamin and I take a French-Chain amino acids. Other things that I do take are beta-allony and I also take some type of weight protein. I tend to do protein more in the off season and I'll be honest sometimes I just don't feel like cooking. I'll do 4 protein shakes today because I'm being lazy. I have a couple that I mix. One of them has fewer carbs on the room has more. I don't do it pre-imposed workout. I always do it for my second meal and my fourth meal. That's just my preference. Three supplements. I would say a good multivitamin. I would say vitamin B and I would also say a high-quality protein because a lot of people get caught up in the size of the protein. They get five gallons or $15. But your body breaks that protein down. It doesn't break it down as effectively as it would a high-quality protein. So I think it do your research to do a good good good good protein that helps meet the goal you're trying to achieve. Initially when I started training I used to use a fat burner. More for the energy. I don't know. I have mixed feelings about fat burners. You sweat a lot so it does create the thermogenic effect. I think after a while your body's trained itself and it tends to just stay at that metabolic rate. As far as the mass gainer I do take a pH buffer creatin and capleform that help me with mass gaining. I think before the whole misconception about supplements is the supplements which is for guys and I mean a vitamin A, vitamin B, C, all those are different types of supplements. We don't think of them like them. It's imperative for women to take supplements because in working out we have we're deficient in certain areas and that's the only way we're going to get those areas restored by taking this up. I think they definitely have helped me reach my goal faster. Just the energy, the recovery time, all that is enhanced with the supplements. I actually have tried to work out for short periods of time without the supplements and you can do it. You have to work twice to get through the workout. To get my full training nutrition and supplement program check out the page below. If you want to find out more information about me, about my diet, about my nutrition, and about my training check out my body space profile at jumper11 and for more information and content like this, check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Train with Preston Noble - Bodybuilding.com [oUQ1pLnrFDQ].txt ===

My name is Preston Noble. I'm a little bit about myself, come from a family of six kids. A group just since I was a little bit always playing the sports with my dad and my siblings just fitness activities. I always been part of my life studying being exercise wellness major, planning going into physical therapy. I have done one bodybuilding show. It was just this past November, the NPC Western Regional. I had never thought of doing a show before. I just barely started training this past year in June, so about seven months ago. I'd always been a little muscular, but I wanted to get bigger and feel that I was working out and one of my buddies was just like, hey, I did a couple of shows years ago. I was like, oh, really, I had no idea you could even do amateur shows. So when I found that I got really excited and started training right away for it, I felt like I did really well. I got second in the novice and fourth in the light heavy open class. But the biggest change in accomplishment that I felt so far is just probably a change that I've seen inside myself, having to do with just the spiritual emotional physical all the aspects of life that just being healthy and fit can bring out in something. So, love bodybuilding.com going on and just reading all the different articles, different workouts that people come out with. I've never really stuck to a program longer than maybe a month. I'll do one, I'll be seeing the results, I love it, and then I'll read something new and I just want to try it. It's worked for me and it's helped me a lot to be able to just recommend different teams and programs to get different results to lots of different people. On my basic training now, I was just six days a week. I always take the Sundays off for the rest. I'll do my cardio in the morning. I mean, I like to stick to the basic, you know, chest and try, back and buy, steps, and I'll go do some legs and shoulders on the same day. I tried to keep my workouts, generate a little shorter than before. And now before I started training, it goes two to three hours, sometimes. Now, I'm doing an hour, hour and 15 minutes. I said, sometimes I'll switch it up and I'll just be like, hey, I've been doing a whole body workout today. We'll just do it and get it done. General rep range, yeah, it's just about a 10. I'll always go on my reps and I'll just do one more, like I'll count eight, nine, nine again and then I'll go to 10. Just to make sure I'm getting, you know, one extra one in there. I try and do a five, five cadence. If I'm going to be doing like three sets, I'll do two sets normal and then middle set or just lower the weight a little bit and just go and slow five up and five down. I know a lot of people, they already incorporate the five seconds down, they're going slow down, but the hardest part is going slow and way up. Because the light weight, you know, you can just push it up, but just having that patience and discipline to just sit there and just kind of let it burn and rip is what I've liked. Trying to keep my rest in intervals, generally counting, in between 30 seconds, or in many, as soon as I'm going to have to again, I won't take any longer rest from that. And I think that that's helped in my cardio. I like switching to my cardio, I'll do some swimming in the pool, I'll go for a little blade ride in the morning, you're doing some bikes, things like that. I'm most favorite at something I just started doing recently that would be interval lunges on a treadmill. I'll just hike up the incline on the treadmill to between five and a 10 and do about a 1.8 to a 2 speed. And just sit there and do like 1 minute of walk, and then 1 minute lunges, 1 minute walk, 2 minute lunges, and switch it up like that. I know that's helped in my cardio a lot, I enjoy it, you only have to do 10 to 15 minutes of it, and you're done. And I found the studies that I've done, and it's just helped keep your GH levels a little bit higher while you're sleeping, if you're doing that before bed. So it's helped a lot. As far as I can tell up till now, I haven't hit a plateau, just every week I can just keep seeing the results. And I think that's why. Yeah, I've done some crazy, crazy exercises, just a couple weeks ago, and trying to figure this actually, I went in, I tried one of the hot and they put me over the classes, and that was honestly one of the hardest things I've done so far. That was definitely intense, and I felt like that helped lean me out a lot and shut up. Probably one of my favorite workouts is just the four-hour body program by Timothy Ferris. It was a really different principle if someone was never tried it before. On my rest day, I don't do any cardio. I get in a little bit of extra sleep actually, trying to permanently for the week coming up, make sure to plan ahead, you know what I'm going to be doing. One of my motivations that I posted on body space was mirrors. When someone can see your actual physical results, you know, congratulate yourself for that. The more one motivated you'll be to just keep going back and pushing yourself. And then just loving that atmosphere, you know, at the gym. You need a good trainer, fitness person, should tell you that the diet is super, super important. I love oatmeal in the morning, just right when I wake up, my body's hungry and I'm just, you know, craving something to eat. Now I always mix like a tablespoon of peanut butter, almond butter in the oatmeal, and scoop a protein powder and stir it up and then cook it after that. And then throughout the day, between every two and three hours, I'll eat another meal. So generally about six-eight meals a day, trying to get that perfect seven now. Just consist of either brown rice or sweet potatoes as my carbs. And then all just vary the meals in between some lean ground beef, turkey, chicken, and I go between tuna and tilopia for my fishes. It's super simple. I wake up every Monday morning and I just cook on my food, top-ward out prepared for the week, so it's all ready to go. That's what's helped me the most. I'm in the week if I just have to go somewhere and shove a couple of meals in my bag and I'm off. So I do definitely have a lot more. I just carbs everything when I'm off season. I still keep it fairly strict. For my home, my mom doesn't like going out to eat, not a lot of fast food. She always makes sure you don't have just good carbs and keep all the greens as always a vegetable and food on the table every time. If I'm even just going to buy food, always make sure to look at the labels. Going to restaurants, I always choose what I want and then go back and kind of take one thing off the list. I really want that, okay, I can do without that. That kind of acts as cutting my cheapens out. I myself haven't done the cheap meals. I have a little cheap, you know, piece of something here and there. Nutrition, diet is very, very important. I love learning about it. I love telling people about it. But that's one of the biggest changes I've had. It's just learning about my body specifically. So I would encourage people to do that because everyone's body is honestly totally different. One person can recommend something to you and nutrition-wise and it just doesn't work. I'm just wondering why I just have to go just seeking to find any answers and tell you find what perfectly fits you in nutrition-wise. I've been working on the diet for a long time. Supplement-wise, I've gone both ways. I've gone to almost the extreme using lots and then kind of going back to just sticking to the few basics. Right now, I'm just keeping it simple, sticking to the basics three. Obviously, protein, we need to have high protein intake in your body if you're going to be able to increase your muscle mass in as well as dieting down. So when you're losing the fat, you're not going to be able to take an off your muscle mass as well. Protein is absolute number one and then the amino acids. So we'll stick to the branch chain. So I like taking those in the middle of my workout. You want it to get me a little more energy throughout my workout. And then right when I'm done, it just kind of helps convert my body back between just the catabolic and antibiotic faster. It tastes great. Do a little bit of fish oils. You know, all the omega-3, 6-9 here and there. Not necessarily for the show. I did more for like skin purposes. Submutation is just exactly what the word means. It's a supplement adding on to an already good, based nutrition and diet. To check out my full program, just look at the page below. If you have any more questions about training, any information, my body space user name is Preston Noble. And for more content like this, check out BodyWilling.com.

=== FILE: Train with Vinny Russo - Bodybuilding.com [zAsANynq1WQ].txt ===

When it is 20 years old, I'm 24 years old. I have my first competition in this last November. I enter the men's physique category, placed in second at a none other competitors. Right now, 2012, Viter Space, both model finalists. I've always been involved in sports, training with my father since I was little. You know, he trained me with basic power lifts and various techniques on speed for football per se. But what happened was I wanted to become a like this meat fridge. I really didn't know a lot about nutrition. So like I said, I was like kind of like meat-free with all its power and speed, but not really that much definition. So I took it upon myself to do a lot of reading and I found by thebillin.com, which you know, offered a lot of support to Viter Space community and a lot of information on proper nutrition and exercise, and I use that to my advantage. If it was a mindset that was instilled in me when I had a young age by my father, and I've been doing it for so long that it's just a part of me. So if I were to not train, and I feel like I'm treating myself almost. So basically that's why I stay with it. It's almost like a competitive nature, it's what drives me in and out every day. If you treat your body well, it'll treat you well in the turn. So by feeling your proper nutrition and training it with regular exercise, you know, you're looking for basically overall better health, which will need to longevity. And that's what I find, you know, that keeps me in business. I co-tries with football, so I'm able to give back to the youth at today. I'm giving the freedom to teach them, you know, proper nutrition and proper exercise. And there's an indescribable feeling that I get just knowing that I'm not only changing their body composition, still this proper nutrition exercise, but I'm changing the mindset. And maybe, you know, they could take you then, that mindset may pass to the family. I mean, we don't eat this healthy, or you know, it takes a certain risk and, you know, a dominant effect to come out of this, to where everybody starts living, healthy, fit life's life. My mindset and philosophy and training is going there with high intensity. Don't go in there to power a ticket, to talk around, you know, put your eye out, how to throw your hood up and do what you got to do. Go out there, 100% and train your body in the way you're supposed to train it. I like to take 45 seconds to a minute between sex. I like to keep that 45 minutes long, my workout, so I'm eating now and I, you know, I'm winning there with my whole. When I come, it's my whole. I usually train 45 days a week, you know, it depends on what I'm training for. If I'm training for a competition, I keep it at five days a week. So it's right now I'm training five days a week, and I do body part a day. I love doing legs on Monday. Now, there's a why is because it's starting new week. It's when I'm most amped about getting in there, and the leg day is most taxing. So I figured, let me get it when I got my, the most energy. So I do that one day. I like to separate the pushing poles, so I don't overwork any muscles. So I do chest on Tuesday. Wednesday will do back. Thursdays off in my body of ass, I love best days. Friday for this competition, I'm working on my shoulder caps, so I want to be a little bit of shoulder cap work and mainly shoulders. And then Saturday would be arms, and then Sunday, I have more. Well, the sets you mainly have from three to four, my rep range state from eight to 12, that's when I feel like I get the most type of trophy from my workouts. There's a lot of techniques in the way I train, I like to add, you know, drops, etch, triple rye sets. It depends on what I feel like. If I feel like my chest is like a little soft, I'll add a couple drops. Just do a belly out of the definition, or, you know, where arms are due triple rye sets. I do a lot of best pauses, you know, just to keep variation, just keep me excited to get back into the gym. I mean, if you're new to this and you want to come in and you want to keep yourself more with it to get in there, go in there, bring out a workout partner. You guys motivate each other and just make sure that you always had a different techniques, do a lot of reading, find, you know, different things that you could do, just the ad variation, go from three weights to machines, you know, different weeks. On your off season with cardio, I like to keep it around three to four times a week, now keep that low intensity, now I do maybe like an incline speed walk, or I'm doing a look to call for about a half an hour keep my heart rate in between a certain range. But when it's when I'm training for a competition, it's five days a week, four to five days a week, and it's interval training. So I started for like two minute walk, two minute jog and I'll go back and forth for about 30 minutes, then like two weeks later, I'll do a minute walk and then a jog, and I'll do that for about a week, and then I get into a while I'm doing a minute jog and minute sprint, and that's very taxing. And I do a regular morning, I do it on a fast and stomach. It's what I feel works best from me. When it comes to rest days, I take full advantage of it. I sleep in eat. That's basically what I do, and I love it. Especially when training for competitions, I mean you're training your body to the max. So your body needs that rest. I've reached many platos where you know, you're just going there like, I can't push any more weight or you feel like you're getting a week here. So what I do to overcome those is I either add more variation, or I usually work out by myself, I'm grab a training partner, and I'll train your past failure, and I'll do this for about two or three weeks, you know, and usually I'll get stronger from it and push myself past that platto. Now that doesn't work, and basically you're about to start something you need rest. So you know, you might not want to, you got to take that week off, but you're about to heal, get this in time, feel it the right way, and then get back to it, and usually you pass that platto. I have absolutely zero calves. I have no calves, and I'm upset about it. It's just, I guess it's my genetics, I train them hard, and I train them heavy, I just don't throw, and that bothers me because I like having a big lead work, but I mean, they just don't really develop on me. You can train as much as 10 to the years you want, you can train me day and day out, but if you don't fuel your body with a proper nutrition, you're not going to get anywhere. Maybe stock on a platto, day and a day out. You got to get an overall aspect of, you know, what was best for your body? I like to see that 40% of my caloric intake should be carbohydrates, 40% of it, should be protein, and 20% should be fat. It's being carb defeated. I like to add the fat up a little bit to maximum limit 30% just to give me that extra energy, you know, that I'm lacking from being carb defeated. Carbohydrates, I like to say with complex carbohydrates, you know, they give you a sustained release of energy. I mean, I add my simple carbs in there too, and it's just because it's, it's increasing insulin, it's a spike in insulin, which I help show the nutrients after, after work out when you're like a gym defeated. What mainly stay with the complex carbohydrates, it's your brown rice, it's your multi-bring rice cakes right here and there, but when it turns out for a competition, I don't use root bread as for fats. I take in nuts, seeds, abocados, I like to do with me mega's, and this basically provides me with insulin free energy. So basically, it doesn't affect your blood sugar, which is good because you evade the crash, you evade the crash, you evade the heart of feelings, you know, as the blood sugar varies. Proteins I like to stay with complete proteins will be my, to a lot here, my salmon, my chicken grass, my ground turkey, my beef, you know, and they're complete because they provide all the body with the full set of your central amino acids. And then I also have my incomplete proteins, which is like my rice, my vegetables, things that I need to better also get in my diet. Meal free protein is very important. I eat about 68 meals a day depending on what time I throw myself out of bed, or if I'm very hungry, you know, maybe I'll throw an extra meal in there. But I like to keep it between two and a half to three hours. You gotta look at your metabolism as a campfire, and the food that you fuel is the wood for the fire. So every time you put one in two of fire, your metabolism increases. Each meal is going to call for a different amount of calories, and you gotta figure that out on your own. You know, like in your morning, you're going to have your fat, you're going to have your compost carbs, you're going to have your protein, which will call for a lot of calories. But then let's say when you're at night time when it's before bed, you don't want to have all that fat, or I don't call for hydrate, so it's going to get system lower calories. As a good course of competition, I don't go out with my friends, I stay away from the temptation. I mean, it's like seven weeks out, that's it. I'll see you guys later. And I don't want to do temperature drink. I don't want to be tempted to eat bad foods later in night, but that's just me. That's what I feel looks best for me. I'm not a big believer in cheat bills. I mean, a lot of people use them for psychological effects. I don't believe in it. I see it as if I have a plan I'm sticking to it. I don't be all of it. You know, I feel like cheat years are kind of for the weak card if I'm not trying to pretend to have a position or a fuller suit. I mean, I've not tried to have greens, you know, I've looked at you here and there. That team is cheating because I don't have a set plan. Once my plan is set, I don't feel off that set plan. We need the creative team. You need the glutamine. You need the branching of amino acids. You need your Omega's. You definitely need your protein. When you're training a body with high intensity, your body becomes the pleated of many of these branching amino acids or, you know, glycogen and protein and your cells are being broken down and they need a supplements to help enhance and repair. I like to take good of me. I like to take a first repair purpose and because, you know, it's involved in increasing protein synthesis for that area of your body. I take five grams of four and after workouts, along with before bed, creating, creating. I find it's very important. I feel like it's deemed with the false reputation that it only floods your cells with water and, you know, it means that after discontinuing the use, but it has much more than just minimizing effects. Yeah, I think it would in terms of ATP, which is density triphase and that's the chemical energy for the body and what it does is when you take and create team, you load up your body with phosphocreatin and what phosphocreatin does is get stored into most of fibers and it's there to donate a phosphate leaf to your ATP, which becomes ADP after, you know, release the energy. So, this is the phosphate leaf and it's the storage of ATP levels. So, basically, the more creatin you supplement in your body, the more energy you'll have for maximum muscle performance. I also like to do conjugated linolic acid. I use that for weight management purposes. It's set to decrease your appetite. I take omega is right in the morning. I use them for their insulin-free energy, no blood sugar changes. I also supplement a branch phenomenon acids. Now, branch phenomenon acids are vitally important to have in your diet and they're very important to supplement with. I take them in the morning. I take the full workout to take it in my postwork out shake and I take it even before bed. Now, this is why it takes so many is because during an intense workout, your branch phenomenon acids are profoundly broken down. And your body can't produce branch phenomenon acids. So, it's important that you supplement with them so your body has sufficient amount. By supplementing with the branch phenomenon acid, you protect your muscle tissue. Now, you protect your muscle tissue because the body will break down those branch phenomenon acids before the breaks down your muscle tissue. So, by having enough, it protects it. Proteins vitally important. It's a cornerstone of all sub-intention. I take that before and after workouts, I'll stick in the morning with my old oats. I prefer weight protein over any other type of protein. Now, the reason why I prefer weight protein is because it's fast absorbing. You get the most bang for your buck because 90% of it is pure protein. I don't change my supplements at all. I use supplements basically for the scientific purposes and what they offer my body. I don't really set it on or off or tape it on or off. I use the milligrams set, you know, our re-dub bottle, whatever it says, that's usually how I take it. For all my nutritional information, for my sub-intention, for my workout programs, please check out the page below. If you want to get a contact me contact me through your body space, my body space name, username, is Landback at 1025 and for more content like that, please check out BodyBloom.com.

=== FILE: Training Overview ｜ Kris Gethin's 12-Week Muscle-Building Trainer [Wy5QECAbCyA].txt ===

The Muscle Builder program was developed over 15 years of working with some of the world's best experts, like Neil Hill, Dory and Yates, Bradshaw and Flex Lewis, J. Cutler, and Working with Clients, trial and error on myself and within the lab, and I've structured that 15 years of work into this plan. If you know anything about me and my approach to training, you'll know that it's just as much a mental war as it is a physical one. I try to push myself deeper into the froray and I use anger and my curiosity on how far the body can take itself as my means. That's my fuel. Every day, every meal, every rep can't move. Let's get into today's session, just finish doing biceps, carbs and abs. I felt really good, you know, five days in a row, finished strong. You know, I'm really starting to get into this momentum now. Because you're going to be training along with me following my plan following my nutrition plan, my supplementation plan, you need to take on the same mindset as well. Something that's going to work for you to get through this pain and anguish that you're going to put in front of you. Some people have said that my training is a bit sloppy, they won't render good results. Well, I've got good results from a year after year and serve my clients. Try following alongside with me following the same sort of protocol. There's a difference between sloppiness and controlled application. And I figured that this is controlled, but it's intense and that's what may be a missym. You're missing that intensity and it's alien to you. Try and find it and experience it. That's what we do. We break the muscle tissue down. We feel sore the next day because we've torn down as muscle fibers. Our job is to come in and annihilate, stimulate, get out and then recover that damage. To shoot. The techniques I've integrated into the muscle building trainer are DTP Y3T, HIT, German volume training, FST and various forms of intensity protocols such as giant sets, super sets, negative. So any training application that you want, believe me, you've got it. We're on the way to the gym right now. It's going to be week three of Y3T and you've got it. It's called the annihilation week. So let's mentally and physically prepare ourselves. All these various training protocols are designed to put on muscle mass. By targeting your type 1, you type 2, A, you type 2, B muscle fibers, completely breaking them down and using every energy system. Basically, we're going to be putting your body in the perfect environment to build muscle mass. Over the next three months, your training program is going to be broken down like this. The first three weeks will be the Y3T principle. Week four will be the FST. Week five will be the German volume start training. Week six will be the HIT. And then the following six weeks will be the DTP Extreme. So let me briefly break down these training strategies for you. For the first three weeks, you can be following Y3T. Y3T is broken down over three weeks. The first week, you'll be following mainly a lower rep principle of around eight repetitions. The second week will be following more of a higher rep when I go to 12 repetitions. But then for the third week, that's our annihilation week. We'll be going much higher volume through drop sets. And then on week four, we're going to be following FST, which stands for Fassier Stretch Training Principles. So we'll be stretching the Fassier and contracting the muscle in between every set. And either at the beginning or the end, we'll be focusing on one muscle group and one exercise. We will all do seven sets continuously back after a 50 second rest. In week five, we'll be moving on to the German volume training principle. We will be applying 10 sets of 10 reps on each muscle group. In week six, we'll be moving on to the HIT principle, which is the Dory and Y8 style of training. Very low volume and we'll be combining both compound and isolation movements into this week. For the remaining six weeks, you'll be following the DTP Extreme principles, which will be a lot of volume, but it'll be extremely heavy weights as well to put your body in a perfect and a ballic state to build muscle. You'll lengthen the workouts are going to differ from week to week and depend on that body group. If it's a larger body group and it's more volume, then it's going to take maybe an hour and a half. If it's a smaller body group with less volume at blood, then maybe only 45 minutes. I know you probably want me to tell you exactly how many days a week that you're going to be training and what body parts you're training with and other. But I honestly can't tell you because it changes every week. So it's essential for you to come back every single day to collect your workout, your body parts splits, and to understand when you're not training days are. Your chest and triceps should be obliterated and sore from yesterday's workouts. This is what it feels like if I'm tired sex for a long time. My non-gets are muscle because I'm able to do that again. Can you do that for a while? Leg press, how low? I don't know what the fuck you're doing. I'm going to go on a diet or on my hardcore trainer, you are following steady state cardio. On this plan, it's going to be high intensity interval training. The reason being as while you're putting on weight, you need to be able to apply the intensity especially on a DTP extreme portion into your weight training plans. So once again, you'll be doing high intensity interval training every single day of the plan, including rest days. Good morning at say nine. Hello and welcome back to day 10. Day 29 of the muscle builder is here. We are racing through this. Drone person there. Shouldn't operate machinery when you're drunk. Second time he's thrown up, but he's a warrior. He's going to finish this workout. Before starting the muscle building plan, make sure that you watch the program overview, the nutrition overview and the supplement overview. Expect obstacles and inconvenience. Eat those two words for breakfast, and shithead commitment and consistency.

=== FILE: Training With Jen Rankin - Bodybuilding.com [1AtdG1M6RhU].txt ===

Hi everybody my name's Jen Ranking and I'm here in Burbank, California at the Powerhouse Gym. I am a personal trainer. A sponsored athlete with the Autism of Nutrition and American Body Building. I'm also an actually ranked in PC bikini competitor. Been in auction in magazine a couple of times. Today I'm going to tell you a little bit about my training, nutrition and supplementation and a little bit about how to make the transition if you've been in athlete and you're thinking about getting into the whole fitness industry. Well after college and no longer having a coach by my side yelling in my ear telling me what to do anymore. I just really decided that I had to take ownership of my body and that I really had to take the steps on my own to do what I needed to do. A lot of it just comes down to self motivation. My first step was just getting a gym membership and getting back into the gym. Started lifting weights again, working out and then I slowly researched the fitness industry on what else was available, how else could I compete, what else was there for me. I just wanted to do something for myself. That's why I started working out again. Everyone's goal is different. Sometimes though you don't know what your potential is unless you just dive into it. I had no idea that I was even cut out to compete in the NTC or do any type of fitness competitions but as you allow yourself to change and as you push yourself to do new and different things, you'll surprise yourself with what you're actually capable of. One tip that I would give the girl who is scared and intimidated about taking the next step is to just slow down and take it one step at a time. A lot of the times people try to do too much, too soon. Changing your lifestyle doesn't happen in one day. You're not going to wake up and have everything figured out. You're not going to wake up and have brand new habits. You have to do it one day at a time and one step at a time. Training for me, I believe that it needs to be broken up in two separate days. It's really important to give your body adequate time to rest while you're working out. The way I split my routine up is I'll do upper body on Monday, lower body on Tuesday, maybe plyometrics on Wednesday and then I'll hit upper body again Thursday and lower body credits. I do take the weekends off. I might do an active rest day on the weekend if I feel like it going for a walk or just doing something active and fun to keep my body moving. But otherwise, on the weekends I take that time to do other things for myself. Lifting weights is huge. No matter if your goal is to build a muscle or to lose fat. I think that's one of the biggest misconceptions involved with weight training, especially for women. Most women come into the gym and their goal is to lose weight. So they get on the treadmill and walk for days and days and days. But if you don't weight train, you're missing out on building that lean muscle mass, which is going to increase your metabolic rate and help you to burn fat even faster. The more lean muscle mass that you have, the lower your body fat percentage, the leaner you're going to look. If you just go in there and walk on the treadmill, do cardio. You might lose weight, but your body won't really have shape. All the girls that you see in the magazines and on the red carpet, they've got the hourglass hers and you get that by doing exercises that incorporate weight training. When I first started weight training, I took it back to the basic and I focused on lower reps with heavier weights. So that way I could really build a foundation for my body so I could build strength and build endurance. Now I have made a transition to where I focus a little bit more on intensity. So I can keep my heart rate up. Burn fat in between exercises. I take small rest. Usually, no more than a minute and a half. Then I hit the next exercise. Now my body's at the point to where I can be more intense and still get an awesome workout and use medium to heavy weights. That he runs into things like hitting a plateau or becoming bored and different things like that, not seeing the results that you want to see. The best thing to do is, or what I do, is I change up my workout. If I walk in the gym and I'm feeling bored or not getting results that I want, maybe I'll go swimming for my cardio that day. Get my mind back on track. That way the next day when I come in the gym, I focus my body feels good. It's ready for action. Then I can continue along my path. But yeah, it's good if you break up your routine about every six weeks at least because if you do the same thing over and over and over, your body gets used to it and it knows what to expect. So when you go on the gym and do that same thing, it's already like, hey, I don't have to work hard today because I know I'm doing 10 reps of this exercise and that exercise. So that's why I have to change it up. Keep your body guessing. That's just a little insight to my overall approach for the gym. For my full workout, check out the link below. Now we're going to talk about my nutrition. I really believe that nutrition is the most important thing involved in total training. You can work out a lot, but you're never going to see the main results unless nutrition is the biggest part of it. I believe that nutrition should be simple. A lot of people try to make it too hard because there's so many new fat diets and cookie diets and celebrity plans in this and this and that. Just go back to the basics. You know, remember that there's vegetables at the grocery store and you know, eat lean protein, cook at your own home and make things that you know are healthy for you and your family. I usually eat about six to seven meals per day. I break it up to where I have three or four main meals and then the rest are smaller meals or snacks. I eat about every two to three hours and when you eat that often it helps to keep your metabolism right up so that way you're constantly burning off that food, your body's using it as energy and fuel. Diet is just scary. People think that they have to stop eating or they have to make huge major changes. One of the easiest things that you can do to start off is portion control. You know, just eat smaller meals at each meal time and then from there make one more change. Maybe try and adding in one vegetable at each meal. Then maybe try and add fruit for breakfast or fruit for snack. You know, it's just like any other habit it takes time and it won't become a habit or a lifestyle unless you keep practicing it over and over again. My nutrition plan every meal usually includes a lean protein source and that's usually I get mine from chicken or lean ground beef, maybe ground turkey, those are my favorites. Then I'll have a slow digesting carb and I'll have that for the first half of the day. Then in the evening I'll kind of shimmy out the carbs and use more vegetable sources for my carbs, such as broccoli or spare-gins or green beans. Then my fat sources, I usually have fat sources and every other meal. People tend to taper off their carbs throughout the day because carbs are your main source of energy. If you do your most activity in the morning, maybe throw out lunch, then you do your workout and after that you're usually just going home to sit on the couch and relax. And so there's no need to load up on a bunch of carbs when you're just going to go sit around because then your body can't burn them off. I don't like to cheat but sometimes I do. I guess around special holidays or things like that I'll indulge a little bit, especially right after a competition. That's what we all live for is that moment where we can eat whatever we want. Typically for me it gets me out of my routine and it gets me off course and off focus when I start just, oh I'll have a cheat meal here in a cheat day there and this and this and that. So I try to stay more on track so that way I don't undo all of the new habits that I've made. If you're going to indulge in dessert or a hamburger or your favorite fried chicken whatever it is, share it with the friends so that way you're at least cutting the calories of that in half. So don't forget nutrition is the most important part. See my full meal plan. Check out the page below and now we're going to talk a little bit about my supplementation plan. I think the supplements are really important especially when sometimes we don't get all of the nutrition that we need from our diet. That's where supplementation plays a key role. My supplement change I guess on what my goals are. If I am trying to lose fat then I'll add in a fat burner. If I'm trying to bulk then I'll maybe double my protein intake. The supplements are kind of a scary situation especially for women that they don't know what's good for them and what's not or if they're only for men that's a big misconception. Supplements are good for you. They're to supplement what your diet can't always provide. Most of the supplements that I take are things that are already found naturally in the earth or naturally occurring in my body already. So it's just about getting what you need into your body to help you reach your goals. And so don't be afraid to do that. If you are scared then research it a little bit on your own. Ask somebody else who knows more about them so that way you feel better about it. The three supplements I would recommend to someone new to exercise, a new to supplementing would be protein powder, a visual and a multivitamin. A protein is important because it helps you build that lean muscle mass. And again the more lean muscle mass that you have the faster you're going to burn fat. Visuals are important because it's a healthy source of fat and fats are important for a lot of functions in our body. It helps your brain function, it helps your skin, your hair, your nails, a lot of different things. Multivitamin, that's really the staple for everything. I mean every single person in the world should be taken a multivitamin just because we don't get everything we need out of fruits and veggies. Not many people eat all of the servings of fruits and vegetables that we should. And so that's the easiest thing that you can do is take a multivitamin, get it in, know that you at least have that one and your cover. I definitely think supplements help you reach your goals faster. To get my full program on training nutrition and supplementation, please check out the page below. And if you would like any more information on what I do or how I got there, then please feel free to see me on bodybuilding.com and body space. My screen name is TX Physique and I would love to talk to you.

=== FILE: Training With Kathleen Tesori - Bodybuilding.com [XWLSPx6oDfg].txt ===

Hi, my name's Kathleen to sorry. I got my pro card in the figure in 2009. I was on the Mestland Fitness First Cover in 2010. I was also a finalist in the body space book's not a search. Today I'm going to talk to you a little bit more about my beliefs in training, nutrition, supplementation. I'm also going to talk to you about how to stay on the health of Fit Life's Style regime while working a nine to five jobs. It can be busy, it can be challenging, but it can be done. Working a nine to five desktop day and day out to make training and things on health of Fit Life's Style really challenging. But if you get into a routine and you plan ahead of time, it can be done. Obviously there are certain things that have to be done. You have to go to work to count this work. You have to pick up your Fit's School or you have to hit your body back to whatever you have for a semester. So get the things that you have to get done, done, but then fit in what you want to do somewhere in between there. If you can only hit the gym for 15 minutes during the day because your day is so packed, take those 15 minutes, you can get a great workout in plus, you can feel accomplished and you've kept on your routine in the state that helps you keep on that healthy Fit Life's Style by keeping a nice, solid routine every single day. I would use magazines and I'd use the online resources at BodyBelling.com to kind of figure out what to do as far as diet and nutrition and even training in the gym. But then as I wanted to get into competing more, I knew that I had to dial it in a little bit stricter and with working full time, I just didn't really have time to think about that and to understand because I work in logistics. I don't know all the science behind training and nutrition. So I hired a trainer and a lot of people say, oh I don't have that kind of money, but you've got to decide where your priorities are and what your hobbies are. For me my hobby is speaking out to people being a lifestyle coach and I wanted to do really well the competition so technically you're only spending a little money at front for a lifetime of lessons that you can be used till you die. We don't have enough time in the morning to be preparing meals to even put a sandwich together. So if you think that you're going to do that every morning, you're setting yourself up for failure, you really just have to have it ready to go in the fridge. Saturdays and Sundays, I use those mornings to prep and cook my food pretty entirely. I'll bake a whole cookie sheet of fish, boil a large pot of chickens and pre-bagant pre-measured and have it already. So in the morning I just take my cooler and I can take my already pre-cut washed veggies, my protein, my meat, pick a few protein chicks and hit throat and that way I have what I need for the entire day until I get home. After you get up a long day at work and your head is totally mentally drained. Sometimes you don't want to go to the gym like you just want to go home but I know that as soon as you do like 10 minutes in the gym you're going to feel alive and energize for the rest of the workout. To lose the weight and to give the disease that you want such a long time that you just want to stay on it healthy lifestyle and the way that you feel inside, you know those infernocials that are always like, oh, if you do this you're going to feel so wonderful. That feeling is really true and so when you get that feeling and you experience it, you don't want to lose it. Like I said before, even if you only have 15 minutes to just hit the gym, that 15 minutes is going to be well worth it and you're going to feel like you're the compost your day. There's so many different ways that you can sleep, hands and be successful during the week when you don't have a lot of time to plan each day. You pre-plan it. And now we're going to move on to talk about training, talk about some of the beliefs that I have and how I've been successful. My approach to going to the gym has changed dramatically over the years. You start out really simple and depending on what your goal is or what you're trying to get ready for, you can increase the intensity. I just think it's important to establish your team and just make sure you get there when you say you're going to get there. Also when you're trying to plan at the gym when you're not really sure what to do, get on to bodybuilding.com and use their search feature. Go on there and type in legs and you'll have tons and tons of articles with ideas and then write down four or five exercises and write little notes on how to do it the proper form and then take it with you to go to the gym. I work out five days a week but even on my off days I wouldn't say they were truly off days I'll go rollerblading or hiking but actual training in the gym I do try to hit gym five days a week. However if I'm getting ready to say a cruise or wedding or event competition I'll do six days a week. However my morning cardio has now at seven days of week. It's something it's almost like my coffee in the morning reading a newspaper. I only need like 20 30 minutes on the treadmill and I am pumped for the day I'm thinking about everything that needs to get done and I'm ready. So let's just say a good thing to follow is at least five days in the gym five days in cardio and give your body two off days if needed. About third days my body is really really tired from training hard so third days it's a great off day for me and then I kind of take a look at my social schedule what I have going on whether it's barbecue or work parties and then I'll plan my second off day around around my outside life. I do have a structure schedule that I have like day legs day back day shoulder day but I definitely just listen to my body and if I'm not feeling like I have a lot of energy I'll go ahead and do shoulder but if I'm feeling super pumped and I know that this would be an awesome lighting I'm going to hit length go with what is going to be best because what you bring to the gym the energy level is and the mindset of what you're going to do is how well and how effective you are going to be in the gym. If I'm trying to build muscle I'm going to stick to sets better more 12 to 10 rep range just to the traditional body building. Right now I'm trying to shed some size into muscle so I'm getting a lot of circuit training where I do six movements in a row take 45 second break and again do six movements in a row so my training is totally tailored to how I'm feeling what I'm getting ready for and I switch it up all the time and I'll even take two weeks for all I do have some fun classes or take advantage of a good weather outside and head out hiking or whatever. I always tell girls that are afraid to get big and bulky look at me what I've never had a girl tell me whether they're telling you the truth or not say that I look too big. I'll have my 8 to 10 weeks cycle where I'm trying to hit heavy but the thing to remember is if you're trying to tone which all the girls say I'm trying to tone but if you have nothing to tone again what are you going to how you're going to tone you have to have some type of foundational base underneath so that the toning has something to lay against. We're not built with a lot of test sauce thrown and we are not going to eat enough to ever build that much muscle anyway. So get an aerodope scare. Plus the more muscle that you have you're going to burn more calories your metabolism is going to increase and you're going to get the results you want. So muscle is a good thing because it does so many wonderful things for weight loss and great disease. Next we're going to go and talk about my nutrition and for my full training programs you can check out the page below. When I first meet somebody and they're wanting to get in shape and look like me or look like somebody else. I tell them 80% of it is nutrition and only 20% of the gym. I hear ladies all the time in the gym saying that they're working out hard as they never worked out on the treadmill or whatever doing cardio but their nutrition I've seen them in the office because I work with them during my nine to five and their nutrition hasn't changed at all and I so badly want to tell them until you get your nutrition in mind nothing's going to change you really have to get that. I kind of based how many meals I have based on what time I get up so during the week I have to wake up about 354 a.m. and so I obviously have more meals during the work week but on the weekend if I don't wake up till 7 then I'm going to have less meals but from the moment I you wake up every three hours from there just grab yourself a perfectly portion meal I always say two fifths one for the protein one for the car not makes your perfect meal and just make sure you do that every three hours. I always treat eating clean like a savings account so you're basically saving up money money money money money and you only spend it when it's worthwhile spending so you won't really catch me eating a cheat meal sitting at my house alone I'm gonna wait until I have something fun to go and do and then I have almost like a motivation am I going to cheat on my dinner am I going to cheat on my drinks I'm going to cheat on dessert I got not going to have all three but it's not because I'm trying not to have all three because really mentally I don't want to have all three so I always order my meals no oil no seasoning and I'll just have them bring out like a side of all phomic vinegar add or something and so I might want to cheat on my drink so I'm not going to have a dessert is my dessert going to be my drinks it's definitely establishing healthy habits and for those of you that have never started and you're watching this video and you're about to start I think one of the biggest tips I want to give you is heart slow so future is soda and you go out to eat every meal or out to lunch every day start with that just here at a soda just do that for four weeks that's one helping habit if you can establish that for a month and you get into a good routine hey let's move on to the second thing keep it simple do it slow and steady phone steady always wins the race you definitely need to make it a part of your life and just make it a fun lifestyle and realize that this is going to be something that you do and feel your no longer care so we've been talking a lot about nutrition and it's important to keep it simple keep it fun and realize that this is a lifelong journey and not just something that you get to do for 12 weeks and then everything's been well on correct it so make sure you check out my nutrition's plan below and now we're going to move on to supplements we need to make sure that we keep our bodies really healthy fit so we need to make sure that we give it the extra new chance supplements needed to keep us at a normal state because we're doing so much to our body that we need to make sure that we take a little extra time and supplements really help that for you ladies that are worried about getting big and bulky I want to consider myself big and bulky and I I have tried so many different supplements I always keep it to the basics you need your mobile vitamin your fish oil your glutamine and your protein a lot of people do not have time to cook fish or chicken for six meals a day like really it's just not going to happen so if you have say two supplement shakes you just have them in the small bottle shake it up ready to go and also if you think about it fish is like six ninety nine a pound chickens two ninety nine a pound normally protein hottershake for only ninety cents so you get a meal for ninety cents it's a great it's effective and it's time saving and it saves money I think as soon as you can establish a good routine on remembering to take those four you'll be good to go and to move on to other things and obviously moving on to other things means what is your goal what type of training are you doing are you building are you leaning are you getting ready for a marathon and so once you can get the foundations started then you can move on to tailor it to your program we have my full plan on nutrition training and supplementation check out my page below but if you want to get more information on what I'm doing my goals to ask me questions please feel free to contact me on body space my body space name is Kathleen to sorry I'm very active online and I love helping people get started and if you want more content on nutrition work out if you have questions there's so much great content on bodybuilding.com it's such a great tool I hope you use it and I will talk to you often

=== FILE: Training With Kizzito Ejam - Bodybuilding.com [LzNxV0N7vG4].txt ===

Hey everyone, I'm Kassil EGM and we're here at the Powerhouse Gym in Burbank, California. And I was the bodybuilding.com amateur of the week, also part of their lift life campaign and one of the top finalists in the body space spoke to model search. Today we're going to go through three things, my training, nutrition and supplementation plan and show you how I use March to Large and Bodybuilding to get this a VGA AMS today. Now I started March last when I was 15 years old and I've been doing it for about 10 years now. The main reason I started March to Large was to improve my physique and incorporate more discipline into my life. And we all know that this is going to part of the most important part in March to Large training. So after a while I have to train it for so long, I look for another venue to increase my discipline and confidence and then I found bodybuilding and I was very, very important. It changed my entire life once I put those two together. The way I can incorporate the two March to Large and Bodybuilding is bodybuilding is my tool to improve my March life performance. I use Bodybuilding as a way to get stronger, the way to get faster, that way when I do March to Large, everything is a breeze. If I train hard in the gym, then when I work out in March to Large, it's going to be a lot easier. Just like in a life you work hard through your training, then life is a whole lot easier as well. discipline, we say this is do something over and over and over again consistently until you improve your overall growth and that's what Bodybuilding is as well. That they say that in Sanities when you repeat something over and over again but you expect to create outcome but in Bodybuilding and in March to Large success is when you complete something over and over again because you have a clear vision which outcome is going to be. That's how I have used Weight Training to improve my March life. It doesn't matter if you're in football, basketball, any other type of extra curricular activities, Weight Training is always going to improve that skill stack. Now let's get a little bit into my training. My training beliefs are the way I approach the gym the same way I approach March life. You train hard and you'll achieve it, you'll achieve greatness later on. So when I go into the gym I leave everything there. I push as hard as I can. I have a pretty much crazy split and I'm honestly what it is I do cardio in the morning and it's usually high intensity cardio and I do my weight training in the afternoon or the evening. I split up that way because doing cardio in the morning for me really brings up my energy. I mean a guarantee if you do cardio especially high impact in intensity cardio you're going to feel a lot better in the morning and then I do my weight training which is a little bit lower, heart rate but it's just strength, strength, building strength, building strength over and over again. So that's the way I do my split and I do it every day, seven days a week. I do cardio and weight training seven days a week. You're entering that same exact weight fitness six to five days out of the year and the reason I do that is because life is going to find ways for you to slow down. If I push myself to train all the time then it's going to be a lot easier for me. It's going to be a certain chance to stop you here and there but as long as I'm still training it's going to be consistent. The way I break up my workouts is by body parts and the reason I do that is because I train so often I want to make sure that I isolate a certain muscle group every single day and I'll do arms and I'll do chest and I'll do back and I'll do shoulders and I'll do legs and I'll cycle those through again. So I have a five day rotation that I'll just keep cycling through. I cardio pretty much stays the same in the mornings. It's a separate Saturday to Sunday, rather a little bit swimming cardio. My cardio ranges between 30 to 45 minutes. I try to stay around around 30 minutes because it's high intense like I do straight intervals 30 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, 20 seconds, and I like that heart rate because in martial arts when you're sparring you're moving around this time where you need to achieve active and you get the slow down. You have to regain that energy quickly so high intensity training works for me and improve my martial arts. My rep range is usually around six to eight reps but I always try to shoot for failure no matter what. I mean there are certain days where I'll go two weeks when it's just six to eight but then I'll just throw in a 12 to 15 reps range and that changes up the whole thing that shots your body into growing a lot more in my belief. Like I say, plets will be very important because you can't have a breakthrough before you hit a wall. You have to hit a wall for it before you break through it. Isn't it right? The reason you get burned down in the gym is because you have to push enough there. When you're in the gym and you reach failure, your mind is telling you to stop, your body says you can't get any more but you find that energy to break through and get that last rep, you feel so accomplished. You walk out there to champion. You walk out there with your shoulders high and that's that feeling, that's this real feeling that you're feeling. You're going to want to go back in there and feel it again. So that's why I never get burned down because every time I'm in the gym, I find that feeling there and I come back and I find that feeling to get it. Feel it again. It's almost you for it. I say it all the time, the gym is my drug pretty much and I'm not going to stop. Write down your goals or write down what you've done and then repeat it the next time. Because that's the only way you're going to grow. So first thing I say is you get a plan, then attack it and you follow it with every single step of the way. Fitness is not what you know. It's pretty much what you do. So make sure you just go out there and do it. Now that was my training philosophy. Now to get out of my full workout plan, check out the page below. Now let's go into my nutrition. So I think it's probably the most important part of the whole aspect. It's very much cut and dry. We all know that if you take this supplement, it'll grow and it'll do this. If you go to the gym, you lift this, it'll grow that. We've got that basis count. The diet is a little bit more keen and it's going to be a little more fine too, especially your particular body type. So researching things and using things like bodybuilding.com to find out what other people have done and you go to the site find out what works best for you and then testing it out, taking those pictures and putting it in a fine will find out which diet best for the worst best for you. I think diet is probably the most important part of everything, especially if you want to have a different physique, their ideal physique is your looking for. My belief in philosophy on nutrition goes like this. You put into your body exactly what it needs. Access is too much. I mean, if you look at other worlds of the country, there are people who don't have food in this world, in this country, we're pretty much obsessed. You can go to every single store, you see fast food chains here and there. We overindosed a little bit. So my belief is just to put into my body what my body needs to fuel it to get officially to the whole day. So I stick to, you know, if I'm hungry, then I'll take something. I'll use supplements to get through the day. You have to find out what your body is accustomed to. And I've been researching it for so long. That's why you can see on my body space page that I've had over 320 pictures because I was trying out different things to find out which one works best for me. I eat when my body says it's time to eat when it's hungry. When it tells me that that means I need to fuel it. So I don't do six to five meals. Sometimes I have two meals a day and I'll use supplements throughout the day just to work it off. We all know the three basic things that we have in our diet, the fats, the carbs and the protein. Those are very essential. And the way I like to do it is I pyramid it out. I'll do my carbs in the morning. My protein stay consistent to whole day and then I do my fats in the morning too. Now because I do such low carbs, I try to increase my fats a little bit that way I can maintain my body size to the calorie index. So I'm very important to me too as well. I don't focus on measuring at one point you'll start to learn your body. The only thing I do count is the carbon take for the day. Now I try to stay within 50 to 75 grams of carbs. I know that's very low for some people. Pretty low for me, especially with my workout. But because I do the fat, I have the energy to use it out. But protein is consistent to whole day. Forget about cheat days. There's no such thing as a cheat day from me. When you plan out your day, you see how much calories or what you've eaten for the past three weeks and you know what your body can take in and you have a piece of cake or a donut, you should have counted as a cheat day. That's part of your nutrition plan. You're going to need that. You already measured out what your body needs. So you don't count as a cheat day, especially you don't use the word cheat day because you will overindulge in it. Counting is like a cheat meal or a cheat snack. Do I have those cheat meals? Yes, because your body doesn't need it. I believe your body doesn't need it. It needs that spike. And he's that change. It can't fall into a same rut. You need to adapt it every once in a while. That way your body keeps it guessing. He keeps it in the tab of lies in the whole time. We all have social lives. I mean, it's not just one thing. It's not just weightlifting. It's not just martial arts. We all have social lives. You tell everyone around you, everyone around you needs to be aware of who you are. And once they've come accustomed to that, they're going to start to believe everything that you do. So when you go out to a restaurant, you go out to a club or something like that. And they notice that you're not drinking in order to say, you know, indulge in. Just if you're really your friends, they're going to try to follow you and you're going to agree with you. It's better that way because they're going to hold you accountable. If your friends see you drinking a beer, he's going to say, I thought you were fitness trainer. I thought you were martial arts expert, you know? So it's very important to tell everyone what you're doing right away. That way, you hold you accountable. You don't deviate from your plan. Now that you know a little bit about my strict diet plan, I know it's amazing to talk. But it'll get you to physique this year one. To get my full meal plan, look at the link below. Now let's get a little bit to my supplementation. If you think about any other sport, let's take baseball for example. Baseball player did get up to bat, right? They have a batting glove. Now if they didn't have that batting glove, can they still hit the ball? Of course they can. But the batting glove is there for better grip. They just supplements what they're doing. You know what I mean? Or the same thing in basketball. They have their hand wraps. They have their wrist wraps. You have their head best to keep the sweat out. If it wasn't there, they still be able to train because they're still going out there and doing it every single step of the day. So these things are supplements that help your performance. If you don't have them, doesn't mean you're not going to stop your growth. Sublimitation is very, very important to your overall goal and your diet. I mean you set out a plan, you have your workout, you have your nutrition. Sublimitation is going to get you there quicker. I'm not saying supplementation is going to take over all the other things that we talked about. Like I said, it's going to help you improve the get you goals a lot faster. Three main things that I must have is the way protein, my glutamine and my BCAAs. Especially in my martial arts training, those three things are going to help maintain muscle mass and give me the growth performance that I need. Sublimitation is our vital part of my diet. As you see, I maybe want to do meals a day. So I'll have an RTD. Especially in this lifestyle, we are very hectic. Sublimit has improved a lot. So grabbing a ready to drink here and there and you're good to go. It has definitely helped me achieve my goals. My supplements do change depending on not so much my goals, but my exercises for the day. For example, if I'm doing three workout day and I have a martial arts training, I will increase my BCA as in who to me. I don't break down too much muscle mass. So they do adjust based on my training for the day. I noticed sublimit world at first can't seem daunting for anyone that's starting out. I had no idea about supplementation. Going to a site like Bodybuilding.com and you could see all the reviews that everyone has done. You can see what people have taken, everything that they've used and you get to credentials from them. You can see their physique and how they've proved them as well. So learning from people that actually experienced it has helped me as well. So using Bodybuilding.com has definitely helped me understand supplementation is a lot more. When you have the knowledge for something you're a lot less afraid of it. So go out there and get the knowledge. Even if I didn't have supplements, I know I would still reach my goals no matter what. Because you're a part of a community especially using BodySpace.com. You're a part of a community who pushes you every single step of the way. So you want to achieve. You want to do more. You want to do more. So it starts with the mind. You know, it starts with the mind. Set it out your goals and make sure that you achieve it. The measurements will help you get there faster. I believe, but don't rely on them. Don't lean back on them the whole time and then sit back and do nothing. You know, the whole day. The bridge between our goals and our achievements is the action. So your job is to take the action. Not just once, but every single step of the day. And your supplements are going to be like your crutch as you be sure to go. More information about my nutrition, diet and training plan. Check out the page below. You'll like to learn more about me. You can look at my body space on the kids MVP. If you're more content like this, check out BodyBuilding.com.

=== FILE: Training With Nikia Dyson -- Bodybuilding.com [wLpNl9fWBsY].txt ===

Hi, my name is HIKIya Zayman and I am the 100th dollar Optimal Nutrition Transformation Challenge winner. I'm here today to share my journey with you, I'm to tell you about the steps that I actually went through to get here, basically through my training, my supplementation, and my nutrition. Everything that I went through from the inner challenge until now, they brought me to this point. I'm a Vama IV and I have four little ones I ran from age to age. My husband had initially started working out and then I decided to kind of take, you know, take his lead, he went on a ditted and then it was such an example. And in December I just so happened to jump up and like, okay, I'm going to start working out. And I said I'm going to do a pro-fountain buddy from dot com. That same week was when the challenge was actually announced. And I introduced it to him and the funny thing was he didn't even want to do the challenge to start with, I actually had to talk and listen to him during the challenge and then from there he just, you know, put everything in, signed up and just went at him and I made it a challenge between the two of us. And so they're like the challenge itself. It was kind of like a competition amongst us, you know, just keeping each other up and on back and forth. How are we going to do it? You know, keeping one another accountable throughout the whole two of week. Given the fact that he is a contractor and he travels extensively with work. So he was gone throughout the 12 week challenge. He was offered the 11 week team was actually only home with me that last week of the challenge when we did our photoshoot. But throughout the time we would talk to every day, we would talk to one another, see us guy. And just really kind of go through training, you know, ex help at the job that you know how was your training going, what did you do. Born on this journey has definitely been a benefit for myself and for my husband, but he's huge benefit for our family. Now that we're basically leading by example, our children see that and they acknowledge that, you know, when we're fixing, you know, our meals, they know, okay, mom is going to have a protein right now or mom is eating her chicken or telapia. And it's funny because my four year old, I'm getting muscles too. I remember one morning I was married to go to the gym and my two of my younger ones were in the family room. And they were on the floor, doing crunches and leg raises. And I like, we're getting sick muscles like mommy and daddy. With anything, it's always important to say goals. You have to really detail what it is you're trying to achieve. And I only think that I think it's really important to be able to visualize the end of the goal. Once you have a good to do that, it's been easier to try to achieve it. With us, like I said, it was just no matter of setting those goals, it's really being in the term, it's just go for it and go loud and get it. And I think that I want to get down to 10% body fat. I made a T 11 as a 10 of the challenge. It's really great because I started with 25, 26% rate. Maths and my husband, his body fat, he actually got down to 4% which is just amazing. Really, what's more impressive to me is that over the last year, we up to the inner challenge. He has lost over a total of 100 pounds. This challenge in itself has just been a phenomenal experience. From start to finish, even up into this point. When you set your mind full of utility things, you can't let anything take that away from me. And let anything stop anything that you don't want. Well, now that you know a little bit about me, let's go ahead and jump into details about my training and what I actually get to give me to this point. When my training in itself is in 10, but I've also learned that with my training, it brings me a sense of peace. When I go in, I know that when I go to those gym doors, I have a job to do. I go in and I focus and my thing is to execute everything on the floor that's on my plan without any excuses without understanding myself. But it's going full force because when I walk through the gym doors to go back out, there's no shahas. No could have, no would have. I have to leave the hall to the gym and it's going to go in the books and I stay. Throughout my training, like I said, I did a five or six days split. Typically, I would start out Monday. I would head back and have on Tuesdays. I would do chess, abs, and cardio. On Wednesday, I would do leg two cardio on Thursday. It was kind of like a more so I'm not gonna say off day, but I wasn't actually training like both words. All I was training, it was calves, abs, and cardio. Friday, shoulder, abs, one of my favorite, so workout. I like to see the striations and the shoulders. On Saturday, five and trice. That's my ultimate favorite. I love doing my arms. Well, with the challenges up like now, I do a combination of low rep and high rep. I pretty much stayed in the range of eight to twelve. And just really try to go with heavy as I could with everything. I would follow each training section with, or you training session with cardio. I intend to do cardio. And that consisted of 30, 35 minutes. The only thing is that at the end of my challenge, the really focus on bringing that body back for the center style, I pretty much, you know, select another form of cardio, which was just walking on a treadmill at a slow pace. So I did a high impact low impact. And that's pretty much it. My days were Saturday with Sunday man, all the course. And typical off day for me, it's my kids like we're not going to the gym. Like, what are we doing at home? I do so much training during the week when it's like, we're constantly going that when Sunday comes around, I really just need to dedicate some time for them. It's a little family thing. Now that you know about my training program and all the steps that I took to get to this point, we're going to move on to details on my nutrition. If you want to get full detail, go by actual workout in a training that I did, look below. I really don't like using the term diet because it's a lifestyle change. Once you can make sure it, this is not just short term. That's something we're going to do for a quick fix for one week or two weeks. It's about changing your mind, changing your life, committing to it, and then striving hard each day, you have to maintain, you have to go at it every day. Day in and day out, making sure you're getting a meal of time, making sure you're in what you're supposed to because if not, all your efforts are getting what's going to be built at that point. My meal plan was actually creating the guide for me by my trainer's seat pointer. Basically, it really contained a lot of the staple, I guess, clean eating items, oatmeal, to lobby a chicken breast, of course the veggies and then bananas, sweet potatoes. Very clean, very regimented, same thing every single day. I pretty much follow where I would do my regular meal and take the same thing for three to four days, and then rotate it a high card day. On my high card days, I would include bananas, sweet potatoes, two, three of my meals. Like I said, simple clean eating, protein shakes are in there. I have a couple meals, you have the four to five ounces of fish to chicken, and then you have your veggies. So it was really simple, I have six meals a day, and I pretty much almost stick on the time. I have timers that goes off two and a half hours tops, I'm having my next meal. I know it's very important that I have to pack my meals in advance. I like to do everything well in advance, I know preparation is a stream, king, anything we're training or eating. If you're not prepared in advance, then that's when those slip ups happen. I've learned that with doing any time for swimming, any time for change, eating, training, I mean just anything in life is mental. You have to really set your mind for it because if your mind is not there, if you're not both who's wanting, it's going to be hard to do. In the very beginning, I'm not going to lie, it was imperfect. You know, you had those days where you wanted something, I mean I have four little ones, have a pantry full of snacks. I have to go in and fix lunch, so every day I have the conscience, we make that effort, I'm going to eat clean today, I'm not going to have this snack. And then once it becomes routine, that's all it is, it's routine, and it becomes easy for me, and now it doesn't even bother me. I'm not going to know about my nutrition and all the details of what I did throughout the journey, but let's move on to my supplementation. If you want more details on my nutrition and everything that I did, look below. Starting with this journey was the very first time I had to start it when doing any time for supplements. So I was going to challenge, I was against it, completely. And the reason I did, I can't say, is that I didn't want to take anything, I just thought like, okay if I work out, go to cardio or train, then that should be enough. If not realizing that, you know, if you're following a cleaner approach or treating your training with a certain intensity, the supplements actually are beneficial in can help you. And so now that I do it, I actually do have a regiment that I follow and I stick to it every single day. From the time I wake up, I start with, you know, my fat burners, during my actual meals, I actually have vitamins and months I find them as that I take. I'm additional to the months I find them and I think it's super be complex. It's just something that I need by choice. My free workout, I take amino energy, which is by far my favorite item. In addition to the amino energy, I do the national dioxide, the white fluid, and I combine those. Also, do a school football, BCAA, it's by optimal. And that's all prior to my workout. After my workout, I do protein training, and then I also add a school football, you know, energy. It's just for recovery after the fact which is really great. I also do the fat burners later today. It's one of the cap ones, the two cap cells. I think it's prior to my third meal, not the steak and, and then the other supplementation is just the protein that I have as meals, and the other thing that I do is I do my night before or my case. Depending on which one I'm going to take that night. But from the weavering, you need to know what you're taking, what, you know, the retaining kind it, or to get the full effect from it. Because some people just take stuff, you know, you have no clue. I think it's extremely important and beneficial to really know everything that you do for yourself. I think it's important that it's going training. You need to supplement all the areas if you're taking care of your training. You're putting the full thing about it. You also need those supplements. It's going to help build the muscles that you're trying to create. It's not. It's kind of like you're going to edit and you're not getting the results that you want. And that's the only way you're going to do it with them. It's going to make those things. Now that you know all about me, it's like it more details on my training, nutrition and supplementation. Make sure you check the page below. Or you have questions for me. Make sure you're looking up on body space. My username is N.D.Y.C.E. To get more information like this, make sure to check out Bodybuilden.com.

=== FILE: Training at Westside Barbell After 10 Years ｜ The Westside Method EP 1 [dOy9Cu-SZBs].txt ===

It's been 13 years since my first trip to West Side Barbel and now I'm back. I'm back to see what's the same, I'm back to see what's different and I'm here to see what's possible if I dedicate four weeks to training under the best system on the planet with what they do today. The West Side Barbel has a 30 plus year history as the pinnacle of strength in the conditioning was founded by Louis Simmons here in Columbus. And over the 30 years Louis built West Side over 100 world records Olympians, gold medals, world champions in a myriad of sports he did it all. And when I first came here I was a broke 21 year old kid with dreams of becoming a professional strong man and Louis invited me down taught me about the West Side system and gave me the tools and the knowledge and the belief I needed to ultimately become a professional strong man and a strength coach myself. Now about two years ago Louis Simmons passed and he handed the gym over to the man who had been his second in command for over a decade Tom Berry. My name is Tom Berry, I'm currently the CEO of West Side Barbel. The question is what is West Side Barbel? Will West Side Barbel means different things to different people for us who came here. It is where Louis Simmons pioneered the conjugate method of strength training with the greatest power lifters on the planet. They had the world's strongest gym and he developed a culture and a strength training that can never be replicated. Our goal now is to work with athletes and help them recalibrate how great they think they can be through strength training. Now as we did this he also left Tom with the directive that the gym was no longer meant to focus on power lifting. We were lifting the thing that had been the core of West Side was now out and over the last two years Tom's built an athletic training program here where they trained professional MMA fighters to gypsoo athletes, lacrosse players. Again athletes in a myriad of different sports are coming here to get the best strike in the new year possible. So now I've come back 13 years after my very first trip to seek two things. Number one is West Side still West Side. Despite the fact that the power lifings have been taken out despite the fact that it's now in the hands of Tom Barrick. What is West Side? What is it today? Does it still have the same heart that it used to have? And number two if it does have that same heart. Taking this system that Louis created the conjugate training system and directing it to this in tense focus on overall athletic performance. What's possible under that system? Because I know what's possible in the original system that was just focused on pure strength. But in this system what's really possible that is what I'm here to find out. With the project this month obviously we need to figure out exactly how to measure a win a loss if I'm succeeding if I'm failing if any of this is working. So to measure my results during the month here we've teamed up with the armory which is a medical center located here in Columbus that has the most advanced and comprehensive facility I think I've ever been to. So going to the armory the first testing we did we did in the initial VO2 maps and we also did a Dexis scan to check my body fat percentage versus lean mass. So that's going to think and we also did a blood panel and to be honest I don't intend to do too much to change the blood panel but that's there so that anyone can see that I'm not taking a bunch of performance enhancers to get the results over this project. Now here at West Side what we're going to be doing in my first workout we're going to be measuring the amount of density which is the amount of work I'm capable of doing per minute average out over the workout and that's the score we're going to use to determine if I'm increasing my abilities in the gym if I'm increasing my performance because obviously I'm going to get stronger over the month training here but I used to be a professional strong man I was I was pretty big and pretty strong that's not a new thing to me what is new to me is the athletic approach that they're taking here so we're going to be using that as a metric for success. So going through the testing when I got my body fat tested I scored an embarrassing 20% body fat. I'd like to make some excuses about like I married I have kids I've focused on coaching and I might own thing. Not great. Came in at 20% body fat. I'll put up my VO2 max scores you can see exactly where that ended up as well and then we'll give you after we do the first workout where my workout density was as we started but looking at all of these metrics this is how we're going to determine success or failure over the project and to be honest the attention no matter what happens is to share these results as we go. So if one improves you're going to see the end. If one stays the same you're going to see that at the end. If one falls off and crumbles as much as it will crush me you're going to see that at the end too. The only goal on this project in terms of sharing it with you is full transparency of everything that happens here and all the results that come from it. Good, bad, or ugly. Next week I'm going to be sharing the results of what happened in my very first workout and telling you exactly what my plan of attack is from here going into the remainder of the month. But I need you to come into the next episode with very low expectations. Maybe I had a phenomenal workout. Maybe I had the worst workout of my life and thought I was going to die. You'll find out in the next one but I'm excited to share this adventure with you in really. Can't get worse than this.

=== FILE: Training with 8x Mr. Olympia Ronnie Coleman [IxDpQB6iVY4].txt ===

My name is Ronnie Coleman and I'm an ATHMistilentia and current I have really broken. And I'm here today to tell you guys more about my training, nutrition and supplementation. Good week! Real quick before I give in that, I'm going to tell you a bit more about me. I got into bodybuilding and I did it working full-time as a police officer. Kind of goes back to growing up when I was a kid, my mom pretty much had a strict regimen that we followed. Before she went to work she just laid out everything she wanted us to do before she came back. When we went to school we had to come home and do a homework right away, you know, before we went out and played and stuff. If you weren't done when you got back you was in a lot of trouble. A whole head make a real solve behind. Just follow me all throughout my life. I've been training all my life and I had a pretty good background in just training but you know not training as a bodybuilder but just training just to keep in shape and training for football and training for the power of the team that counts. With the college for years and got my degree for the VF degree in the county and kind of graduated with honors and everything so I had the top of the class. Couldn't wait to get out of school so I can go and give a job in the county. So I go out and I put in probably about at least a thousand resumes. I get caught on some interviews and the thing that they wanted most I didn't have and that was experience. So I was bored so I buddy of mine said I want him going to Dallas. I like okay but I did what you can say and then do home. So I get to Dallas and I'm like now, you know, I got to do something, I need a job. I got a job but we know working with Domino's teacher part time and stuff. And I figured that I just stay there until I can get a job in the county. So to the chase through you down the road and I still don't have a job in the county. You know I'm thinking what's going wrong here? I just get to pay for every day and the only job that they had that you didn't have to have experience with a police officer. I just have a buddy of mine and like you need a plan. Like do that. That's the crazy job in the world. This time's the crazy job to like you know two years. So we just broke down and I applied and I was hired to probably about three months later. I've been on a cause where you know before I got there you know it was a big army going on and people, the other and screaming at each other and then I was sitting on walk up and they look at me and they stop right away. Then the focus is on me man you could be. Yeah a little bit. I didn't know anything about a buddy of it when I got into it. Well you've listed now I try to tell people all the time it was like a hobby for me and the reason why I started to convince me is that if I worked out. Now you saw what I said no. I got to the point where I got tired of saying no. I'm like they asked me why I'm working out and maybe I should work out and see what you can take me. So that's why I started working out. It was all a step in stone was what I was trying to say. Typically about eight, nine years of dieting, training, working to full time with the police department trying to organize all this with the family and first we had to get you know out of the amateur and we had to get to the pros and we had to get the stab just as a pro and then we had to get good enough where we could you know when the muscle amp is. Yeah buddy. That's how I try to train everybody point about twice a week. So I try to train like six days a week. It's been about an hour, about 15 minutes a day on training alone. And if I'm getting ready for a contest and stuff like that then it's another couple hours a day at cardio. I take the Sundays off one day a week. All right, the rest day is like you know, get up early about nine, have a little bite to go to church, come home, take shower stuff, get ready for work. People always ask me how do you feel muscle and how to get strong and all this kind of stuff. There's two different things that I did both, you know, the pile lifted and when I was the pile lifted we only did like a few reps at a time and we like to do like six for two or like that. That would be a strength but the build muscle you know you do a lot of repetitions like 10 and 15 20 and that's how you build muscle. It's all lightweight to me though. It wasn't a big transition because I only did pile listen for about maybe two or three years. Now when you get like eight hundred pounds of weight on your back and you really think about no competitive you think about trying to get the weight off you every rep that's what you're basically thinking about. I've always wanted to train with a partner if it's somebody that can you know challenge me and do the same weight that I'm doing but if not then I'd rather train alone. Coming up you know we push each other and it worked out really good for us. I'm much rather train with a training partner than train alone. I like to tell people just you know do like I did it. You get a personal trainer and that way you know what you're doing you're doing it the right way and then you're not going down the wrong way you're not wasting your time. If you don't have the right nutrition you're not going to grow and I learned that the whole way but I learned it in a good way. When I was a playing football and just doing stuff like that and not actually trying to get to be all I did was eat hamburgers and try chicken and all that kind of stuff. I was wondering why I wasn't growing in muscle because I was eating a lot of food but I wasn't eating a lot of good food. Protein would be a muscle but it got to be good quality protein. I try to eat about six meals a day or what I try to do is get like two grams of protein for every one pound of body weight. I try to take in about six hundred grams of protein a day like the hundred grams protein for a meal. Mass building muscle techniques of chicken, steak and turkey. It's a strict diet and we don't deviate in that one bit. Nutrition to buy the building is what our engineers do to a car. If you don't have the right nutrition it ain't going to function properly. It's like a car if you ain't got an engine in it it's going to be kind of hard to drive around and get to where you're trying to go. Without something in the patient you can't do it. When I first started in bodybuilding we didn't have as many supplements as they have today or we just basically taken stuff like amino, protein and you can't get one ounce of muscle without protein. You kind of like you know learn with the curve at time when on course you got to pre-work out drinks and post-work out drinks and get you a nitric oxide, video, you know, good. So before you get in the gym and you get good pump once you get in the gym you get you a little bit of motivation also. It's got better and better as I've gone on after years. My top three basically amino protein, creatine, basically all you may want. Bodybuilding is all about building muscle who got the biggest muscle, who got the best muscle and got the most quality muscle. I don't think I could have dead bodybuild them without something there. I'm out of fact that no one could have done anybody better without something there. Yep, if you get the right one. That's the key right there. For my full training, sub-intention and nutrition program, check out the plays below. I'm Ronnie Coleman, a time-miss Olympia and for more information for the bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Training with Brian Stann - Bodybuilding.com [zSgmDjbP1UY].txt ===

Hi, I'm Brian Stan and here with Bodybuilding.com. I'm a kind of newweight fighter with the Open Fighting Championship. My Bodybuilding.com and gives far enough nutrition to sign an athlete. It's been five years in the United States and it requires an infantry officer. What I was awarded is Silver Star from my actions and more so the actions of my continuing around. Today with Bodybuilding.com I'm going to take you through my training on the Military, to make some martial arts. I started training martial arts in Marine Corps martial arts program. When I got back from my first tour in Iraq, I wanted to fight again. It was kind of my way and my release from all the stress and things that I dealt with in combat. But I figured I might as well at least get paid for it. And I got my first chance to pro-fight, and I got my first chance to get the opportunity to fight against the guy who's an all-American wrestler from University of Wisconsin and knocked them out in the first round. That fight really catapulted me and that's when I signed with World Extreme Cage fighting. And that was kind of my stepping stone to eventually get signed by the UFC. The transition from military to martial arts for me really was just spiritual and it was more about family. I started having children and my family was growing and me being gone all the time to combat really just wasn't in the best interest of my children. So I decided to get off active duty and I started fighting full-time and I haven't looked back. Now that you guys know a little bit more about me, my notes are clear, my fighting career. Let's talk more now about my training and the training that helps me keep the energy and then fight in the cage. You know, my approach to the gym and my strength conditioning training is really all centered around my performance in the apathy. I have three different phases to my strength conditioning program depending on how far out from the fight I am. When I come into the gym, it's always a set workout. I never come in and say, okay, maybe I'll do a little bit of this, maybe I'll do a little bit of that. It's always going to be some kind of power lifting, some kind of speed training followed by some very explosive cardio that's really centered around. Getting my heart rate very, very high and then training me to recover that heart rate at a medium level while I'm still doing some kind of aerobic activity. Because that's like a fight. It takes a work ethic like this for six days a week for at least two months before a fight. I'm going to do a lot of padwork, striking work with my kickbox and coach. Very high intensity cardio workout. And then I move into more grappling where we'll drill for about 30 minutes and then we'll do live grappling for about five, five minute rounds and night. Tuesday is very, very heavy-spying. I'm going to do anywhere from three to five, five minute rounds. After I do about 30 minutes, it drills to warm up. Each round is going to be with a new fresh opponent that goes in there to mimic my upcoming opponent. And I'm out there to execute my strategy, but also goes hard as I can so that I hit that wall. Learn how to face exhaustion and still be able to fight when my body feels like it's completely depleted. After that, it's really centered around power. So I'm going to do power cleans, sing along, snatch, weighted pull-ups, explosive push-ups, walking lunges. A lot of sled pushes and sled pulls on our turf. And my coach absolutely wants to know how many reps with what kind of weight I'm performing. We want to make sure that as I go through this training camp, I'm not over training and I'm actually getting stronger. Not just in better shape, but I'm getting stronger, more powerful and faster. So everything's going to be measured by weight, by speed and by time. On Thursdays, where I do my circuit training, everything's measured by how many repetitions that I get in 30 seconds. How many repetitions that I get in a minute? How long are you going to take me to complete the circuit circuit? We'll pick anywhere from four to 15 different exercises. We're going to do them for time, match the repetition in that time. Usually 30 seconds to a minute. And we'll go through and do anywhere from five to eight minute rounds of all those exercises. And I do it under six minutes, can I do it under five minutes? Now we can really measure what kind of shape I'm getting. Fridays are a special day, where the team will come in in the mornings, and we do our grappling and submission grappling training, followed by some kind of very high intensity, altitude run outside. We'll either go in the peak in a sandy mountains and Albuquerque, a 12,000 feet, or you can do stairs, you can do a long distance hill run, or we'll go to the sand dunes. If 15 is high at the highest, you can go on a treadmill, imagine a 30-kilp. This cardio really isn't designed around the sport and mixed martial arts. It's really designed around the mental side of mixed martial arts. You'll get so tired that you want to look at your coaches and just say I'm done. It's all about getting comfortable in that ultimate state of exhaustion, so that when you get there and fight, you're used to it. You don't lose fights in the third round, we win fights in the third round. One of the things I like to do is I like to set goals. Before I go into every single workout, I try and think about three things that I know I need to work on. I set those goals and I establish my workout to those goals, and then when I finish my workout, I ask myself, did I work on the things I came here to work on? That way I know I didn't just come in, I know I'm tired from all the training I do, and just kind of go through emotions in today's workout. If you're discipline in the gym, you care about your physical fitness, you care about your health, and you want a better physique. People that do those types of things are the same people who care about their job performance, who care about how good a parent they are, who care how good a wife or a spouse they are. I think it's very important that you really care about physical fitness, because people that I know both in athletics and business and in life that are really talented and motivated at those things are the same people that are really talented and motivated about their own personal fitness. They care that discipline that you get from being physically fit in other grades is it leaves over another aspect of your life. My full training plan, check out the page below. Now that you guys know more about my training, how I make my weight all the way down to 185, how I keep my physique and how I get ready to fight in the octagon, let's take a little bit more of a look at my nutritional side that really is a secret behind being able to train with such high volume and high intensity. Nutrition for me is paramilon. There is no way an athlete can perform the way I'm performing you're trying to perform this sport without nutrition. In fact, my weekly diets are actually posted on Excel spreadsheet, given me and I have to follow them in very much detail. They need to at least eight meals a day, keep my metabolism active. When I'm training three or four times a day, I need a lot of calories to get in there when it's got to be the right calories so that I lose enough weight to make the weight I'm fighting at. You know, a typical nutrition day for me is wake up and I'll immediately take a protein shake just because my body still could be catabolic from the evening before. About an hour later, I'll have a high fat meal, usually all natural peanut butter because I'm getting ready to train. As soon as trains over, I take a shake that's full of protein and really good club of hydrates that help recover my glycogen and my energy source for the next workout. From there, I'll eat a meal that usually consists of some kind of fish, normally salmon is what I prefer, maybe a little bit of gluten free bread, and then high-metched those high greens. And now, after that, I'll take a shake that's multi-vitamin and greens to help lower my acidity levels, flush my body with antioxidants and get me ready to fight. Then I'll take another high fat workout, usually a scoop full of all natural peanut butter. I'll take some protein and then get ready for my next workout. My next meal in the two new workouts, usually beats your something really quick, some kind of eggs, egg whites, a little bit of fat, a little bit of gluten free carbohydrates, that's it and I'm working on it again. As soon as I finish that workout, I'm taking another protein shake and another carbohydrate shake to replace my glycogen stores. At night, when I cook my largest meal, usually I call it my plate of protein. I don't have any carbohydrates late at night just because I cut a lot of weight. So I'm looking for really good proteins like chicken, fish, turkey, no red meats, lots of vegetables, lots of vitamins. And then before I go to bed, I'll make a huge egg white omelet with chicken and turkey in it. Maybe if I'm really doing well with my weight, I'll have some turkey bacon just for some flavor, followed by protein shake and our later before I go to bed. My diet, it really is a lifestyle. When you start eating healthy, like I eat healthy and perform, you feel better. You're more energy throughout the day. When I come home from training all this all day, I'm not depleted and have to lay on my couch. I'm on the floor playing with my kids, it's time for me to be a father. So for me, even in between flights, I love to eat healthy because once you start getting great results and you feel great and start looking good, you can addicted to it. And it becomes that lifestyle. You know, when your wife looks at you differently and you're looking at good and you're feeling better, your kids are happy because you can play with them all day. That becomes addicted and it becomes your life. You're just always that way. Now that you guys know more about my nutritional program and why it's paramount to sustaining the high level and high intensity workouts I do, let's talk more about my supplementation. For my full nutrition plan, check out the page below. Sublimitation, very much like nutrition, is so paramount for me to perform at the levels I need to perform. I'm a professional athlete. This is my job. If my body cannot function at the levels I need, the function at. I'm going to lose and I'll no longer be able to do this anymore. Supplements are the things that my diet's just not giving me. And except what they do is their performance and answers. They really are. There's things that I can't get into foods that I eat every single day. And these are things that I absolutely need for all the high intensity workouts I'm doing. Things like glutamine, things like protein shakes, things like recovery shakes for my glycogen stores. These things are essential in my training program. My supplementation is very detailed. The right kind of multivitems, amino acids, beta-alamine, and protein and carbohydrates to recover from all these demanding workouts. You know, for people out there who are afraid to take supplements, they need to realize that this is an industry with so much research behind it. It is proven that these supplements can help you reach your fitness goals. And it's important. It's important not only to get in better shape, but also to feel better, to be healthier, which is important to everybody. Whether you're professional athlete, whether you're just a business person, regular professional, or your parent, or your teenager. It's essential. And I think it's a key ingredient in your overall nutritional program. It's really important to do your research. Make sure you know who the brands are and research surprises as well. There's places where you can get things much, much cheaper. But make sure you educate yourself on the products, what's inside them, and what they can do for you, and then read testimonials. See what other people like you who are normal people trying to do certain goals, what they think of each of these products before you want to spend your money on them. But while I was serving overseas in Iraq, it was difficult. You know, to maintain a physique, to get the right kind of nutrition without a doubt. One of the things we all did was we would usually request from our families back home, please. Don't send me a toothbrush. Don't send me the odor. I have that. Give me some supplements. Protein bars were great. We'd shove them in our pockets on the middle of the patrol. We could take something get some calories in this. Because when you're in that kind of heat, and that kind of terrain patrol with all that weight on you, you are burned in so many calories that your body could go catabolic on you very quickly. So, multi vitamins, amino acids, protein shakes, protein bars. You can get very easy readily made tuna fish. It needs things like that in small packets that can help you maintain the nutrition while you're out there. Now that you guys know more about my training, nutrition and supplementation, and you've listened to all my plans and progress, go ahead, make your own plan. It's your turn now. You've established your goals. Have a plan for your fitness, for your workouts, get in the gym, and see the results. Feel better. Live your life better. Have more success and get the physique you guys want. To find out more about me or ask me a personal question, check out my body space page. My username is Brian Stand. I'll be happy to answer any of your questions or give you some motivation. For more content like this, check out BodyBilling.com.

=== FILE: Training with Felicia Romero -- Bodybuilding.com [wmYURM-_YfI].txt ===

Hi, my name's Blastramarrow. I'm the figure competitor, the Sparry sponsored athlete, and owner of AV Pro Physiques, a private personal training studio in Gilbert Arizona. I've been training now for about 10 years, competing for six. And now here I am, top 10 finalists for the Body Space Books Model Challenge. We're here today in Burbank, California, powerhouse gym. Today I'm going to teach you how I eat, how I train, and my supplementation. I've been a gym owner now for six years, and I'm going to teach you girls some tips on how not to be intimidated at the gym. Girls, I know it's scary going to the gym, and sometimes it can be super intimidating, but you don't have to be afraid anymore. When you're heading to the gym or you're researching gyms, you want to make sure that it has all the equipment necessary for you and your goals. What do you want to do? Do you want to lose weight? Do you want to tone up? Do you want to just have some where to go and just kind of escape from family life? Whatever. Check it out, check out the amenities. You kind of kind of cardio equipment they have, but I always recommend a trainer for some foremost. First, you want to make sure that you are correct for them. You don't want to get hurt. You don't want to injure yourself in any way, and you want to see results. And I truly believe that a trainer can help you get there. You want to have a trainer, no big deal. Bodybuilding.com has a huge exercise database for you and for your fitness goals. You need to have a plan, a workout plan already when you head to the gym. Have it down on paper. Even if you want to bring in the piece of paper with you, print it out from Bodybuilding.com, whatever. At least it's going to help you get through the workout, and you're not just walking around aimlessly around the gym. We have a gym, you almost have to somewhat be a little bit selfish. You know, you don't want to spend hours at the gym. So get in there, work out, get your workout in, and get out. Now that I gave you guys some quick tips on how to conquer your intimidation, how to choose a gym, and how just to stay motivated, we're going to go ahead and get into my training supplementation and nutrition. So let's go ahead and get into my training beliefs. Training. This is what I believe, back to the basics. The key to my success has been consistency, and with consistency has been pretty basic. Basic workouts, basic diet, and consistency. This has got me the body that I have today. A lot of girls overthink things overanalything. They get to the gym, and they want to take shortcuts, or they want to try some new trendy workout, which is fun. It's fun to do every once in a while, but you want to see the results. You got to be consistent. You got to be basic, and you just got to eat a clean diet. You truly don't have to overcomplicate things overthink things. Just have a plan and stick to it. There's no right or wrong way. It's just having something to follow, and following it, and being consistent. My workout split. I weight left five days a week. I do two shoulder days, one back day, and two lower body days. Sun days are my true leg days, because I can rest. I'm a little bit hungry here on those days, so I eat a little bit more on my leg days. Legs have always been kind of like my challenging body parts. My workouts are definitely measured by reps and sets. Let's say basic shoulder workout. Let's say I start with shoulder presses. I always start with like a heavy movement shoulder press versus like a lateral or a front raise. But yeah, I'll rest about 30 seconds in between. I'll start out with the warm-up set, and I usually do three additional sets. My rep range is anywhere from 12 to 15 depending on the weight, but I'm really, really, really picky about form. I'd rather go lighter and keep my form really, really good. Versus go heavier and just look sloppy. I probably change up my workout about every six to eight weeks, right? Switch up the types of workouts or exercises or just the intensity. I think it's different from person to person as far as intensity. I use my diet to form my body, so I don't necessarily have to kill myself in the gym. I'm not a lot of people are surprised. Oh, you must spend hours and hours in the gym. Well, no, I don't. You know, I 30 minutes late training, maybe, and then 30 minutes cardio. I do cardio almost every day or some form of cardio. My cardio changes your round depending on my shows. So, users start out pretty basic 30 minutes a day, and it increases if it gets closer to the show, and how my body is progressing. If I'm losing body fat and I'm losing and I'm seeing the results, I don't necessarily need to kill myself in cardio. My workout is a pretty moderate, and they're not really heavy, but they're not light either. Basic shoulder workouts, because my shoulders are already kind of where they want them to be, so I just kind of train them so that they stay full, stay in shape. I would stay my leg days are a little bit more complicated. I'm always trying to think of new exercises, target different parts of my legs. Again, always thinking about my competitions and how I look on stage. So, I have to make sure that my body looks the way it should on stage. So, my training is cohesive to that. And I do have an outdoor day, so, like, I do track, which helped kind of build an athletic leg. In my off season, or when I'm not trained for a show, I like to, I like to switch it up. I'll do a full body on some days. I'll just spend classes, I'll do things like that, just to kind of switch it up a little bit. To overcome those plateau, you can do a variety of things. Again, increase the intensity. So, we come back to that word intensity. Switching that up will help you kind of peak pass that plateau. You just basically need to change it up. Your body starts to adapt to things, starts to adapt to whether the workout starts to adapt to the diet, so, starts switching things up, trying new foods, trying new foods in your diet, trying new workouts, trying new different cardio machines. Some people just stick to the same cardio machine to the older used to. The hard stubborn areas for the females are a little bit different, and the moment I meet with somebody, and they come to me and say, I want to get rid of my belly fat, or my saddle bags, or whatever, I tell them that the abs are made in the kitchen. I always, always preach that. You have to have a clean diet. And then again, along with the clean diet, you can supplement that with abs training. I tell girls, you know, they want to just slim down their abs, so you don't necessarily have to do a lot of weighted abs per se, and if you did, keep it very, very light. But honestly, just slowing down the movement and making sure you feel each contraction. So you can follow my full train routine, just check out the page below. Now, we're going to go ahead and move on to nutrition. So nutrition is what brings everything together. Abs are made in the kitchen. Your body being sculpted is made in the kitchen. The nutrition is so vital and important, and it's going to help you reach your ultimate fitness goals. I eat about six meals a day. I try to space it out every two and a half three hours. Keep it very, very clean. I mean, my body, so regimented now, that it tells me, that two and a half three hours, my body's like, oh, I'm hungry. I got to eat. I do measure my food based on on me and my body structure and what I need. Obviously, I need more protein. For me, I do about a gram and a half of protein. So for my body weight, I measure out my carbs. Yeah, I have them with three out of my six meals, depending on the day, and you know, the way that I do it is everything's based around my workouts as well. So on body parts that I really need work on or need to maybe grow or sculpt in a way, I eat a little bit more carbs. So on my leg days, naturally, I'm going to get a little bit more complex carbohydrates. I crave fats. I love almond better as my ultimate favorite. I love almonds. I love macboiled mac-daming nut oil. I'll put over my fish. So I do love fats. Bats are essential. The essential fatty acid that all women need helps with hair, skin, nails, helps the brain function. So I definitely never recommend completely omitting fats from your diet. I tell girls all the time, do not be afraid of eating additional protein or drinking protein shakes. As long as you're overall calorie based for the day as low, adding proteins not going to add all this, you know, bulk and muscle. And this is now, it's just going to help you regulate your insulin levels. It's an amino acid, so it's going to help keep you strong and help keep your muscles hard and tight and help you burn bodies fat. It helps you stay full. So there's so many benefits to protein that women just don't understand. Carbs are fuel. As long as you're eating them, you're just not eating them just to eat them. You eat them for a purpose. Carbs are so essential as well. You know, you need them. You need them for energy. You need them to stay focused. Oatmeal for breakfast is such a great thing to start out with because it's going to help keep you focused and keep those informed levels study for the rest of the day. I wouldn't say that I'm on a diet, 365 days a year. It's my lifestyle. It's how I eat. When I first drank my first show, I was like, I remember telling myself, oh my gosh, what am I doing? Why am I doing this? But it was so crazy because at the end of that journey, I was so hooked on this lifestyle and I felt so much better. I just see it as eating clean and living healthy. I definitely believe in cheap meals. I don't necessarily have cheap days. I may be a little bit more relaxed on the weekends, but I don't have full on cheap days. Cheat meals are essential, though. I think they're important to have. What I tell my clients a lot of the time, 85% super clean, 15% room per play. That 15% I'd rather them have a couple of pieces of chocolate through the week than have a whole day of binge eating. Order out of restaurants has been one of the biggest challenges especially for a lot of my clients who travel or who just, you know, I'll get these messages on my gosh. I don't know what to order. Most restaurants are super accommodating, but you always want to stick to the basics and the principles of protein and a vegetable. Always stay away from like the cream sauces, things like that, always ask for no butter. Even though you don't want to seem like a picky eater or like just really high maintenance person, but if it's for your own benefit in livelihood, do it. Don't be afraid to ask for what you want. To follow my nutrition plan and to reach your ultimate fitness goals, please follow the plan below. And we're on to supplementation next. Supplements are super important. Here's why. You're supplementing for what your body doesn't have or depleted it. If you want to sculpt your body, you want to reach those ultimate fitness goals, supplements are extremely important. Training in the gym. You need supplementation for the gym. You know, you're working hard, you're training in tents. A lot of those supplements out there are going to help with that. I do have a post workout shake after my workouts. I think it's so important to get that fast-adjusting protein in. I do away isolate. So it's quick digesting. It's going to get into my bloodstream quicker. And my body's just going to use it. My muscles are going to use it. Supplements have definitely helped me reach my goal a lot quicker. Again, that comes along with consistency. Like with any plan or regimen, just like with diet. You have to have a supplement plan and regimen. You have to be consistent at taking at the same time every single day. It's a lot of research. I mean, even when I first started out, I did research on bodybuilding and bodybuilding.com, on supplements of what they do, of why they do it. The nice thing is, you have to figure out what your goals are. So you know, you write down the list of exactly what you want to do, and then you research the supplement for that. You know, whether you are having a hard time with recovery from your workout. Well, who do we and will help with that? But if you did research, you would find out, okay, well, who do we need help with recovery? Girls, these are the top three supplements that you need when getting started and starting your training program. Definitely way protein. Research the different proteins, find a protein that you like. Number two would be BCA's. Branch gen amino acids. They're so essential. Having free flow in amino acids in your body all day, it's just going to help not only with muscle building but also burn fat. And number three, multi-vitamin. Daily multi-vitamin is so important. I mean, when you're dieting or when you're in a lower calorie research or you're training really hard, your body is going through a lot of inflammation or stress or whatever. Multi-vitamin just helps help keep your healthy. Basic multi-vitamin, so essential. I can't stress it enough. To get my full workout supplementation, nutrition plan, check out the page below. And again, if you have any questions for me, what's the level about anything we talked about today, check out my body space profile, F Romero, and for more content like this, check out BodyBilly.com.

=== FILE: Training with Kelechi Opara - Bodybuilding.com [1_flhSCqfzs].txt ===

I'm an image coach of Power. I'm here at Powerhouse Jeeven, Boroughak, California. Let me tell you a little bit about myself. I'm an optimist for this sponsor of the athlete. I've been in several magazines, reps, trying to muscle exercise for men. I'm also a sponsor for the body space for a smile and circle. I'm a coach of Powerhouse Jeeven, and I'm a coach of Powerhouse Jeeven. I'm going to tell you how I did just my training and supplementation and nutrition program when I was overseas. I also showed you that even if you don't have gym access or access to equipment, you can still get your workout going. You can still get your nutrition on track. I'm also going to be an assistant in Alzon, Iraq. I've been in Alzon a little bit more difficult, because you don't have any kind of equipment whatsoever. In fact, we were the first people on the scene on ground. I'm at 11. I'm literally literally the first people on ground. That made the interest in. I thought about how long you took me to get to where I got to. If I just sit and not do anything, I'll pretty much lose my job, my hard work. It'll be easier to maintain what I already have than the lettuce lie. Then go back home and have to build everything back up again. That was the driving force for me. When you look at nutrition and you look at training, it's pretty much as long as you got some form of resistance. As long as you stay within your maintenance of our calorie wise goes, you're going to be on track. So, if our resistance calisthenics works perfectly. I use sandbags and you use the rusted poses to pull ups. For instance, you have a sandbag. You can do sandbags swings. That's a great workout, but you work in core. You work in short. You're pretty much working over all body. Or you use the same sandbag and do curls with it too. So, if you're using it in a skew, it's going to be a lot of work. I don't feel like trying to do this and do that to maintain what I got. It doesn't take that much effort. It's only a third of the effort to maintain what you already built on. Not as you know a little bit about me and how I adjust my workout program when I was overseas. Now I'm going to tell you how I got my physique. I work out today. Much of what I do on the gym is pretty much stand-in. I always try to stand and everything I do is stand-in. That way, I'm engaged with core. I'm engaged with my abs. If you look around, I'm a part of the equipment-wise. Everything requires sitting. Like you sit when you're doing dumbbells, you sit when you're curling. So, I try to avoid sitting down. You're exercising. You're not supposed to sit. I do curls standing up. The shoulder press I do is stand up. All my back routine friends is all pull ups. All different variations from pull ups are really touching machines. I try to incorporate as many muscles as I can. And to work out, however, the main purpose whenever you're standing up is using abs a lot more than you would if you were sitting down. You see a lot of people do endless amount of crunches and abs work like three or four times a week. I try to do them. The most I do as it's probably twice a week. I like working now so it's five days a week. But it typically involves working the largest muscle groups twice a week. With a larger muscle group, you tend to burn more calories. Your calorie, your calorie, partitioning is better, which means the food you eat is going to go towards the muscle instead of fat. So, I start off with legs because that's the hardest to do. That's when you have the most energy. You start doing chest. You do legs. That's what I always say. And then I do back and shoulders after that on a Tuesday. And then on Wednesday, I do something like a chest and triceps. Thursday is usually off. But I take off. I take completely off. That my body recuperates. It's a full-on rest. They know cardio. No weight training. I think Friday and Saturday starts over again. Where I do legs of Friday, back and shoulders of Saturday. Direct arm work. I try to like lace it in with legs. So I do probably like barbell curls on Monday. And then next time do legs, I do dumbbell curls. If I had a plateau with my back or if I had a plateau with my legs, I would have my foot shot the day with it. Or just keep on increasing the weight. Sometimes you just have to just break through it. Just increase the weight anyway. Or another thing to do is just change the reps scheme. So for instance, if you hit a plateau with, let me give you example of front squats. You're doing it on 225 on front squats. And you can get past it. Instead of just backing down on what I have. You just do 225 five times with a pause in between. I don't notice it. Whenever I don't have a log, you just tend to stagnate. And these are what mean. This is a good way too to break through a plateau. Because you look at your last exercise and you did say five reps from that one. So you might try to play with the numbers. You say, okay, you do seven sets, three reps of 225. That's a post to just doing five sets of five, which is same amount of weight. And I actually liked some passing the number you did before. Now that you know a little bit about my training program. If you want my four workout program, check out the page below. Now let me tell you a little bit more about my nutrition. My whole approach in the nutrition is at the end of the day is pretty much calories and calories out. You know, if you eat in above your set maintenance, you're going to gain regardless. If you're eating below your maintenance level, you're going to lose. The easiest way to do is use a muffin fire. I mean, you 16, if you're a guy with a fat metabolism 15, if you're a metabolism average, 14, if you're a woman with a fat metabolism. And that's actually into a country of T.E.F., you're therming to pick a food and you're resting in the public. It takes account of everything. When I first started working out, I was making gains in strength, but I was making gains in size. And I was wondering, like, what's going on? You know, I'm going stronger, but I'm not getting bigger. Like, yeah, you're not eating, and that's why I was forced to do nothing. And then about body composition started changing. And that was the first clue I used to mean about how I'm foreign nutrition was. I based the number of meals on my mental calories I had to eat. So, without effect, it's usually about four or maybe five times a day. I used to space on my own every three hours. My protein sauce is fake, chicken, fish, and this meat. This is a cow, this is a lamb. I'm going to eat it, you know, pretty much. I'm not particularly, I look at this as a lifestyle. I don't look at this as one time event or get, you know, get it shape once a year. Because I always, you know, I like staying in shape pretty sick of five. I always tell people, try, I'll train your nutrition. It's like trying to, I just want to bear. Eventually, you're going to catch up with you. So, it's like, if you're doing all this training and all this, you're busing your butt in the gym and your nutrition is so far. It's like, you're running in place. Because without nutrition, you're not going to adapt. You're at the patient to resistance training. It's not going to be there. It's not going to be there. You're going to hit that plateau every single time because your nutrition is so far. If your nutrition is not online, you're not going to reach your goal. Now, that was my philosophy on nutrition. You check out my full meal plan. Check out the page below. Now onto supplementation. Being overseas, supplementation was a huge role. I mean, it's probably, I'm probably understanding how big the role is. Even after I got up from Afghanistan, for instance, and went to Iraq where you had, when you actually have facilities in all of that, and everything, food was like cardboard box. So, it's like many times, you just don't even feel like eating, and standing over and over and over. So, you don't have access to like best fresh vegetables. You don't have access to like fish, you know, for over a good 3, and all that stuff. So, being able to order stuff from what I've been in that comment and have it coming in 2 days, that was like a lifesaver. I think if I didn't have that supplement, I thought it would be 90 pounds right now. You're not always going to hit the micro levels that you have by far as protein was. At least I learned that lesson a long time ago when I had a plateau at far as size wise. Because I reached a certain point, I still wasn't gaining. So, and then I looked at how much protein I should have, and I was like, I looked at it, I was like, well, it was no way I could satisfy all of this with nutrition I have on hand, without supplementation. So, supplementation feels like I got. I would have to say definitely protein, and if I didn't have the way, in case I'm protein, I don't think I would have reached my goals as far as, you know, gain size. Fish show is definitely because it's official, it's probably one of the most underrated supplement out there because it controls inflammation. It's involved with 60% of the brain function, it's a precursor to hormones to mouth of item, of course, is essential to it's like most people always neglect that, but it's I look at it as like the cheers sitting there, but you don't pay attention to screws that's holding that chair together. So, those screws are the mouth eye vitamins. So, if you neglect that, that's cheers you on fall apart. So, you always don't have the time to supply your body with the micro nutrients you need, or the micro nutrients you need, so, something is still a huge role. We check out my full workout, the nutrition and supplementation program, check out the page below. If you like to ask me any questions, check me out on body space on username, it's Matt Time. For more content like this, check out BodyGillet.com.

=== FILE: Training with Lindsay Kaye - Bodybuilding.com [tvmdUJJoe3k].txt ===

Hey guys, it's Lindsey K. I'm in Burbank, California at the Powerhouse Gym. I'm certified personal trainer, nutritionist, and Santa Barbara, California. I'm lucky enough to be one of the top five finalists for the body space that was small competition. I've also done some fitness modeling in such magazines as oxygen magazine, rest magazine, and Santa Fitness. And I'm here to tell you guys why girls should look heavy in the gym and also give you some nutritional and training tips. I think a lot of girls are afraid of looking heavy in the gym because they're afraid they start lifting a little bit, they'll get too bulky, a lot of girls say they tend to gain muscle really fast, but that's totally, it's not true for most people. Girls won't get bulky as men training in the gym because we have to eat a ton more than they do. We're just not built like them and we just don't have the testosterone almost like they do. Some of the main questions I get on clients when asking about training exercises or when they're asking me about oh why am I doing all these manicure sizes like that. It shouldn't be just about guys and girls. It all benefits your body. You need those large exercises to be able to properly fill. You really shouldn't label things as just guys after sizes and girls like their sizes because you can always do lighter weight whatever fits your body, whatever your body can do. You definitely shouldn't exceed it and go for that man. We you know like squat 300 pounds. Start off with the bar and work on your form and it's the same exercise. A lot of girls want to cut fat a lot faster. A lot of girls want to tone up faster and it's seriously. This is the quickest way. So have you ever you go the quicker you'll raise your metabolic rates and that's your burn fat a lot faster. To make girls a little less intimidated go into the gym and start a routine and just to research it. Truthfully you go on bodybuilding.com. Look up some extra exercises. It tells you exactly how to do it. Ask your friends. It's just super easy to go in there. You shouldn't be intimidated at all. Basically if you're lifting too heavy in the gym if you or if you can't go over five or six reps you feel in your hands that's probably a little bit too heavy. Girls should expect after a really good workout to be sore. You're not going to be able to go upstairs a lot of times. You're going to be tired and you're probably not going to want to work out again but it's all worth it. It's all part of training and working out. It's all good for you. You should definitely get a guy who workout partner or a girl. Someone that's knowledgeable and don't be afraid to learn some new exercises. They're good at telling you your form is wrong or good or just teaching you anything about going to the gym. The top three exercises that girls should do in the gym to scope a great body is squats and I think they should do stiff like it deadlifts and maybe some preacher barbell curls. Girls should definitely not stay away from upper body exercises. Girls tend to contour on their arms and say tend to gain battle at more in their arms faster so I think everyone that has little toned up shoulder to lose and try steps. They tend to like battle up better. I love heavy because I know the heavier I go the more muscle I'm going to get staff on. That's what my goal is. I really want to gain a lot more muscle so definitely want to look around and I see some guys that are a lot bigger than me looking the same way. That gets me one of the up it up a little bit and I get excited when I'm like yeah. That's kind of fun. Alright so those are some of my tips on why girls shouldn't be intimidated to go into the gym and let heavy. So now we're going to talk about some of my training tips and my workout philosophies. Yeah I weigh train six days a week and I do cardio about two days a week. I'll do heavy for a few weeks and then I want to change it up. I'll do a week about some lighter weights, a little more reps just to change it up for my body. I change my program around probably probably three months I'd say. I like the mind my body to get really used to it. It's important to change up your routine because your body kind of plattoes get used to the same exercises so for me to change it to a pushing pulling movements doing actually different body parts it was really good to check up my body. It's shot to up and I'll be able to gain a little bit more size that way. On my heavy days my tend to go up maybe five pounds, two pounds, it matters what kind of exercise I'm doing. I'm usually for shoulders I can go up five maybe some bicep pro like go up like two more pounds. Right now I'm not trained failure. I used to do that and that worked really well for me but like I said I kind of plateaued with that routine and now that I'm on the one where I don't go to failure it's still working out really well for me. I need a specifically train on my glutes to gain a little more size so I do the stair master if I feel like I need to do a little bit more like I didn't let this heavy in the gym for legs that week I'll do one extra day of the stair master. It's a love that exercise. I don't train my body part anymore I used to. I just started the power hypertrophy program which is the combination of pushing and pulling movements certain days and power exercises where you had a power up with little bit heavier heavier days. For my rest days maybe I'll take a bike ride around the lake I definitely just don't sit on my blood and do nothing. If you have a specific body part you're trying to work on a little bit more. Sometimes it's better to go up in a little bit of weight not too much so you don't hurt yourself definitely learning new exercises. To overcome your plateau look up on bodybuilding.com for a different training routine everyone's got tons of ideas maybe going on the forearms and have somebody. Hey I'm plateauing on my routine having new exercises for this specific body part or the time. So that was my training philosophy so for my full workout to the page below and now we're going to talk about some matrition. You can train as far as you want you can take as many supplements and you want but nutrition can be about 80% of your outcome. I eat about four small meals a day. I throw in a couple of shakes in there that's a mixture protein, a couple of shakes in shape before I go to bed. Every two hours is how often I eat. Certain places is important where you get fats you can't just have some fried chicken for your fats you have to get some good sources like avocado, olive oil, some almonds. It's still fat. It's going to help you counter your bad fats and definitely eat in muscle growth. Yeah definitely keep it down to a may brown 20% of your diet or less matter what your goal is. Well have card mostly in the morning but there's definitely protein in every single meal I eat. Where you get your calories is super important you can't just have 2,000 calories of rice taste. It has to be properly broken down to protein spats a little bit. The reverse after your workout is really important where you get those calories from. The way I break down my macronutrients and micronutrients I have certain goals like if I'm trying to cut down maybe I'll subtract certain amount from how many I need a day on at a set in theory level. But if I'm trying to gain a little bit I'll probably gain about at an extra 500 calories to my overall calorie intake so I can gain a pound of pound per week which is pretty healthy way to gain. I definitely will hate out and measure all of my food except for vegetables because you can kind of be as many as you want for that. Vegetals are very important to get proper nutrients to the best way for you to body to properly absorb those. Sproccely is great. Green beans are excellent. The spare gas is one of the best ones. A spare gas is a natural dioretic. Broccoli is great for your digestive system. Cup or two of broccoli is like 40 calories. It's insane how much you can eat. When I'm in a ball king phase I adjust my diet to I definitely have a lot more protein. I have a lot more carbs and for my cutting I definitely cut out all sugars except for maybe banana right after my workout and I cut out carbs made except for maybe a breakfast. I mean we'll eat this much during the day because I bring my meals with me. I make it super important. Maybe I'll find somewhere that has something super plain if it's early maybe all disco grabs and sushi with some brown rice for rest on that's probably the cleanest thing I could think of for eating. Make sure it doesn't have any of those bad mayonnaise sauces and sugary eel sauces and things like that in it. That's what the bad things are in the sauces. How they prepare the meats, people use butter. I mean even on those menus for chillies I'll say oh you know 500 calories in this meal when they have like this special section you get like the cook back there that's like oh I don't care I'm just gonna make it with butter and this and that you know you really have to watch it. So you have to ask for which is hey it's cooked in butter. I eat clean yes all you're along but I also have those one cheat days a week. You can't properly build muscle unless you have a cheat day. You need to have something to shop your system. When I say a cheat day I don't mean like going out to McDonald's when eating with McDonald's all day I'm talking about something like a really good bicing burger with sweet potato fries. I'm a cheat day I'll probably eat around two cheat meals but I'll still have all the healthy stuff like oatmeal the morning and my egg whites and things like that. It's very important to me to eat clean 365 days out of the year because I don't know when a shoot is gonna come. I don't know what's gonna come up. I might get offers for something and big thing is I want to look great for my boyfriend and truthfully if I start eating bad if I start cheating a little bit more than I should it's really hard to get that extra fat off. It takes a while longer than you think. When I cheat I do feel very bad about it. I actually look it up and see what's on all the ingredients and I know in my head what's with that thing with your body. So wait a really really shakes me and I don't want to cheat again. Alright so that was my philosophy on nutrition for my full meal plan to get the page below. And now let's talk about my supplement. Supplementants I've really gotten to my goal faster. I'm able to take in protein a lot faster than I'll have to make a whole meal and I have pre-workout supplements that really get me going in the gym give me some extra energy. Most important one to me is multi-bidemons. CLA, fish oil, take carnitine. On my off season I have creatine. H&B will just super important as well for me. For me, if I want to have a new client that's looking for some supplements to take the top three, I'm probably H&B, CLA and definitely a multi-bidemon. A lot of females want to break down fat and they want to they usually have a lot of lower belly fat. They just want to get rid of their mid section and help to tone it up and CLA really helps with that. It really helps you break down fat and the study say you can people that quit working out and put their diet. They tend to keep their muscle a little bit longer and maintain their stomach to be a little bit less fatty. For H&B, it just helps you keep that muscle on a lot longer especially when you're leaning out, doing cardio. You kind of lose a little bit more muscle. H&B helps keep that on and multi-bidemons just great for overall health. I definitely probably wouldn't be to be able to gain as much as I have if I didn't have picks or protein. The case in at night to help feed my muscles all night long. The pre-workout supplements to get me a little more energy to get into the gym. I wouldn't be where I am if I didn't have the supplements to help me. I've had a lot of girls ask me, I'm afraid to take supplements what should I take is it okay to have protein shakes they're afraid they're going to get too bulky and they say I tried one and I got fat. Well basically you'll blow it up for maybe an hour or two and then it'll go away. It's just perfect for feeding your muscles especially for maybe a meal or placement. There's some shakes out for that. Don't be afraid to take some shakes or take some multi-videvins. Only one thing changes for me. I cycle pre-asteen. So when I'm on a ball can I gain a little bit more muscle. I'll take some pre-asteen but when obviously when I'm cutting down I'll cut that out. Probably learn a little more about supplements. Definitely research it. Reads of bottle. You can go on buyable.com for some excellent articles on why they're good. This is in that which one they recommend. I'm definitely fitness magazine as well. Alright so those are all my tips for my full program. Check out the page below. So ask me any questions go to LINCK at BodySpace.com and from our content like this check out BodyBilling.com. You're right okay.

=== FILE: Training with Mary Murphy - Bodybuilding.com [uJU0r53SCKA].txt ===

My name is Mary Murphy. I'm from Seattle, Washington. I'm a 2012 body space spokesman of finally. I'm a member of Team Bomb Show and I'm an MPC bikini competitor with three shows and top five placings and all three. I grew up playing fast-pitch softball. My play it all through high school and in college and out of college I just I really didn't know what to do with myself. I've always wanted to model but I didn't really know where I kind of fit in. I know that I'm athletic and I have that body type. I just talked up with my trainer and he's like if you want to really get serious and get into it, you know this is how you have to do it. Get into these shows. That's exposure that you're going to want and that you need so signed up for my first one not knowing anything about it, not knowing what to expect and I think that's what's been so awesome is I've had no expectations and so many amazing things have come out of it so far. I feel my best when I'm eating healthy when I'm active and it's also nice to know that you're helping and encouraging other people. So with the lifestyle that they want but they just mean like a little bit of help getting there, getting started, getting the push. If you believe in it and you live it, other people are going to see that and be inspired by that. You have to surround yourself by those positive people and people that are going to support you. You know it's really tough not to have a strong support system. We're all there for the same reason. You know we're all willing to to share, give tips to inspired and motivate and I think that's really important because a lot of people don't know where to grow. Like we're even start where to go to take that first step in the gym is scary for a lot of people so think if they kind of have an idea and you know a place to go for those resources and training tips, I think body space is great for that. When I step into the gym is on, no I don't have a whole lot of time like if I'm there I'm going to go hard, no messing around. I train five days a week I do cardio steps. Usually I hit legs twice a day and the other days is more focused on upper body. I step to usually or four to five and about 15, 12 to 15 reps. Most of my sets are super-setted so I try to move quickly through each exercise each set. Most of my cardio is hit anywhere from about 45 to 50 minutes to an hour sessions. When I'm getting closer towards the show I'll turn up my cardio a little bit but basically all my lifting stays the same. I don't lift heavy, you know I'm used to lifting heavy right now that's kind of out the window and I'm just strictly you know toning so I don't I don't go overboard with the weights which is nice so it kind of keeps me moving through my set. You know I'm always changing I've never just like oh I'm at like a standstill. Nothing I've done has been the same which I like keeps it interesting. You know I haven't really hit a major major plateau. Some days my rest day I really try to take advantage of it. That's kind of my day where I get to just hang out with my boyfriend watching you know football. It's also a day that I do all my cooking from my meals. I just try to remember that rest is really important so during the week I'm usually in bed at like 830. You know start with goals that are realistic for you. That's someone else keep it for you. When I started you know training and stuff I didn't really realize how important nutrition was you know I've always been a healthy eater so then when I started training I just didn't realize like how much I needed to eat like you know to even lose weight I was like you could cut back but it's totally not true you know you got to keep eating. So basically I just make sure that everything at eat is really clean that eats six times a day each meal consists of a protein, a complex carb and a either fruit or a veggie just kind of depends when I can switch it up and there were their small meals and I try to eat every two to two to half hours I'm kind of finding myself when I hit three hours it's like a little bit too long for me like I just kind of start crashing. I don't season any of my food because I find that I have my cravings have gone away when I don't season anything. My diet doesn't change everything remains the same. I tried to just remember that I'm not dieting it's lifestyle that I've chosen because when I say that we're diet people they don't know how to take it and so thinking I'm not eating or you know it's a tricky word. When I'm in competition mode and I'm training I'll give myself you know a Saturday night cheat meal. I feel like it's okay I don't overindulge and I definitely stick to my portions like I know a lot of people drink top just start cutting that it's like really simple just take that out you know you don't need it replace it with something else condomants I would say start just taking those out you don't need for me it was sour cream I love sour cream for me just taking out that sour cream or the cheese like that just that little extra stuff that I really don't need you'll start seeing changes especially if your body's used to it just a little things like that you'll see results pretty quick stick to your yearly proteins chicken fish and complex carbs of course oatmeal brown rice potatoes are great and veggies and for you can't go wrong we just don't know what we're getting in our food anymore and we're coming from so I think it's really important to you know make sure you're taking something to fill those nutritional gaps without being completely balanced you're just not gonna get the results that you want if someone we're just getting started I would recommend a good multi vitamin I mean that's a great way just to make sure that you're getting all the nutrients your body needs if you're not getting it you know in the foods that you're eating I would also say good protein powder you know they come so many different flavors now find one that you like and that's a great meal of placement if you want to take it after a workout it's good for on the go it's convenient and then I would say your brand chain of amino acids honestly I just kind of started taking them not that long ago and I have really seen a difference especially with my body I like to stay nice and lean but turned into it really helps me hold on to that lean muscle supplements definitely help my body recover so then I can do it again tomorrow to keep me up all day you know keeps me going especially this in the any you know I make sure to take my multi vitamins and my in the step in the morning so that I can last throughout the day when I'm running around chasing you know three kids all day I need that extra energy the first step is always the hardest just be committed take that first step you will not regret it I've never once walked into the gym and regretted going be committed and do it for you we do so many things for other people every day give this to yourself for more of my nutrition diet and supplement tips check out the link below you can also find me on body space when the username is MRK 55 and for more content like this check out bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Training with Neil Hill - Bodybuilding.com [Lm1tcVvWXz0].txt ===

Hi, I'm Neil Hill. I'm here with bodybuilding.com. I'd like to tell you a little bit about myself. I'm an ex professional bodybuilder, trainer and nutritionist, Gus Barri TV and also writer and communists for either publications. He had talked to you a little bit about training, nutrition. You know, the importance of supplementation, how to bring your body to the next level. I actually got involved with bodybuilding really just by chance when I was 19 years of age. It wasn't a sport that I inspired in a sense because where I live back in the UK it's in the middle of nowhere so bodybuilding never really existed. But I sort of met up with a guy one day, went to the gym, I'm a straight away, I got the bug. I consistently trained heavy because that was the way that I felt was the way forward to build muscle mass. But what I found is I consistently picked up injuries and it wasn't due to the fact that my form was incorrect or sloppy. It was just the fact that maybe my body from mechanics as an athlete were maybe not in the same way foundation is maybe a power lift or weight lift for for instance. So what I actually have to do is I had to reduce the weight that I was lifted and actually increase the rep range just to try and buffer the injury that I was carrying and maybe a shoulder injury that I picked up upon bench press for instance. And by getting away from the ego lifted and even though my form may look perfect to the eye what I wasn't doing is contracting and squeezing on each repetition. And by dropping the weight down that I was finding that those loads of stress that were going directly to the muscle that I was trying to hit. What I actually did then is I played around for a number of weeks and months, I started forward and what I felt was what was right for my body. I know a period of about 12 years now with my experiences of an amateur athlete, a professional athlete and the athletes that I've been helping over the last 16 years or so that I've come to formulate my history too. This is something that I've had to myself probably for the last seven years. I didn't bring it out to the open because obviously like any training, you're tristness, you want your athletes to be better than your competitors. As my database of clients became greater, I had to make sure I treated all my athletes as equal for instance. There's some athletes who will never be professional bodybuilders. They may never even actually win a state show but if you can actually help them to become beyond their genetic potential and you give them a protocol or a program or a dietary or supplement program which is going to enhance them and bring them to the next level. Obviously that's exactly as a training trick and is what you should be trying to do for instance but it doesn't just work for a bodybuilder. It can work for every person, every sort of man, lady involved with any sort of form of physical exercise. Now you know a little bit more about me, let's touch space with that training. The view of that Y3T is very much a three-dimensional workout. In my eyes it's the only three-dimensional workout which is out there and there's a lot of people trying to jump onto this because they do see it's the new revolution in training principles because they said in week one you go heavy. You'll just like you would be in hit basically the old Dory 8's methods. You the rep range would be anywhere between six or eight reps but even when you're doing those rep range it's important that you squeeze and contract the muscle. When you squeeze and contract the muscle those lows will go directly to the muscle and they'll get taken away from attachment points and bone compounds and the reason why that takes place is because even though it's a compound move and it's heavier week one for instance because your squeeze and contract and you will never be able to lift the same kind of weight if you didn't squeeze and contract within the same week for instance. So week one is compound week two is compound and isolation movements. As your rep range increases your number of work and sets has to decrease slightly as well. Otherwise you could go into an over-trained mode on week two and as you increase your rep range in week two you could say it becomes like a two-dimensional workout and then week three when you implement three week three where you're actually doing more rep range for instance that's when it becomes more three-dimensional. What I found is that it increases your heart rate increases the fact that your body is losing body fat, your cardiovascular system is recovering your body so much quicker because you're getting more oxygenated and ricks blood flow around your body and then week one you go back to compound again week two it increases week three it increases again and then you go back to week one again it's normally be a sort of a nine-week period so you do week one week two week three week one week two week three week one week two week three and then you take anywhere between five and seven days of training and find that more and more athletes have spent a more and more time in the gym as a professional athlete as an amateur athlete I only trained four days a week. I saw I did why did I train four days a week because my body needed to rest that needed to recover. You don't grow in the gym you grow out of the gym as a athlete or a bodybuilder people want to be three dimensional they want to be turned from in their quarter turns where you see very few weaknesses where their intricate tie-ins or muscle groups are attached better you get more flare in for instance and that's a beautiful about this type of workout it brings all those three things into play and what I find is my athletes they're excited about going into the gym is because they're not bored this challenging it's easier to get under a squat rack and if five or six plates if you're a strong bodybuilder but that bodybuilder jumps into that squat racks and let's buy six plates on squat rack for sort of six to eight repetitions with much prefer to do that then put three plates on the bar and try to do four to your 50 repetitions it's more challenging and if you think of the philosophies behind it all those loads and stresses are still going to go directly within that muscle and because the weight is greatly reduced risk of injury is greatly reduced even when you're used perfect for even when you're cautious in the gym you can pick up injury you know tender nights is a very very common injury with all athletes from you know from tennis to baseball to basketball for instance and sometimes those injuries are just there's no logical reasons why they actually take place for instance especially with weight training I think the most important thing is what I would say is definitely gets a good rehab you know sports massage in my eyes is a must you know I think people are seeing the real benefits of sport massage sports massage will really be able to help break down those information in those key areas the ligament and tendon attachments for instance try to be sensible when you're in a gym don't lift with ego lift with sensibility now you know a little bit more about the training follow the page below let's talk about nutrition nutrition is very much the key success for any athletes I was actually a high level international swimmer at the child I swam for my whole country which is Wales back in the UK from the age of eight right up to the age of the 60 I also played a high level sports including including rubby soccer and also I was a very high level surfable lever on not but what I what actually was never sort of implemented to me when I was actually doing these active sports and nutrition really was an important you know to eat one two small and nutritional meals was no different to maybe somebody who wasn't doing any form of physical exercise it wasn't an education which was forced upon us for instance so I started by magazines I did a little bit of reading look the pictures that these athletes were eating certain food princess and obviously that then in myself told me I have to change my eating habits around what these athletes were doing I believe just like my training you have to be three dimensional exactly the same to train in and nutrition you have to be three dimensional that means you want to try and get as many key ingredients vitamins minerals trace elements carbohydrate proteins healthy fats from a array of different forms of food for instance because if you consistently put every meal is chicken your body though it would digest it over a period time it's like your training it becomes bored it becomes stale your body doesn't break down those protein bindings and the same way it does when it when it's not used to that food for instance it endorses it draws more nutrients out of that food for instance the thing I do want to touch on the most this is what I feel is the most important reason why I see games with my athletes is because we eat in the night even while they're dieting they eat in the night I mean though this will actually speed up your metabolism and even when you're taking really good slow release proteins into your bloodstream before you go to bed I wake you up about three or four hours in the evening which you should anyway because obviously the most vital sort of part of your life is water and I would definitely advise anywhere any athletes a relevant what type of sport they do to get a good five liters of clean water in a day get another night time and need to them little night to me it increases your metabolism straight away it allows your body to sort of really capitalize on those nutrients and you know your body is producing growth hormone your body struck your recovery everybody knows your body doesn't grow recover in the same way in the gym even if you put the right supplements it grows out of the gym it grows at nighttime for instance so if you've got a bed at say 11 p.m. you get up about two three a.m. in the morning you can have a protein shake again make sure it's a time release protein shake you could take a small form of complex carbohydrate in maybe you know some oatmeal for instance mix it up eat it and then go back to bed I'm a big huge advocate on cheat meals even when my guys are dieting for shows they still get cheat meals that doesn't necessarily mean they get in bad food for instance like burgers or fries but they do get bonuses for instance because I need to make sure they get rewarded for their hard work on a weekly basis for instance and again as I said I keep basing on to be three-dimensional it's a three-dimensional lifestyle then you don't have to be this sort of athlete who doesn't think about anything other than eat sleep and training to me you eat meals you forget about training you're only think about training until you get to the gym try to be a normal human being get your life when you mind away from being an athlete and only think about it when you need to think about it now we've gone into nutrition click on the page below to go into my entire program now I'm going to talk to you about supplementation if you're about supplementation is that when you take it your body can newly absorb those things quite instantly because they've already been broken down from their key say ingredient for instance like if you were to look at the chicken breast it's high in protein, high in amino acids for instance but your body's got to break that source down and actually digest it and put it into the bloodstream it can be a little hard on your body it can take an hour and a half it can take two hours it can sometimes take long of certain types of food to be broken down and utilized by the body the beauty about supplementation is because they've already been broken down into key elements your body can absorb those things very very quick into your body you're maximizing everything like you're trying to achieve and now it's obviously maximum performance bringing your body to the next level for instance the supplementation as the benefits of getting into your digestive tract and causing you know very quick results very very quickly after training you've got an open window you've got about 45 to 60 minutes of a window which is open to you as an athlete capitalise on getting as many key elements in your body as quick as possible to put yourself into a very very antibiotic state and that will happen straight after training the reason being is because in a sense your body is going into a very negative position you know your mental state is negative your immune system state is negative your your muscle density is being greatly hit you know your amino acid you glue to him in those key areas are being damaged in a sense and the beauty about is to open window is your body can absorb more more nutrients in that one hour after training any other time of the day so I would advise a good 50 to 60 grams of fast act in way isolate protein or some kind you know another thing that I'm also a big advocate you're in is making sure you get a really good multi-bit minute because even though when you're reading balance you can see this consistency balance going on there the diet is three-dimensional for instance the right supplement do taste great they should taste great you know people want to see buy something which works but actually buy something which tastes nice far as any fears concerns is that when you use a brand and you look at studies which proves that these supplements work you've also got the guarantee that these supplements are actually healthy for instance there are some in crepe key ingredients in food which are in the supplement anyway so in a sense there's a certain amount of nutrients in food which are in key elements of supplementation and when there's supplements are taken in moderation at the right time for instance it is only going to be healthy for the athlete it was expected what type of sport they do you know what you're finding now nutrition peak performance it's gone way beyond where people thought that this would go within any industry for instance not just bodybuilding as I say we know we're hitting on track of field even the military you're pushing there you know they're so just to make sure that they're using supplementation to get the best performance out of them for instance you know it's it's so so so important it's vital to make sure that you do make make maximum games peak on that given day get the best of your work out so allow your body to work better grow it it combines everything together if I had to name my top top three then for instance and I would definitely say a good quality time release protein powder best definitely another one would be a good quality isolate protein powder and I would say the next thing would be definitely a really good recovery sort of into work out drink which is obviously sort of helping your body you know slow down the breakdown and muscle tissue slow down the fact that you be in anabolic in the gym and it's also slow you start to allow your body to recover either as well so that's what I would say my top three is but in ideal world you could probably throw 10 or 15 different other supplements in play but if you touch on to the fact that making sure that your reach in quality food different type of food sources you get they get lots of different vitamins minerals trace elements different compounds of protein carbohydrates so that will have an effect on tying everything in together. I get my full training nutrition and supplement program follow the link below click on the program I hope that you get a lot of educational material from this to bring you as an athlete irrespective of what type of sport you do to the next level you know you can do it and for more information like this click on bodybuilding.com

=== FILE: Training with Scott Dorn - Bodybuilding.com [SDzteyFzZnY].txt ===

Hey guys, I'm Scott Dorne, SMD MN from Body Space here in Burbank, California at the Colorado's Jim. I'm kind of over my training, supplementation and nutrition program. Kind of make it a little bit easier for you guys so you don't have to go through the struggles that I did to get to where I'm at, so let's go ahead and get started. So there's a time when you're training for so long where you realize you're really not making any progress. You're kind of stagnant in your routine. And for me there was a time where I literally started getting sick from working out because I was over training so much and I just was not seen any results. And so at that point I decided to take a week off from training and spend that week, literally educating myself for an entire week. When I stepped back after that week and came back into the gym, it was a night and day difference. I literally had so much information and so many different principles I could apply in the gym. Once I found BodyBilling.com and started really educating myself using those articles and really learning the proper way to train the proper way to use supplementation, nutrition, was when I really started seeing those results. So last two years that I've been training, I've definitely seen way more results in those two years than I have in those three years. So just go to show you the power of the education when you really teach yourself and understand the principles of the common training. You're going to see those results rather than being the guy who you have the motivation but you don't have the education when you can compile those two, you're going to see those results. So I already have one piece of advice, one crucial tip. It's not what you're going to want to hear because in my opinion, there's no perfect program for somebody out there. There's no ideal program, it's trial and error and that's not what I wanted to hear. It's not what we're going to want to hear. But you're going to have to go through that time to see what works for you personally and tell you're going to be able to see those changes because no two people are identical and yeah, it would be great if there was a program out there that I could just go, okay, this one's for Billy, this one's for Todd, just go do it and you're going to see results but it's not that way. You have to literally trial and error your way into a program that's exactly what you need to see results. Do your research, put your plan in place and you're going to reach your goals a lot faster. So I said let's go ahead and kind of get started with what I do specifically for me personally with my training regime. Training for me is huge. It's the basis of my day, each day kind of is planned around my training. Not to say it's the only thing that I do or the one thing that I do but it's structured my life and keeps me organized and it's a huge part of my day. If I don't have my workout in I just don't feel right so for me it's kind of that center point in my day. With my schedule actually I'm able to go in. I'm pretty flexible, you know whenever it fits into my schedule I have a schedule where I can sometimes be in there in the morning, sometimes in the afternoon so it's pretty flexible when I actually go in and train. What typical workout for me is going to last anywhere from 45 minutes to an hour 15. I like to keep it under that, anything over that and I think you're, you know, a little excessive if you're in there a little bit longer than you need to be. I vary between five and six days kind of depending on my goal at that time but I don't like to train seven days a week. I really feel that a rest day is huge and letting your body recover. So a typical training schedule for me is typically like a two on one off three on one off. Most of my workouts are basically structured around a specific muscle group. I really like to take a muscle group say for example, your try set. I like to hit each head of that muscle and focus on that muscle group as it's his own. The actual part of the muscle, the individual head of the muscle is almost as if it's own muscle and you're training each individual part of that muscle and I train that way to really fully develop the muscle and so when I train I'm only going to be training one muscle group at a time. You know as far as sets in reps go it's really individualized for me personally. I like to do four sets anywhere from 10 to 12 reps. That's what's worked for me best is to break it down that way. I'm person that you know depending upon what my goal is and the way I'm training, there's times where I'll take no rest say for example a superset. Are those times where if I'm lifting heavy for like a larger muscle group like your back or your legs, I'll take an extended rest period almost up to three to five minutes to really allow myself to put a full effort in. As far as changing my program goals it's really something that kind of comes naturally for me. I really listen to my body and I really like to do exactly what it's telling me. If I'm stagnant and exercise I'll switch something up and put something in different and that kind of comes as I'm in the gym actually looking at a piece of equipment saying you know what I haven't used that before I'm going to try it. I'm going to give this a shot and all of a sudden I have a new workout program kind of just by gradually changing things in and out. It's not like I sit down and plan something out. I just really say you know what this muscle group isn't the way I want it to be so I'm going to switch it up and change it up and try and see if I can get some more growth somewhere else. A plateau is probably caused because you're doing the same thing for so long otherwise it probably never worked for in the first place. So when you see that you know realize it and change it you know try something different. If it's not working why are you going to continue to use it. As far as like a workout partner goes I really actually typically work out on my own and the reason is it is working out as kind of a personal thing for me when I'm in there. My hats low, my head bones are in and I'm in the zone and I don't want to be having a conversation with somebody about what's going on in their day because when I'm in there I'm in there to train and I do that best by myself. Your interest in it actually following my personal training routine check out the information below the franales move into my nutrition. You can really train as hard as you want you can have a perfect training routine but if your nutrition is an on target you're not going to see the results you're asking. My life is based on meals out anywhere from two to three hours you know don't like to push over a much over three hours like to get some form of nutrition every three hours. So the foods I eat never really change. The foods that I eat just change as far as portion sizes. I mean the actual types of foods are always there that's good quality sources whether or not my goal is to add weight they increase, decrease, they decrease. So how I basically break down my meals is I'm always going to want to have some sort of source of protein, some source of carbohydrate and then a source of clean fat within that. As far as protein goes you know you have your chicken, you have your lean beef, your eggs, your cottage cheese, weight protein. The carbohydrates you're looking at you know, a good solid carbohydrate source of oatmeal, sweet potato, brown rice, whole wheat rice. As far as fat sources go you look at your almonds, all the codos, olive oil. Kind of breaking down those nutrients for protein I like to stick with anywhere from one to one and a half grams per pound of body weight. As far as carbohydrates carbohydrates are really based on your goal at that time if you're looking to add a little more size more of a bulking type of phase you're going to have more if you're doing a cutting phase obviously you're going to you know slim down on those carbohydrates. If I'm preparing for a competition or something like that I'm going to actually bust up the food scale and actually start weighing this stuff out. But if it's just during during the time of the year I'm not going to sit and weigh everything out after you spend some time weighing things out you really get a better understanding proportion sizes and you can look at something and go you know what that is roughly 40 grams of the protein and that's good that's what I need. My diet is really based around goals all year round you know whatever my goal is at that time because it's the fourth of July and a month and I want to look good I'm going to change my diet for the fourth of July if it's winter time and I'm going to be wearing hoods sweaters all around I want to be bulking up a little bit so that's kind of how I just my diet how do I want to look at that point and match my diet up with that. So as far as nutrition you know it's not something that you only do at certain periods it's a lifestyle I mean I've sure you heard that all before too this is a lifestyle it's something you need to do day in and day out. I'm not a big believer and going out and getting some dairy clean or pizza hot. A cheat meal for me is eat as many clean carbs as I can in a day and that's fun for me I mean I don't have the desire to go out and eat a piece it's just not something for me there's nothing wrong with that if you limit it but for me personally I'd rather eat a whole bunch of clean foods than go out and have a pizza. You know when you're out and you're at a restaurant you're going to go out to the restaurant and you're going to order what you want to order. Tell the waiter exactly what you want if you want your sweet potato with no butter on a tell him that you just want a sweet potato you want some broccoli and you want a piece of chicken tell him that no bring that to you it's not like you're required to order what's on the menu you know get what you want and they'll don't prepare for you. Let's all have for nutrition if you want to see the full plan below check it out let's move on to supplementation. Supplements aren't the one thing you need it's a combination of things you know they're definitely one of the things you need to add in to the successful and work out of this thing you know. It's basically adding those things in your body needs that you're not getting natural I like to sit to the basics. I like my way protein my cats and protein I like some sort of a waxy maze product as far as like a pre post work out also like a multivitamin you know some sort of a you get your a magazine with a fish oil and a black and those are the basic you know not a big fan of crazy claims saying they're going to you know add 10 pounds of muscle in a week I like to stick to basics where there's actually some scientific data behind something saying that it's legitimately going to work but I definitely feel that supplements are a huge part of reaching your goals you know it's there when you know when the real food isn't you know if you need a shake here you need a shake there it it feels in those gaps and it's a huge part of your success. Say for example if I'm trying to get really lean you know I might add in a fat burner I'm trying to gain I usually do that with food alone. Get my full workout supplementation and nutrition program check out the page below you have questions specifically you can check me out on body space at SMDMN otherwise the more contact like this check out bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Training with Sean Hardge - Bodybuilding.com [1z74wvAN9f8].txt ===

I am Sean Hart, an active service member and the U.S. military. I'm the winner of the 2010 Military Challenge and I'm currently a bodybuilder and calm team member. I've been working out with injuries my entire life when I was five years old. I got burned on my arms and my back and legs. About 75% of my overall body and I was paralyzed for about two years. I didn't have four use in my left side and I still don't have complete use in my left side, which is a bit of a challenge. My physical therapist started me with some training like medicine balls and things like that. From there a lot of my training allowed me to bring my arms back to almost four use. And I went on and lift weights and become a lot bigger and stronger from it. And I've been inspired by some and I've been inspired others and it's just I get really motivated by one of the jump because it means more than me than just lift some weights. It's a lifestyle for me and I continue to do it for the rest of my life. Well I really didn't have a choice. My dad, he was in the training and my brothers was in the training. We started out with like water weights and eventually we graduated to the cement and then I got my first set of steel weights. And so I just fell in love with weights from the beginning. It was like the big thing in my house and we all wanted to play football and play different sports. And we all just got into weights and we just really enjoyed it. We did it as a family. The motivation is all the service members. The army, the Marine Corps Navy, Air Force, Reserves, National Guard doesn't even matter. All of those guys out there and I've seen a lot of them overcome a lot of obstacles. And since I'm active service member, I just motivate me to just give it them all. I see them give their all every day. And I see some of them pay with their lives. So that just gets you pumped up. And when I get into gym I just go home. Now that you know a little bit about me, I'm going to take you through some of my training principle. When you don't range, like we like to call it, if you don't range, you do it a lot of different obstacles. Some days you won't be able to work out. Some days you won't be able to train at all. And if you can't train, then you just got to overcome that. Next time you come up to that next training day, like say for instance, your back day was on Monday. And you had the work or you had to be out of the wire on Monday. When you come back in, you make Tuesday your back day. But if you out the wire and you want to keep some training up, you can do some push-ups. We wear a vest that weighs about like 12 pounds. And we look that around. So you can plenty of work out. But the traditional workout is a little bit different for us. So you just got to find ways to create workouts. Do push-ups. Maybe buddy assist to push-ups or buddy assist that on military press. There's just a lot of different things you have to create. You got to just be very creative. Pull-ups are really good as well. And sometimes we take tires off on. And then we take him into a big truck and we'll flip those tires. And that can be a great work out as well. So I do back in biceps on Monday, chest and triceps and Tuesday. On Wednesday I normally take an off day. Thursday I'll come back with my legs. Then I'll hit my shoulders and traps on Friday. And on Saturday I'll come in and do biceps and triceps. And that'll take another day off on Sunday. I rest two days a week. And I'll arm me when I'm back home and I'm not deployed. We do plenty of cardio because we do cardio every morning. We run about five miles every morning. Because I get so much cardio doing work, doing my own work time. I don't really need as much cardio on my off days. So I kind of straight away from cardio. I let off day be a complete off day. And I just stick to my diet and that's all. Pretty much all I do. I normally train compound movements. And I lift as heavy as I can. Because I figure as long as my nutrition's right. I just like to build as much muscle as I can. So I'm going there and slap as much weight as I can and try to use a best form. I keep set to rest around eight to 12 repetitions and set somewhere around three to four. When I have a plateau it's always good to have a partner because you can help you do negatives. You can also do peer meets and all the stuff that I've learned on bodybutton.com. And if I'm really stomp, I'll go on bodybutton.com. I find a new workout because maybe I've been working that same workout too long. Maybe I need to adjust fire and go ahead and try something new. So I'll pick up another guy's workout and attempt to do his discipline. See if that works. I have a partner in there because a partner can motivate you. My partner will motivate me when I didn't feel like getting up. I've been working like a 18 hour a day. He's kicked me in the butt and say, hey, come on. Let's go on this run or let's get up and get in the gym. And that was pretty hard because a lot of times you don't want to do anything after a long shift. Or you spend in a guard point. You just want to go to sleep. But he gave me up and I get him up when he was motivated. So you need somebody over there. You need a buddy. And you get in the gym when you get in there and you just give it to him. To get my four training program, look at the page below. Now let's get into nutrition. Just my diet a lot because the food is not as plentiful down. You don't have as much food to eat. You may end up having to drink a lot of protein shakes in order to keep the protein and take up. Have a good support system at home. My family will send me things constantly and so do Zangil. I'm not proper company with send me things like tuna and chicken and packages. And I would use that to keep my nutrition up. I believe in eating clean. I try to eat about six meals. I spaced them out about two to three hours of park. Three of those meals are made protein shakes. The rest, my eating some tuna. I like eating all of the court tuna. It's really good. Maybe squeeze like a lemon in there. It tastes really good. Also eat a lot of chicken. When I can afford it, I'll get some salafia. For car, I'll eat like sweet potatoes or whole grain rice. Right before I go to the gym, I try to take some carbs. That's when I'll eat my sweet potato or some brown rice. I just mix it up. Depending on how I feel, sometimes eat carbs after the gym. But that's pretty much it for carbs. Every meal after that will be vegetables. I start my day around like six in the morning. I eat a meal right before I go to PT. I'm after PT, I'll eat a meal. Somewhere around like eight or nine o'clock and go from there and have this continued space out three hours. I try to stay pretty consistent throughout the whole year. When I do walk up, I try to do it in small portions. Try to stay around like 35 or 40 grams of protein per shape. You keep my weight around 187 to 194. That's the pound that just tries to stay. Yeah, I do eat some cheat meals. I'll go to a restaurant. And it's really not considered much of a cheat meal because I still eat salmon. I still eat broccoli. It's just prepared a whole lot better. And I might drink some juice. But I try to stay all my meals are pretty healthy. I stay my be a cheat meal for me. Like I may eat a tea bowl. Has a little more fat on me. Well, you got to be, you got to pre-plan. You got to plan ahead. We do get to, I'm sensing stuff ahead in tough box. So we can pack up a box and send it to the head before we actually get overseas. And it'll meet you over there. But I did up packed up my bag with a bunch of tuna. And a lot of pre-package on. You chicken and different kinds of foods. So I'd have the right amount of protein once I got over there. Because you might not always have to be able to eat in a defect or a lunch room. So if you don't have that food, just be prepared that you might have been a complicated situation with food. And if you sense some over, you might be alright. Now you know a little bit more about my nutrition. You can get my full program in the page below. Now let's talk about supplements. The supplements I use, give me that extra boost that I need in order to get those last two reps. I'm not going to even get up and go on a gym and be motivated from beginning to end. So supplement is very important. Pretty much my supplements are our key. I take them every day. And I get off in a gym and it helps me stay motivated. Right off the top protein because I need to be able to supplement meals because I'm not always going to be able to eat a full course meal. So you gotta have your protein. You gotta have something to pump you out while you're in a gym. I like the nitrous oxide. Yeah, I've been changing up my supplements a lot now. Just trying to find something new for muscle building. Because you can use a supplement too much. You can stick with the same supplements so much day. Your body gets so used to it. That's not having the same effect that I had before. So sometimes you need to come off one. I'm also trying different on protein because they got the casing. And they have a lot of different kinds of protein that burn slower. I'm also looking at on finding out a lot more about the vitamins like B12 B complex. And I try to build on my vitamins. A lot of guys come up on my body space. They're on bright me letters and asking about the supplements to take in order to gain weight or to get stronger. And nothing can replace hard work in the gym. But if you're going to supplement like always giving advice at you research and look on there and see exactly what the supplements sound on the back is if it'll work for you. And then you've got to experiment sometimes. There's no exact science to taking supplements. You just gotta do a little bit of experiment with yourself. Alright, to get my training, nutrition and supplement program. Check out the page below. And if you want to ask me any questions, go on body space. My username is Shond.Hard. And for more content like this, go on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Transformation Inspiration： Don't Fail In Week 3! - Bodybuilding.com [SpmlX13vyyg].txt ===

All right, so the first question why do people fail week three? Honestly, how much time do we have? I say you get two minutes. Okay. People fail at week three because the excitement and the allure, the new program has now worn off and they're realizing that maybe the five things that you have to do to be successful and get your body to where it needs to be. I mean, to be, have to be applied every single day. Week one, you're really excited. There's no problem with sticking to your transformation in week one. It's brand new, you're super pumped and excited. People are supporting you. Week two is kind of more of the same. It's just days, you just don't feel like doing it. You end up going out of town for the start of the other. And hard to stay focused and go day to day. And that takes discipline and it takes sacrifice and it takes the willpower to say no to certain things, perhaps like alcohol and sugar. After that second week, it's kind of like a huge wake up call to your life. We have so many weekflaf to get to that huge body transformation. At week three, you go, I've been doing this for two weeks. I don't suddenly look like Mr. Olympia, I'm out. And week three is kind of that pinnacle week where you really need to dig deep and find something. We've all seen people start a goal and say they're committed to something. Only to fall off several weeks later. If you ask someone what their goal is, they'll usually tell you something very generic whether it's a want to lose weight or a want to build muscle. Looks shredded or slim down for that Vegas trip or a wedding. That just never sticks. First up, regardless of kind of what your situation is is really finding a plan. And whether that's a plan that someone else is going to implement with you in the form of a trainer or a plan that you're going to go on a site like bodybuilding.com. Get the plan, join the gym, take that plan with you to the gym, set little goals, even daily goals. Take a workout, lift five pounds more on your bicep curls, the second time you do bicep curls and then the workout you had last week with bicep curls. Think about how good it's going to feel to achieve that goal, really visualize it, picture it in your head. What is that going to look like? What's it going to look like when you drop those pounds or fit into a smaller dress size? How does that feel? How does it feel when your family or friends patch on the back and they're just ecstatic for your accomplishment? Because you look at yourself in the mirror every day, right? So when you're trying to make a change over a 12 week period, it's hard sometimes to see that progression in yourself. And so tracking is really important to help you to move forward towards your goal so you can look back and reflect and see what's working and what's not working. That's what keeps me going. That's why my workouts are interesting and very single week. I know that on December such as such, I was able to bitch 250 pounds. January 1st, I was able to bitch 260 pounds. If I didn't track that, I would never know. How this transformation is not just going to affect their body, but it's going to affect their job, it's going to affect their personal relationships, it's going to affect their confidence, it's going to literally change, take every area of their life and improve it. So in order to be successful in this, you have to make it a habit, you have to make it your lifestyle. Dedical, find a plan, track your progress, stay motivated, make it a lifestyle.

=== FILE: Transformation ｜ Bodybuilding.com Commercial [YF6unqL_Rpw].txt ===

It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at Bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds and lives for free. It's absolutely possible to change your life. I'm a prime example of it. I can go on to Bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Go to Bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free.

=== FILE: Transformation ｜ Bodybuilding.com Commercial [_7SuXDUUsfQ].txt ===

It's time to put before behind you and make after a reality. It's time to join over 8 million people at bodybuilding.com who have transformed their bodies, minds and lives for free. Now it's completely disgusted with the way I look, not so myself. I ain't going out like that. Bodybuilding.com has complete fitness plans from the best experts, athletes and personal trainers to help you accomplish any goal. My health just started to decline and I wasn't happy anymore. Bodybuilding.com changed my life. Answer a few quick questions and bodybuilding.com will provide your perfect plan. You can definitely change a life. I'm a prime example of it. I can go on to Bodybuilding.com. I can find a plan and I don't have to pay a dime. It's free. Bodybuilding.com has everything you need to burn fat, build muscle, and become your best self. Go to Bodybuilding.com today. Change your life for free.

=== FILE: Tricep Dumbbell Kickback - Tricep Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [HyqTb_jE_oI].txt ===

Start with a dumbbell in your right hand facing your torso. Place your left knee and your left hand on a flat bench. Keep your back straight with a slight bend in the knee and bend forward at the hips. Your torso should be almost parallel to the floor. Make sure you keep your head up. Your upper arm should be close to your torso and parallel to the floor. Your forearm should be pointed towards the floor as you hold the weights. Your upper arm should be a 90 degree angle formed between your upper arm and your forearm. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your upper arm stationary, exhale and use your triceps to lift the weights until your arm is fully extended. Focus on moving the forearm. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower the dumbbell back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: Triceps Dumbbell Kickback - Triceps Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [ypJA34CWr78].txt ===

Start with a dumbbell in your right hand facing your torso. Place your left knee and your left hand on a flat bench. Keep your back straight with a slight bend in the knee and bend forward at the hips. Your torso should be almost parallel to the floor. Make sure you keep your head up. Your upper arm should be close to your torso and parallel to the floor. Your forearm should be pointed towards the floor as you hold the weights. Your shoulders should be a 90-degree angle formed between your upper arm and your forearm. This will be your starting position. Now while keeping your upper arm stationary, exhale and use your triceps to lift the weights until your arm is fully extended. Focus on moving the forearm. After a brief pause at the top contracted position, inhale and slowly lower the dumbbell back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: Triceps Pushdown - Tricep Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [HIKzvHkibWc].txt ===

Attach a straight or angled bar to a high pulley and grab the bar with an overhand grip as shoulder width. You'll want to be standing upright with a very small forward lean. Your upper arm should be close to your body and perpendicular to the floor. Your forearm should be pointed towards the pulley as they hold the bar. This is your starting position. Now using your triceps, exhale and bring the bar down until it touches the front of your thighs and your arms are fully extended. Your upper arm should always remain stationary while your forearm's move. After holding for a brief pause in the contracted position, inhale and slowly bring the bar back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: True Muscle Trainer： 9 Weeks To Elite Fitness ｜ Promo [iM4ISSAyoys].txt ===

For the True Muscle program, is a nine week brief-based program. What you're going to expect from me is the coaching staff. Don't swing them up. I'm Steve Weatherford. I am a plentcher for the New York Giants. Priority number one is performance, but it's a constant battle because I'm not a football player who loves fitness. I'm a fitness guy who plays football. The primary goal is to build muscle, but it's not the only goal. You know, anybody can come into the gym and train as hard as I can for one day. But can you do it day after day after a month after a year? To win the True Muscle program, I'm going to take you step by step. You're going to get the sets. You're going to get the reps. And a lot of cool form cues to help you get better results. We're going to condition the muscle. And we're going to help you build the physique that you've always wanted.

=== FILE: Ultimate 30-Day Beginner's Guide To Fitness ｜ Training Program [yBMGtuUBAbI].txt ===

It's time to break free, to kick the couch, to become your best self. It's time to experience the power of your body, the joy of energy, the strength of muscle. It's time to change your life. You don't know where to start? We have your guide. You think fitness is complicated? We make it easy. You don't have a trainer? We have the best in the industry. 30 days, 30 challenges. We'll teach you the essentials, training, nutrition, supplementation, what to do in the kitchen, and how to perform in the gym. Everything you need to live the fit life. You have the right to be fit. Take the first step. This is the ultimate 30-day beginner's guide to fitness. I'm Steve Koch, International Fitness Personality and Optimal Nutrition Athlete. And I'm Kathleen Tessori, bodybuilding.com athlete and fitness model. And we are your beginner's guide coaches. For the next month, we'll help you build a fitness foundation. You can use for the rest of your life. After just 30 days, you'll know how to train with barbells, machines, and even just your body weight. You'll learn how to mobilize and stretch and how to become explosive and more powerful. You will learn the basics of building muscle and losing body fat. And in the short time we have together, you will work just as hard in the kitchen as you do in the gym. The development of these skills will be a progression. Laying one brick at a time until you get to the end, realize you've built an incredible fitness foundation. When you have completed your objective for the day, you'll be that much closer to the body and knowledge you've always wanted. This is fitness, one day at a time, one challenge at a time. Instead of blindly following a workout program or wondering if it's right for you, you'll be able to take control of your fitness journey. You'll learn the underlying principles, techniques, and strategies that mark the difference between positive, progressive change and a lifetime struggle. You'll have the knowledge and ability to control your body, your nutrition, and your results. We're here to make sure you never have to give up on fitness again. You have the right to be fit. We can help you exercise that right with confidence. We need decided to distill the fundamentals of fitness into a program specifically for beginners, for people new to the gym, who have been to the gym recently, and those who want to ensure they've really got the basic stance so they can keep growing. This program is simple and progressive. Instead of obsessing over your food, you learn how to make wise choices and manage a busy lifestyle. Instead of following workout cement for professional bodybuilders, decades of experience, you will practice the basics of fitness and athletics. This is exactly what this guy delivers, giving you daily incentives, information, and advice completely free. Every day will present a new challenge. It will be simple and specific, and will give you everything you need to complete your objective. In our first week, you will determine a starting point. Learn the important parts of a workout and learn the basic principles of nutrition that fit this professionals rely on every single day. In the second week, we'll tackle more advanced workouts. Learn the basic principles of movement and recovery in the essentials of supplementation. We'll also guide you through meal prep and other important nutritional strategies. As you move into week three, you will uncover key strategies to carve off body fat and build shape we muscle. You'll be able to see how these concepts are incorporated into many different workouts. And you will begin to use food to cheer thematically, shape your physique and performance. The final week teaches you how to raise the bar and continually progress in your workouts. Cooking will no longer become a daily chore. It'll be a part of your planning and preparation for success, particularly as you learn to feel and recover from your training. After one month, you will have completed 30 challenges that teach you how to move, control and transform your body. Your wishful thoughts will become goals, and your goals will eventually become your reality. You will be ready for a new challenge. If you're ready to learn the fundamentals and get fit for life, check out the page below for complete details on what you need before starting day one. I'm Kathleen Tessori. And I'm Steve Cook. And it's time for you to take your first step.

=== FILE: Ultimate Fat-Burning Workout ｜ Brian Casad [aTXblDlhXNo].txt ===

Hey guys, this is Frank Asad. Today we're going to take you through a massive hip workout, high-intensity interval training. We're breaking it down into three phases. Each phase is a circuit. So the first circuit is going to be explosive strength. The second circuit is going to be strengthened in endurance. And the third and final circuit is going to be straight endurance. So the point of this workout is to get you in and out of the gym as quickly as possible. Because you're hitting the strength, you're hitting the endurance and you're hitting that cardio. Typically this workout should only take you 15 minutes. Now if you're a little bit more beginner to this, it's going to take you probably 20, 25 minutes because you're going to end up resting a little bit more. It's going to be a little harder for you. To make it through this workout, it's going to be a bitch. You're going to be pushing yourself pretty hard. And by the end of it, you're going to be laying on the ground. Grandit they might be 15 to 20 minutes. This can be the worst 15 to 20 minutes of your life. Let's break down each circuit into more detail. First circuit in this workout is going to be explosive strength. It's broken down into eight different exercises. We have no rest in between, so it's going to be tough. So you're going to start off with 20 seconds of boxing with five pound dumbbells. You're going to go right into 40 seconds of burpees. 20 seconds of boxing again. 40 seconds of run jumps. 20 seconds of boxing. 40 seconds of push ups. 20 seconds of boxing. And then we have 40 seconds of squat jumps to finish it off. Once you finish with that first circuit, then we go right into strength and power circuit. We're going to go with 30 seconds of boxing. Then 30 seconds of sprails. 30 seconds of boxing again. 30 seconds of lateral squats. 30 seconds of boxing. 30 seconds of side to side push ups. 30 seconds of boxing. 30 seconds of in and out squat jumps to finish it off. You finish circuit two. We have a third and final phase of this workout, which is our endurance. Give yourself about 60 to 90 seconds of rest period in between each one of these. Let's go with 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of high knees. 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of quick checks. 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of spiderman. 40 seconds of boxing. 20 seconds of jumping knee-tucks. The goal of this workout is to burn fat. So if you're doing a program or six weeks long, whether it's four weeks long, whether it's two weeks long, I recommend you do this at least three times a week. The full breakdown of this workout is detailed below. Here at Bodybuilding.com. If you have any questions about this workout or any other workout, please feel free to contact me on BodySpace at cassette 44 Instagram at cassette 44 Facebook, Brankessad or Twitter at Brankessad. For more free videos and articles from athletes like me, keep coming back to Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Ultimate Surprise - Bodybuilding.com's 2015 $200k Transformation Challenge Winners Full Video [DDZmLlma_Yw].txt ===

That's him. The green half. Let's try to stay together and maybe kind of come up from behind. I'm trying to get it. Excuse me, Matt. Hey, Robin. You got him, cheating. This is 24 team bodybuild.com. I'm a $5 transportation child winner. So the game plans today is made from underwinter. So we're trying to track down one of your members who we've selected as the winner. We have our locations selected. Tak on, Amaris, come here. Tak on, Amaris, come here. Then. So, it was so awesome. I just got back from the last trip of our 200k transformation challenge. Surprise! What we do at Bodybuilding.com, we really do change lives. I walked out and was holding all of the money this morning. And it's not just these people that win that we get to go take, you know, $8,000 of cash to jump out, you to surprise how they're gym. The lives that you change and the ripple effect that comes from that eye. Wish everyone could be there for that moment. You guys get a glimpse of it in the video. But just to live in that moment is just unreal. So we've just closed the Diamond Ties and Bodybuilding.com, 200k transformation challenge. So many contestants were able to complete the transformation challenge this year. We've more than tripled our completion rate of last year. And the team is in the room ready to rock and sort through all 4600 contestants. It's going to be a very exciting and very long day as we do that. First sorting, meeting of the year. So I think most of you guys all know the great news, but we had almost tripled our completion rate of the transformation challenge. We have 4600 people to sort through. And that's great. Which is really, really awesome. And it seems like it's going to be tough. Some of them have already posted their progress pixel along the way and before and after is then look really compelling. So it's going to be tough for us to sort through and. And decide who is voted into the next phase. So that will be me on Tuesday. We can actually finalize our top 20 and get those up for the people's choice voting. She did shows before. Yeah, she does show. Oh wow. Yeah, that's great. Sounds good. Yeah, it's good. The train is going to be on the field. It's just a couple of them see. It's a couple of them see. It's a couple. We look as much as drastic but the scale weight. All right, so Dean Plan. Game plan. What are the only 2,000 people? Yeah. We've got the weekend to sort through these 2,000. By Tuesday, we have to be at our top 20. Yeah, top 20. And we have to also figure out what time it ties to. Yeah. Yeah. They want to have say in the top 20. Yes, we'll probably rate. Rethos and then send them. Nice hair. What is it? Is it up? Sorry. That is not filling. That is not filling. Yeah. My fingers hurt. Yeah. Yeah. It's been a long day. Yeah. I'm going to. Yeah. You're going to drop. Okay. So the game plans today is we need to come on here with winners. We've got 40 people to review. 20 females. They all look awesome. We've narrowed it down from 4,600 finalists. Yeah. We started with the females first. Well, we told you we actually dropped the 33 pounds. We did act as long as the body is finished. You can act as long as the body is finished. She did be able to lift it and get it back. And then, like, on the sixth stage, we did not have that much time to return. Yeah. Yeah. We've got 20 more. First act. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. So we've got 20 more. This is the X-T-R-R. Yeah. This is going to be tough. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. We've got 20 more. It's going to be great. It's going to be a game engagement too. We've got to look like the same person. I think it's going to start that. I need to. How old are those are on winners? Yeah. Boom, crazy. So we selected the winners of the 2015 bodybuilding.com transformation challenge. And now we're kind of stocking them a little bit to try to find out where we might intercept them to surprise them with the cash prize. We identified that the girl winner looks like she was working with a training coach. So I'm going to attempt right now to reach out to her coach, try to make contact and hopefully set up a phone call with her just to explain where hey, when your client is one, can you help us kind of trick her and it being somewhere at a specific time, or at least give us a more information on how we could find where she is so we can go change your life. Yeah, I mean that's the hardest part is making this first contact. Okay, and I must have the wrong number. Okay, thank you. All right. Sorry. Bye. That was a good test call. I think doing it last year too makes it. I feel a little more confident that we can actually track them down and do this and everyone's like so hyper connect this on social media that if you dig it around in a field find where they are and someone will tell you where they're at. Who know that's kind of sketchy. It's Samantha. It's Keith from Bodybuilding.com. How are you? Good. Thank you so much for calling me back. I'm so, so excited to have you for it. And the fun part is now that we go and surprise her with her prize and I figured you'd be more than willing to help us. Okay, that's awesome. Yeah, cool. Oh, thank you. Yeah, no, thank you so much. So beyond excited. Awesome. Hi, Cindy. This is Collector from Bodybuilding. Hi, how are you? Good. How are you? Good. Thanks. And we are calling about the cash for our prize winners. Okay. We have our locations selected. Hi, Marina. My name is Keith. I'm actually with bodybuilding.com. Are you familiar with our website? Uh-huh. I don't know if you know our transformation challenge we do every year. Yeah. So we're trying to track down one of your members who we've selected as the winner. Ideally, we'd fill the gym bag up real nice with the tens, but if you say you can get that amount of cash and some other denominations, we're open to that too, because we understand we're really putting a crunch on you guys. The tens would definitely be preferred. You guys, I'm really excited about this one. I'm really pumped. I'm really pumped. I'm really pumped. I'm really pumped. We made it. We're going to change some more lives as yours can be so pumped. Yeah. So we're on our way to the bank to go pick up the $80,000 cash. What up? We are going to go meet up with Sam, the trainer, and we're going to go, you know, talk some some shop, make a plan, so we can surprise her with her. We need to. So it's the eve of surprising Chandler with his prize. And I was just kind of sitting here reflecting on what it's like to give this guy all this money. I don't know for me it's cool to see it. Intense stacked up on my bed. It's kind of cool, but you know, we're really giving this to someone that busted their butt. That most likely could really use this money as I'm sure any of us could. So not only has he found a new path to fitness and this new physique and this new lifestyle or reconnected with an older lifestyle that he used to have, but he now has access to some funds. So get up right in early tomorrow. We're going to meet in the lobby at 4am and make the hour plus drive down to Max Jim. So we hope to be set up there and ready to roll and surprise the heck that was. Alright, we have a few minutes till Chandler should be here. So we're all getting ready in the back room. Get a little nervous, get excited. It's almost go time. So we got to make the count. We're going to surprise them. Hopefully there's a great reaction and we're good to go. And hopefully you show them. Yeah. Oh yeah, PS. I hope you show us how to work out today. Hello. Okay, could you actually give her permission to come up? Can you let her into the elevator? He's not going anywhere. He's going to go lift. Yeah, that's a sweet bit. Hi Nina. Hey Chandler. Hey, what's up? Can you hold my bag real quick? Yeah. Thanks. I just want to do our see. 10. Hold on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. It's a sour. 70. 80,000 dollars. Congratulations. Congratulations. I don't know. I just should have. I'm not even wearing a bow. You're the 2015 Bodybuilding.com. Transformation Challenge winner. Power by Domitas. Congratulations. It's a stop shoulder. Yeah. Well, thank you. Yeah. Views are great. And it's a big relief. I guess because we're just starting out. It was kind of like now. And how are we going to get some traction? We'll save here. So it's nice to know that's one worry that we don't have milk. We're going to just start now. So it feels wonderful. I'm so happy. I guess. I honestly already felt like I wanted something really big, just by finishing. In the beginning, the money meant a lot to me and that got me going. But later on, it changed into something deeper than that. I was just so sick and tired of being unhealthy, having these bad habits. And I think it was making me more more depressed. It really brought down my energy. I just wanted to stop all the negativity. Like my negative thoughts, my negative body image. I wanted to feel empowered. I wanted to feel energized. I wanted to feel alive and doing my best every day. My dad was in the fitness. I would get into it for a few months. And then I don't know what was just too hard or other things would come up. And I'd make excuses. But mentally, I was always kind of leaning that way. And I wanted to do something with it. I just almost couldn't find deep down what I needed to to really just go on. And I guess the focus and drive that a competition like this gives you can make you do more than you thought you could. If I really think about it, the hardest part of this transformation was my mind. I had so much negativity. So that was the hardest part. Just calming down and focusing, doing the things I needed to do without getting too emotional. Without getting too caught up in what if. But you suck and you don't look good enough or I don't think you'll make it. Like all that stuff I had to just kind of go, okay, you're there. But I'm still going. It wasn't the prize money aspect of it. Honestly, it was my wife that that's what kind of changed form. It's like not just the countable to me now. I can do this because she believes that I can't. So I didn't want to let her down. I didn't want to let me down. And that's what really drove me to do it this day. I can everyday live this way. If I'm going to give us a chance at a starting life that this is a really good opportunity for me to. And if I put in all my effort, then at least I won't look back and go. If I only done this different or that different, I wanted to just look back and say, I wouldn't change a thing that I did. I lost because somebody was just better. I was so crazy about wanting to do this before it started. And I was so driven throughout. I would feel weak sometimes, like tired, exhausted. But I just wanted it so bad. I got a coach that I trusted. And then she told me how to eat, how to work out. But then I supplemented all that with bodybuilding.com. Like I looked up a lot of the exercises that I've never heard of that she told me to do. And I'd watch the videos. I really paid attention to perfect form. I did where you can create your own program. I like that freedom to be able to tailor it to how I was feeling or what I felt I needed to hit more. I'm so grateful for where I am now. I'm a totally different person. Not just the physical looking at me and everything, but I guess it's just my attitude. I'm happier. I'm really in. I want to be in the fitness industry somehow. But I don't really know where I fit in. I love motivating people on Facebook and Instagram. I like just posting stuff and getting people inspired and excited. And so that's where you need to start. You need to start with what are my reasons for doing it. And then find your strongest reasons and realize you're going to have to use those through the whole process. And those are what you're always going to go to on the weekdays and the days when you don't want to go to the gym. You've got to fall back on that reason and really think about that and have it drive you. Hi, I'm Nina Namm. I'm Chandler Candid and I'm the 2015 Bodybuilding.com. $200,000. Transformation Challenge Winter. I'm depositing some cash. It's kind of a lot of cash. I have it in my bag.

=== FILE: Ultimate Surprise - Bodybuilding.com's 2015 $200k Transformation Challenge Winners [wv3nus8Jo_E].txt ===

Excuse me Matt. Hey Robin. This is insane. We have a nice $50,000 check for you. So we got our $80,000. We're changing the lives. Made it to the land. We're Missouri. We're going to change some more lives as you hear me so far. So it's the eve of surprising Chandler with his prize as the male winner of the 2015 Bodybuilding.com transformation challenge. So get up right in early tomorrow. We're going to meet the lobby at 4am and make the hour plus drive down to Max Jim and Park Hills, Missouri and surprise him at the gym. He comes in at any time between 6 and 6 and 15. So we have to be set up there and ready to roll and surprise the half out of him. So we're on our way to the bank to go pick up the $80,000 cash for Nina. The female winner of the 2015 Bodybuilding.com transformation challenge. We're going to invite the surprise of the hotel with her coach. It's kind of cool. We really know it's too expect when she opens up her work. Alright, we have a few minutes till Chandler should be here. So we're all getting ready in the back room. Get a little nervous, get excited. We're in a surprise him, hopefully has a great reaction and we're good to go. Hey Chandler. Hi Nina. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Come on in. Hey, what's up? Can you hold my back real quick? Yeah. Thanks. I just want to do a lot of see. 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, 10. I just see a bit. Oh my god. 60, 70. I'm not even wearing a bow right now. 80,000 dollars. So I'm Keith and we're here with Bodybuilden.com. So you're the 2015 Bodybuilden.com Transformation Challenge winner. Powered by John. I'm a big fan of you. And that's your bag of cash right there. 80,000 dollars. That's okay. Congratulations. You're a big fan of me. You're a big fan of me. Yeah. Feels great. And it's a big relief. Other people have noticed the changes. Not just the physical. She's just trying attitude and a happier, really. It's out gosh. I don't know what to say. I already felt like I won. I already won the biggest thing, which was knowing that I can do something if I really commit to it. I guess the focus and drive that a competition like this give you can make you do more than you thought you could. I'm grateful to Bodybuilden.com for changing my whole life. I'm Nina Nam. I'm Chandler Candin. I'm the 2015 Bodybuilding.com. $200,000 transformation challenge winner. I'm depositing some cash. It's kind of a lot of cash. I have it in my bag.

=== FILE: Unlock Flexibility： Dynamic Stretches Using a Box! [CluME_Fk8fI].txt ===

Boys and girls as time for some recovery so we're gonna do a bunch of stretches that you're gonna use a box for This is the cash stretch on a box really good for opening up that hip flexor Stretching out through that quad I would like to say you want to probably maintain about 60 seconds to two minutes in these positions gonna help a lot This one is also one of my favorites. This is really good at opening up the triceps and the lats Just making sure your ends of your elbows are up on the box From here I love an outstanding upright pigeon pose getting stuck into those glutes and a little bit of that lower back as well Make sure you don't feel any knee pain here if you do just decrease the range From there guys, I'm gonna go into a bit of a salaya stretch So getting through that ankle trying to increase that range so we can get deeper down into our squats This is a really good one one of my favorites. It just takes a pressure off if you would like to increase the stretch Intensity you can use one of these kettlebells just to increase that stretch here Now we have another one we're going through a little bit of lower back and hamstrings This one's really really good for just lengthening out a little bit more But don't use a heavy weight if anything Go lighter than what you expect. This is really good for just lengthening out and creating some space One of my favorite ones is one from there guys We're gonna go into a bit of a upright struttle Falancing ourselves on that box getting stuck into those the duct is one of my favorites as well enjoy

=== FILE: Upper-Body Dorm Room Workout ｜ Katie Chung Hua [B__5igUytME].txt ===

I might be petite, but I'm still a badass. I grew up playing hockey and I've spent the last 10 years in the gym, building lean, sexy, muscle. You think I lift like a girl? I'll take that as a compliment. I'm Katie Cheng-Wa. Today's workout is one of two workouts that I designed for you. It's for people that have minimal workout area with minimal workout equipment. Today's upper body workout is going to be used primarily with resistance bands. If you don't have resistance bands, I provided a whole list of alternative exercises below that you can do. So today's workout is going to be primarily an upper body workout consists of 12 different exercises that shouldn't take you longer than 20 minutes. So the first exercise you're going to start off with is burpees. It's a full body exercise. You're going to do three sets of 15 with minimal rest in between each set. The next exercise group that we're going to do is a superset of back rows and chest press. It shows this exercise because you can wrap it around a bent post or anything that's stable. There are going to do as many as you can depending on the resistance of your band. So you're going to do three sets, say, between 15 and 20. The next exercise is push up with rows. You can do with weights or without weights. If you don't have a dumbbell just find something that you can grab, maybe a can is too. You want to do three sets, try to get between 15 and 20. The next exercise group is a giant set of bicep curls, tricep dips, and upright rows. You're going to be doing the resistance bands for the alternating bicep curls and then you're going to be using the side of your bed, a chair, a box, anything for your tricep dips. And then again your resistance band for your upright rows. If you're going to be doing three sets of this, anywhere between 15 and 20, if your triceps are burning out on a lower rep round eight, you can bring your feet into make it easier. The next exercise is going to increase your heart rate again. It's going to be three sets of 20 jumping jacks with this minimal rest as possible. The next exercise is arm circles. You're going to do it with your thumbs down because that's going to target your shoulders. And it's just one burnout set so you do as many as you possibly can for as long as you can. The last exercise group is going to be for your core. You're going to do v-ups, leg lifts, and planks. Now for your v-ups and your leg lifts are going to do as many as you can. And then for your planks, you're going to hold it for about a minute to a minute and a half. And you're going to do that for three rounds. So that concludes one of two workouts that I have built for you for your small dorm room apartment, minimal space, minimal equipment workouts. If you want to check out the lower body workout, you can click the link below. And if you have any questions for me, you can find me on body space at Chengwa. For more videos and content like this, make sure to come back to bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Upright Barbell Row - Shoulder Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [KzYlXWXVw3o].txt ===

Grab an easy crowbar or barbell with an overhand grip. Use a grip that's slightly less than shoulder width. The bar should be resting on top of your thighs with your arms extended and a slight bend in your elbows. Your back should also be straight. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and use the sides of your shoulders to lift the bar. Keep the bar close to your body as you raise it. Continue to lift the bar until it nearly touches your chin. Your elbow should drive the motion and should always be higher than your forearms. Remember to keep your torso stationary and pause for a second at the top of the movement. Now inhale and slowly lower the bar back down to the starting position.

=== FILE: Variation 5 Front squat finalv3 [rlCSSiuQECU].txt ===

Alright, so this squat variation is the front squat with no belt. I'm still wearing a heeled shoe so I can get the proper position. You're going to set up with your pinkies right on the rings or thumbs a little bit off the smooth. Now, one thing you want to make sure your conscious of is creating that shelf with your lat so the bar can sit on it. So, when you come up under the bar, flex your lat's hard. Take the bar out and force your elbows high as you're going through the movement.

=== FILE: WORKOUT PREVIEW： Lower Body #1 with Coach Craig Bongelli [Bc8F9Vq61vo].txt ===

Alright guys, we are going to hit a squat workout together. Okay, we're about to start the work set. On one of the absolute king kings' songs of exercise, which is the back squat. It is incredibly important that you focus. You want the much way that you can handle with perfect form, but you want to stay focused every single rep. On big movements, on heavy movements. Staying in the zone is key. So here you have to do before the set. Get your head right and we got five of these to do. Let's get to it. That is our first work set. Out of the way we got one more to go. What are bigots back in the day? We're talking 70s body building like classic. They believe going up and weight on your squat, built every muscle in your body. You talk to an old school guy like I want bigger arms. He's like cool squat. I want to bigger back squat, bigger legs squat. And I can't guarantee you it's going to make your biceps explode, but it is going to make you a bigger, stronger, better, more capable human being. It is dynamite, but you're going to push. You've got to push to get those results. When you pick this up, when I'm picking it up, there's part of it's like, who? That I make the right choice. That's a lot of my back. It should feel like that. And then you go nail it. Full focus, full aggression on the squat is the key to success. And we're only got one more of those to go. As always, I'm going to try to push my pace a little bit so you're never waiting for me. But if I'm going a little fast and you need the pace, I'm attempting to keep here. It's not the pace that's absolutely necessary. If you need a little more rest, you know, it's paused the video and come back to it. I'm going to take another 15, 20 seconds baby. And do the last heavy work that. Kind of like I said before, the last set. You've got to get your head right to perform squat well. If you need a couple extra seconds, if you need a stand there and breathe, if you need to focus, whatever head space you need to get into, just stay ready to squat. And this way, it's trying to crush you. That's how it feels at the bottom. If your head's not right, you can get hurt. You can miss the weight. You can not get optimal results. You get your head right. And let's get through our last heavy work set of squats for today. Oh. Alright, let's do this. We made it. We got one more set of squats left, but it's not a heavy work set. We're going to do a back-off set. We got our two sets of five. We'll draw every time we're going to try to push our weights as much as we can. Next to the back-off set, you're going to take off roughly 30% of what's on the bar. And then do as many reps as you can for one all-out set. You're going to target hopefully eight to 12 reps here. It's probably a little under 30%. But I'm going to take off a plate from each side. So it doesn't have to be exact, but roughly 30% is what you want on your back-off sets. Okay, with the squat. The squat is probably the number one lift. For people to ego or excitement about adding on weight, takes them in the wrong direction. I want you to push this as hard as you can.

=== FILE: WORKOUT PREVIEW： Lower Body #2 with Kristen Lettenberger [iXlK50ggRd4].txt ===

Hey, bodybuilding.com, coach Kristen here. I hope you are ready for this leg, glute burner workout. So squat position, you're going to squat down prime the glutes and hamstrings, explode up, repeat. Two more. And rest, make sure you get a nice soft landing when you're doing these jumpsquats. Take a breath. You got two more rounds. Do you want to grab some dumbbells? We're doing front squats next. Ooh. I need a breather. Let's get those legs primed. They're going to come into that squat position again. Explode off, land nice and soft. Do you turn with me? You got this. Last one. And rest, awesome job. We got one more round. Okay, guys. Get your breath. Grab some water. Don't rest too long. Really trying to get our legs to be explosive. Get that power. All right. Let's go back in. Ten more. This is your last set. Make a count. Last one. And rest. Awesome job. Okay. We're going to go toward dumbbell, front squat. Grab some light or moderate dumbbells. Catch some water. Breathe a little bit. Me and me back here. Whoa. All right, team. This is your dumbbell, front squat. So you're going to bring the dumbbells up to your shoulders. Try to keep that core nice and engaged. You're going to squat back. We have eight reps here. Quot. Control that back up. Exhale as you stand. Two. Half way. Two more. Last one. And rest. I love this movement. Especially in that rack where that front squat position. Because it's going to pull the weight forward. You have to use more of your core to stabilize. And it's a great way to fire up your quads. And so when you do that front squat, you gain a little bit more abdominal work. With this movement, we got two more rounds of eight. That felt way too easy. Grab a little bit heavier. Grab some water. How off? Take a little longer if you need to. All right. Bring it up. Front rack position. Nice to be breath on the top. Exhale. Half way. Two more. Last one. All right. Be mindful when you're doing this movement that your knees aren't following in. You're really driving your legs through that floor. Keeping your core engaged. Or so in a more upright position. All right. We got one more round. You can rest a little bit. Take it out. Meet me when you're ready. You got eight here, okay? Down bell is up. Rack. Inhale. Engage. Half way. Two more. Last one. Awesome work. That was your three rounds.

=== FILE: WORKOUT PREVIEW： Strength for Athletes #1 with Coach Ken Yu [J0AVH9tmNh4].txt ===

Hi everybody, bodybuilding.com, Master Coach, can you here and I'm about to get you through a strength for athletes workout. We got kettlebell squats, one more rows and leg lowers for our first set of exercises. We got locked and loaded. Come up. We're getting some nice squats. We're gonna push. Big key here. It's getting a big nice stretch. Really pushing with those legs. It's a quad exercise. If you're not feeling your quads, you're not doing it right. That's the only thing I really want you to focus on. Drive with those knees. Feel those squats. Last one. 15. Perfect. Next up we got Renegade rows. You're going to step back into a side lunge, support your elbow. We're going to pull and sweep this back feeling our legs. Big stretch and pull. We got 10 each side here. Big squeeze. Big stretch. We got last one for 10. Great. We got the other side. Same support. Pull and stretch. You look back and be like a little bit more. Last rep. Great job. Blum more rows. We're going to go into leg lowers, put this weight to the side. Go we lift those legs up. Hands flat. You're going to drop. Try to keep your pelvis nice and neutral. Only goes far as you can go. We're still feeling your abs. This is in a back exercise all the front of your abs. Keep going. We got five left. Last one. We're all done with that first round. Take a second. Nice easy breathing. We're going to grab our kettlebell and just one second. Ready to get that kettlebell squat? One at the end. Here we go. Nice steep squat. Keep your form real good. Pressing those legs out. This is our concentration was quiet. Double left. One more. Great job. Check it out. Deep breath. We'll take a step back into that side lunge and we'll get that long more row. There we go. Extratch and pull. Last two. Last one. Great job. We're going to switch sides. Step back. Brace. And pull. I was moving that stretch. Driving back. You should feel in your legs. Last two. Last one. Good job.

=== FILE: WORKOUT PREVIEW： Total Upper Body #1 with Coach Gabe Snow [pCp6MwxuEF8].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com. It's Master Coach Gabe Snow here with you today. We've got a great poll day for you. We're going to get those biceps nice and pumped up. Get the back lid up. Maybe show you some new moves that you're not used to and something new for you to take home. And maybe some old school stuff that you've already been doing. If you're first set, we've got three sets. Three exercises here. Three sets of each. So the reason I say like to moderate is for the fact that I want you to really emphasize your form today. Okay, we're going to be doing a lot of reps same day. We want 15 to 20 of everything. Again, keeping it light. The reason I had you focus on so much of the hamstring stretch when we were down on our butts is for this hinge. Okay, when people do better rows, most of the time they just kind of fold their chest down, fold it the waist. I want you to hinge your hips and find your hamstrings. So you should be feeling a stretch in your hamstring as we get down into this position. Okay, from there, I'm driving my hips into my hands, excuse me, I'm driving my hands into my hips and I'm squeezing my shoulder blades together. Okay, that's a nice proper bent-over row. You're not logging it back and forth, keeping everything nice and controlled do it light, do it right. Okay, I'm four or five in here, keep that form, exhale as you pull. Okay, same thing, don't lose your hamstrings. Keep fighting that stretch. The more you hinge, the more that you put your weight in your hamstrings, the flatter your back is going to be. And the more you're going to save yourself and possibly pull in that lower-lumbar back, which we all know, F and socks. So really protect yourself, do everything nice and smart here. Okay, we're training smart, more than we're training hard. They'll be time-per-hard, you just wait. Okay, we go four, three, two, one. Okay, so there's your bent-over row from there, we're going to go standing up right-row. So first that up right-row is okay. You had that upright row from the floor, we were in that half-needed position, now instead of the bend, we're using both hands and we're using a little bit of legs. Okay, I got a little bit of a decent weight here, so I'm going to load my quads as I extend my legs. Guess what I'm doing? Does it put up that winter coat? Okay, I put it up to the winter coat, but it's got two zippers, but that's okay, because it's the same motion either way. Maybe some of you have to just use two hands anyway, who knows? Okay, so we got 20 of these bad boys. Again, if you want to make this a little bit more challenging, a little bit more upper body focus, maybe you are a body builder, maybe you are somebody who's really looking to isolate the delts and the upper back. What I'm going to have you do is not load the knees, lead forward, wait in your toes, and you're just going to bring the hands to your chin. Okay, just the hands, not using any lower body, no hips, no quads. Let's go about three more, and then we got our first set of curls, which I'm feeling a little bit intimidated with right now, because I feel my biceps as we speak last one. Here we go, swap into the curls. Don't even have curls, have you or like you're brick and weak, but I don't really train arms like this anymore. So body building days are behind me. Here we go, first set of curls. After you're a lot of pulling, you're going to get a little bit of bicep activation throughout, so you're going to be a little bit depleted, so be humble and wait for it. So these 20s are going to feel happy for me. So what I'm going to focus on 20, perhaps start what I'm going to focus on, more than anything is my form. I'm going to keep my elbows really tight to my body. I'm going to make sure I get a nice good contraction, and I'm going to let them fall slow. Okay, I don't want to see anybody swing in these, obviously I can't see you, but you can see me, but if you can see yourself, don't do that. Okay, keep your elbows tight, let them fall slow. If you're getting bored with that hammer curl, you can go ahead and supinate, turn the hands up, and you can see the little knots you got going there and the biceps, make yourself feel good. It's all around with a little static training, and I'm your functional strength guy, but I did bodybuilding for a long time, and I think I got it, because otherwise I won't have anybody biceps now. Okay, ready to go four more, three, two, last one, let them fall slow, elbows tight, good, what the dumbbells down, shake it out. That was your first block of dumbbell strength. Okay, good pull day, solid form. There's the way to grab before I feel in light, go up slightly, but maintain form today. Again, everything when we pull, we can't really see. So you can't really see your lads, you can't see your scapula is moving the way that you want you to, so I want you to focus on how it feels to the exercise. Okay, if you're lower back to hurting, after that set, that's probably because when you were in your dumbbell but on a row, you were rounding a little bit. So do try to push the hamstrings out a little bit more, keep your chest and back flat as you row, or you can go back to the floor stretchers, hamstrings out that'll make that exercise a little bit easier. Okay, we're about to make our way into our second round. All of this set, all of your first dumbbell block. Grab your weights, open up those hamstrings, knock those on the top of the thigh, slide it down, nice to slow and sexy like, chest is up, shoulder blades are pinned. First, rep, we'll 15 to 20. See how you guys are feeling?

=== FILE: WORKOUT PREVIEW： Upper Body #1 with Coach Yaya Vargas [c-UIIvSUppA].txt ===

Hi everyone, this is Coach Yaya. Welcome to your athletic upper body workout. We're going to move straight onto our primers. We're going to need two things here, a band and a fixture that we can tie it up towards. And we are going to need a medicine ball. So we don't want to pick anything too heavy here. We want to pick something that's light that can be explosive. And we're going to start off with that band. We have two sets of 10. Now with this band, we want to be able to loop our fingers on both sides. We want that band to be about chest level. We're going to create some tension here by creating some distance between you and the fixture. We're going to go for a 10 ballistic reps. Bring those elbows towards our base. Here we go. Two, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three, two, three. And rest team. We are going to immediately go over to our bent over medicine ball slimes. And we're just focusing on power here, staying in that hinge position, really crossing that ball into the ground or going for 10 reps. And rest. That was round one team. We're going to do one more just to get that blood flowing. After this, we should be nice and warm in that upper body. We're going to go for those 10 reps once again. Here we go, all the weight in your heels, making sure your shoulders is back on top of your hips. Here we go. And rest. Last one of those medicine balls. Feeling nice and warm already. Here we go. Hinge position. And rest. All right team, we'll be seeing that medicine ball a little bit later. We're actually going to get started. We're at our first superset. For this first position, we're going to grab a dumbbell straight into a single arm dumbbell press with a band that I so hold. We're going to bring that band down from where we had on our ballistic rose. I'm going to start off with the band on my left side, creating some distance between me and the fixture here. Pop in the dumbbell up on my hip. Starting position. Here we go. Hand right over my shoulder, squeeze in my boots. We have 10 reps. And rest. Beautiful team. Now the way to switch over here carefully is just to place the dumbbell on the opposite side. Take a look back, find that band once again. Create some space between you and that fixture. And we have that opposite. And three, two. And while I'm really making sure you're creating tension on that band, here we go. And rest. Awesome team. We're going to transition over to our superset, which is the Gorilla Rose. We're going to bring our Katabas into position. Now we have that one, one, two counts. Four, five reps. All right. Here we go. Starting off in three, two, and one. That's one rep. Two more. Bring the pushing your feet into the ground here. Bring that elbow towards your rib cage. That is set number one team. We have vertical push here with some Gorilla Rose for those lats. And between each set, you can take about 60 to 90 seconds. Drink some water, catch your breath. You can meet me on the ground once you're ready. No need to rush here.

=== FILE: WORKOUT PREVIEW： Upper Body EMOM and AMRAP #1 with Coach Harry Vargas [G6Q6GvkLIJ8].txt ===

What's up, bodybuilding.com, coach, Harry Vargas here. And today I'm gonna bring you guys this really fun upper body strength and conditioning workout. And let's get it started. So let's get that kettlebell ready. We're still gonna be in that high plank position, just like you wearing your pushups, except instead of going up and down, we're gonna go ahead and drag that kettlebell side to side. All right. So we have about 10 seconds left. Let's get ready kettlebell on either side, doesn't matter if you start off on the left or the right. Plank position, ever going in three, two, one and go. You got 60 seconds to get 20 of these pull-throughs, each time you pull to one side, that is gonna be one rep. Keeping those hips nice and steady. Make it sure you're keeping your arms straight and hands right below your shoulders. Halfway there, let's go to team, use that core, keep that body stable. Or more. And let's put not least. 20, there we go. Take that rest time, take it either. We got about 10 seconds left. Next movement, we're gonna get into a tall kneeling, dumbbell curl to presses, dumbbells curl, coming into effect. On your knees and we're going in three, two, one. Curl up to your shoulders, press overhead, come down, reset, we're going for 15, two, three. Making sure you're squeezing your glutes. Keeping those hips tucked in, abs engaged, making sure they're standing up nice and straight. Yep, that burning sensation. It's gonna start kicking in right about now. We gotta push through a team, we got about 15 seconds left. Let's go, last three reps, two, nice and last one, up, down, down, nice, we got about 10 seconds left. We're gonna hit our last and final movement of the E-MOM before we start from the top again, coming down into that low plank. On your elbows, we're going in three, two, one and go. Now, when holding this low plank, this is the last movement of the E-MOM. So this is an active recovery, right? Gonna focus on gathering your breath, call me yourself down, keep your nose elbows, press against the floor, and then you're gonna get your breath. Corning, the closer together your feet are, the harder it's gonna be, the more you spread them open, the easier it's gonna be. That burning sensation is now gonna go away, fortunately, but that is where we're looking for. So let's go ahead and we just make sure that we're pushing through it. Right team, we got about 20 seconds left, let's go. Catch your breath, all right? Once, these 45 seconds are up, which is right about now. Let's go ahead and take a breather before we get into those pushups. Got about 10 seconds, let's go team. Shake it off a little bit, get that blood flowing. Go into that next round. Second round, coming up in three, two, one. Let's go 15 pushups. Two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two, two. As you start to fatigue, please do not let form and technique go out the window. Always wanna make sure technique informs crisp. No matter how tired you are, let's go, we got five more. Two, two, two, and time. Nice, left, whatever's left over of that minute. Go ahead and take that rest time. Right, we got about 30 seconds rest. Go ahead and shake it off, get that blood flowing. Let's go ahead and get that kettlebell ready. Put that second set of pull-throughs. Remember, once again, doesn't matter if it starts on the left side or the right side of the plank. As long as you're pulling through and making sure that your hips are nice and stable as you pull from one side to the next. We got about seven seconds left. Let's start in that high plank position. One in three, two, one, and go. We got 20 pull-throughs, let's go. Two, two, three, two, three, two. Two, three, two, three, two, three, two.

=== FILE: Waxy Maize Guide - Bodybuilding.com [wOxsxymqcNk].txt ===

Rastame Starch is a star tree's carbohydrate that comes from a certain type of corn, then when you cut it and put it on the microscope, it looks waxy. And that's why I got the name Waxi-Mane Starch. Rastame Starch actually is a slow-dad gesting, low-glaced seemic, low-inch-slim-spicic carb, and it raises blood sugar gradually, and brings it down so it's a good long-distance or long-term carb to use without a blood sugar crash. Rastame Starch because it enters the blood slowly, give you a person that are involved in long periods of training, or people that have a blood sugar crash when they take other carbs, because over a long period of time it doesn't lead to a blood sugar crash. Rastame Starch, you can use it before training, you can use it about an hour before training, to allow the slow-dad gesting carb to get into blood, or you can use it right after training, to combine it with protein, and because it leads to slow gradual insulin rise and a slow blood sugar rise, it can be something that can be used for recovery if you get a blood sugar crash from other carbs.

=== FILE: Week 1 Prep Contest - $200,000 Transformation Challenge [23ki_0OpmSA].txt ===

I'm Lawrence Balinger from Diamond Size Interition. January is the start of the transformation season in the annual bodybuilding.com and Diamond Size 200K transformation challenge. All December alone, we're helping you prepare for your best year yet. Join us for the next six weeks as we help you prepare to challenge your life and when a thousand dollars each week leading up to a 200K transformation challenge. This week's challenge commits a fit. Let everyone know that you plan to succeed in the new year by sharing the transformation page and telling your friends to join you. It's really important to share your transformation goals and your social media just because it holds your accountable. It also helps keep a nice tight network of other people willing to keep you motivating and keep the motivated as a great group circle to close your accountable. So this week you have an opportunity when a thousand dollars on store credit on bodybuilding.com. All the details on how you can win are in the clickable links below and also on the landing page on bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Week 2 Prep Contest - $200,000 Transformation Challenge [c-tlUpZ5IBY].txt ===

I'm Lawrence Balinger from Diamond Size Interition. January is the start of the transformation season in the annual bodybuilding.com and Diamond Size 200K Transformation Challenge. All the symbol of law, we're helping you prepare for your best year yet. Join us for the next six weeks as we help you prepare to challenge your life and when a thousand dollars each week leading up to a 200K Transformation Challenge. This week's challenge is all about sharing your plan. Join the official $200,000 Transformation Body Group and share your transformation challenge workout plan. This plan could be either one of ours on our site or one that you create it yourself. So a link for the official body group is in the link below. As well as on bodybuilding.com, 4-slash Transform. This week's winner will be announced on December 15th.

=== FILE: Weight Loss 101 ｜ Ep. 18 ｜ The Bodybuilding.com Podcast ｜ Jacob Zemer [evqEsDx-4Q8].txt ===

Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's up, bodybuilding.com, listeners. My name is Danielle Bitz and welcome back to the BB Compaq cast. Today I'm joined by Jacob Zimmer. Jacob is a performance coach who works remotely with executive level clientele, helping them lose weight through nutrition, exercise, and accountability. Jacob has an authentic approach to fitness and nutrition designed for people with demanding careers, families, and real life priorities. He works with people who are concerned with their health and for whom fitness is a passion, but not the number one priority. He's been featured on CNN, Fox News, and various publications for his relatable, no BS approach to fitness and nutrition. Jacob, welcome to the pod. Danielle, thanks for having me. Yeah, I'm kind of surreal. Like I grew up with bodybuilding.com, like going on the forums for a formal education, it's really like how I learned to train and learn a lot about nutrition. I love to hear that. I love to hear that we have an OG on today. I'm excited to jump in. Yeah, I always wanted those kids who discovered working out really through the internet. YouTube and things like that are what taught me in bodybuilding.com is what taught me the foundations of nutrition and training prior to my education. Yeah, amazing. Amazing. Jacob, I want to hear a little bit about yourself. I want to hear how you got to where you are today. And then I want to jump right into things. Sure. I want you to give us to it straight. Everybody, we are talking weight loss 101. So first, Jacob, T.S. up with a little bit about your background who you are where you come from. And then let's get into that weight loss 101. Sure. So I am from a town called Portville, New York. It has a population of 959 people. My mother became pregnant with me at 16 years old. My dad was not very involved. He was a bit of an alcoholic. And I really didn't have much of self esteem growing up. And I had ADD, struggled with reading, things like that. And when I turned 14, my mom was like, you know, why don't you try out the YMCA, why don't you go? And I immediately gravitated to that environment. The men there, I was like, that's what I want to look like when I grow up. And I started weight training. And I got really engrossed in the culture. And that really was like my first sense of self esteem. I had like a sense of confidence through working out of super skinny. I was skinny. And what I stuck with it. And I kept pushing myself. Through that, I really found not only a passion, but then eventually a career. And I didn't even think I was going to go into fitness. I was always definitely afraid that if I did what I do now, I would be poor. So I tried to avoid it for a period of time. But eventually, I so glad that I made the decision. I made the leap to take a career in fitness. And now, today, I've, like, a dozen certifications. I've been on a ton of publications and news and podcasts and things like that. And my real, my footprint, my contribution to the world is I have helped thousands of people lose weight. And people, some people can't afford services who just watch me on Instagram. I'm where a large following, Jacob Zimmer, all the way to clients. I have a large remote client business where we coach people. And just to be able to have a positive impact on the world. And to change my life through helping change other people's lives. Yeah, the thousands of transformations that you've helped complete in all of it, are the number of years that you've been doing this is tremendous. It's apparent on the social footprint that you have. And just, you know, the testimonies to the work that you do and the lives that you change. So I really do want to, I want you to give it to a straight, like when it comes to weight loss 101, let's do some myth busting here. So run us through the things that do matter when it comes to shredding fat. Perhaps the things that don't need to be as stress as they typically might be due to influence pseudo science or plain old misinformation. So somebody comes to you, Jacob, and they say, hey, I want to lose weight. I've tried for years. I can't do it. What's that high level starting point for you? I'm sure I actually considered myself like the anti-influencer. You know, like you've ever heard the phrase anti-hero. Because I just try to talk about real, applicable stuff for real people. And I think when it comes to fat loss, there's eternity. And it is first and foremost being in a clerk deficit, which simply means that you are burning more calories than you are consuming. And that is the most pivotal thing that you can do when it simply comes to losing weight and fat loss. The second most important thing that you can do or equally as important is point eight times your body weight and protein. You need to consume protein. And the reason that's so important is when you think about body fat percentile. It's obviously a fraction or a percentile. There's a numerator and denominator. So one of the ways you can decrease body fat is by building muscle without gaining fat. Or losing fat while maintaining muscle. And so protein helps you do that. So for most of my clients, I set that around point eight times your body weight. And that goal is simply a floor, which means that's the middle metal protein. So take me away, approximately 240 pounds, say my protein goes 200 grams. It doesn't matter if I have a little bit more. It's just not going to necessarily benefit my body fat percentile. But that 200 grams is the minimal amount I eat every single day. And the third part of the Trinity is weight training. And weight training is just so vital because again, it's going to help you either build or maintain muscle. And both of those things are part of lowering your body fat percentile. And those are, I would say when it's strictly when it comes to fat loss, those are the three most important things you can do. Where does BMI come into play here? This historically has been a big metric that we're going to our annual physical. This is how we're determining whether an individual is healthy, not healthy obese, not obese. What do your thoughts on BMI today? Yeah, I'm going to upset some people and I might even buy it even upset you Danielle. BMI is still relevant from a public health standpoint. So the who the World Health Organization just did this major study 30 years over 400,000 people globally. And what they found is one and eight people are now obese. That obesity is now a greater epidemic than starvation at least at a global level. And so BMI applies to basically over 95 percent of the population. Now, here in the states and for most of the people who are listening to this podcast, we have the luxury of what is known as bio-impetent scales. So these new scales that you buy an Amazon use step on the scale, it's going to send a low voltage through your body, which is going to then be able to pretty accurately, this you know, this is a real wiggle room and that may be 10 percent margin of error, which is pretty significant, but at least can detect the difference between fat and muscle. And so that's going to give you a better indicator of where your body fat actually is. But there's rare occasions where BMI is not relevant, even even with myself. So I am technically like 33 BMI, which means that I am between obese and more blueberries. Well, I'm not. I have probably closer to 10 percent body fat. I can fully see my abs, but even with me, even with my BMI being that elevated, I have to have my body fat under 15 percent. So even if you have the excuse of, oh, I'm just very muscular. Use it for that to be true. You need to be able to see your abdominals when you're in the mirror. It's not the sole, but it's still relevant. And I know people hate to hear and they love to bash at these days, but it's still relevant, especially for public health. You touched on this a second ago. You said strength is one of those three key pillars when it comes to weight loss. I want to talk about strength versus cardio. You know, what is the quote unquote golden split? And now we're always going to say it depends, right? I think we say that probably every episode that we film here. But why does it depend? And briefly, touch on this now. We are going to get to this later in the topic. But I want to look at the strength versus cardio ratio for weight loss. What's the general recommendation? So cardio is vastly underestimated when it comes to health. And I think that's changing the stigma's actually being, or the lack of understanding of how important is for your health is going away. But when it comes to strictly fat loss, like trying to get shredded for the summer, weight loss is vastly superior. And the reason, again, is because when you look at body fat per centile, it has both, if you can build muscle, well, losing fat, you do crease body fat per centile. If you can lose fat while maintaining muscle, you decrease body fat per centile. So for that reason, if you were strictly to build a program for fat loss, you would prioritize weight training over it. And the correct amount of weight training is what you can recover from. So if you can train four days a week and you find that you're adequately recovered and every session you're not sore and you're able to keep lifting more and more weight, marginally like maybe you add a 2.5 on each side of the bar, or you add five on each side of the leg press, or you're getting one extra rep, then maybe there's room to start training five days a week, or maybe six days a week. Most weeks, I train five to six days a week. And that is ideal for fat loss. But that doesn't mean that for health reasons, you shouldn't incorporate cardio, it's just, it's not as vital as people think. Unless you're a long distance runner and you're just piling on miles, it's not going to be the goal to tick it too fat loss. And when we say weight training, what style weight training are we referring to? So for strictly fat loss again, it would be her purtrophy based or body building based. And the reason I say that is again because it's just the game of how much muscle you have on you versus how much fat. That doesn't mean that there's not room to do kettlebells or crossfit or any of these other different modalities. But when you're talking about strictly fat loss, you want something that's going to put muscle on your body. And be most efficient way to do that is, you know, split that allows you to train a muscle somewhere between two and three times a week. And for most people, they'll benefit from training the same muscle grip release twice. A lot of people really gravitate. We'll talk about it more detail later, I think, but throughout other people gravitate to push, pull and legs or I do legs push pull because I prioritize lower body. And that's a good generic split for most people in a larger, to train each muscle choice. And in those fundamental movement patterns, sure. You know, again, we're covering weight loss at a very high level. And we do have two or three additional topics that we're going to dive into very shortly here. So moving a bit to a high level of nutrition, you know, you hit it on it before, color deficit is going to be huge. You know, diet culture, fat culture is all of it. Carnivore, keto. You know, we can sit here for hours and talk about each of those, right, and the benefits versus the negatives. But let's talk about, you know, when I say dieting, I'm more so referring to restrictive eating. You know, versus more so training your mind to think about whole foods and that color deficit. Yeah, let's break down nutrition at a high level. Sure. So at a high level, nutrition is about sustainability. It's about consistency. You know, being able to do something consistently, even if not optimal, is better than something that's done optimally, but not consistently. So the same is true with nutrition. When I think about how to start thinking about nutrition, I would say prioritizing protein is a really incredible place to start. And the reason for that is protein has a high satiety. It's very satiating. It also is going to guide your food decisions because most junk food is in high and protein. So just by having a protein goal, it's going to help you with nutrient selection. And then the other factor is it's going to help with body composition, because protein helps maintain and build muscle. I think we've nailed that topic in enough times, but it's very vital. And then fiber. Fiber is incredibly important. Everything that we see about fiber, the more and more we learn about it, it's so important to get enough fiber in your diet, which really means plenty of fruit and vegetables. And then maybe signing in fiber and some other foods or products as well. But I think it's very important to track your fiber again, because it's satiating. It's going to keep you feeling full, and at the same time, the health benefits are massive. I think also really you want a partnership when you are starting to think about long-term nutrition. I am one of the most quantitative guys in the world. I'm very data driven. And I know that the number one reason people hire me is for partnership and accountability. And when you look at the success rate on a diet, or it's 3%. And all the 3% that are successful, about 80% of those people, will eventually regain the weight. But when you add a companion to that journey, whether it's your friend, whether it's a trainer, whoever, that number, that's the tistic jumps significantly. And when there's three or more people involved, now we need to get a community of people, like a team of people, whether it's a trainer, or an nutritionist, a couple of friends, who are going to get the work out in with you, it becomes far more likely that you'll be successful. Yeah, I think it's, you know, like I said before, it's the restriction aspect that really can put you one in an isolated spot, and then just send you down a route for failure, right? Let's just say that. I mean, eating two carbohydrates is more filling to me than, you know, eating four of our bags of chips. And after I eat those two carbohydrates at two o'clock in the afternoon between some of my calls, I'm like, I'm good. Yeah. I don't need anything else, but those days where I sneak for a couple of other things, now I'm going for a second thing. Yeah. So the situation is absolutely true when it comes to the high protein. I, if I go ahead. Sorry, I have, I have two, a 340 grams, which is one of those big containers of raspberries every morning. It's, it's a ton of five, or just start my day. Exactly. And I have that along with some protein, and, you know, I don't need to eat for three, four hours later, as a person with a very high at the breast and metabolic rate. Right. I was going to say in fiber, you know, that's been a big, big ad for me. I would say we're the last three, four years, not only for the gut microbiome benefits that we're now seeing, but same thing, satiation and just longevity. I mean, the things, you know, I'm making my nightly shake, I'm putting, I'm doing my, that's when I do do my protein powder, but I'm doing hemp seed in there. I'm doing flax seed in there. I'm adding everything, you know, all the seeds that I may not be getting in my daily diet. I'm sprinkling hemp seeds on, you know, on my salads and on my lunches and things of that nature. It goes a long way. And, you know, hemp seed, a scoop of hemp seed, you get 10 grams of protein out of something like that. It adds up. You can fiber and then you'll make a threes. Right. Massive. Right. Let's jump into sleep's role in weight loss, because I don't think people necessarily correlate weight loss and sleep, but we need to talk about it. Yeah. So this is probably the most depressing thing that we're going to talk about today. We'll get it done early. Yeah. Let's get it over with. It's probably the most, either that or the amount of exercise that you should be doing, because people have careers. They have families. The truth is, is that physiology is hardless. It does not care about your feelings. It does not care about your schedule. It doesn't care about what you have going on in your life. And I always tell people like, people I have a very strong tone in coaching. I push people. And part of the reason for that is because I say we're up against something far more brutal than I am. And when it comes to sleep, adults should be getting 7 to 9 hours of sleep. And so it's not just the quantity, we all are where also it should be quality sleep, but also it's the consistency. It just makes it. It's a very hard combo because you should be going to sleep roughly the same time every night and waking up the same time every morning. And most people like, you know, weekends that that time shifts, but the reality is consistency of sleep is one of the most important factors. And these things like the quantity, the quality and the consistency from a hormonal level, standpoint, you know, testosterone, leptin, I could go on and on, but also from a diet at here at standpoint. Everything we have indicates the less sleep you get, the more likely you are to adhere to your diet. So get your labs done annually, make sure that you're testing. And also really do your best to prioritize sleep. I have a dedicated sleep ritual that I do where I use like blackout shades. I put the temperature of the room to like 65 degrees. I have a pretty strict bedtime. It's really important to cultivate a good sleep and do what consistency. I think it was two or three weeks ago. I was actually just having this discussion. They just came out with an updated study for women. They recommend a 9 to 10 hours. And honestly, I need that. I like the luxury that 9 hours is, but let me tell you the difference of me waking up 9 hours versus 7 hours. I feel it. And for me, sleep has become the biggest game changer. Not in the sense that I wasn't a great sleeper before, but just the way I'm laser focused on it now. And the, you know, the ability that I now can recognize a good sleepers is not great. So sleep and how that impacts the rest of my day from my food choices to high. So my workout to how I'm even speaking to people in my workplace, right? And it or my partner at home. Yeah. Sleep is for me at least number one these days. I get, you know, as a sleep probably four to five nights a week in the other nights I get 9 hours a sleep. Yeah. And like I said, consistency, you know, there's like a button hour window earlier or later sleeping and are going to sleep. But you want to keep it around that. And most nights I'm going to bed around 9 on the weekends. It's a little closer to 10. And I'm getting those, you know, 8 to 9 hours a sleep. Yeah. In that conversation, I was having someone said to me, who has the time? And I'm like, but think of, just try it. I think that's my challenge, right? I think you need to try it. I think when it comes to anything for sleep and nutrition and moving, you can sit here and preach to people what's worked well for you. What's worked for previous people that you've worked with. And until somebody actually starts trying something for themselves, they're likely not going to really recognize that. Yeah. Till they start to see their lives change. And that's my biggest thing in that right now that I'm pushing is like, just try try to go to bed an hour earlier, or 40 minutes earlier. And try to get into that routine. But you're hitting it at the nail in the head. Which is a lot of what we're going to talk about. We're going to talk about do not mindlessly eat today. And the same is true about sleep. Look, maybe I'm a newborn baby. Maybe you have off hours for work right now. I get it. But just be diligent and do the best you can. Don't don't get obsessive with perfection. When you hear 8 to 9 hours, a lot of people are 7 to 9 hours. People immediately shut down. Don't shut down. Do the best you can. And over time it will get easier. And perhaps will circumstances change in your life. It will also become easier. But just be aware and start to think about what can I do and where can I get the wins where possible. Right. I agree. You touched on this hormonal. I want to talk about hormonal imbalance is being a block or for weight loss. Because this is something else that is becoming a huge topic. Yeah. And it can be a catalyst for weight gain. And the overall importance of labs for fitness goals. So kind of let's touch on hormones of it. So I want to start by saying burning more calories than you consume. Colloric deficit is still how you lose weight regardless of hormones. However, there are imm hormonal imbalances such as hypogonism where you have clinically low testosterone. There are medical conditions like hypothyroidism. These things affect things like your body's composition. If you have clinically low testosterone, you're obviously not going to be able to build and recover as well. And recover from workouts as well. If you have hypothyroidism, even though it's still how many calories you burn versus you consume, you are burning less calories because your metabolism is not as functional. So at the end of the day, it is still. You can still lose weight regardless of what's going on with your hormones. However, you want to make it as easy on yourself as possible. And so optimizing your hormones is going to make it much simpler to get the body, the physique that you always wanted. And so it's imperative that you get your labs done every year. And especially important ones like lipids, like apple lipid protein, things like low density, lipoprotein. Those are lipid markers, triglycerides, which probably people are more familiar with. And also on top of it, getting your testosterone checked, having your estrogroil checked, having your thyroid checked. You want to have these markers checked. And you want to be doing them again, at least once a year, you get to 40, 35, 40 depending on family history. You should be doing it at least twice a year. Yeah, I've gotten to the point where I'm doing every quarter at this point. I'm just so dialing. And again, this episode is about not being obsessed to the point where it's, you know, but if you are someone who has a history, I'm for myself. I have autoimmune. So, you know, it's something I really like to be dialed in on. But blood work is the gold standard in terms of, you know, dictating what adjustments you need to make to your routines. I think it's great to not get obsessed about food. It's okay to be obsessed about health. Like, especially if you have prostate cancer, if you're family, be obsessive about your PSI. If you have heart disease in your family, be obsessive about your coronary calcium scan and getting your lipid's done. Because you need to be alive to play the game. All right. So, though that's, if you're, one thing to be obsessed about is health. Right. Let's talk about VO2 Max, Jacob. This is the last point for topic one before we dive into topic two. Where does VO2 Max importance? Because I feel like VO2 Max and historically has been tied to performance athletes and people who are pursuing a specific sport. But when it comes to gen pop, it's like, what's a VO2 Max? It's not about that. Out of respect. So, we've talked strictly about fat loss here today and why you should prioritize weight training. However, when it comes to health, VO2 Max is your leading indicator of longevity. What does that mean? It's your leading indicator for how long your life span will be. So, VO2 Max simply looks at the maximum amount of oxygen you can utilize while doing intense exercise. And so, this score, so if you're between 35 and 45 in your man, superior VO2 Max is around 50. If you're a woman in that same age bracket, it's around 45. Your younger, the score has to be higher. If you're older, the score has to be lower. But that VO2 Max number is an indication of how long you will live. But you can do, you can raise that number, thankfully, through a couple of means zone 2 cardio, very effective. Though you do have to do a lot of it. Or you can do intense intervals of cardio, like zone 4, zone 5, where your heart rate is 80 to 90 percent of your max or 90 to 10, 92 percent of your max. Those will help increase your VO2 Max. But we've talked so much about how you have to wait for fat loss, but for health, cardio is really vital. And VO2 Max is simply something you have to go and have a test ran. They'll put a mask on you. You'll breathe into it. I did it using an air dime. I had a score of 53. What's mean, the superior range. I was really happy about that because I'm not a cardio bunny. I do do cardio every week, but I'm much more prioritized, weight training over cardio. Yeah, and it is becoming more accessible. You know, I get mine here down at the spoke physical therapy in midtown. And you know, it's becoming more accessible than it used to be even five years ago. It's quite which I love to say. And people are more aware of it. Correct. Correct. They are all awareness that are certainly growing. Yeah. I didn't want to mention one thing before we move on. We talked totally about what, like, what's the actual truth to weight loss. But I don't think I mentioned any of the myths. So I do think it's important to just say myths that I see all the time about weight loss, carbohydrates. It's such a villainized macronutrient. But truth is I have coaching clients. I have them tracked their total calories. They're protein consumption and they're fiber. The exact macro breakdown of carbs and fats. It does not matter when it strictly comes to body composition. Now carbohydrates are protein sparing, which means if you have carbs, you need less protein in your diet. But other than that, as long as you're having adequate protein, there's no bearing on composition. And this macro nutrient is still villainized. And then now I think another myth. The carbs are not the enemy. And all, and they're yummy. Yeah. They're yummy. They're the energy driver. 100% and fruit and vegetables are carbohydrates. Yes, which not a lot of people. I'm not many people understand that. Yes, and if you want to talk about something that just from a diet standpoint, you know, there are no, which is the next myth I would say is there are no magic foods that prevent you from losing weight. Perhaps other than alcohol, I'll talk about that in a second. But there are no magic foods. Like you can have ice cream and still lose weight as long as you're burning more calories than you consume. But if you want to talk about like there are certain foods that make dieting easier, fruit and vegetables are certainly those because they're so low in calories, being so high in fiber. And the micro nutrient value in a fit like polythenals, antioxidants, vitamins and minerals are so high. So they're going to help you feel associated and full and feel excellent well dieting. So I think those are two major myths that are out there that they just need to push away. You mentioned alcohol. Did you want to touch it? Oh, yeah. So alcohol might be the one exception. Look, I know it's not a popular topic, but it's a group one carcinogen. It's listed under the same thing as cigarettes or tanning beds. I drink from time to time. But that might be the one thing that actually will affect in terms of calories and calories out because it blunt muscle proteins synthesis. So it's not going to allow you to have an optimal body composition if you are drinking on a regular basis. Would it be fair to say if we are going to remove something as alcohol or something to remove? Yeah, and look, look, some of my clients like love when I say this stuff, some of my clients get to upset when I do posts about this. But just the truth is people just need to be aware again and have that in the back of their thought while they're making decisions. But alcohol is one of those things that probably alcohol and trans fats up the top of my head are two things that if you can eliminate do so. Interesting, though, for a long time people who drink moderately actually live longer than those people who completely have stain. And I believe that's because of social reasons. Once upon a time alcohol is a very vital part of social engagement. I think that culture is changing. I think there's so much community around fitness these days that you can find groups of friends that are like, hey, let's go for a rocker. Hey, let's go hit the weight room or things like certainly all my friends I've always had buddies who I go and lift with. Oh, yeah, I'm going to the sauna with friends these days, which I love bath houses. I love the culture that's developing. I'm going to say, all right, Jacob, let's head into topic two for today. We're going to talk about dumbing down grocery shopping. I know this is a great one for you. If you go to Jacob's Instagram. He has a ton of great clips where he's physically in the grocery store. Jacob, we've all done it and we go to the grocery store hungry and that could be deemed as a cardinal sin at sometimes. Maybe you just worked out. You've ventured into the snack aisle. Just a little something to keep you satiated while you go back to your produce and chicken. So hungry or not. How do we grocery shop with weight loss at the forefront? I mean, it's always interesting to see the studies that suggest when you're grocery shopping hungry. You're going to make bad decisions. And even the psychology of how grocery stores are built out so that you spend more money. I think they both highlight one really important thing, which I was talking about, do not mindlessly eat. And that means that you want to go into the grocery store with a plan and you want to know why you're going there. And now like you're like you're hitless, like the regular stuff that you purchased. I mentioned those raspberries I have every morning. Like every week I spent $35 on just berries. And I eat like every day I'll have a container of raspberries and I'll contain our blueberries every single day. So know the foods that work for you in the sense of you can adhere and sustain them in your diet and have a plan before you step into the grocery store. Let's talk about some general recommendations here. We're going to tiptoe around this again. Everybody's a case by case. So you know kind of what are those big what are the big check mark items that we want to do. You can talk about it from a macro perspective where you can actually give some more tangible takeaways. Yeah, so I think first and foremost the foundation of a diet is lean protein. I mentioned my Instagram. I commonly talk about what's called the protein test, which means that for every as an example. If you walked up to a package and it had 20 grams of protein on it. I would say that product or that food should have 200 calories or less. So take the grams of protein simply add a zero to it and does it have that many calories or less. Then that food passes the protein test. Why? Because every coach out there is giving people protein goals and the first thing anybody who starts tracking what they're eating struggles with is getting adequate protein will stay under their calories. So lean protein is the foundation of a diet. Doesn't mean that saturated fat doesn't have a place in your diet, but leaner proteins is a great option to start for the first foundation and then fruit and vegetables. Very, very important fruit vegetables and lean protein. That's your solid foundation and then you can build off it from there. And again fruit and vegetables are so important because they're so high in micro nutrients. And they also just low calorie while being very filling. We talked about BMI and like that generic advisement. How it's good for public health. You've heard people always say have five fruits five vegetables. That's not really based on anything per se. It's just really good generic advisement because it's a great way to get micro nutrients in your diet and also get fiber and I would say for public health. That's great. And then also getting that wide array of colors where people like eat all different colors of fruit and vegetables. Again, really a great idea because that's going to expose you to different types of antioxidants and different types of vitamins and minerals. So I think those are highly important and then we talked about those hemp seeds that you love those are omega threes. So we have three real there's 11 types of omega threes, but we really only talk about three DHA and EPA those come from fish and then you have ALA which comes from plant sources. And it's very important that you get a omega threes in your diet. So certainly when you're shopping things like salmon and chowies and on everybody loves anchovy. And chowies are deans. These are really important to incorporate. And I walnuts, you know, another excellent option. You want to incorporate some form of omega threes. So that'd be my animal protein that's linked fruit vegetables and then some sort of omega three preferably fish. But you can also have some ALA sources like you touched on her. And then that protein section, you know, micro nutrient diversity has been a huge incorporation of the last several years for me. And make a rainbow in your play as you said. I mean, there's truth to that. Yes. The more amount of diversity I went from having maybe, you know, I used to be the classic chicken rice and broccoli type person five years ago. And then I went from eating five different vegetables in a week to I eat 35 different plants in a week. And again, are we going to suggest that to somebody just starting out on their journey? No, but, you know, kind of understand where you are now, where you can eventually be to not only emphasize weight loss, but to emphasize longevity as well. Yeah. Let's talk about planning meals Jacob. I think I think meal prepping, prepping, excuse me, is very daunting to a lot of people. And I think it's mostly because well, it's one. They don't want to spend their full Sunday in the kitchen. And, you know, I want to go, you know, and I'm going to order these meals instead. How can we just make it very simplified for them? I love what you just said about spending all Sunday in the kitchen because it's such a myth. You know, people view meal prep as it's like clandestine, body builder, meat head activity. And it's like they get copious amounts of meat in their fruit and their vegetables and their rice. And they spend hours in the kitchen. They put everything in the Tupperware containers. And then that's all they'll eat until next Sunday when they meal prep again. And one, I think it's incredibly important to have flexibility in your diet. 20% of the food I eat is flexible. Hey, the 20. Yes, 80, 20. And even going back to the grocery shopping, like I mentioned, like the fruit, the vegetables, the omega 3s. Look, I also have some like, I love this brand. I don't know, can I mention a specific brand or not? Yeah, so ice cream bars. I buy them and I have one, I want to almost every single night. And there's flexibility for those things. We've got so thick-saded and on acting like nobody's ever going to have a glass of wine. Or nobody's going to ever have any processed food. Like, I have amazing health markers. And I am, you know, I've been great shape. And I still enjoy things in my diet that I actually love. And I go out to dinner and these things. So just talking about it from a standpoint of like one at the grocery store and then even with meal prepping. Like, I think it's very important to be flexible in some of the nutrition you eat. And when it comes to meal prepping, this idea that you're just going to do it all on a Sunday, that's nonsense. I tell people to make it more palpable, just think about cooking in bulk. Anytime I would make a meal, outside of making a sandwich, I always make multiple so that. So if tonight I'm cooking dinner, I cook salmon. I would make enough servings of salmon that we as a family could sit down and eat it. And then I would make sure there's an extra two servings. And that will be my lunch for tomorrow and maybe it'll be my lunch for the next day. And the night after maybe we have chicken and I'm going to cook enough that there's multiple servings. And maybe that's because I eat more than two or three meals a day. I eat about four meals a day. I'll have a couple extra servings of chicken now. So now I can have salmon one day and then that same day have chicken is one of my extra meals. And that's the best way to be meal prepping. As simply cooking in bulk. I would challenge you if you want to get better at meal prepping. Don't ever cook one meal. Make multiple. You're making broccoli. Make an entire like bag full of broccoli. Put the rest in your refrigerator. Now you have broccoli to go pick out whenever you want to snack next. And I know, I know I said I'm going to touch from saying it's snack on broccoli. But just you could add the broccoli to your sandwich or burger or whatever you're having. I'm not saying have it by itself. But having those vegetables ready is going to make it much easier to do it here to your diet. All right. Just send it to yourself up for success, batch cooking, et cetera. You know, you don't have to be meticulous in the sense of putting out every single one of the things. Just putting out every single Tupperware and putting, putting, putting all these meals together. It's pretty easy to roast things to. We love just throwing things into the oven. Yeah, right. Yeah, it's exactly. So, you know, it doesn't have to be as scary as a lot of people I think. I mean, I have I form meals a day. And so I consistently have two extra meals in my kitchen. But they're cooked when I cook in bulk. And then I just grab them each day with me. And it's not like they're left over for five days. I couldn't meal prep as you go by cooking batch, as you said. Right. Let's talk about cooking versus ordering out. I want to talk about, you know, what comes with dining now. And again, we're not saying not to din out. Yeah. We all, social is the top pillar. We're saying that sleep, nutrition, movement, and stress are the four. I mean, we have that social in there as the five. And that's a big dialogue right now. Yeah. So we're not saying never go out. That's part of that's part of socialization. But let's talk about purely the health metrics when we're looking at cooking at home versus, you know, eating out. So I eat out at least once a week because social is so incredibly important. But having said that, you need to face the reality that restaurant, Tip-food tastes better because a butter, sugar, and oil. I helped a chef head chef of a major food hospitality group. They started out in seafood. Now they have steak restaurants. They're throughout the country. I think they're actually global at this point as well. They're in other nations. And he lost 110 pounds with me at the chef. And he showed me, he said, hey, I want you to come in and get a steak. So I came in and he showed me that when they got done cooking the steak, which they used butter and oil to prep. Afterwards, it sat there for a minute. Cooled off. He opened up a sheet pan of melted butter. Took the tongs, took the steak, dipped it in the butter. Let it sit again and then he garnished it with butter. And so that is why restaurant food tastes so good is because of butter, sugar, and oil. I can give you another example. Sirloin steak, five ounces, approximately 250 calories, depending on the cut of me. And when you look at that, a franchise restaurant where they're forced to show you the calories, that same steak will be 750 calories. So we go from 250 to 750 calories for the same steak. So one of the things I do with coaching clients is they send me menus and then I vet them ahead of time for them. 24 hours. And for you, what I can say for if you're a person listening to this podcast is start just having the realization that whatever you're eating when you're out to dinner, it's way more calories than normal. You could basically easily add two, three tablespoons depending on what you're ordering of olive oil in your estimation of how many calories that food has. So what are your recommendations in terms of kind of weaning off of that lifestyle, right? Especially here, let's talk about here in New York City, right? The accessibility, this is not upstate New York. You know, upstate New York, we grew up, we okay, we'll get pizza on Friday night, but that's all you get here. I mean, I can have anything on my fingertips within two minutes. So I mean, how do we weed out of that? Well, I'm at the office or I'm even working from home these days, which is, you know, just life and I'm ordering my lunch because I'm in between me and it's all one now. You know, that meeting went to six o'clock. I'm going to order again. You know, I mean, how do we get, how do we transition out of this? Yeah. So I think the first thing is remember it's okay to go out to dinner and you want to be social. You just need to be aware when you're sitting down that the portions you need to have don't need to be gigantic. No one needs a 16 ounce thing. Just get that, get out of it. I'm not saying you can't order it. Be it that upset cut a meat you want, but just you have lunch for the next day. That's all that means. And that just means that you might not need three appetizers along with your entree when you go out to eat. So first of all, practice moderation. That's the most pivotal thing. And then secondly, start to think about the decisions you make prior to dinner. So if you know you're going out to dinner, like when I go out for sushi Friday, I know that I'm going to have a more modest breakfast than normal. Definitely my next meal is going to be more modest. My next meal probably be just chicken and vegetables. I'll probably still have my berries with some Greek yogurt for breakfast. And then my third meal will be something small. Maybe even just like a protein shake with like some fruit in it so that I have calories saved for dinner. And that's the most important thing I think again is just being aware of what you're doing and how much you truly are eating. Even if it looks like the Caesar salad. I see his salad. The most traditional Caesar salads have 800 calories. That's on par with what a cheeseburger has. They have similar amount of calories. So, and I want to talk about that. I mean, a restaurant cheeseburger. If you look at a franchise menu, they have very similar calories. Yeah, I'm not going to call any franchise out here, but I have seen a 12 hundred calorie salad. Yes. Yes. Before and my mind was blown. So, I mean, you got to keep up with the restaurant here in New York that really fought to not have the calories on their menu. And it's because their spare ribs have 1600 calories. Just as the spare ribs before any of the sides. Right. Right. Yeah. Forget the potatoes and the rest of the order. Yep. Healthy snacks. This is a big one. Now, we're going to get to the on the go portion of the segment. And just a second here. But let's talk about healthy snacks that we're keeping around in the house. Yep. So, I actually have on my website on jacombsumer.com. I have a full macro friendly or healthy snacks guide that helps break down all this stuff. And what we really did was we, you have to people are going to have snacks. I have snacks. Like you might look at me and be like, this guy is like, not having this, not true. I have like protein pop tart some mornings like it. If I'm in a rush and I can't have my Greek yogurt and berries, I still have the berries. But I'll have two of these protein pop tarts for my breakfast. And then I'll go about the majority of my day is single ingredient foods. But I keep these snacks just in case I get busy. I literally keep them in the back of my car. So, I have those protein pop tarts. I have some protein chips in the back of my car. In case I'm ever just in a hurry and I'm running around. I think of things like protein, pattern, protein bars. It's almost like training wheels. You know, you, you go to learn how to write a bike. And like I said, everybody struggles at first. How do I hit my protein target? Well, staying down on my calories and more often than at the tip over, right? And adding some protein patterns like training wheels. We had that study that came out this year. It compared 25 grams of protein to 100 grams of protein, protein synthesis. And the person with the 100 grams, how they were maintaining muscle protein synthesis for extended period time, ten hours. It looked like from the study. So, I always tell people like, if you're new and you're really, really struggling, just put two scoops in your postwork out shape, put three scoops in your postwork out shape. And open your mind up to even that helping you with fiber. There are like gummies out there that are high fiber that taste absolutely delicious. There's one company that they use Swedish fish and they taste delicious. And you know, it's still be using fruit and vegetables as the core crux of my fiber. But keeping those around, like if I'm struggling to get enough in fiber on that day, and I need a quick pick me up, that's an easy way to do so. There are car wraps out that have they simply have modified starch. And they have higher fiber macros in them. And so that's a great way if I'm struggling to get in enough fiber for the day, these kind of healthy snacks are really vital. All right. Those are kind of the emergency floats that are popping into the corner of a day to our daily and just finding what they have. I think, how do we feel about, you know, let's talk about, you know, keeping nuts at home and kind of just more of those, you know, quick, you know, when we think of snacks, we think of putting, you know, a couple of things over, you know, 20 minutes and maybe I'm jumping on my next call. You know, I'm about to do something else. How do we feel about keeping nuts in the house, seeds or anything else that are to think of those more classic snacks? So when you think about it for like traditional snacks, we talked about meal prepping. So you'll always have prepared food in the house. But then even outside of that, I mentioned Greek yogurt. I have an irregular basis cottage cheese, you know, hard boiling some eggs or even buying them from the store, hard boiled. These are incredible easy snacks that you can keep around. And like I said, like, I always have tons of fresh fruit. I have grape fruit. I have raspberries. I have blueberries. I have blackberries. I have oranges at all apples at all times in my house. And these are kind of the traditional snacks we think about when it comes to like nuts and things like that. Just be careful portion. Now they're incredibly high in my own saturated fat, which is incredibly, they're called poofless and moofless, right? Mono and saturated and polyunsaturated fats, incredible for your health. But you still need to really portion it. So just make sure that you're just, you know, I've had a unhealthy relationship with peanut butter before. And now I finally have a healthy relationship with peanut butter. I was forced to because when I grow up for an eye moved in, I'm like, all right, well now I'm stuck with peanut butter in the house. So, you know, it's, it's great, it's healthy fats, but just make sure that you portion it correctly. You know, it's hard not to have a toxic relationship with peanut butter. I want to come on and smooth her crunchy. Got crunchy. Right, you can stay. Yeah. So making it a family effort, Jacob, how do we get the household on the same page? This is one I'm sure you hear a lot. It's one I hear a lot. And it's like, you know, I'm trying really hard, but my wife or my husband or whoever, you know, they, you know, they like to eat this and then I end up caving and we sit down to watch a movie and this person wants to eat that. So I'm like, okay, you know, how do we navigate that dialogue? Sure. So let me start with first the reality of it. We talked about that success rate of diets, our 3% and that's so many people we gain the weight. And then if you have somebody who's doing the journey with you, how much the statistics jump. To start getting in your favor when you have three or more people on that journey with you. And we probably the most important person to have that journey with you are the people at home. And that's difficult. I would tell you to first start with yourself and focus on yourself. And then try to encourage your partner to even go do various different training with you. So like, I'm very into weight training. But you know, I've got my girlfriend to go in weight training. And fitness is not her passion, but it's something that she likes to do. And I think, you know, there's been a little bit of a push just because I'm there and sometimes I get compliments or things like this. So that's a little bit of fuel for fire. But she now loves Pilates. And I've never been to a Pilates class in my life. I would tell you if your best luck getting your partner to start getting involved in fitness is to help them on their fitness journey. Fall in love with fitness because I once upon a time as a high school kid. I was having ice cream every night before bed. I don't do that anymore. It's only because I fell in love with weight training. Otherwise, I'd be having like cookie dough or peanut butter ice cream every single night. And so if you can get your partner to go out there and try like a boxing class or a Pilates class or a yoga class. Almost think about it like they're out there like they're cereal dating until they fall in love with something and fitness. And once you do, it's very powerful. And that's a great gateway to getting them to start thinking about the nutrition and the rest of their choices. I love them. Then you find new ways to do activities together. Which is just going to help your relationship as well. I love it. Let's move on, Jacob. Let's go into topic three for today. You touched on this slightly in terms of those spare tires that you keep in the car. But fueling on the go and vacation eating. This is probably the most exciting topic I think today. And we have some great tips here. So whether we're going to the kids soccer game or headed out of town for business, it can be challenging to keep nutrition and check with a busy schedule. I want to talk about the tips that make it easier. How to pack on the go. How to ensure your staying on top of weight loss goals. Because that can be a slippery slope, especially for me. I'm on the road for business a lot. I see what goes on. And it's tough too from a social perspective. It's going to be that outlier, right? So I mean, let's start with high protein snacks for your bag or purse. You touched on a little bit, not the sound repetitive. But also weave that into the airport hacks too. What do you, what do you get in at the airport? So I think, you know, from when I was a kid, these protein-friendly snacks have changed so much. Like I remember the first protein I ever had. I won't name the brand, but it was endorsed world's strongest man. And I remember trying to chew through this thing. And it was impossible. Like you need like a leader of water to eat this thing. And the way the world's changed now, there's such a variety of jerky, protein bars out there. I think, compared, if you're going to be traveling, if you're going to, you know, whether it's your purse or your carry on bag, make sure that you have it with you before you walk on the door. Don't be rely on circumstances. Even if you're the kid soccer game, maybe you plan on afterwards going somewhere to eat and you've already been at the menu. So you know you're good, but I don't know, maybe they're an overtime. Or for whatever reason the game starts late or there's delay because of weather. You don't want to be sitting there hungry and be like, okay, I guess I'm going to have a hot dog now. You know, you want to have you want to be the one in control. And so again, that comes down to just not eating mindlessly and always being prepared for the situations. Being conscientious as you walk out the door. And when it comes to, whether it's airports or even grocery stores, I love that consumer spending is changing shelving. It's having such a positive impact. When I go to one of my favorite franchise grocery stores, the candy aisle, now some of the candy is gone and there's protein bars on that. I was like my mind was blown. When you go to an airport, there's these, you know, fiber gummies, there's these jerky, there's these protein bars. Others hard boiled eggs, there's all these things. And so it's my fitness journey has actually gotten easier because people as a whole are buying things. I agree. I agree. It's it's gosh, the airport selections. I think it was just in the last two to three years has been the most pivotal change that I've noticed. You know, I want to talk about business trips and specific because I think this will apply to a lot of people out there. And this is something, you know, I continue to navigate, you know, there's a lot of drinking that goes involved. I do not drink. There's a lot of late night. So that's going to impact our sleep. And there's a lot of eating out. And you know, you may not be on the same page. Now you're going to go to dinner. You're not going to not go to dinner and sitting in your hotel room and eat, you know, pre-made food. But, you know, how do we kind of navigate this in a comfortable way? Because I think a lot of people may feel uncomfortable. They're going to take that drink even though they don't really want it. And, you know, how do we change the way that we navigate this to make ourselves comfortable in these situations? Yeah. So I think from a cultural standpoint, you know, we talked about how the shelves have changed in the last couple years. I think it's changed also that eating healthy is now seen as a positive thing. And as it almost a bit of a flex. So most people are like, wow, great. You're eating healthy. Like occasionally you're going to be with somebody because work you're not in control 100%. You might be with somebody a client or whoever our boss. That's like, oh, no, we got to try this. We got to have this. I'm glad you're eating this. But the vast majority of people now, if you tell them, like, oh, I'm just watching what I eat. They have a lot of respect for that. Yeah. Alcohol, however, is not quite there yet. You do see the cultural shift. You see it with millennials and purchasing and things like this. It's starting to make that shift. But most work cultures still encourage drinking. And it's, you know, I always tell people like when it comes to that, just try to get your drink and just milk it. You know, glass of wine, it's at there on the table and you can just slowly sip on it. I'm making a vessel. I like my glass of wine. I'll barely be sipping on it. And then it'll come time to get the next round. And everybody would be like, well, only do a few hours. Like, I'll finish this glass. Go ahead. And then they all buy one or nothing around. And I don't finish that first glass of wine. So, you know, I think just taking your time with it is a smart thing. And then I always tell clients, you want to play with the house as money. Whenever it comes to a diet, especially on the road, you want to start light. So you want to start your breakfast with something like egg white or non-fat Greek yogurt, fruit and vegetables. As low calorie protein as you can get. So that way you have more disposable calories as you go into that work dinner. Same short lunch. If you can get like a salad, put the dressing on the side. You can skewer your fork in it. Dip your fork in the dressing and skewer the protein. Then, you know, the protein the vegetables. Then you don't have as many calories while having the salad because the dressings on the side. Or the stir fry with the sauce on the side. And then you walk into dinner with extra margin room. And you can still try to make the best decisions possible. Doesn't mean that's an excuse to go out loud. But the best way is to be in control before you walk into that work dinner. Because you might not be during. Yeah, I agree. I do agree with your point on the alcohol. You know, I've seen that ship shift tremendously. You know, I was actually. I was in Texas a couple weeks ago. I was the only one at the table that didn't order a drink. And surprisingly enough, every person said, well, good for you. That's great. Yes. You know, that wasn't the dialogue. And different people in different situations. But that wasn't the case three, four years ago at all. It was all come on, you know, you can you can let loose have some fun. We know you're in defendants, but it's just for tonight. And you know, it just wasn't the same response. It's really refreshing. And I'm seeing more mock tales on menus now more than ever, too, which is great. I saw. I'm not going to say it, but I'm going to saw a greens powder that I've been taking for a number of years on a restaurant in Austin, Texas the other day. And I absolutely love to see it. I think there's been such a big opening of mental health in the conversation around that too. But people are more comfortable with topics like alcohol and stuff like that. People, if you don't want to drink, they don't really want to touch why it could be fitness or could be for other reasons, but they're comfortable to just be like, all right, well, good for you. Right. Exactly. Shouldn't change the conversation that you're having at the table. Vacationing. So vacation isn't a free for all, right? You're there to have fun, you're there to let loose, but it doesn't have to apply to nutrition. How do we find the balance? I'm going to surprise you with this answer, okay? So I always say like when people hire me, I'm like, you won't necessarily go into getting shape. You'll just find out what it takes to get in shape. And then at that point it's your choice. You know, the body you want may not be what you're willing to do to get there. It just simply might not be. You might want to look a certain way, be 10% body fat or whatever. And you might not be willing to make the sacrifices or the changes to your lifestyle to get there. And so when it comes to going on vacation, you can definitely go all out. You can. That's a lifestyle. You can do it. I wouldn't recommend it, but you probably won't have the body you want. If you're going on multiple vacations and just going all out multiple times a year. The way I approach it, like I am going away this summer to grace last summer. I went away to Italy. The way I approach Italy was here's what I know. I love pasta. I love pasta. I like wine. Red wine. I like it. I don't really care about dessert. So there I have my kind of hierarchy because we've got three major things that are nearly. Italy's got pasta. Certain parts have steak too, like Florence, but they've got pasta for sure. They've got wine for sure. And they've got incredible desserts. So when I was there, I had pasta every day. I had just a little bit of wine. Maybe three or four glasses. Not a lot. And I had almost no dessert. Like I would take a bite of the gelato or whatever. Because I don't really care about dessert. And because wine I just like, but pasta I love. And so I had the things that I loved. I was on vacation. If you asked me, did I enjoy, I really enjoyed the food. And Italy, but that didn't mean I enjoyed everything. Yeah. I think you touched on it. Knowing what it takes to get to where you want to be and kind of having that mastery over yourself. Like for me, I was in a wedding last weekend. And the lead up to that wedding. I was like, I know what I got to do to look and feel like what I wanted. I was in the wedding, right? So I was like, all right. Like we're in prep. And I know what I had to do to get there. Yeah. And then the couple days. And when the wedding came and the couple days into that weekend, I wasn't monitoring the way I would at home, right? And now I'm five days out of that. And I'm like, okay, we're going to get back into it now. So I think by mastering these skills and understanding what does and doesn't work for you will provide you with so much freedom and so much less stress when it comes to weddings and vacations and business trips. And you'll just start to understand what you need to do. And all right, I can slack off because I know in a couple of in three or four days or so. I know exactly what I have to get back to doing. Yeah. And even with training when I was in Italy, I mapped out the gems. So we went to the gym. I think it was, I was trying to think before I got on the podcast. It was at three or four days. I did modified workouts that were like 40 minutes long. I didn't lift anywhere near because they don't. They don't have 120 pound dumbbells in Italy. So I lifted less weight than I normally do. And guess what? I got great workouts. And then when I got home, I wasn't like, man, I haven't worked out in a week. It's going to be horrible. Just get the blood flowing. I just sent a weekly newsletter, the catalyst. And I kept it pretty relevant to my life. And I said, you know, here's what you do when you're at a state for a wedding. You know, I was doing a zone two incline cardio session. And then I did some calisthenics with the body weight. And I got out. Everybody else was in the lobby. You know, I already, but I got my sweat in. I had gotten the blood flow going. I had color in my face. And I was ready to go shower and start the day. And then that was like a checkbox. So it's good physically. But then I think it's equally as great mentally as well. You know, you feel good about what you did. You got your day started. You got your brain activated. So something is better than nothing. Right. Exactly. We're going to wrap it up here with our final one Jacob programming for weight loss. So again, guys, everything's, it's good to depend. So, you know, a lot of times people are taking their goals into their own hands. Maybe they head into an online forum. Maybe it's VBCOM. Maybe it's, you know, seeking education for yourself on YouTube and articles. But a lot, let's say most don't even really know where to start. So weight loss, fat loss, getting leaner, however we want to label it here. People have been searching for the secret gym hack or the secret kitchen hack for decades now. You know, how can we simplify their approach when we're in the gym to equip people at home with a structured routine to get them closer? So we've touched a little bit on this throughout the episode. But this portion is really going to give the users some tangible takeaways for how they can program, you know, their workout routine once this episode ends. For fat loss. For fat loss. So I think the first thing is when it comes to training split, people get so preoccupied. Generically push pull legs or legs, push pull is a great split. If you're more advanced, like I have right now I'm working on calves, working on biceps and working on triceps and lateral del. And that's what the priority is in my training. And I structure my training totally around that. So look and say, like, what do I really want to accomplish here? If you're looking to lose fat, you want to be weight training four to six times a week. Because again, you want to maintain muscle and you if possible want to build muscle. And so start with that four to six days a week, whatever you can recover from, that's your first and most important thing in the gym. And then you want to make sure the sets are challenging. You want to make sure that you're pain free while doing them. You want to make sure that they're full range of motion. There's some debate on that. But for now, that's a good recommendation, full range of motion. And you want them to be intense. They want to be somewhere in the range of near to failure. So those sets to be effective stimulus, you really have to push yourself. And then when it comes to cardio, assuming that you can do four to six days a week, a great recommendation would be somewhere between 30 minutes plus of zone two cardio after you get done lifting weights. Now, you can do less the American Heart Association's recommendation is two and a half hours of zone two cardio. Which is why I said this is the, maybe the second most depressing thing we'll talk about today. How much exercise you should be doing or you can be doing 75 minutes of intense cardio, which is like zone four and five of the heart rates really pumping. Circuit training. Circuit training. Figure out what's right for you here schedule. I do zone two because it's less fatiguing. And so I'll do my weight training very intensely. And then I'll put a vest on and I'll walk it like a 14 15 minute mile, very brisk walk. And I'll get my heart rate into that zone two. And that's what I do for my training. And most people that is a really great place when you're thinking about fat loss. If you're not there yet, if this stuff just doesn't even sound appetizing to you and you're listening to podcasts like this for motivation. Go out and try different modalities of fitness. You have to get out there. It's like it's like if you were single and you know, you want to have a family. Go out cereal day try all these different modalities. You probably will find some love it could be swimming. It could be cycling it could be any number of things go out there and search for it would be my recommendation. Yes, there are some days where I'm you know, I'm doing that that dedicated in Klein walk or I'm doing a stair master, etc. For my zone two and I want you to circle back on zone two and talk about why we call that the fat burning stage. But I mean now, you know, my partner and I were going out to play racketball. You know, we're playing. Yeah. I think we've lost. We've lost touch with just our playful sign and playing some pickup basketball or soccer and things of that nature. You guys have heard me say this a couple of times now, but that's cardio. Yeah. Why do we call zone two the fat burning stage? Well, there's a lot of beliefs about like glucose and what you're burning and things like this. I think the most important thing to really take away about zone two is that it's incredibly good for our health markers while at the same time not being fat. I wouldn't get caught up in these zones being like this is what's going to burn fat. More importantly, I would think about it as either I need to do two and a half hours of moderate cardio or 75 minutes of intense cardio. So I don't have 50 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of intense cardio week as a baseline for my health. And either one of those is going to help you burn fat. Again, though, I would prioritize weight training if it was strictly a fat loss phase, but either one of those will help with fat. But most importantly, they're going to help with health. And that's why, again, I would really recommend that you do those recommendations in cardio. One of the other more doubt is I love zone two because you can recover from it. If I'm weight training really intensely six days a week, I'm already pretty beat up from that. So I need something that's a little bit softer on my hip flexor a little bit easier on my body. And that isn't going to make me fall asleep at like seven o'clock because I have a family and you know, I already go to bed at like not a clock and I could taste for it. Yeah, you know, Jacob, there are people at home who are saying what the heck is zone two and how do I even know what my zone two is. How do I know what my zone two is because my zone two is different than yours own two. Yes. So you have to establish the most optimal ways to establish a maximum heart rate. But you know, with wearables in these days, it's easier and easier to do that. And generically for most people, it's going to be somewhere around 110 to 130 beats per minute. Zone two is 60 70 60 to 70% of your maximum heart rate. And again, start somewhere. You don't have to like, you know, we talked about like, you know, your VO two max testing. That's not everybody on this, it was listening to this podcast. It's going to do their VO two max. And not everybody's going to establish their precise number was on two. But if you're walking and you have some sort of wearable on and you're tracking that you're around 110 or 120 beats per minute, you're likely in zone two. And you know, what do we say? You should be able to hold the casual conversation. Yes, yes, yes. Yeah. Last one here, Jacob, fasted versus non-fasted cardio. Right this one for us. Yeah. So Brad shown field. There are many people consider him. He's a researcher. People consider him the Godfather of hypertrophy. He was the first person to really study this. And what he found was that fasted cardio might be slightly better, slightly better. And that fasted cardio is definitely not worse than non-fasted cardio. But the problem I have with fasted cardio is for most people who's not sustainable. And so if it is, if you like wake up any of the treadmill at home and like you have free time like that in the morning or if you don't eat till later in the day, go ahead and do it. But it's not going to move the needle. Yeah, it's not. You mentioned prioritizing the strength portion of your workout for the day over the cardio. So you know, warm up through your mobility, get into some strength work and then you know, hit the treadmill for that 30 minutes to wrap it up. A lot of people do vice versa because they say, oh, I want to get warmed up. Well, let's actually warm up those specific areas of the body through intentional mobility and activation exercises. Do your strength workout where you're going to have the most energy and less fatigue. And then move into the cardio and is that the correct way of thinking how we're approaching this. 100% because you have to understand it if you don't elicit sufficient stimulus, well, weight training, meaning like you think about like a percentile when your one max rep is if you're not lifting heavy enough weight for adequate amount of repetitions. It's not going to be sufficient to challenge your body. It's not going to help you maintain or build muscle. You know, I'm I listen, I have my FMS, my functional movements, creating all this education on various different certifications. And a lot of times my warm up is two sets of squats. If I don't have like a particular issue of mobility, like my shoulder mobility is more intercooled. I do some like rotator stuff and things like that. But like I have great hip mobility, I have no lower back pain. So my warm up is a couple sets of squats. I definitely would not get an intred moment and tire out my legs prior to going away training. I want my first sets to be the most, you know, I radically warm up. But after that, I want those to be my most intense sets. Oftentimes I reverse pyramid. My first sets will be like the heaviest. I'll do two sets like that. And then I'll do a set where it's lighter weight for more repetitions. Jacob, thanks for joining us today. I want you to lead the user. Maybe it's those three points that you mentioned earlier in that episode. But the three points of advice for people to keep in mind when they're just starting their weight loss journey. Sure. I think the first and foremost thing is get your labs on annually. I know that that's not directly weighted to weight loss, but you have to be alive for those weight. So please go get your health markers tested. It's extremely important. Secondly, really understand there's a bunch of stuff out there. Glucose, all this stuff. Different fat diets. It's still about eating less calories than you are consuming. So always be aware portion size is the most important things. And there's lots of ways to get to different portion sizes. Whether it's katosis or carnivore or being a vegetarian, those are all just ways or modalities that ideally would remove some calories from your diet and allow you to lose weight. And the third thing is how crucial the O2 Max is. Fear 2 Max is incredibly important for you. I'm sorry. I know we talked about fat list all the time, but I always think public health first and foremost because you have to be alive. So I think the O2 Max is extremely important. But the flip side is you want to lose weight. Lift weights. Jacob, thanks so much for stopping by today. Tell the audience how they can fall along in the rest of your journey for additional advice. Sure. So I'm on Instagram. It's Jacob Zemer, J.COB, ZEMER. I put out content there daily. If you stories up every single day, I'm also on YouTube. We've been growing that a lot. I love my YouTube. I love doing long format content. Longer conversations like that where I can not refine to 60 seconds to like pump out a message. I love putting up those YouTube. And then if you follow along with those, it's the best place to kind of see. Do like the tone of voice and what I do. And then you can always click the link tree and go to jacombsumer.com. All right. Thanks, Jacob. Thank you. Thanks for tuning in to an episode here at bodybuilding.com. Stay tuned for more stories along the way.

=== FILE: What Is Testosterone？ [CFMYc1Ynl_M].txt ===

First of all, what is testosterone? Yeah, it's a human hormone. It's a hormone that is very, very vital to master hormone for both men and women. And it is a sexual hormone that does so many, so many amazing things in her body, whether sexual function, physical function, building lean muscle mass, helping a brain fog. We talked a little bit about metabolic health. If you're metabolically unhealthy, it's almost a guarantee that you're going to have a low T symptoms. It's another epidemic that we're not talking enough about just insulin resistance, just metabolic health. And it's something that 50, 60 years ago, we weren't talking about because we've changed. We have said in dairy lifestyles, we have an obese population. We're living in a world full stress, both micro and macro. We have these things, these phones that we're constantly on, that we're constantly getting these cortisol release, the emergence of processed foods of changed testosterone levels. And I think in order for us to start adjusting to it, correcting it, optimizing people, we gotta start talking more about it.

=== FILE: What is Bodybuilding.com？ ｜ 2010 Bodybuilding.com Commercial [sr4bBsolDa8].txt ===

Let bodybuilding.com help you reach your fitness goal. Get proper supplementation with the bodybuilding.com store. Check out the super site for thousands of up to 8 articles and videos with information on all the latest training techniques and nutrition advice. And get involved with the bodybuilding.com community for over half a million body space members help keep each other motivated to stay on track. That's bodybuilding.com. For the information, motivation and supplementation you need to succeed in all in one place.

=== FILE: Whey Protein Guide - Bodybuilding.com [R82JYr8fmgo].txt ===

MUSIC MUSIC Herschlihe hydrolyzedway actually takes milk protein or actually milk, flu-milk, and fractions out the way protein, and then digest it with enzymes or acid or both, to chop up the way protein molecules into smaller fragments. Herschlihe hydrolyzedway actually may be ideal for the person that has problems in that justing rager-intact proteins as they're called because the partial hydrolysis process which makes smaller fragments or peptides may make it easier to be digested in their forgiveness to chance of a food allergy reaction to the way protein. Also, people want to have a faster digesting and absorbing protein. Herschlihe hydrolyzedway may actually afford that benefit. Herschlihe hydrolyzedway would be a great product for people that would like to absorb protein faster, and get perhaps get more into the blood because of the smaller peptide size and several studies showing that maybe more quickly absorbed and raised blood, amino acid concentrations faster and higher than intact or whole way protein. The most recent research shows that about 20-25 grams of protein after intense resistance training is the most the muscles can use for an animal response. Even if you're a large size person working out with intensive resistance training, above that any additional protein is burned as a fuel or actually could be used to support fat storage if you have excess calories. So about 25 grams of the good target, the other thing to consider is that if you're consuming it after training and some people do it before with a fast digesting, fast absorbing carbohydrate, you could also combine it with for enriching, branch chain amino acids or even pure elucine by itself. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: Why You Need Creatine! - Bodybuilding.com [0UDSAhRym_M].txt ===

Creating is a widely used performance supplement that fuels your muscles during high-intensity exercise. You'll also find it in small amounts naturally occurring in the meat that you eat. Creatin can help you push out more reps on an exercise and it's these reps that support your physique transformation. Creating can also increase your speed and assist with explosive movements such as sprinting or intense weight lifting. If your goal is to increase lean mass, strength and power will get a turn for Z, creatin should be one of your foundational supplements. If you take a pre or post workout supplement, remember to check the label to see if it contains creatin. If so, can't that towards your daily intake? And remember to stay hydrated throughout the day to get the best results. For more expert advice on creatin, our guide has the answers. Getting a right creatin for you has never been easier. A product finder will hand pick items for you by price, serving size form and more. You can also check out our product ratings and see feedback from thousands of users so you can get optimum results.

=== FILE: Wide Grip Lat Pulldown - Back Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [S0no-Q03h74].txt ===

Sit down at the pull down machine with a bar attached to the top pulley. Make sure you adjust the knee pad to fit snug against your legs. grip the bar with the palms of your hands facing forward. Both of your arms should be extended above you holding onto the bar. Lean your torso back slightly to create a small curvature in your back and stick your chest out. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and bring the bar down until it lightly touches your upper chest. As you pull the bar down, squeeze your shoulder blades back and down. Your upper torso should remain stationary during this movement and only your arms should move. After a brief pause at the bottom contracted position, exhale and slowly raise the bar back to the starting position with your arms fully extended and your lats stretched.

=== FILE: Wide-Back, Boulder-Shoulder Workout ｜ Chad Hollmer [kdvZ7q7M_UM].txt ===

The goal today's workout is mostly strength movements and then paired with a little bit of hypertrophy work. So this is usually my second back and shoulder workout of the week. So we start a little bit lighter, one more, get some blood into the muscle and then we get into some heavier movements. Most of the movements that you see me do today, I'm going to be either standing or a slightly bent over. So I'm able to use my core and pull my abs tight throughout the movements which helps me and overall my abs training and just the stability and balance of all the other movements I do while training. For the first exercise that today's back and shoulder workout we're going to do three different grips of pull-ups, super set with a dumbbell pull over. So for the first one we're going to do just a wide grip pull-up. The next step we're going to do is just a close grip neutral grip and then the third and the final one will be under hand chins. One of the main reasons why we do the super set is we're just going to do a pull-up and really stretch the lats out with the overhead dumbbell pull where you can really get a good contraction. What we'll do is we'll really slow it down and then we'll drive through just so you can feel the weight and know that you're doing the work as opposed to just swinging and moving the weight as fast as possible. Leave your ego the workout today, grab something you can go slow and controlled and you'll actually feel tomorrow when you wake up. For today's dumbbell row we're going to start lighter and working this something heavier. So three sets usually 12, 10, 8 or 10, 8, 8, 8, 6 and we're going to start lighter and obviously when the reps get lower the weight should go up. You know get a good angle chest up, get a good grip on that dumbbell and then really squeeze the elbow back to the hip. So that's one of the things that I really focused on is that it's swinging it way wide, keep it real tight, good and good squeeze and beaking the contraction of the movement and then just like all the rest of the movement say just lower back down slowly. Most of my breaks today are going to be pretty short. I don't wear a wash of gym so it's just whenever I feel comfortable I like to go. So it might be 20, 30, 45 seconds, not much more than that. We're going to move along to a underhand pulled down today. Pretty similar, three sets usually 10, 8, 6 and once again we're going to go pretty light to start, going to good movement and obviously work into something a bit heavier. Same thing we're going to really stretch it out slow through the negative, get a good squeeze and then lower it real slow. Well slightly change the grips throughout the movement. First set might be a low wider and then I'll slightly move it in and then pretty close for the last set. I find that most of the back movements, the negative is more important than the other concentric movement. When you're doing it, where's the stretch at? And what's really going to shorten and lengthen the muscle? So when you're bringing it down you're going to shorten it. So if you're trying to grow, I mean you're going to have to stretch it out which is the negative aspect. The last exercise for today's back workout is going to be a seated cable row. We're going to do a close grip today just so I can feel the squeeze getting real good contraction in. So it's just two sets. Just really finish it off. You should be pretty exhausted by this point. First set, 10 reps. My rest periods are once again pretty short for this exercise probably 30 to 45 seconds. For me failing is either I can't lift the weight appropriately. So my form will start to go today or the weight is too heavy. Pick something, you know, 6 to 8 reps. When you hit 8 you should be done. There should be nothing left in the tank. You're done with back after this. So there's no reason to leave it behind. So we just finished our back exercises for the day. We're going to take quick, you know, 2 to 3 minutes. Get yourself ready, recoup, get a drink. Move along when they're going to start into our shoulder exercises. So for today's first shoulder exercises we're going to start with another superset just to get some extra blunt to the muscle. And we've already warmed up our shoulder, spread a bit from the back just in the activation stretching amount. So we're going to start with a standing dumbbell lateral and then superset into a single arm upright rope. For the first exercise you're going to do, you know, 10, 8, 6 superset with 10, 8, 6 also for the upright rows. Standing ladders and the front raises, a lot of people tend to swing. And that's, you're going to get a lot of lower back in that. I like to do a single arm upright row just for the simple fact that I can squeeze and not be so dominant with a rider left. Pretty much emulate a Smith machine. So I really want to keep it close to my body and glide it up. After the superset we're going to move on to a dumbbell front raise. We're going to do 3 sets of 8. Within the 3 sets of 8 I'm going to change my hand grips up. So we're going to go with a neutral grip. We're going to go over hand. And then for the final one we're going to go to under hand grip. The under hand grip will come slightly across my body a little bit and it will actually do a little bit of upper back and ball then there as well. A couple things with doing alternating arms is one there's a lot less momentum. And then also I can concentrate a little bit better on a single arm so I can really get a good squeeze on right. And then a good squeeze on left as opposed to just coming up using the little bit of momentum. And just going through the motions. For our final exercise today we're going to do a standing, an ordinal press. 3 sets 10 8 6. So once again 10 should be the lightest one and you know progressively overload to a heavier weight with 6 reps. I'm pretty tired once again this is the last exercise of the day. I'm just going to do them both the same time kind of knock them out and get a good squeeze So as you finish the standing and the ordinal press is you can lower the weight and keep good form you know as opposed to getting real sloppy and stopping if you rep short of your goal. The full breakdown for this workout is detailed for you here below at Bodybuilding.com. You can contact me on my body space at Homework Time 10 or on my Instagram chat homer. For more articles and videos from AthySightmean make sure you step back here at Bodybuilding.com.

=== FILE: Wide-Grip Lat Pulldown ｜ Back Exercise Guide [lueEJGjTuPQ].txt ===

Sit down at the pull down machine with a bar attached to the top pulley. Make sure you adjust the knee pad to fit snug against your legs. Grip the bar with the palms of your hands facing forward. Both of your arms should be extended above you holding onto the bar. Lean your torso back slightly to create a small curvature in your back and stick your chest out. This will be your starting position. Now exhale and bring the bar down until it lightly touches your upper chest. As you pull the bar down, squeeze your shoulder blades back and down. Your upper torso should remain stationary during this movement and only your arms should move. After a brief pause at the bottom contracted position, exhale and slowly raise the bar back to the starting position with your arms fully extended and your lats stretched.

=== FILE: World's #1 Online Supplement Store ｜ Bodybuilding.com Commercial [U_dCJtMaAQs].txt ===

Stop overpaying for supplements at the store. Bodybuilding.com is your best source for protein, pre-workouts and more. With hundreds of daily deals on top brands like Optimo, Muscle Farm and CellyCorp, over 200,000 customer reviews, supplements you can't find anywhere else. A ward-winning customer service, and lightning fast delivery. Plus, choose from over 20 free gifts at checkout. Bodybuilding.com. Build your best self.

=== FILE: Wrist Roller - Forearm Exercise - Bodybuilding.com [-lOFG0U_rlY].txt ===

While standing straight up, use an overhand grip to hold a wrist roller. Slowly lift both arms until they're fully extended and parallel with the floor in front of you. Rotate one wrist at a time in an upward motion, bring the weight up to the bar by rolling the rope around the roller. Once the weight has reached the bar, slowly return the weight back to the starting position by rotating the wrist in a downward motion.

=== FILE: XXL Leg Workout for Mass ｜ Lawrence Ballenger [dV_3xQpUDbg].txt ===

Hey everybody, this is Lawrence Balancer team bodybuilding.com and team dime-at- size athlete. Today we're here to show you guys a great leg workout. It really helps it promote growth in your quads, hamstrings and your glutes. And the great thing about this workout is that you can use this pre-contest or any time throughout the year to really help gain size and definition in your thighs. This workout is more focused on your actual hamstring, calves and glutes, more than just your quads. Usually when you do any other leg workout, you're mostly focusing on your quads and kind of leave your whole backside alone. So it's a great way to actually incorporate your hamstring and glutes so you can actually make your squat stronger, your lung is stronger and get a more well-developed physique. The great thing about all these exercises will be ranging from supersets to pre-exhausting, to heavy weights, so you'll be able to incorporate almost every different type of training and size this workout. So it'll be really hard, really stringuous, and it should be a great time for you. Today's workout is designed for anybody from the beginners all the way to the advanced level. People that have been working out for years. This workout's really great just because you add the weight and incorporate your rest time depending on how long you've actually been working out for your beginner. You might need a little bit more rest time, so 60 seconds is great, but if you're expert you up the weight, cut the break time down to 45 seconds, and then now help you pre-fatty your muscles and really get your blood flowing and really get the growth that you're looking for. So we're going to get started with the warm-up. Really, really simple. We're going to start with the stair masters today. Just something a little bit different. You can start on treadmill or lift a coat whatever works for you. You want to go out slow to moderate pace and just want to get your blood flowing. You really want to focus on squeezing your glue, squeezing your hamstrings and really contracting those because that's a lot of the focus is going to be on your glues and hamstrings on today's workout. So we'll be doing about 10 to 12 minutes of cardio, and let's just get you warmed up and ready to go into your leg workout. The reason I like doing cardio before all my leg workouts is because odds are you are sitting now for most of the day if you're at work and then you work out later. Or if you walk up in the morning you're sleeping all night, you're bloods not really flowing throughout your body. You will be lifting so heavy that you actually need your body to be 100% warmed up and focused in blood actually in the muscle group set your target. Now we're going to get started and start on the leg extensions. We're going to do four sets of 20 reps. What you want to do is pick away you can do about 25 reps of. No more than 25 because you're going to do full reps and parcer reps. So you sit down, you get a good seat, keep your back flat against the bench, and you want to come up to a full extension. Slowly come down. You're really focusing on the contraction of the muscle and really focusing on the detail. So we'll get our 10 reps in. 10 full reps and 10 parcer reps. So then we slowly let it down halfway and then back up. Squeeze, contract the muscle, back down. Keep it going. You just want to make sure you're fully contracting the muscle each and every time. Hold the contraction just for a slight second at the top and really put emphasis on your quads and your outer swoop. And that's complete. So that's one set. We're going to do four more or three more sets and then keep the rolling. Leg extensions. The way we're doing them is we go nice and slow so you're actually pre-exhausting your smaller muscle groups. So by pre-exhausting on leg extensions you're actually able to use more of your hamstrings and glutes throughout your squats. So when you do do heavy squats again without pre-exhausting, you're strength to just go some of the rough. Now the reason I do full reps and then go to partials, the full reps are to get obviously get a good stretch and full length of motion throughout your workout. And then the partials are really the finishing touches. Just because you're not going all the way down so your muscles don't get a full chance to relax. The weight stays on the muscle group and then you can track and right back so you never get a break. So that was a final set of leg extensions. Now we're going to go over to our heavy sets with squats and that's going to be our heavy compound movement. We're going to start with a low weight workout way up until our heavy sets of four sets of paites in. We're going to do about three sets of warm-ups sets for wrestling getting heavier. So we just stretch in the movement, work our quads, work our hamstring and glutes. So we're really ready for the three working sets of eight reps. So we're going to start off. I'm going to start off with one thirty-five and progress the go up. You don't have to start there. Start wherever you're comfortable at and slowly work up to what's heavy set of eight for you. If you shouldn't be able to get more than ten on your first set but no less than eight on your last set. So I'll find a way that's very comfortable for you. Re-requit. Wait about forty-five seconds and then we're going to go increase the weight and do another set. The reason we start with squats kind of and it's not really the first exercise but our first real heavy exercise is to incorporate and get out all your strength and really get your testosterone going, get your energy levels going and really just push the hardest part of the workout out the way while you have the most energy possible. And with heavy squats you really fatigue every other muscle group. It really incorporates your glutes, your hamstrings, your quads, your calves, even incorporates your back to keep you steady. As we're getting progressively heavier, I like to personally put on a belt. It really saves my core and my lower back from getting too much blood into it. I save from actually injuring myself if you wiggle a little bit on your squats because you're working so hard to push up at the heaviest weight possible. I also use my knee reps. I save my knees and my joints so I'm actually able to work out harder. So the start first real working set. I want to make sure that you guys really get into mental mind state. Take a second gather yourself. You want to think about just getting down to a proper form and bursting out as fast as possible. When you start lifting heavy, you always want to get into a mental zone and mental planning state because if you don't really hyperself up and get excited and get ready for lift, sometimes you get too nervous about the actual weight that you can't finish off your reps. So I'll set one as you see I'm drained. You get a few quick seconds break and then I'll set two. So now we're moving in a single leg. Leg press and then we're going to go over to standing calf raises. There's no warm upsets in this because you're already warmed up from your squats and everything else that you did prior to this. So we're going to get started. We're going to do 10 on your right leg that follow a meal by 10 on your left leg and then a meal you're right after that. It was 20 double legs. You want to keep your feet close together and high on the pad so you're really working your hamstrings and glutes and you're out of swooping. You're really focusing on the contraction. So you want to make sure you put your foot in the middle of the pad. Keep your knees slightly pointed out and till slightly pointed out as well. Push up a lot and you come down and back up. Nobody ever works just one leg throughout a really leg workout effort. So this actually stops that dominant leg from actually getting becoming bigger or stronger and you don't have a weak side. And also the reason we put our feet in the middle and a little bit higher because you actually work your hamstring and glutes more. And then you're able to really just isolate that one leg and not get any extra help in. Then you go hit your 20 doubles. You're going to close the end, work your hamstrings and your outer quads. Because when you usually do squats, your feet are so wide that you're working your inner. Quad and your hip abductor so you want to put your feet in. And then you're just working slowly outside of your quads and your hamstrings and glutes. I like going higher reps and a lot of my workouts when I'm looking for a more growth. It really helps me focus on actually getting the blood flow into the muscles. A pulse of doing what I really like doing is really heavy lifting. I didn't really see any growth from that. I'm doing sets of five to six. But that does let you get a lot stronger over time. So, now we're pretty tired. You'd actually be pretty pumped. So now we're going to move over to our Smith machines. We're going to superset Smith machine squat with standing calf raises. But I do my Smith machine squats a little bit differently. So let's go over here. Let me show you guys what we're going to do. What we're going to do is a drop set and we're going to do three drop sets. So it's going to be 777-21 total. So 7 with 315-7 with 225-7.135. Then immediately after that, we're going to go to standing calf raises. Now with our standing calf raises, we're going to do three different angles. We're going to do out normal and in. I do my Smith machine slightly different than everybody else. It's not just a normal squat. So you get underneath like normal. It's not just sitting straight on your traps. It's slightly on your lower back. So we're going to walk it forward. Have our feet shoulder width apart. Or just outside of shoulder width. To hold the spoon it out. Just up, chin up as well. We're going to drop it down, keeping your back straight. That's a really big focus on this one. The purpose of the Smith machine squats is to fill. You want to make sure that at the last drop set that you're just totally fatigued and you're tired. If you're not really tired, go up a little bit and wait. It's fine. But 315 is usually enough for me. And when I drop down to 225, it still feels like 315. You want the weight to fill the same, even though it's getting lighter. I never lock out my knees on any leg workout just because it's too much pressure on my knees. I always have them slightly bent. And then that really just keeps everything all the weight and load on my muscles instead of my joints. So then you stand straight up and go into your calf raises. First set, toes pointed in. Come up, squeeze and back down. When you're doing this set, you want to make sure that you're not coming totally down to the ground where your heel is such. It really close. And then back up. Lock it. And that's one set. So we're going to finish up the next two sets. Give yourself a 45 second break. And there we go. And there we go. So those are final set. Moving on to the last part of the workout. See the calf raises and see the leg curls are up next. We're going to do 10 reps, a seated leg curls. Super set it with seated calf raises. Now with this we're really focusing on the contraction. Really focusing on the squeeze. You want to really squeeze always tight as possible at the bottom. Come back up. The best part about this is that you can jump right back into each exercise. Really get a great pop and focus on just filling out the muscle groups. Because this is one of our last workouts before we're totally done. Then we'll hop right over here into our calf raises. If you don't want to lean forward on these, I want to make sure that you're sitting upright. You're not pulling back on it. Come down to get a great stretch. And then back up. I think the negative part is actually more important than the actual pot of the exercise. The actual pot of the hamstring curl. Just because you're really stretching out your hamstrings. You're slowing it down. You're not letting the weight take control of the movement. You're actually controlling the movement. So it really stretches your muscles and actually forces blood in there. So we get in great detail and in great pump as well. So our last exercise is walking lunges. Let's go do it. This is our last exercise. If you did this whole workout correctly, you should be totally gas, very fatigued, delected be really swollen and tired. And a body weight walking lung is literally more than enough. We're going to take eight walking lunges on each leg. And then take a quick 45 second break and back at it. When you're doing your walking lunges, me personally. I don't actually like to tap my knees because sometimes you might slip or anything. My happened especially of weights on your back. And you actually do some damage to your knees. Or you get a few bruises or cuts. Me, no injury is a good day. I'd like to come about two to three inches short of the actual ground. Just keep it rolling. If you guys have any questions or comments, you guys want to send to me. You can find me at Body Space at Lawrence under Score Ballinger. And for more videos on contact, always come back to BodyBloom.com.

=== FILE: Your Transformation Is Our Passion ｜ 2010 Bodybuilding.com Commercial [l7cYizwUdm8].txt ===

When I logged on to bodybuilding.com three years ago, I was 185 pounds in a size 14. And I just wanted to be 150 pounds in a size 10. After reading the articles about training, nutrition and supplementation, I found myself a size 4. And I never thought I would be that size. Body space shows that anyone can get in great shape. Anyone can adopt a healthy lifestyle. And that if you're patient and that if you're consistent, that you will reach your goals. I've worked out mainly for myself and for my family. Outside of the gym, I like to be an extreme sports athlete. I like to raise a motor cross. I like to snowboard. And the gym allows me to be able to do that. Motor cross, it's not like football or you take a snap and you do a play and you get a five minute break. I mean, it's go-go-go and there is no breaks. You have to be able to have the endurance. You've able to have the muscle capacity to get through an entire race. What's nice is bodybuilding.com has a lot of workouts that can actually train you for like a motor cross race. Like circutraining high intensity cardio. I can get all that information and I can apply it to my motor cross career and reach that goal as well outside of the gym. I didn't want to fall prey to society's myth of you can never be in great shape again. You've had kids. So I said really, okay, well we're going to see about that. 13 years later, I'm not only in better shape, but I have more muscle and I just feel great. Yes, someone told me that I could go back and be 20 tomorrow. I'd say no way. Any day, I'm expecting my first grandchild. I'm totally ready for it. More ready than I've probably ever been for anything in my life, so bring it on. Initially my goal was just to get bigger. All throughout high school, junior high, I've weighed about 125 out of most soaking wet. And everybody who sees me now can't believe how basically I changed. Well, brother didn't recognize me when he saw a picture of you, with my shirt off. Once I got bigger, my goals evolved to not just stay in big, but being healthy. Nutrition is the most important aspect of any fitness go no matter what you're doing. If you're playing football, playing soccer, go out of glinton.com, supply any nutrition and information you need or any supplements you need. My specific goal for going to bodybuilding.com was to get into competing. Since then, I've done over 15 competitions, fitness, figure, and bikini. I've landed two magazine covers. I've been on Oxygen Magazine. I've been on Ironman Magazine. And most recently, I won Body Space Books Model. I like to put pictures of me lifting heavyweight on my body space page because it shows women that you do not have to look like a bodybuilder to lift heavyweight. If you want to transform your body in your life, bodybuilding.com is a great place to go. One, two, three, four, four, six, four, five, six, five, six, five, five, five years old. I'm an old guy, but I'm really not because I've found the fountain of youth. That's working out at the gym, stay in healthy, and supplementation with bodybuilding.com. My day started out, 5 a.m. in the morning. I work all day, then turn around after work and going and trying to have the energy that you need and display for the children. You've got to have a certain level of intensity and excitement to keep the kids interested. If I want to be the best I can be, I go to bodybuilding.com. I get the supplements that I need to give me, the energy, the confidence, the focus, all those things needed to go out on that practice field, be the leader. And then turn around and go home and still be the leader. Oh, yeah, hi, good job guys. It's your life. It's your life. Lift it. Lift it. Lift it at bodybuilding.com. At bodybuilding.com. At bodybuilding.com.
=== Rebuilt on 2025-12-16T06:29:25.082864Z ===
