 mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere All righty guys, where do we start off at? Where do we start off at? We're gonna start off with some What came a little too big is it? I think it's a little too big I'll put it up in the corner and then you'll tell me There Is that actually fine, it's my good son is it too is it too big or my My forehead's really big well, thanks man. That's not what I was asking though Does she really do that would be it I'm down To think for Mrs. Smith good. All right, let's do it. Let's have some flinko Dollars I'm a few two-fifties. We get lucky right after we're oh Come on flinko, there's a good baby There was a good It was one of my oh damn teasers on my old mods. His name was bill smith. Oh my god that was almost big and He uh was caught talking all this shit about me. He was like it was like recorded They went oh ever since then we've just been saying like we fuck his mom is really always oh guys guys guys. Oh my god. What's he's her? He's a McGee's Yeah, buddy, dude we're up at two two hundred some dollars now Bro, is that I hope I to say that another one. Holy shit Look at under 200 lowest we take 50 profit Oh another time to eat let's go All right last three Come on damn actually I'm gonna 180 that's still 30 bucks Not a risk, right It's not true dang boy. I've kind of fat on here. I'm actually wrong about that He's been unlucky daily I said leave I don't want to leave though so I'm gonna stay Still working on profit I knew everyone If really want to say I've seen it up now to know that it's always the same. What does that mean? What is not you can climb at times and you lose it Oh, come on. Let's get that fucking 83x any heart music Come on give me a good one. Give me a good one God, dude Oh, yeah, buddy. Oh 27x In the city Give me another one. Give me another one. I'm out of here. I hit a 27x right here. I'm out Right here. I'm out Oh times eight not bad Oh, I can hear it just two things. How do you know how to get how do you know I can hear it? 10 times eight. Let's go Another times eight. Let's go Oh damn that look good Down in Hollywood Oh, absolutely text and kick everywhere all streamers in general. Absolutely. Absolutely. I do absolutely Oh man, we're climbing. Let's go. It's building up Oh What's this you see me? I went 50 Bro, I just got a hundred fifty bucks out of nowhere. What the fuck did you send that? Hey, what the hell did you do that? Will you welcome? Man, you know, thanks. Thank you very much, bro. I sure will man. I sure will Thank you, brother man. I appreciate you. You want a baseband? I'll do a giveaway for you guys too Thank you, bro. Fucking legend. They're gonna be 500 bucks half a g 200 lowest since he oh, look at that. That's not bad. She's in fives She's a fine. Let's see five fives one two three four five. That's six, but oh Oh My oh, oh my god, that could have been so much money guys. Did you see that my jaw dropped? Ties in the river Nice Realize again Amazing chukka tear I saw my son And was it going dry now going kind of dry now guys until this Oh man I should leave you. I don't want to eat everything up last three right here Come on. Oh dude Damn fuck it. Keep going. We're gonna get a big one Come on, man. I've already gone through 150 Hey big head. Give me back. Give me back with a big hit 83x 83x please please man God damn it, dude. Okay. At least we got the times eight there Come on, miss rating. I'm not gonna lose it all in here. I can tell you that much I will not go turn the lights off Bro, this shit's fucking AIDS, dude Yeah, as you like the two videos I'll do it. I'll tell you to 100 if I hit 100. Oh come on. Stay alive Damn, okay last one on five Not a play come like a double chop Get 250 now Go hit a big one right here Eight times. It's good You roses Just eating Carry me oh right down the left side. Damn. What a cook Left side Uh, no Yeah, I've got six. Uh, I think I have I know I got a 420 on the one below it I think I've only got a 420 actually. I haven't gotten a 620 yet. No We're doing we're doing 620 come on Man, they're gonna 620 bro. Hey selfless. Thank you for the sub my boy. Thank you very much Oh My god, man 620 right here Come on, let me something good man, please Yeah 300 baby. Yeah, buddy Hey back to back back to back Let's go now a 3x boys back to back a 3x is incoming right here. Here comes a 3x right here Oh pretty good though Oh, whoo wants to hit I haven't been home for a while And denial Blame Had to find my oh I lost it all Time of six if I should kick this fucker out of my chat for being a dickhead So I thought to check this guy out type of six if I should yeah My life 257. What's your name? Me my life shitty Your life sucks. I'm not coming to make him streamer feel bad for no reason. Fuck you pussy get out of here Oh, what a hit guy. I'm a 340 something Holy shit, what a hit 27. Okay. Okay. Fuck. Yeah Come on man Oh my god, come on Oh What the fuck man This is so dumb 40 amount dude, what the fuck man, that's less than $300. Wow Oh, we're gonna snipe a big flinko two of these What? Oh, fuck dude one more of those Oh two more done a hundred. Okay, three. Oh my god two more Oh my god, we need a miracle We need a fucking mirror. Yeah, okay Feel good you stink. I'm sweating a lot. So probably do right now Damn dude, I'm out of here All right last one man Oh, what a fucking piece of shit. No way I thought you were you didn't we weren't allowed in my chat. That's right. You're not your band, bitch Shut up pussy. Why you care about my money? You're weird, bro. Who else needs to get banned? Does anybody else need to get banned guys? These people are so so miserable They got come here and talk shit to me for no for no reason So sad. What have I done wrong to you? Nothing you just have its problems Too deep and I'm trying to keep Going under hell no Yeah, let's go one more of those come on do it 20 do 20 fuck it Yeah, let's go one more Come on one more 20. Oh, I did last one Okay, I'm out of here last one All right, I do like it. I'm gonna do some mines I was just trying too hard Oh my god, fuck you man I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Oh, yeah for 20 Yeah, oh my god Rebecca 500 Oh, I was one less one less What okay Oh I know that you already told me that bro, dude. I know man Oh, watch this please win this That's good. That's good Oh my god guys we're up fat Oh my god Let's go. Hey, look another gifted. Thank you very much. Let's fucking go. Thank you. Let's go. Thank you very much Let's fun. Go. Thank you Oh my god, I'm a fat as fuck guys Oh my god guys yo Oh my gosh, dude, I just made two grains that quickly. Oh my god Right here big one Dude, what come on Yeah, I just lost a thousand Are you fucking kidding me right now, uh, it's so great, man. It just stops working I hear the situation with the people you feed they don't change the station That's such bullshit I'm such a fucking I fucking hate my lives they turn it off dude It just goes from hitting to nothing and then they fucking say you should you shouldn't have got breathe Well, you shouldn't fucking do I fucked this bullshit, dude. Oh my god, man. I am such a fucking idiot dude. I fucking hate my life, dude I'm gonna do the party like my name was held in you Oh my god, I was a fat hit five times let's go Let's go guys time and back up time and back up I Can kind of get out of here I was about to say that would have been fat as fuck. Okay. I gotta get out of here. I gotta get out here Just win this one. Okay. Oh You said are you serious bro? Oh my god, dude. Thank you, bro. What the fuck? You said another 500 There you go get that shit back Oh, come on. Oh Oh my god, thousand bucks back in the bag. Oh Watch this watch this Two grand back in the bag. Let's say fucking do it. Oh my fucking god. Holy shit Leave leave guys better do another 600 I decided leave I Know I haven't yet Christian have not yet. No, I haven't We're gonna go on over to my hand of minus two And uh get some big money. Let's go Not that I'm sweating my fucking ass off gambling affects me physically bro. It does Oh it does I Here we go. Okay. Let's do some what's that spin jig we should do I'm gonna spin this one actually I'm thinking threes or fours. Let's do fours It's four dollar. That's pretty solid It's gonna go guys Let's go baby. Okay. I might pay a little bit. I don't know. Was that 20 bucks? I didn't see it Before my idea back down I hope so. I hope so air sing. I hope you're right My time with the idea back down No sweating. Holy shit balls Once again, it's keeping me doubles. Come on get in there I Can't sit still so hails Cooper with the three packs say what thank you, brother Guys, we're getting a lot closer to 1200. I haven't updated it all day. So let's see where we're at Come on. Give me in there Here comes here comes Here comes god. I can feel it here comes three two one boom That'd be cool. Shit. Oh, you gotta I'm gonna I'm gonna get a feature here. Oh man. Come on. Give me in there Let's stay here till I get a feature bro. Oh, we're gonna stay here till we get a feature There are I didn't sell them bro. That's why you're asking All self shoes I keep them Oh, that's gonna pay a thing 30 bucks. Okay What is your dad? Come on. Give me the feature. Oh so many dude so many dollars That might pay no If we don't get a feature soon, we're gonna get a fat ass base hit and don't keep us afloat I'll talk about the freaking weirdos. Give me a name I Wish I had a pack of marble reds actually that's 42 dollars pretty good Thank you very much, uh, dank boy anybody got a gifted sub for dank boy. That was a very nice comment He left some of his favorite streamer. He can't afford to sub Nice you Come on, give me in give me in this is 200 spins now. Come on I Do 300 It takes we're gonna get into that feature Oh goober loose at the same thing copy and paste of that shit Uh, you just buy the feature instead of spinning into it. It's the only difference. I prefer to spin into feature And x It's coming dude. It's coming. We'll see Please please man. Fuck It should be below the stream you should look right below the stream. You can see my specs. I have a 40 70 super Really good processor pretty good processor Good good. I have a good good computer It depends on the spin size this would be a 400 dollar feature if we were to roll into one I've already used a lot more than 400 dollars to get into one. Unfortunately. That's the way it goes sometimes There'll be 400 to buy this size spin one Hey, I'm gonna stay here until I get a feature and then we'll do we'll do some hand on new this after This kind of crazy, but we're going on 300 spins now guys 300 spins come on. Give me in there I was on CS go. All right. Give me a second But surely Well, did you send me? Oh, I just got 500 bucks or something. I'm about to say why the fuck did my balance just go up so high Thank you. I'll do some bigger spins. Let's do some fucking uh eights We're gonna we're gonna 800 dollars worth of eights. Thank you very much. We'll I sure will We're gonna do 108 dollar spins and hopefully we'll get in on an eight guys an 800 dollar feature would be huge Yes, we're in when we are in the 800 dollar feature. Good call. Who said raise the bet? James Connolly, I have some good news for you. James. Now. Listen, hear me out You are going to receive if you choose 10 percent of whatever this pays. I know it's only 10 percent But this could pay huge this could pay ginormous bro. That could easily be 100 dollars She loved it. I wish you love I'm all gonna some multi give me some fucking multi's bitch Sorry, I only want to you all mow golf. Sorry Oh Now looking good for us James. It could clutch it could clutch up. It definitely could clutch up Retreat it It's looking bad as fuck for an 800 dollar dude. That's fucking embarrassed. That's terrible dude. That's a disgrace That's a fucking disgrace bro. We're at 56 bucks with three spins left That one's fucking red multi in dude. What the fuck are you doing? What is this trash? Oh my god, all that time to bro not even Okay, let me try to get into another one real quick Thanks for the pop. Yeah, hell yeah I'll give jason dollars every once. Oh, what's that worth guys? 156 bucks eight dollars spin. That's huge. It's like a 20x dog fucking huge, dude This thought eats no, it doesn't it pays back. It is we're getting unlucky right now. I always gonna pay I'll do anything It's a good spell. It's a good slot one bank on here. Trust me Trust him believe I have one big on here. Yes, we're in 800 dollar feature again We're in another 800 dollar feature. My like to my headset is unplugged Big spins big spins big spins Come on. Give me some big spins two one one one three. Okay. That's actually pretty good. That's actually pretty solid guys 14 spins if I could plug this headset back in Listen to music with you guys There we go. All right guys, here we go. Come on big multis big reds Hmm good start any multi count any wild scouts Come on. Let me get a big feature Come on, man Come on. You got playing spins left. There we go. This is looking way better if we get one here or here We're gonna make some bank Oh This is a print. This is at least I'm gonna go ahead and say 900 at least I'm gonna say at least 900 at least 900 dollars. I'm thinking more like 14 1500 though Holy shit. This is big. That's a big hit. That's a big hit. Come on. Let's go come on premiums No premiums there if we get another wow, that'd be crazy. That's what I said. Okay Take it. Okay. I'm pretty I'm thinking 900 uh 900 1100. I mean, no, I don't know. Who knows premiums might print a little bit come on They might at least get 800 Pretty good, dude 750. Okay last two spins. Let's see what they do Get some premiums on the last spin premiums on the last spin then premiums on the last spin then Dude nice as a thousand that's a thousand premium Let's go the premiums gonna hit that's probably 100 flat 100 flat 100-63 very nice 1150 let's fucking go guys. I told you I'll be worth it man. I told you I'll be worth it Come on man. Trust in your boy boss man. Every once in a while that might hit some fat Bro, this is gonna hit fat for a base spin 162 dollars Holy shit, dude. Let's fucking go guys I'ma finish off uh I'm gonna finish off all these spins. I'm gonna finish off all 40 of these spins and see what happens Like another big base hit or another feature if we're really lucky, man Yeah So I print as a great slot. I love that slot. I do enjoy that slot a lot actually Yeah, let's go there next. Let's go there next. We'll spin it. Actually, I'll give you a hand of an UBIS for our christie I'll give you a hand of an UBIS then we'll go to Charlie Princess I Pay like 50. Yeah All right, let's get out of here boys It was a good run. It was a damn good run made 800 bucks on that slot damn near 900. So that's pretty good I'm gonna do some I'm not gonna do the right feature, but I'll do some left some underworld features What size do you think your features they should do maybe like enough to do like three of them at the most Hey, 200s Do 200s. Let's do 200 dollars 180 206 guys No way christie no way. Hell no Come on. Oh, that's a good start. Good start here. Good combo right here too Little combo runey. Do you have another orb in? Okay, come on You too. Thank you brother. Oh another orb. This is looking good I know really I know that's it. I always love original. I always have a love for original. I'm with you, bro. I'm with you Oh, the second one over the second one. Come on Seconds take a row Oh, that's good 16 on that one. Okay, I guess it's kind of good 99 red below Oh, look at that guys looking better now looking better now boss Nice combo right there on the left side too nice That brings the live It's looking like it has a lot of potential. That's what I'm saying. It has a lot potential. Is it gonna hit? We're gonna have to wait and see Oh, by Damn Another orb is much needed now Is this making it? What is that cake? What do you mean? Your first oh, what are you saying? Come on. Check it out. Second row. Do it. Do it. Do it 99 man nesters me. Oh, we need to open that one up Open them both up. Fuck it Come on. Don't do it. Don't just don't do it. Don't drop it or be drop it or be drop it or be drop it or be Drop that fucking orb. Drop that fucking orb Oh, it did let's fun go Let's fucking go dude Keep uploading my mic or my headset on accent. Hold on guys Come on hit here. Hey, oh Guys, bro, let's get hit. Oh my god. Get my headset. Get my headset. Oh my god. This is gonna hit if we get one combo It's over one good combo. It's over Oh, that's 99 dollars come the fuck on dude. I can't plug my headset in Let's go guys. Chrissy your beast. You did call it. Chrissy. You want a little tip donation? That's depends what it pays. Oh my god. Oh nice profit already lots of spades. Oh my god. Whoa, let's go guys God, oh my god. That's huge. That is ginormous 295 multi Holy shit, this can hit hard. This can be multi thousands. This can be multiple thousands get the top 10 come on bitch Oh my god, come on Oh, they'll do it. Come on bitch Oh, oh my god. Oh my god. Let's get really hit. Oh my god Bro, oh my god. Oh my goodness. That's huge Oh, oh last spin, please. Oh, it is the last spin. Oh Shit, we fucking take dude. I thought there was one more spin 610 not fucking bad triple up Oh back up the 3200 let's go. You want to tip Chrissy? I'll give you uh, what should I give Chrissy guys? What should I give her for the call? 50 20 She said 20 20 bucks. I still tip though 50 I need um ETH yeah, ETH address I'll give you. I'll give you 70 70 dollars Oh, I'm fucking hot dude. It's fucking hot in my room. I need a fan or something bro Do a quick out 200 dollar dice And if I win I'm gonna do another one If I'm gonna do the 288 if I lose I'm leaving There it is Oh my god Oh my fucking god. What just happened? Oh my god. Let's fucking go I want two 288s in a row doubled it up and did another 500 and one Hold on Chrissy. I got you hold on Chrissy, did you did you know? That might be a lucky day because I just said 70 but because of what just went down That just multiplied it by two. What 140 bucks. What? My buddy does that look right at um? Does that look good? That look like you're ready. I need to go get a drink. I don't I'm fucking burning up Does that look good at Chrissy? I swear I got I gave you 140 bucks Yeah, we are here. Hell yeah, I can't right. Oh more one. Yeah. Yeah. I got you more one Bro, I told you I'm paying you tomorrow bro paying tomorrow more. Are you seriously? Do you need it that bad today? I'm hooking it fuck up, bro. Why are you being rushy about it? Come on, man. Why would you do that? I never asked you for your 18 chatty I'm sorry. I'm not trying to sound like a dig No, you're good. Just I'll hook you up. I'll probably give you half today or something Oh, it's fine. I don't even know why I got mad about that. There's no fuck you do You know, fuck you don't say fuck dar one mar one you get a fucking four hour time out Twilight yeah, we're doing twilight next All right, you're not allowed to talk about that  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere You guys hear that? Ehhhh! Oh my gosh, so sorry. My parents have friends over, I forgot. They're probably like, what the fuck? 17's gonna hit. I think so too, actually. It's gonna be 17 or 11. I'll tell you. 17, dude, no way! Dude, I hope we get 17. Come on. Not 17, but it is black! It is black! Let's go, guys! So what I'm gonna do is just hit the double up button. Can I have $20? I told you I'd give you $20, you know? Double that up. They're double everything, even now the numbers. There's music on Netflix, I think. 13's my lucky number two. It's the day I was born, bro. April 17th, 1995. I'm 29 years old. Watch Green Hit? I would fucking shit my pants, dude. Green would score everywhere. How much would that be? $1,500? No. I think it'd be $1,500, bro. Okay, all red numbers, come on. Oh, because of you. This left us so long. Come on, black, come on, black! Go, boys! Yeah! Let's fucking go, guys! Get out of there, get out, get out, get out! Holy crap. No, it says 30 on Lightning Relay. It says blue here. Let's go, I'm out. Got something on Telegram? What's on Telegram, guys? What is it? Nothing I need. Okay. That was the plan. We get in now, get in now. All right, so, hey, Mormon is consistent. Type it one more time, Mormon. No, fuck that. You want $20? I want you to copy and paste that five more times. You want $20, you got to put a little effort in. Five does number one. There is number two. Oh, he went and put in the same message. You little cheeky bastard. Try and be clever with it. Try and be all... You want... Yeah, I see how you did that. All right, now let's put it in one line. Just one addy. Leaky weeny, leaky weeny. Oh, a leaky weeny. Bro! Leaky weeny. That name is wild. That name is crazy. Thank you for that tier one, though. All right, I need you, Mr. Mormon, to confirm this looks like your address. I'm going to say 27. Like on rule at the red number. Is that it? 27 cents, bitch? No, I'm just kidding. You didn't get 50 cents. All right, guys, let's go ahead and send in this 50 cents over. Oh, minimum $17. Guess you got lucky, bro. I was kidding. 27. Not do I dream. Hey, Aponni. What's up, Aponni? I remember you, bro. How you been, brother? Thanks for the six months. Oh, no. Shit, shit, shit. Get out of there. Get out of there. Fuck, you guys already saw us out. 582054. What was it, 582054? 582054 and $27. That was $27, right? Looks like it. It's been sent, boss. There you go. It's going to take a few minutes to get to you, probably. 27 bucks for free, man. You can't beat it. Don't start posting your eggs in the chat, dude. Come on, man. Love you, too, bro. Yeah, I love this one. Dude, $300 on the wheel. If I lose, I'm going to do $600. Hopefully we hit one of them. $600? Oh, dude. One more. One more. Yeah! Oh, my God. $3,500. 5K. Oh, come on. $1,200. Yo! Oh, my God. $600. Oh, my God. $1,200. $1,200. Oh! $600, $600. Oh, my God. Get out of there. Holy crap, guys. I am up fast, fuck. I am up fast. I am up hard. Holy shit. Bro, I just made, like, how much money? Where did I go there with? Oh, my God, guys. Holy crap, guys. Level 2 hype train. Who's sub? Who's sub? Thank you very much. Come with the 5-pack. You fucking beast. Thank you so much, bro. I really... If you guys want to help and support BossmanJack, me, aka Austin, best way to do it is by subbing. Or, if you get these, so it's my favorite way to get donated and supported. So, just let you all know. Thank you very much. Let's see how many subs we got now. We just hit $1,200. We just hit $1,200 subs. Let's go. $1,200 subs in the bag. $1,200 and $3. Oh, Troy would have gifted. Thank you very much, man. Let's go. You're my homie, dude. Thank you so much, man. $1,204 subs. Keep them coming, guys. Keep them coming. Now, keep the giveaways rolling. Subs keep rolling in. Giveaways will keep rolling in. I took this cell. Fuck. Friends, you got your gun to my head. The wishful thinking. $1,300, the new goal, and hopefully we can hit that. What? Is that another one? Hold on. Oh, man. Bonzi, hey, man. Give this up. And, Kuma, they have a five pack. You guys are awesome, man. Thank you, guys. Thank you. Thank you, guys. You guys are sick. Fucking legends, bro. Minds. We need a little minds. Watch this, guys. I'm in and out. If I lose, I'm going to withdraw immediately. Watch this, guys. I'm not kidding. When I do this, actually, we're going to do this. We're going to do this. We're going to do 100. Watch this. We're going to lose this one. We're going to go for a shitload of minds. Oh. Oh, my God. Okay. Now we do 1,000. I'm not kidding. I'm going to do 1,000 on our minds. Oh. Oh, cash that. Oh, my God. Oh. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, are you fucking cocksucker, dude? Dude, are you fucking cocksucker, dude? Dude, are you fucking cocksucker, dude? Dude, are you fucking cocks- Oh, my God. I just lost so much money. Dude. Son of a fucking rig. Oh, my God. His three minds. That is impossible. Oh my god! I cannot believe I just did it to myself. Oh my god, this is wrong. Yo, I cannot believe that this happened. Three minds. Dude, they're so wrong. It's so bullshit!