 How can discomfort and stress be the key to reversing chronic disease and living a longer, healthier life? Hi, I'm Dr. Gabrielle Lyon and on today's podcast we will be digging deep into the science of health, wellness and longevity. Today I'm joined by Jeff Krasnow, the visionary behind Commune, a wellness platform and podcast that's redefining how we think about health. Jeff's personal journey of reversing, yes you heard that, diabetes, site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site site I just wanted to jump on here with an exciting announcement. I am hosting the second ever Forever Strong Summit, April 26th, 27th in Houston, Texas, 2025. There's going to be two days, the VIP day on April 26th. You will learn from former Navy SEALs, from former Secret Service, from individuals that you do not want to miss. My self, my inner tribe will be there to support you, to learn everything from muscle health, to science, to nutrition. You don't have to be an expert. You don't even have to have a background. All you have to have is a will to win and stay strong. I will put a link in the show notes below. Please go to my website, drgabriallion.com. We sold out last year and I would hate for you to miss this opportunity. So if you're waiting for a sign, if you're thinking you need to change something up and you need community, friends, we've got you covered. Jeff Krasnow, welcome to the show. Thanks so much for having me. It's such a treat to be here. You've built such an amazing community and I'm just honored to be in your presence and to be able to connect with them. I have to say that you are a forever student. And, you know, when I was researching you and your book, Good Stress, to bring you on to really talk about this, there was a few things that struck me. Okay. Number one, you have three girls and you've been married for quite some time. How long? So I think it depends if you ask my wife or me. I've been with her for 36 years. I think she's been with me for 35. This is a subject of great debate. And that is amazing. A large portion of our audience is female. And you are taking care of an entire female tribe with also your information and inspiration. The other thing is that you yourself have had a health journey. And that has truly made you this student of, and I'm going to read this quote, it is, chronic ease breeds chronic disease. I truly just, that resonated so much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I hit rock bottom from a biopsychosocial perspective about five years ago. And I really had to do a very serious personal intake form, I guess you might call it in your language, but an inventory of what was going on in my life. I mean, first of all, I was a chronic insomniac. I was depressed. I had very unflattering physical presentations. You said you were almost 80 pounds heavier? Almost 80 pounds heavier. So I was about 210 at that point. In fairness, I'm about 165 now. So I've actually put on a little bit of muscle weight, thanks to you, candidly. But I was experiencing all of these symptoms of modernity. And they're so anodyne on some level, just like chronic fatigue, brain fog, a little adiposity around the middle, inability to concentrate, can't read a book, need to check my phone all the time, just perpetual agitation. These conditions and presentations are so normalized in our society, but they're completely abnormal. And they exist just barely upstream. This is what I discovered across my journey from all of these chronic diseases, particularly for me, metabolic dysfunction and diabetes. But we've completely normalized the abnormal. And that is what I had to untangle for myself, as you say, as kind of a citizen scientist. And what I ended up putting my thumb on was, yeah, this idea that chronic ease in my life was leading to chronic disease. And everywhere I looked, I saw evidence of this. And so, you know, what I began to understand is that humans, homo sapiens, evolved over hundreds of thousands of years, and then our hominid ancestors for millions of years before that. And we evolved in relationship to our environment and nature in its glorious brilliance selected for the best of us over that unfathomable period of time. And so we developed adaptive mechanisms in relationship to our environment. And a lot of these adaptive mechanisms flourished in the presence of some degree of paleolithic stress. And what kind of adaptive mechanisms? And you'd mentioned upstream. What do you mean by that? Well, what I felt was that these symptoms that I had were upstream from the diagnoses and the labels that we give diseases. So brain fog and chronic fatigue, really, if you unravel it, those are metabolic issues. And we don't call them anything yet. We just, and because we don't call them something, we don't treat them, A. And B, they're easy just to write off as like, I'm just having a bad day, you know. But you stack 20 years of bad days together, and all of a sudden you have diabetes or cardiovascular disease, etc. So as I began to shine a flashlight on my own life, I realized I was a victim of chronic ease. I had essentially engineered my life for convenience at every single turn. I love watching Curb Your Enthusiasm till 11 o'clock at night. I get it. That's cool. I mean, whatever. We could make some exceptions around the edges. But I was eating. My eating window was probably, when I was honest, 16 to 18 hours a day. You weren't uncomfortable most of the time. No. And unfortunately, what's happening across our society is all these artifacts of modernity at every turn where we've engineered convenience and comfort, they are rendering adaptive mechanisms maladaptive. Right? So let's just like look at an example. So we largely live sedentary lifestyles in the United States and in much of the Western world. We spend 94% of our time indoors and 80% of us have a desk job. Okay? So that's like eight to 10 hours sitting here. A, we weren't designed to really sit in a chair, but that's a whole other... Yeah, yeah. That is part of actually chronic ease. Well, in our studio, we typically do push-ups right before the... I'm in. Push-ups after, multiple push-up sessions during the day. So yes. I'm in. I'm in. We'll do it after for sure. And I did this morning, as you can imagine. Um, but you know, we're... So let's look at like that, this idea of not moving our bodies. Did you have a moment where you thought, well, if I were to take a step back, we live in a very comfortable society. And when I say comfortable, it is challenging to purposely do something that creates friction. Yes. We are designed for friction and stress, but we have one word to define stress. All these things that happen, whether it's losing a loved one, a fire, going to the DMV, you know, hanging out with my two kids, especially at eight o'clock at night. We have one word to define multiple experiences. Mm-hmm. And we often think about stress. The stress response is fight or flight. Right. But reading your book and going through this, it's clear that there are other stress responses like tend and befriend and the courage response. Right. Yeah. Those are great ones. Yeah. Stress needs a new PR agent. Maybe I am he. Wonderful. Wonderful. Yeah. Most of the stress that we experience in modern life is chronic. Right. So, and this really is maladaptive and creates imbalances in the human organism. And really every disease, the etiology of every disease is pretty much imbalanced somewhere or another. That's totally fair to say. Yes. And so you mentioned the fight or flight response. So. And do you think that that from your studentship, do you think that that is an interpretation? Mal adaptation? Yeah. I think that because we live in an environment that is algorithmically preferenced to tickle our human negativity bias. You know, 24 hour news, social media. It really, it really, it really, the whole business model of those things revolve around making us angry and outraged and essentially putting us into fight or flight. And so what happens there? And so what happens there? So let me just say that the fight or flight response is adaptive. It's actually quite beneficial when it serves your biological imperative. I'm a hiker. I hike the trails of the Santa Monica Mountains. God bless them right now. And every once in a while, I will come across like a rattlesnake on the path. Right? And what happens? I have an adaptive stress response, an involuntary bottom-up sympathetic response that triggers my neuroendocrine axis, this HPA axis. It sends a little signal down. Tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, getting these different glands to tell my adrenals to produce cortisol and epinephrine, which will have certain presentations physiologically. My heart rate and respiratory rate will increase. My liver will secrete glucose. That will go to my extremities. That's totally adaptive, right, because I want to fight or fly. Other things happen. My pupils dilate. The aperture of my attention becomes very narrow. I distrust the world around me for very good reason. I become totally self-obsessed. And then what happens? The snake slithers off the path. And what do I do? I bounce back. I bounce back to normal, to a parasympathetic state, if you will. All of those things that I just mentioned, they find homeostasis. Because my body is wired for homeostasis, for balance. The problem is, in modern society, the rattlesnake never leaves the path. So we are triggered all the time. So we are in this perpetual cortisol-induced state that really has so many negative downstream impacts. I mean, there's many, many experts that I'm sure are on this show that can talk about chronic cortisol secretion. But it essentially is maladaptive in every way. It degrades the immune system. You produce less neutrophils and other white blood cells. It dysregulates the gut. It can cause dysbiosis and eventually intestinal permeability in excess. It causes blood sugar dysregulation, right? Because cortisol is always going to raise blood glucose levels. So over time, you're going to see all sorts of negative physiological impacts from chronic modern stress. You're also going to make bad decisions because your blood flow goes to your hindbrain, right? And not to this unbelievable neomammalian prefrontal cortex that allows us to be rational and sit here and have interesting conversation and do other things and problem solve, etc. So that's all the negative ramifications of chronic bad stress. But if you really look at stress at its core, it has an adaptive good stress component to it. And we know that. I mean, the most obvious one is like when you stress a muscle, right? You overload a muscle. You rip the microfibers in it. And what does the body do? It has this incredible adaptive response where it goes into, you know, muscle protein synthesis and produces these little structural proteins, myosin and actin, etc. That, you know, use amino acids. And with enough rest, what happens? You stress it. You give a little rest. It grows. That's totally adaptive. And the body is riddled with those adaptive responses to stress. Is that how you thought about good stress, whether it's fasting, cold therapy, exercise, many of the protocols that you determined were going to be adaptive? Yeah. Well, I had to ask myself, okay, if modernity and chronic ease is causing chronic disease. Did you have a moment where you were like, I got to fix this? Was this the moment that you saw that your blood sugar was out of control? I mean, there's usually a come to your senses moment that really moves the needle. Totally. So I had all the panoply of physical presentations. Eating donuts under the table. Yeah. Some of which were insulting my vanity to some degree. And some stuff that I learned later, like I started developing these little brown skin tags, which I will not show you. That is impressive. That is, was there a genetic component to? No, but what I found out from this guy, Ben Bickman, who you may know, is that those are a presentation of diabetes or insulin resistance. Yes. Absolutely. And I didn't get them on the back of my neck, but that's oftentimes the problem was when I realized a lot of this stuff, I would walk around the streets. You probably do this too. And I'm like, they have them on the back of their neck. Diabetes. Oh, God. Should I tell them? Should I not tell them? So anyways, so. Making you the least popular man in the room. No, no, no. Yes. There's a gentle way to do it. Thank you to Peori for sponsoring this episode of the show. At this point, everyone should be taking omega-3 fatty acids. It has positive effects on heart health, brain health, muscle health, probably sexual health, and overall inflammation. There's increasing evidence that EPA and DHA may also help with brain function and mood, all of which I think are critical to our overall well-being. Now, I won't just take any omega-3 supplement. I only want the best. The best quality fish oil. And frankly, much of our seafood has increasing amounts of heavy metals and toxins. And I think we're going to see more microplastics. And that is why I choose Peori O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil, which is third-party tested and certified by the Clean Label Project and IFOS. This is a source of omega-3 that I completely trust and highly recommend. In fact, I trust it so much that I bust open a capsule and I mix it with my kids' milk because I know it's important for their brain development too. Every batch of Peori's O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil and all of their supplements are tested against more than 200 contaminants with all their results published online. So, I can have peace of mind, you can have peace of mind, and we don't have to worry about hidden toxins that we are exposed to. Support your health. Add Peori O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil into your routine just like I did. And I've worked out a deal with Peori on this. For my listeners, you get 20% off storewide. That means it even applies to already discounted subscriptions, which is almost a third off of their entire price. All you have to do is go to Peori, P-U-O-R-I dot com slash Dr. Lion and use the promo code Dr. Lion at checkout. I know that you will love these products and trust them just as much as I do. And you know, I had, you know, gynecomastia, which is sort of the clinical name for the boobs of man. My producer knows all about that. Okay. As my children reminded me, not necessarily a cup's dad. And so, all of that stuff was happening. But like I said, all of those things are so prosaic. It's like, oh yeah, okay, I'm just a little overweight. I'm just a little tired today. You know, all those things, you can just write them off. Then, I put a CGM on. So, I'm pointing, for those who are just listening and not watching, to a little disc that sits on my triceps. And there's a little pinprick that goes into your interstitial fluid. And no friends, doesn't hurt. It doesn't hurt. Although, the first time you put it on, when you look at it, you're like, I ain't doing this. I'm a trypnophobe. I'm afraid of needles. Not anymore, but I was at that juncture. But, you know, I did some deep belly breathing, and I snapped it into place. It doesn't hurt at all. And, you know, this was a dashboard into my metabolic health. Not a perfect one. In which, by the way, 93% of Americans, roughly, are metabolically dysfunctional. That's right. Not our listeners. But, right guys? But, 93% of Americans, by 2050, no, by 2030, 50% of Americans are going to be considered obese. Not overweight, in the obese category. Yeah. It's crazy. I mean, and that was the wake-up call. Because when I looked into the app, which, you know, this device bounces your blood glucose data to an app. And you can measure your blood glucose moment to moment, really. And I was at the very, very top of the pre-diabetic range. So, I was running like 125 milligrams per deciliter fasting blood glucose. Wait, what were you eating? And I'd love for you to be very, very open about the kind of diet that you're eating. Yeah. So, this was the curious thing. Because I ran a yoga festival called Wanderlust. Yes, which is actually where I first heard of you from our dear sister, Elena Brower. Yeah. She's the first person to take a chance on me at that festival in 2009 and agree to be part of the roster and help me really curate other people, too. So, I'm always deeply in debt to her. But, yeah, I was... So, I knew better. This is what I'm just starting to... Of what we're eating because I would tell you because when I... I've been Elena's doctor for over a decade now. Good. And when I first sat down with her and we've had many, many meals together. It was quinoa and beans and lots of plants. And while all good for one's self, the balance was off. Yeah. So, I was doing a lot of things wrong. First of all, I wasn't... Certainly was not getting enough protein because I wasn't eating enough high-quality meat. And that's okay if you are a total aficionado about what you're going to eat if you're a vegetarian or a vegan. I'm not taking sides on that equation. No, no, no. You just have to be very, very on point to get enough protein if you're going to be a vegan. Yes. So... Yeah. And I will say, we... I think I was having a conversation with someone earlier and there is a spiritual component to food. And I think that, for example, vegan vegetarianism and the yoga community go hand in hand. Would you agree with that? That there seems to be a connection there? Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. And again, when I started working with Elena, it was more about this spiritual embrace of the food that she was eating. And so it was very challenging. And I see that a lot with many of the yogis, especially as they age, and the women especially as they age. And I'm sure you've seen that because, again, you've been such a pillar in the community. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, one of the central tenets of yoga and Eastern religions in general is ahimsa, so do no harm. And so I think people make the connection between that and animal welfare. And that's a totally understandable connection for people to make considering how we raise most of our animals in the Western world. So I understand the predisposition. I believe that there is a regenerative and humane and sustainable way to raise animals for human consumption. And generally, the question that I try to ask myself as it pertains to my health, not just physiologically, but psychologically and spiritually, is how did I evolve? How did I evolve? Because that is what's informing my engineering. And where are you from? That's a hard question. I was a very, very peripatetic young person. Where are your genetics from? Right. So I'm kind of Ukrainian Jew on one side of the equation. And then kind of like stalwart Northern European on the other side. But of course, the inner inside joke for most of my life, with Skylar particularly, my long-suffering better three-quarters, was that I essentially just had the thrifty gene. Right. And that was a gene that was a product of like a famine culture, which was very, very useful in a famine, but very, very unuseful on Instagram or anywhere else or in the bedroom or wherever. TMI. So, you know, because I always carried extra weight my whole life. Always. Yeah. Because, you know, sitting here in front of me, you look very trim and slender. I'm doing, I've tried to adopt a lot of protocols to get to this place. And it's candidly not easy. You know, I slip off and I know when I slip off. So I, you know, I'm not neurotic or fundamentalist about my approach. I was at the beginning. Yeah. When you got your, take me through, do you remember kind of what you were eating at that time? Sure. Or you took a look and noticed. Yeah. The kooky thing was, is that I was a whole food shopper, but what was I actually eating from whole food? I wanted here. Right. I'm dying here. Yes. So the, the proportions of my macronutrients were first like way, way off. So I was eating a fairly carbohydrate rich diet. 80%, 50%. Yeah. So a lot of things that came in boxes, but that were, you know, of course marked organic and all natural. So you feel virtuous, but what's really under the hood there. What, do you remember kind of the stuff that you were eating? Sure. I mean, it was, I was starting the day really wrong. I was starting the day with a bolus of carbohydrates. So that could have been in the form of cereals or bagels or muffins. No, really? Sure. Even during the wanderlust days? I mean, that's. Sure. But it was like the blueberry bran muffin or whatever. It was like the multi-seed bagel with cream cheese. It got you. Yeah. Yeah. It's just like I, I, so I grew up, I didn't grow up as a hippie. My wife grew up as a hippie. She knew better all this time, you know, but of course I didn't want to listen to her. Just like my kids don't want to listen to me. So I had to learn it for myself. And I grew up with Kraft macaroni and cheese and Tang and everything else that was wondrous that came out of a box that you could put in the microwave. And that was part of a certain culture that, you know, gave my mom the ability to work and not cook all day, you know, or whatever. There were like certain parts of that culture that were allowing women to get out of the kitchen. And candidly, my dad was not a good cook. So whatever, I wasn't going to resort to him either. And so, and this was, you know, 70s and 80s. I'm 54 years old. So I was born in 1970. And like many of my contemporaries, that was just normal. You know, we were just growing up eating kind of refined foods. Fat was bad, right? So that was the big... People still think that now, I think. Maybe not, Dr. Bickman, but there's still some confusion around separated fat, fats in general. Sure. I mean, it's an ill-named macronutrient. Because how does fat not make you fat? Right. And of course, it is highly caloric. Like it's calorically dense. So it's, you know, nine calories per gram. But it's like, what signals is that macronutrient giving your body? So that's a whole other thing. Okay. So you were starting with, even in the kind of yoga era, you were still starting with brown, blueberry brown muffin. Yeah. And... Were you vegan or vegetarian at the time? Very little meat consumption. Yeah. And no fiber in the morning. I mean, the brown muffin might have had fiber. But like, you know, eating those refined grains, not a lot of fiber. And so... Or maybe a sweetened yogurt. You know? So that was how I was starting my day. But it was unclear where I was starting my day and where I was ending my day. Because it wasn't uncharacteristic to be out late at night and maybe just like wander into a Denny's and get a turkey club. I mean, but granted, my lifestyle, of course, I was running a yoga festival. But what was I really doing? I was on an airplane 200 days a year. Was this for the festival or doing something else? I see. Yeah. We had 68 festivals. So in 2016, we had 68 festivals in 20 countries. And I was running... It's low. Yeah. I couldn't even cover the amount of events that we had. And I think that speaks to many of the listeners because they have quite robust lives now. Sure. And one of the biggest challenges that people have is when there is no structure, then eating and training become quite haphazard unless you are completely locked in to your standards of what you are doing. 100%. And that's why when I'm home and I'm in my routine, it's way easier to stay on the straight and narrow and to feel really good. But at that juncture, yeah, I was traveling 200 days a year for the festival. I mean, candidly, I was operating from coffee to wine o'clock a lot of the time. Coffee, I can relate, but wine just tastes terrible. Sorry, Danica. Yeah. That's okay. Okay. What I didn't really... What I knew, per my relationship with caffeine and Merlot, is that the access of any one molecule in the human body creates a resistance to itself. So you have to drink more and more coffee to get the same buzz or more and more alcohol to get the same buzz. What I didn't realize is that that's also true for insulin. So the more and more insulin that you have, the more and more resistant your cells are to it. So I was stressing my pancreas all the time. And my dutiful little pancreas was producing its product. It was producing insulin. But what I was doing was essentially training my cells to be resistant to my pancreas' glorious product. When did you transition that nutrition? Was that one of the first things that you did? I know that that's not necessarily... I think probably perhaps eating poorly creates stress. But not the conscious level stress or even the fight or flight level stress. But was there a moment where you said, okay, I have a continuous glucose monitor on. I am now pre-diabetic. I am committing carbicide. I have to change this up. And was there a series of explorations from a nutritional standpoint that you explored? Yes. So as soon as I put on the CGM and was getting data, I finally went in to my PCP. And I didn't cancel the appointment that time. How many canceled appointments did you have? Plenty. Like two or three. You know, I was an annual checkup guy. So, and you go in and you get your labs when you're in that frame of mind. And if you don't get a call, you just assume you could. And also, to be fair, you know, we won't talk too much about this, but the system is broken in terms of relationships. When you go to your provider, and we have many dear friends in common, like Mark Hyman, you know, we have a medical clinic. And it's about the relationship. Yeah. I go in, I would... My visits average maybe 10 minutes. Yeah. What are they going to do in 10 minutes? Not much. Yeah. And this is why, as I learned about functional medicine and these initially very onerous intake forms, I'm like, oh my God. But then what you actually, you really learn the three-dimensional picture of the human being. Because elevated blood glucose could have its provenance in a whole number of places. Certainly in eating too much refined sugar and too many refined grains, right? And starches. But it also could have it in stress or sleeplessness. I mean, one night's bad sleep is going to make you less insulin sensitive. Yes. And I saw that all the time in residency. Yeah. When I was doing the night shift. Right. And when you started evolving your diet, where did you look first? How did you begin to... You know, the people on this show are so interested in nutritional protocols, nutritional standpoints. And especially as you were saying that you're eating all these whole foods or from whole foods and a diet very high in carbohydrates, we know that there has to be a balance. Yeah. So I had a multi-pronged attack to my diabetes out of the gate. And at this point, I did become fairly fundamentalist about it because I had to. You had to. I had to reverse the flow of the river here. And in order to do that, sometimes you have to take some drastic measures. So my first kind of detour was with a guy named Will Cole, if you know him. I do know Will. Is he a chiropractor or a... I think he is. Yes. I do know. And he has kind of a telemedicine, functional medicine platform. But I read... He gave me a book called Ketotarianism. Yes. I remember that book. And it was an interesting book for the moment because... For that particular moment. Because, you know, the ketogenic diet was wildly popular. Mm-hmm. And for those listening, it's roughly 70% fat. Is it 70% and then 10% carbohydrates potentially? Yeah. 70% to 80% fat? Yeah. Yeah. It's like 70, 20, 10, I think it is. Yeah. Absolutely. And because I wasn't quite ready to, like, dive into regenerative meat consumption because from where I was coming. Yeah. That's just from where I was coming. And I think that's important because most people have that same struggle. Right. I think I know for a fact our dear friend Elena did. Yeah. And that is a very wonderful way to transition from the high-carbohydrate, largely vegetarian diet, which, by the way, I actually was vegan for a number of years. Yeah. And then macrobiotic, vegetarian, until my teeth started getting loose and my hair started falling out. So that no longer was a great strategy for me. Yeah. But I think that that's very fascinating that you know that that transition was then ketotarian towards the ketogenic diet. Yeah. Yeah. What clearly I needed to do was to shift the proportion of my macronutrient consumption away from carbohydrates and towards healthy fats and protein. And so my way in that door was the ketotarian diet. And for those who need a little more color there, it is a ketogenic diet, but it's largely focused on continuing to eat fat and protein-rich vegetables. But, you know, I was also eating, you know, omega-3 rich fish, et cetera. So that was kind of my first pivot. And I could also maintain a very low caloric diet that way as well, because I wasn't consuming an overabundance of fats. So my, you know, I was taming my caloric intake. So I would say ketotarian- Which is very important because people think it's whatever you can eat. It's not. Yeah. It's not. I mean, calories do matter. Obviously, the calories in, calories out debate we can have for some time. Now we're in alignment with it. Yeah. Alignment. It matters. Yeah. It's like the laws of thermodynamics apply to humans. Don't say yes. Okay. So ketotarianism was my first stop there. And then combined- How much weight did you lose and did you see better glucose regulation? Totally. But only in combination with other protocols. So there was ketotarianism- That's fascinating. With a 16-8 intermittent fasting protocol. So basically I had to flip my eating window around from 16 hours to 8 hours. And obviously you can still ingest a lot of calories in 8 hours if you sit around and eat chubby hubby all day, you know, for 8 hours, right? But generally when you are making conscious decisions about a fasting protocol, for example, you are going to make other conscious decisions. So why do you think that it was- do you think the ketogenic diet would have- so let's say that your calories were controlled. From my reading of the literature, as long as your calories were controlled, the influence of the time- and I fully agree with you. We should be eating in a restricted window. Number one, it allows for calorie control. And I think with circadian biology, we're going to see more of that. Yeah. Which I know that you're very interested in. Do you think that you would have also lost the weight and the glucose regulation would have been tame if you had not changed that feeding window? It's an interesting question. I don't know. But just by dint of my own research and personal experience- Research, I've never heard of that. Okay, that's very sharp. Yes. Okay. Just my own end of one stuff. Let's just say that those two protocols together really pay a lot of dividends because I could calorie control in that window. And then there does seem to be some clinical research that shows that you can essentially eat the same amount of calories, but if you eat them over a bigger window, you might maintain or gain weight. But even if- but if you're eating them in a small window, you might maintain or lose weight. But that happens against calories in, calories out. True. But I think that there is like this other dimension there, whereas if you're becoming more insulin sensitive by creating that window, then your body is more apt to use glucose for energy creation at the mitochondrial level than to store it as fat. So, I mean, I don't know if you want to go down that window. No, no, I just- But this is my interpretation of what was happening in my physical organism. I think there was obviously some other elements at play where as I was kind of experimenting with different fasts, I was entering some stages of ketosis where essentially my body was like shifting over to, you know, using free fatty acids or ketones for energy production instead of glucose. I'm always looking for ways to improve my health, specifically my gut health. Good health starts with your ability to digest and absorb nutrients. Amra colostrum is something that I've been adding to my iced coffee. From a data perspective, colostrum, often referred to as first milk, is the nutrient-rich fluid produced by mammals in the first few days after giving birth. It has antibodies, growth factors, and essential nutrients that help newborns develop their immune system and grow quickly. Why do you care about it? Colostrum has also been studied for its potential health benefits in adults, from balancing immunity to improved performance across various domains. What I love specifically about Amra colostrum is it is bioactive whole food or bioactive food with 400 plus functional nutrients. It's a host of protective antibodies, whole food prebiotics, strengthening peptides, free amino acids, trace minerals, the list goes on. Amra colostrum, of course, uses technology to preserve colostrum's bioactive nutrients in their purest, most bioavailable form and ensures a composition that is uniquely optimized for human health. And unlike any other available bovine colostrum product that I'm aware of, it really is processed in a way that the nutrients are so robustly available to you. We've worked out a deal and my audience will receive 15% off their first order. Go to tryamra, that's T-R-Y-A-R-M-R-A dot com slash Dr. Lyon to get 15% off your first order. So I think the ketogenic diet and fasting there together can contribute to achieving ketosis. How did your body composition change at that time? Oh my God. I mean, it's... But did you build muscle? Not right away. Okay. That's also important because it's very difficult to build muscle. Unless you are starting from a place where you have a robust amount of muscle, the ketogenic diet might be muscle sparing, but it's not ideal for muscle building. No. But my philosophy at this juncture was I need to get my blood glucose under control and I need to shed a lot of weight. Fair. And I need to get super lean. So I went from 210 to 142. And at 142... How long did that take you? Not that long. Wow. Six months, seven months. Candidly, I got too skinny. Because at 142, you could imagine me. I'm six feet. And I felt pretty good because I felt light, but I did not have a lot of muscle mass. So as... From a pure blood glucose perspective, okay, I want to just have your listeners understand where, how, where I saw the real benefits and where the trajectory really changed. So yeah, obviously reducing my carb intake and adopting a ketotarian diet. Great. Fasting also helped. But cold therapy, very, very deliberate, intentionally placed and cadenced cold therapy also really helped. Tell me more. And did you go in and you were like, what the... I'm out of here? And how cold was it? Okay. Well, so Wim Hof came and stayed with me for two weeks. I hate the cold. I literally have paroxysms of anxiety looking at a cold, at a, at a snow-fed lake. A terrible... I will pass out. Yes. Like, I'm never more of like a, you know, land-loving... Did you grow up in California for the most part? Where did you grow up in somewhere more? Grew up... Yeah. I mean, my parents were bopping me around England, Spain. I lived in Brazil for three years. Yeah. I read that. And then I came back and there was mostly in the Northeast. Terrible winters. Terrible winters. Was it New York? Eventually. I went to like, I was shipped off to some coat and tie chapel going boarding school. Oh, that kind of kid. Yeah. Against my will. Let's just say kicking and screaming. Did I wear a tie and go to chapel and have school on Saturday? And then I matriculated to Columbia University in New York City. I know. And there I stayed for, with a few little deviations. My wife and I moved to Paris for a year. That was beautiful. We went back for a very extended honeymoon in Brazil. That was lovely. But largely I was in New York for a very long time. And you hate... That's freezing. New York is freezing. At that juncture, it's really bad. Still, but... So you decided on cold therapy. And that actually helped you lose weight and regulate your glucose? So this is really, really interesting for me. Anyways, I hope people find this interesting. So let me just kind of break this down because this is where I saw the weight almost melt off. Okay. So I would be 15 and a half hours fasted. Okay. So let's say that's 1030 a.m. Let's say my eating window was 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Okay. More or less. So I would be 15, 15 and a half hours fasted at 1030 in the morning. My... And in combination with a ketotarian diet and the fasting, my blood glucose levels would be pretty low at that juncture. Because I hadn't eaten anything for 15 and a half hours. And I wasn't eating too many carbohydrates. And you were needing a ton of protein, which generates gluconeogenesis, helps stabilize blood sugar. So it was probably lower than we would typically expect in a higher protein diet. Yes. So at about 1030 a.m., I would very, very reluctantly submerge myself into an ice bath. How cold? So when I was around Wim, I had to man up. Terrible. I would not want to be friends with that guy. Yeah. Just kidding. Well, he had a... Let's just say he had a... I know him and his daughter actually are coming out with a book or something of that nature. Oh, you had a commercial ice delivery in the morning and a commercial wine delivery in the evening. But that's a whole other story. I'll write a different book about that. Anyways. 55 degrees? Yeah. So that was where I ended up. When I was with him... 55. Okay. When I was with him, it was like 30... It was ice on the top. It was like just above freezing. 30 fork. And you did that? I did it, but it was like, whoa. Did you start there? Okay. But I would never recommend anyone start there. Yeah. Because cold is completely subjective. And I was seeing results at 55, 56, 57 degrees. And the data would support that. We had Suzanne Soberg on. And there was a Dutch study found that individuals who took regular cold showers reported a 29% reduction in sick days. Seems like there's immune modulating effects. We have an increase in RMR. Again, the data isn't great yet overall. But there are some studies that show exposure to cold can increase calorie burn. Yeah. Okay. You reached out to... I just want to get the story straight because I'm so fascinated. You did the carbicide diet, then transitioned to the ketotarian diet, then you moved into a time-restricted feeding fasting window. And then you said, okay. Because we haven't gotten to the part where you're like, okay, I need to add in things I dislike for cold. This is not the good stress yet. Yeah. Well, they were all somewhat stressful. I mean, fasting is what I would categorize as a good stress because this was a normal part. But you weren't thinking about it, right? It wasn't... Because what I took from your book that I really appreciated is I very much believe that stress is good. And I believe that our interpretation of the world is truly what makes it that way. And, you know, you're essentially saying charge into the fire, charge into, you know, instead of running away from the sound of gunshots, which, you know, I'm saying this proverbially. Or... You're married to a seal. Yeah, exactly. Right? He says that we don't run because we don't train to retreat. Yeah. But... But check it out. So calorie paucity or, you know, food scarcity was just a natural part of life for hundreds of thousands of years, right? And our bodies were engineered to manage and actually flourish with that stress. So when we are in a nutrient deficient state, what happens? Well, there's some bad things that happen, but there's a lot of good things that happen. I mean, there's a lot of people talk about the activation of the AMPK pathway. There's a million ways to do that. So all of those things, we have an adaptive response to calorie paucity. And that is a stress. And we've largely discarded that. That's what you're saying. We largely discarded that in modern culture. But I would say one would argue that people are always doing yo-yo dieting. Yeah. So I think that you're right. Most people don't do calorie restriction. But when they do, they do it. And then they gain weight. Right. Enter the cold... But I need to know about this cold plump therapy. So let's... So, okay. So at 1030, I would be in a fasted state, very, very low blood glucose, submerged into the ice. Why'd you decide to do that? Or you're like, I just want to pick the worst possible thing I could possibly do? Pretty much. I mean, I was embracing this notion... I see you with my kids. That would be... I mean, it's like... I was embracing this notion of deliberate short-term self-imposed stress. So I'd get into the cold plunge. And what would happen? So my core body temperature... This was after... This was after. So he got me into the ice. But was there... Why were you thinking... That's what I want to understand is, were you thinking, I need to suffer a little bit? I need to pick something that is going to make me suffer? Or were you thinking, you know, I just need to fix my health? Yeah. That's a good question. I was at this juncture willing to do anything to fix my health. And what I realized is that that really needed... I really needed to embrace discomfort in order to do so. Because that's unusual to think that that would be the thing, right? That you... It's not a normal... Maybe intellectually for growth, you have to think... Because you are very well-read and very well-studied. And again, you're an extraordinary writer. And to get that, you probably have to struggle through thinking and... Okay. Well, I also am the recipient of so much unbelievable wisdom from other people. I mean, part of my job is interviewing people like you and Mark and all of my contemporaries, or my colleagues, I should say. I have a 10-acre property up in Topanga, up in the Santa Monica Mountains, that has, knock on wood, made it through these fires. And I've hosted hundreds of people up there. So you were learning, even though you were overweight or struggling. I was learning. I was taking all of this in, and I was starting to then actually apply it to myself. And so I'm like, okay, I have to lean into this discomfort. And I know how anxious the cold makes me, but I'm going to start to play with the edges of that. And as I did, I began to fiddle and experiment. And this is where I landed with the cold therapy before I put a single bite of food in my mouth. Because as my core body temperature plummeted, my body needed to engage in some sort of thermogenesis. Because it's evolved to have an adaptive response to stress. Because it needs to maintain this little Goldilocks zone, the warm little porridge of 98.6 degrees. So I get in the cold plunge. Boom. My body temperature plummets. And my body does what it's supposed to do. Did you go all the way up to your neck? Yeah. It sucks. And my body does what it's supposed to do. And it warms itself up. But it's looking around and says, how do I warm myself up? I need to make heat. I need an energy substrate for heat. But at that moment, there's not a lot of glucose around. So where does it go? It goes into my fat cells, into my adipocytes, and breaks down triglycerides into free fatty acids to warm myself up. To use that fat as a substrate for thermogenesis. And I'm telling you, once I stacked those protocols on top of each other. How long did that take? Not long. A couple months. And anecdotally, I do hear that from many of our patients that add in cold therapy, that they seem to have, again, this isn't well studied, but metabolic benefits, or at least anecdotally, body composition changes. Yeah. Many of them. Well, it makes sense. I mean, if you really think about what the body is doing. I don't know, and I'm going to tell you why. Yeah. There is the making sense of it, and then there's what the evidence says. So when I think about a whale that is in the cold, and the whale has so much blubber, and that I think about cold water swimmers or people like that. And even when I talk to my husband, the people that did well in the cold were actually people with more body fat. And so maybe it's in combination with the cold therapy. I don't know. And the calorie restriction. It could be. I mean, it also could be that if you're in a very, very low glucose state, and you get very, very cold, your body has to burn something to warm itself up. And for me, that was fat. And that is one of the, was that the first good stressor that you added after a calorie restriction? Yeah, I would say calorie restriction or, you know, time-restricted eating, cold therapy. And so all along the way, my blood sugar regulation was getting better. It was going from 125 fasting to 110 to 100 to 90. But the thing that really made the difference at the end, I mean, of course, you can probably guess. I can guess. But I want to hear it. I want to hear what role this good stress plays in improving health and reversing chronic disease. Right. Tell me. So, of course, it was hypertrophy. Right? And this is the most obvious form of good stress. How did you come to that? Again, you came from a yoga community. And when I think about some of our mutual friends, even Mark, I've been telling Mark to lift weights for going on 15 years now. Finally. I think he's taking your advice. Finally. He looks good. Yeah. After finally five years ago. Right. So. But you ought to have had a moment where you're like, okay, the Pilates and the yoga is wonderful. But if I want to change my body composition. Change my body composition. And for me, candidly, it was blood sugar regulation. So I started listening to you and to some other metabolic health experts and doctors. And I was like, okay, maybe this is the final stage of my blood glucose regulation and my reversal of diabetes. So. So I started doing body weight exercises because that was the easiest for me to do anywhere. And so. Did you have any resistance to the idea of no pun intended resistance training? Yeah. It was never anything that I did. I mean, and I was always an active person. I was a competitive tennis player. But I was what you call like chronic cardio. And. What did that look like? So chronic cardio was sort of compartmentalizing exercise as this 45 minute to hour long penance that you do at the end of your day to expiate yourself from your sins. You know, it was like. So many big words in that sentence. It was like, I'm going to be a modern day sloth and send emails all day long. But that's justified because I'm going to cubbyhole this little exercise routine at the end of the day. And you know what that's going to look like? That's going to look like me for 45 minutes on the elliptical or on the treadmill. And you know where that kept me? On the treadmill. On the treadmill. That's right. And so my body composition didn't change at all. And how long had you been doing that? I mean, kind of all my life. Yeah. You know, because I knew I'm not dumb. Like I know being like living an active lifestyle is good. And so, you know, I really thought that, you know, I could essentially justify all of my vices with the virtue of chronic cardio. And your vice was you say you liked wine? Yeah. I mean, like wine, like the jerky club, like whatever, you know. So I was just, you know, I thought I could just kind of get away with a lot of things. But, you know, of course, the cold water on my head was my blood glucose levels. And I mean, the cold water at that point was not protocol. It was just like a wake-up call. And how long ago was this when you started that? This was like four or five years ago. Okay. You started on this journey four or five years ago. And how did it kind of culminate to this idea of the book, A Good Stress? Yeah. Well, you know, after doing 600 episodes on my podcast. That's it? 600? Literally. Yeah. And, you know, I'm also a fairly rigorous host, if only out of vanity. What does that mean? Um, well, I do a lot of research. I read everyone's books. You know, I was reading. And I didn't have any training until four or five years ago. I mean, I started reading PubMed every night. My wife was like, what the hell are you doing? Come to sleep. I was like, no, I need some more blue light from PubMed. Um, and, you know, when I started, I understood 10% of the words. You know, I started reading primary source data and clinical research. But, you know, just... I started reading at Columbia because it's very challenging. Oh, it's... Did you study at Columbia? I was, uh... No, no. I was an American history slash bong smoker. I mean, not in that order. Thank you to Bond Charge for sponsoring this episode of the show. Now, you may have seen myself, my family using red lights, infrared heating mats, you name it. This is because we love Bond Charge. Bond Charge's even small handheld device I use on the way to the gym because I'm out the door before the sun comes up. And for me, I need more than caffeine to get me up in the morning. By using red light, it has really changed the game for me. And it doesn't have to be difficult. I love the big panels, but sometimes I don't have time for it. So I use my small handheld Bond Charge red light device. It allows me to optimize even within my daily experience. It doesn't have to be outside of the scope for what I would normally do. We live in a highly industrialized lifestyle, and we have to be able to regulate. And one way that I regulate is I use red light therapies, and I use them often. And of course, I travel with them, and it's super easy to use a red light clip. And what it does is it helps balance the overhead bright lights to help you get to sleep better. It also helps reset your circadian rhythm. We typically routinely use a large panel at night, which gives me both near-infrared and red light. And Bond Charge makes the best on the market. It has the lowest EMF, has 12 months of guarantee. Go to bondcharge.com slash drlion and use the coupon code drlion to save 15% off. That's bondcharge, B-O-N-C-H-A-R-G-E dot com slash drlion and use the code drlion to save 15% off. Folks, I have been using Bond Charge products, and I absolutely love them. They are so well made that if you are in the market for a new red light or any kind of red light device, this is your place to go. Okay. I mean, I had some—I acquitted myself very well at Columbia in many ways, but I was a musician, and I was in it for a lot of the cultural elements of going to college, and I did fine. But I was not studying any of the field sciences or biology or chemistry or anything like that. So this was just a crash course in autodidactic learning. Is that how you created your commune, all the courses that you do? Yeah. Is it just this— For my own personal— Yeah, just curious. Yeah. Never-ending student-ship. I mean, partially, sure. I mean, obviously, I have a propensity for creating community and trying to help people through community and through education. And so both my parents are teachers, and I want to hold their legacy in some way and make the world a better place by being able to amplify knowledge that I think can really bend the arc of people's lives. And so that is the inspiration. But the fact is, along the way, I used a lot of that information on myself. And so—and the deeper and deeper I got into that me search, the more excited I got about having you on the show and having Casey on the show and Sarah on the show and, candidly, a lot of female doctors. That was sort of where my sweet spot was. The women who—both of those women I love. Yes. And Mindy and all these people that have been so incredibly generous. I mean, I—with Sarah and Casey, they would come and stay at my house, and I would ask them questions. I mean, I would literally sit there and just pummel them with questions. But the resistance training, the muscle piece, it hasn't been in the conversation forever. I have been pushing it from a female lens landscape for decades. And now it is catching up. And— It's amazing. You feel that that is kind of the component that really changed things for you? So that was the final step for me for metabolic health. And— You started with body weight? Started with body weight exercises, so— How many days a week? I was doing them every day, and that's probably not advised, but I just got addicted. You're an all-in type of guy. What did that look like? Was it— It was 100 push-ups, 100 pull-ups, 100 sit-ups, 100 squats. And when you started, how many of those could you do? One. Wow. Pull-up. Other things I could do a little bit. Get some, Jeff. Come on. Yeah. But pull-ups were kind of the thing for me because I had some mental, psychological scarring about pull-ups. I don't—you're—I'm older than you, but you might have experienced the presidential fitness test when you were a student. So this was, I would say, the date that I most abhorred in the entire calendar growing up as a chubby kid was the presidential fitness test because, of course, you were under kind of the scrutiny of your gym teacher. I had this incredibly mean female gym teacher. In retrospect, I actually have respect for her because she was probably like an early-day feminist, but she wore like slacks, like black slacks and a referee shirt. I love her already. Yeah. She had—it's very built, and she never hesitated to use her whistle at like every moment. And I was just like this kind of chubby, awkward, ham-fisted kid. And so she would just call me out all the time. So you couldn't do push-ups or push-ups? So part of the presidential fitness test, there was a number of different criteria that you had to do, one of which was a pull-up. And if you could do five or ten, you would get, you know, some great—you would be honored at the school auditorium—in the school auditorium or something like that. I was just trying to do one because if you were one, you would fulfill the requirement of standard. And all I wanted to be in my life at that juncture was just standard, like get me to one. And so I would always mark one on my little scorecard, but she knew that I couldn't do one. And so when you started your—were you nervous to start your physical fitness journey? Yeah. Yeah, because, you know, you don't want—yeah, you don't want to fail yourself. No, but that's the only way. Fail is—failing is the fuel for—that's your best teacher. 100%. It's actually how you learn. Yes. I mean, both. Yes. I mean, always. Yes, it is. Failure is the best—is it the teacher or the tutor? I'm not sure, but it's both. It's both. And so, yeah, I started, you know, with pull-ups and then— How did you do it? Was it modified? Were you—because the listener is thinking, okay, I'm really into—I'm exactly where Jeff is. I am focusing on losing weight. I can embrace this idea of good distress. I mean, I did write the book Forever Strong. Not marginally weak. Forever. Or forever weak. Right? Maybe that's my second book. But when you decided you came from a yoga background and were doing a lot of cardio, recognized—and by the way, yoga is a lot of body strength. It is in a bunch of different ways, but it doesn't have a pull function. Thank you. Absolutely true. Yeah. And you just randomly picked those, or you felt that they were useful, or you were revisiting the past? They were useful because I could do them anywhere, pretty much. And I put these very unsightly pull-up bars in my doors everywhere around the house. Yeah, I'm looking at your door now, which is a very lovely one. I'm not sure you want to put a pull-up bar there, but I put— We have had many. Okay. In fact, that was one of my first dates with my husband was pull-ups. That is hot. So I had two. I put two up. And then I could do them postprandially. That was key for me. Which is what he's saying, yes, is after eating. Yeah. So that was a big way to regulate blood sugar spikes because you're going to have a natural glucose spike after you eat. Absolutely. And that's totally normal. Natural, friends. Yeah. But one way to essentially vacuum up that glucose is to engage in some sort of physical activity, maybe 20 minutes, maybe 30 minutes after you eat. And so we would start eating a little bit earlier in the evenings for our dinners and then always going on walks. But then I would always do some pull-ups. And because they were so easy to—well, they weren't physically easy to do, but they were so convenient to do. Of course, I'm not saying that you should break convenience. We are going to be— Getting a pull-up bar. We're going to test you on that. Okay. You know what I'm saying? But there was also something psychological to being able to lift my own weight. You know, there was something bigger than just actually physically doing it. It was like, I can pull my own weight. It was some little psychological thing for me there. And so I started doing those, and it took a while. And then at its peak, I was doing about 100 a day. 10 sets of 10. It would be like 20, 18, 16, 14, 12, 10. Dead hang pull-ups. Yeah. I mean, a little bit of cheating around the edges towards the end, but you know. And when did you start lifting weights? Or did you? Yeah. I mean, more recently, you know. I mean, I'm certainly not—you're not going to find me on the cover of Men's Health like anytime soon. You might. Maybe. Give it a year. But yeah, that's probably been in the last like six to nine months. And yeah, I'm discovering I'm coming out of the closet as sort of a gym rat. Well, we need you to because when someone like you who does that, then it makes it normal for everybody else. Mm-hmm. So we need you to do that. Yeah. I mean, this is not going to be my job. I'm not going to, per se. I mean, although I am writing books about it. So on some kind of tangential level, I suppose it is part of my job. But yeah, it's cool. I feel like I've already been able to influence people within my environment to start to take up more adaptive habits and behaviors. And for the good stress protocol, do you have a recommendation for people in terms of exercise? Yes. Although my book doesn't really focus specifically on that. But I would say that sometimes I call it my Jesus protocol. Tell me. Well, the joke is Jehovah's Fitness. Have you heard about it? No, but that's pretty funny. Yeah. It's walking and fasting for 40 days, you know, in the desert if you want. You come back on a Friday, eat a bunch of fish, you do some CrossFit. The joke gets worse, okay? By Saturday, you're totally dead. Eh, Sunday, we come back to life. Jehovah's Fitness. Anyways. That's hilarious. Enough of dad jokes. No, but I am kind of serious, is that you go back and you look at how Jesus was depicted on the cross, whether or not that's apocryphal or not, or really you go back to your hunter-gatherers, and you say, like, how did they evolve? You know, they probably had really sinewy, healthy, good body, like muscle mass. You know, so they were walking like crazy, right? So, you know, walking, on average, a hunter-gatherer would walk probably 7 to 10 miles per day. So that's 14,000 to 20,000 steps or something for people that are counting on their iWatch or something. Every once in a while, they would be forced into a full sprint, generally against their will, right? So you'd be chased by some... I love that you're saying this because we do have to work really hard at least once a week where you are breathing heavy, pushing yourself faster and harder than you would like to. Totally. And you don't have to be chased by an odd-toed hunkulet or a saber-toothed tiger in order to do that, but... Although it could be fun. It could be fun. So that informs a lot right there. So if you're going to do five or six aerobic workouts per week, maybe do 75% of them as zone 2 and 25% as zone 4 or 5. So that's a good way just to think about it through the lens of your own evolution. And then, of course, what else did our hunter-gatherer ancestors do? They lifted heavy things all the time. They chopped their own wood. They carried water, etc. And so how many sessions per week? I probably would say three to four, but, I mean, you're the expert there. So, and, you know, you have to find all major muscle groups. But this is kind of, again, like a general framework. But most important for me, outside of like, okay, you're going to do this many sets of deadlifts or whatever, is really changing the way that you think about moving your body. And not compartmentalizing it to this one little thing that you do per day. But organically integrate movement into your life. Because that is really how we evolved. We were walking and moving all the time. So, you know, after lunch, get up and take a walk. Move. Drop and do 20 push-ups in the middle of the day. Go outside. You know, whatever. It's crazy and bad. I mean, we have a fancy rubric for this now. I think it's called NEAT, right? Which is like a non-exercise activity thermogenesis strategy. Something like that. And it's cool that we have to, like, label it. Great. But I think it's really just changing your relationship with movement. I mean, we have 45,000 gyms in the United States. I did not know that. 45,000 places to sweat and grunt. Yet we are getting more and more obese. Like you said, 50% by 2030. So something's not working there. Yeah, it's fascinating. And I have a statistic here. It says the average American spends the last 16 years of life managing chronic illness. Yeah. And experiencing significant physical decline. Yeah. Yeah, I call this the reverse alchemy. Because these years between 60 and 80, these are supposed to be, like, our golden years, right? But we have reduced our golden years to the base metals of bedpans and wheelchairs. Would you say that if you were to think about the one thing, and there obviously is not one thing, but in your book, you really talk about how we are in this comfort trap. Mm-hmm. And do you believe that there is one common obstacle that humans are facing? And I recognize that that is a loaded question, but you say you call it the Mac, the Big Mac, modern American conveniences. Yeah. Do you think there's one? Hmm. I think there's one, but I want to hear what you have to say. Hmm. I'm curious to what yours is. I think that we've fooled ourselves about what a life of ease really means. On some level, even though from time to time it's fun to luxuriate in the 72 degrees, snuggled on your couch, watching Netflix, eating a pint of Chubby Hubby, that life of ease is not what we really, really want in the end. And we know this when we taste it. You know, we don't really want that ethylene-gassed tomato that we buy at the grocery store. What we really, really want is that sweet, vacant, bursting tomato that we grew ourselves and that we had to toil to grow it. We had to plant the seed. We had to make the garden bed. We had to make the soil rich. We had to go in there and prune the plant. But the result of that, that inconvenience, that hard work, is the real ease. And I think that's what we're actually looking for in life. But we fooled ourselves. And we know it when we engage in something really creative. Or we're immersed in collective enterprise around something that we really care about with other people. This feeling that linear time starts to dissipate. And we have total awareness of our body in space and time. Sometimes like when we're playing sports. Sometimes we call this flow state, right? It's like when we absolutely yoke intention and action. And we're all there. We're completely present with each other. And we feel that sense of real ease. But that comes with a degree of inconvenience. That's how I'm thinking about it. That's beautifully said. And I would say that the biggest Mac, that modern American convenience that is really challenging us, my answer to that would be distraction. Yeah, I'm so glad you said that. And I think it piggybacks off of what you're saying. Distraction from doing the things that matter most. Distraction. Convenience is distraction. We are wired for challenging things. And it has to be remembered. And we have to push for that. It's so interesting that you put your thumb on that. There's a really interesting article. I first discovered it, I think through an Andrew Huberman episode. But it was written by Matthew Killingsworth and Dan Gilbert's Harvard study. It actually has a very sort of unscientific name for a science paper. It's called A Wandering Mind is an Unhappy Mind. And it basically studied exactly what you just said. Distraction. It's that the happiest and healthiest people in the world are people that are actually thinking about the thing that they're doing. So if you think about how much time we spend in our lives actually thinking about something else than we're doing. We're wandering over here. Oftentimes we're ruminating over something that happened in the past. And then projecting it into the future. And we're creating negative anticipated memories. It hasn't even happened yet. But we're already projecting something negative out there. We're just never where we are. And I do think you're absolutely right that this is a construction of modernity. Because at every second and every moment, someone is trying to compete for life's most precious commodity. Your attention. And it probably wasn't like that before. No way. No way. Because, you know, how did my hunter-gatherer ancestors get their weather forecast? So I have this mythical hunter-gatherer ancestor named Fej on Sark, which is my name to spell backwards. Which I saw that. Sometimes I try to really sit in his sagebrush sandals. And the way he got his weather forecast was by climbing to the highest peak and sitting there. And seeing some guinea fowl fly by, you know, or just watching the fluctuations of nature or clouds. And then coming back to his tribe and say, oh, I think there's a storm coming in three days. You know, this is the way information used to be disseminated and inferred. And, of course, now, literally, our time and focus and attention has become a commodity that is bought and sold. And most of the time, we're not even aware of it. Yeah. And so we have to be so conscious and so aware to take back our concentration spans and our conscious attention. And sometimes, you know, like meditation can be a very, very good tool for that. How does one do that in this extremely fast-paced society and one that doesn't like to settle? The mind doesn't like to settle. And, yeah, how do we do that? Yeah. And if we say meditation, what does that have to be? Does it have to be 20 minutes, twice a day? How can we do that? Well, you have to burn incense and you have to sit in a field of tall grasses. No. Sign me up. Yeah. But I will say I was recently in Austin and they were doing a meditation and I brought my two children because I bring them. I travel with them. Oh, man. I was a little embarrassed. They ran to the meditation. They were all sitting on the grass. They ran into the meditation ceremony. They started banging on the chimes. Oh, man. Yeah. I mean, so we suffer from what is often called monkey mind, right? So. Did you explore that when you were writing this? Yeah. Good stress. I mean, this was huge because every perception we have of the world and the universe is experienced through the prism of our own mind. I first found mud water through a friend of mine, former Navy SEAL Mark Devine. He was on a cutting out coffee kick and he had mud water at his old SEAL Fit training center. And frankly, I loved it. I go through periods of time where I try to lessen or change up my caffeine source as well as using coffee midday. And that's where I love mud water. It has functional mushrooms in it. And I've really been trying to increase my overall stamina and energy. And I found that these mushrooms have done that. And also, if you're a matcha lover, their matcha starter kit is an absolute must try. It's a perfect way to get clean energy. Stay calm. Feel focused. And besides, it's March. Time to change things up. Mud water has cacao, chai, turmeric, and those adaptogenic mushrooms to help you feel focused and balanced, not wired. It's smooth. It's steady. It tastes amazing. It's also ridiculously easy to make, even for me. In just two minutes, hot water or milk, you're ready to tackle the day. It's 100% USDA certified organic, non-GMO, gluten-free, vegan, kosher. Take your pick. There's also zero sugar and no sweeteners added. Ready to make the clean energy switch? I know that I am and have. Head to mudwater. That's M-U-D-W-T-R dot com. Get your starter kit. And listeners, you get up to 43% off your entire order. By using the code Dr. Lion, you'll get a rechargeable frother. Yes, we all need them. 43% off. Go to mudwater.com slash Dr. Lion. They will ask you how you found it. Let them know that you found it on our show. Let's keep strong, stay strong, and get going. Period. So getting to know your mind. You know, we go to the physical gym to work our biceps and other major muscle groups. We don't often go to the mental gym. But of course, the mental gym is as important, if not more important, than the physical gym. And one of the ways to train your mind, or at least to get to know it better, is through meditation. I often call it the tuning fork for the truth, the tuning fork for reality. Do you think that there is a dichotomy between the two? For example, many deep meditators seem to be very focused on their mind and allow their body to go. And the same is true for many very physically focused individuals. They focus so much on the external that they allow their internal mind to go wherever it wants. So it's almost as if there's two major dichotomies. Yeah, it's interesting. I was watching Novak Djokovic play this morning. I was watching Teletubbies, but sure. Okay, sure. Not as the main thing. And I just bring him up because he's an example of someone that has merged the training of the mind with the training of the body. And you're right, it is rare. Have you noticed that, though, within your own experience? Yes, so what I've seen is a really interesting bidirectionality. Okay, so let me start with how the physiological can actually bleed or spill into the psychological. So I'm an avid competitive tennis player, and I'm actually playing competitively still. And I started doing squats maybe about a year ago. With weight? I started just with air squats and then with weight. But I'm not, and I don't want to pretend at risk of my daughters rolling their eyes too much that I'm squatting some outrageous weight. 500 pounds? Yeah, something. But the shape and strength of my quadriceps just totally changed. You know, I kind of had these fleshy legs for a long time in my life. I don't even know what that means. What does that mean? They were sort of like, my wife said, you look more like a woman than a man. Oh, ouch. Okay. And not you. You know, like, and so, but, you know, since I kind of started with my squat routine, my legs just totally changed. And my solidity and my core on the tennis court just went to the entire next level. And what was interesting about it was, so, I'm a good player, and I'm playing in leagues with, like, ex-div1 guys who are 20 years younger than me, often. 15, 20 years younger. Specimens. Beasts, you know. And I'm holding my own, you know. And what flipped for me was, I knew that in two hours, I'm still going to be here on this court. I'm going to be just as strong as I am now. Where will you be? Will you be there with me in two hours? You're pretty hot stuff right now, you know. But will you be there with me in two hours? And so that physical strength started to bleed over into this psychological confidence that I started to have because I knew I would be there in two hours. And then that allowed me to play more free, to take a few more risks, calculated risks. And I wouldn't always win. I'd lose plenty of time. But the physiological spilled into the psychological. And the very opposite is true as well. Is that when you put yourself under psychological stress, you build that resilience in order to do hard physical things. I mean, candidly, we talked about cold therapy for metabolic health. There's all sorts of other attributes that seem to be involved with cold therapy. Certainly mood regulation and dopamine production, secretion, etc. I really look at cold therapy as a mental resilience exercise. So, again, you get into that cold plunge. What happens? Gasp. Epinephrine. Coursing through your veins. It's coming up. I always feel it in my neck. I'm about to have a panic attack. This is awful. Get me out of here. Get me out of here right now. And then there's a brief moment where I can apply top-down conscious pressure on top of involuntary bottom-up response. Sometimes that's with the breath. Ah. Can I bring myself back to parasympathetic? Can I do that? Can I utilize my neomammalian brain to put my rational side of my prefrontal cortex? Can I put that top-down conscious pressure on top of involuntary response? And that training punctuates other elements of your life. Have you found not to be so? I mean, I double down on my cold therapy when I'm going to the dentist, for example. You might think, what does that have to do with anything? But I'm having a lot of dental work done right now. So, when Dr. Nikki, God bless her, wonderful dentist, is sitting there with a 12-inch syringe about to go into the most sensitive place of my body, and I can't get up and do anything, that sensation is very, very similar to when I immerse in 40-degree water. What's happening? I'm going into this fight-or-flight thing. The epinephrine is flowing. But what can I do at that moment? I can borrow the tool and the capacity for emotional regulation that I've trained myself in the cold plunge. I can transplant that on top of the dentist or traffic or when my kids are crazy. I was going to ask you, has this helped you become a better father and husband? I mean, without a doubt. I felt that fasting strangely helped me become a better parent. It's because it's not that I didn't get hungry outside my eating window. Of course I did. It was 9 o'clock, 9 p.m., outside my window, and I was like a little pang of hunger. But instead of mindlessly walking to the pantry, I actually had to sit there and witness the nature of the hunger and really untangle, is the provenance of this hunger a biological need? Like, do I need to eat to survive right now? Or is this a psychological desire? I had to split those two in half, needs and desires. And almost every time, it was a desire. I was eating my feelings. I was bored. Someone insulted me on Instagram. I don't know. And so I was using the over-availability, the surfeit of shelf-stable calories that we have now. My psychology can use that to assuage its feelings of discontentment. And then that can become the focus. Yeah. So what I then learned was that space, this is like the Viktor Frankl thing, that space between stimulus and response. Yes. In that space is a choice, and in that choice is our liberation and our freedom. So I was able to slowly cultivate that space between the stimulus, in this case, the hunger, and the response, the eating or non-eating. And then I could use that in other areas of my life. So when my kids were being annoying and aggravating, as they inevitably will do all the time. Ever. Ever. Never happens. Instead of just having a knee-jerk response, I would sit there and say, well, wait a minute. Hold on. What's the ideology of their behavior right now? Well, you had to train that, right? That takes time and effort. And one of the things I think that you have done very beautifully is there is a blending of evidence-based practices with a level of spirituality. Do you think that that is a way to create a sustainable approach? Is that the only way? I mean, what are your thoughts on that? Yeah, it's certainly not the only way. For me, I had these two parallel inquests of spirituality and my own physiological journey going on at the same time. So I was learning all of this stuff about Eastern religions, Hinduism, Taoism, Buddhism, Zen, and studying that. And then at the same time, looking into my human physiology and studying that. And day after day, I saw the metaphysical tenets of Eastern philosophies mapped in my physical body all the time. I was like, oh, yeah. You know, the Buddhist philosophy is the middle way, Madhyamaka in Sanskrit. Okay. And that is essentially the avoidance of extremes. Initially, it was sort of a middle path between asceticism and hedonism. But it became more associated with bringing things towards the middle, towards the center, finding balance. Or in the body, that's homeostasis. The avoidance of extremes. And I started studying. Which is totally the opposite of what you're doing because cold would be considered extreme. So this is the very interesting and ironic thing. So the body is wired for homeostasis. It's in so many different ways. Thermoregulation. pH balance. Neurotransmitter balance between inhibitory and excitatory neurotransmitters. Hormone balance like glucagon and insulin. Estrogen and testosterone. You know, cortisol and melatonin. Whatever. So many times there are these counterposing molecules and pathways in the body. AMPK and mTOR, etc. And the body is engineered to find this like little tenuous homeostasis between those two things. I mean, it's very, very hard to disrupt your pH balance, for example. Your body is so good at managing that level around 7.35 or so. So what I found was that that ability to return to the middle, to bounce back, is actually enhanced by pushing the edges. Yes. It is investing in functional capacity and resilience. So if you're just thermoneutral all the time and, you know, you sit back with your smart thermostat that gets to know you and say, oh, I think you're 72. You're a 72 girl or whatever. And you never push hypothermia or hyperthermia. Now, of course, the dose makes the poison, right? Yeah. Hypothermia can be deadly. Yeah. But we love cold and heat exposure. So you want to just push the edges. And the more you push the edges, the better your body gets at moving back to the middle. And that's true with so many of these different protocols. I think that's, again, very well said. What are your favorite protocols? If you were to pick your top three favorite protocols that you put in the book, Good Stress, what are they? Yeah. So I would say some of the ones that we already talked about, which are like the fasting and cold, like contrast bathing. So heat, cold, heat, cold with a fasting protocol. I love that for my physiology. I started actually to become more interested in some of the psychological stressors, candidly. Oh, tell me. So I was always a people pleaser growing up. And part of it was due to the fact that I was overweight and clumsy and always wanting to fit in, you know. In fact, I went to see Brene Brown speak this morning. And she has this incredible delineation between fitting in and belonging, right? So fitting in is essentially changing who you are in order to be part of a group. Belonging is never compromising your authentic self to be part of a group. But when I was five or six or seven, I didn't have the faculty to delineate between those things. I would do anything to be liked. And really that became the thread of my life. And so right when we anchored into port lockdown of COVID, March 2020, I started to write a newsletter for Commune. And we had a big distribution on that list. It's probably 1.2, 1.3 million people. And I was writing 2,000 words every Sunday. And I agreed sort of naively to do this at the beginning of COVID because I thought this would be a service to the community because there was so much fear around COVID at that juncture. So much uncertainty. And so if I could dispatch these little buoys of hope, you know, maybe people could feel less alone and feel more connected. So I said, okay, sure, I'll do it. And then like four or five weeks in, I was like, this is a lot of work. Yeah. But then 2020 offered plenty of fodder to write about. You know, there was obviously the reckoning for social justice in the wake of George Floyd. There was an election that year. There was a rise of QAnon, obviously COVID, development of the vaccine, all these very kind of hot button incendiary issues. And I was really trying to write sort of a middle way, very rigorously researched essay newsletter. And I would connect my personal email to every single one of them. And then they would go out every Sunday. And then Monday morning, I would get a deluge of incoming opprobrium from people, essentially mad about something that I said or something that I wrote. And, you know, lots of expletives in there. And as a people pleaser, at the beginning, I was like, so defensive. Yeah. And really hurt. And I would stay up all night like brooding over responses and holding that little ember of resentment, waiting for the right time to throw it. Of course, I was the one getting burned. And they weren't even thinking about it. No. That's right. But then I kind of had this moment of Satori where I was like, this is an opportunity. I was studying kind of the immune system and microbiology at that point. And I was like, oh, I pretty much understand how people build their physiological immune system. You know, you have this incredible immune floating brain. And, you know, it is on the lookout. It has its radar out for pathogens, for viruses and bacteria. And some low-grade exposure to those viruses, bacteria, stimulates this process by which your adopted immune system makes these proteins and spins them up until it finds the right antibody recipe. And then you're essentially immune to that pathogenic insult. Well, I was like, I think there's a metaphor here with my psychology is that this exposure to some of this insult, I can build my psychological immune system. Absolutely. And I started really looking forward to being insulted. Fortunately, there was a lot of people ready to insult me. Take it away. Every Monday, I was like, and, you know, to be fair, most of the response I got was very encouraging and very positive. But I would kind of skip over those and find the ones where there was some degree of recrimination. And I was like, I, and I was really would emotionally regulate myself. I would do a little bit of breath work. And then I'd be like, okay, like, why does this person, what is the motivation here behind what they're writing? Why do they dislike me so much or dislike something that I've said so much? And the more thoughtful detractors, I would send them an email back. And then eventually I would ask them if they want to get on a Zoom call. Oh my gosh. And this is what I call my great David Copperfield routine. Because this is how you make people disappear. Oh my gosh. But in August and September 2020, I put aside Monday afternoons and Tuesday afternoons to have hour-long Zoom calls with people that didn't like me. Wow. And it was... That's amazing. And it turned out to be a good stress. Because I had to create safe space for people. And it was so interesting what happened. So I wrote this one particular article about the virus. And there was data fairly early on that seemed to point to the idea that the people that were contracting the virus most severely had multiple comorbidities, had metabolic dysfunction, were often obese, and often had diabetes. And so I was mining that data. And I was trying to write a thoughtful essay. Of course, this was also overlapping with the body positivity movement at that juncture. So you can imagine how much flack I took at that moment. So this is just to give you an example of the kind of conversations I was having. And my audience is predominantly female as well. And so, you know, I would get on these Zoom calls with women, primarily, I think exclusively, around this issue, who had felt very shamed by me. Of course, that was not the intention at all. And being someone that had struggled with weight my entire life and being very open about that, I thought I had addressed that. I was addressing the health dimensions as it pertained to this virus. But still, you know, people are going to interpret things however they're going to want to interpret it. And at that moment in our cultural history, people were so triggerable for very legitimate and justifiable reasons. And I think now, too. And now, too. So I would get on these Zoom calls and I would mostly, honestly, just listen and create space for people to be seen and heard. And I developed a whole protocol around that, which is a whole thing. But I basically, over time, built this, like, Rolodex of frenemies. Because at the end of these hour-long Zooms, there would be this level of connection. And, you know, as I listened, I would really notate these areas of convergence in my life and, you know, the person with whom I was on the Zoom. And by the, you know, mostly they would just talk for 45 minutes and exhaust themselves. And then I would be like, oh, you know, I was born in Chicago, too. And I'm part of the girls' club. I got all daughters. Whatever. I find these areas of connection. And most of the time, we never even got around to the issue that had put us at Loggerheads in the first place. But it was a really interesting test in building my social regimen, my social fitness. And it was initially very, very stressful. But I started to think about all the conversations that we have, or I should say that we don't have, because they seem stressful. And we tend to avoid them. Particularly with the people that we're most close to. And I started to think about the possibility of what's on the other side of those stressful conversations. And my dad's 81, 82. My mom's 81. What are those conversations that I want to have with them before I can't have them anymore? What are the conversations that I want to have with my children or my best friends that I might be avoiding? Because they seem stressful. So this was sort of my good stress protocol has applied to social fitness. And it's really become a really huge part of my life. I am speechless. Doesn't happen often. That's incredible. That's incredible. Deeply thoughtful. And deeply useful. For everybody listening. Thank you for saying that. Yeah. I'll just add one last thing to it. Is that I had had no training in nonviolent communication prior to this. Subsequently, I did get trained in it. And as a product of that, this past August, I hosted at my commune Topanga retreat, eight Palestinians and eight Israelis. And I held space. And I held space in that case as a moderator between stressful, difficult conversations. And we all lived up there for a week, for five days. And many of these kids. And many of these kids. And many of these kids. And many of them were Palestinians that grew up in refugee camps in the West Bank. And there were Israeli Jews that grew up in the settlements, also in the West Bank, but in very different circumstances. Both groups, very anchored in their own political identities. But obviously, they had come to this retreat with an open mind. And it was the most cathartic experience of my life, what happened over those five days. So there's so many benefits in doing hard things. Jeff, Krasno, thank you so much for your work and your forever studentship and stewardship for health and wellness. And I think your overall fellow human. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you so much for this opportunity. I don't take it lightly. So I appreciate your generosity in having me. It was an absolute pleasure. Thank you so much.