 тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут тут die of either cardiovascular disease or cancer. We have the knowledge to prevent 75, 80% of the cardiovascular deaths and to reduce pain and suffering and quality of life there. You know, with cancer, it's a little more challenging. Yes, we know smoking cessation, but a lot of the cancers now we're seeing, for example, why are younger people having more colon cancer? I mean, there's something in the food or the diet. We don't understand a lot of what causes cancer. Some of it's harder to prevent with it. Certainly a risk factor would be obesity. So obesity is important. And I'll tell you, so for example, in addition to the cardiovascular disease in my family, I had lymphoma when I was in my forties. And so one of the things that came up after that was when talking and no one knows why you get lymphoma, you know, could be pesticides, there's environmental things. But talking to my oncologist, he said, asking, well, what can I do for, you know, stopping a recurrence? He said, well, it looks like the people who do the best are the people who exercise. And that's probably something that you like to hear about. No, we don't. We're not interested in exercise on this podcast. But after, you know, after the thing, okay, let's see. It's an African-American mother's side. It's all diabetes. My father ended up getting diabetes later. So I've got diabetes. I already had coronary cancer when I was 39 years old. And then I have cancer. I said, you know, and I'd always exercise some, but I'm like, okay, if it's going to make a difference, I need to get really serious about this. And so I do think it's the lifestyle is a huge part of cardiovascular disease. And it's an even bigger part of healthy aging. So I do think, you know, I know your focus on nutrition and exercise. That is our fundamental behavioral changes that we all need to work on. We've fortunately, we've got fantastic medications. And this is where the genetics is really important because if you've got bad genes and many, many, many of us do have bad genes, there's something you can do about it now. And people understand like in sports and I always use the, I think you're new to Houston, but Jose Altuve. Have you heard of him? No. Should I? So yeah. So Jose Altuve is a baseball player. Okay. And when he, he, when he, he plays for the Astros and when he was first tried out for the major leagues in Venezuela, they sent him home. They said, look, you're too short. You'll never play baseball and just forget about it. Height is genetic. And when people understand it, like a height, they say, okay, he came back the next day. It's because the scout said, you got to watch him play. So if you have bad genes, it's like height or something in sports, what do you do? Try harder, play smarter. So it's the same thing in life. If you've got bad genes, you got to play smarter. So diet and exercise are important for everybody, but not for every, I mean, for everybody, but it might not move the needle for those that have genetics. But it's still, if you don't do it, it's even worse. Right. So if you have a gene for familial hyperchleesterolemia, even with a great diet, you won't normalize it. But if you have a terrible diet and then you get obese and get diabetes, you're in a really bad. So the issue is, but the play smarter is I do the lifestyle and then find out more. Do you need a medication? Do you need your, what about your blood pressure? Uh, so these are the things, you know, you, you, if you get, so I think the most important message is, is it's a preventable and treatable disorder. And if you've had a heart attack, you can, there are things you can do to not have another one. And when we think about lifestyle, let's talk about exercise. What are some of the key components to exercise? So this is one thing, uh, I think you, if you look at the residents who are rotating or working with it, they always have a little note, they say, we'd like you to exercise and they always put in it. I want you to walk 30 minutes, five times a week when that's wonderful. That's a great start. But I mean, that's not exercise. I mean, that's, that's, that's moving a little bit because the funny thing is, and they, then they say, and you should get 10,000 steps. And so I always ask, I said, do you know how long it takes to get 10,000 steps? Can you get 10,000 steps in 30 minutes? And of course you can't. I mean, unless you're running at it, you know, you have to really be running fast to get 10,000 steps in 30 minutes. So, you know, exercise to me ends up being, is it, you know, I try to get an hour a day of exercise and 10,000 steps. Cause sometimes if I'm doing resistance work, it may not be as many steps, but then I'll walk more. Uh, steps are great for vascular health. I mean, you know, getting your heart rate up, sustaining it, that's very good. But I think you, you also need in particular, as you get older, uh, you know, it's, uh, like if your car gets old, it takes more, you know, get a lot of more maintenance, you know? So I, and I think some of the data on healthy aging and cognition, I think exercise is doing even more than just the vascular. I think it's doing some other things in terms of brain function that are really important for maintaining optimal, uh, you know, cognitive health. I, I absolutely agree with you. Um, when you talk about exercise and we talk about walking resistance training, would you say that walking is enough? How do we begin to think about taking care of skeletal muscle health? So I think this is really a critical issue, particularly. So it's a funny thing, you know, when I'm seeing younger patients versus older patients, some of the older patients are like, well, I walk and I said, and that's great. Younger people tend to go to the gym more, but it's even more important as you're getting older. So when you hit menopause, when people are getting into their sixties and seventies, eighties, the issue that comes up is now we're worried about basically quality of life, healthy aging, and things like insulin resistance, diabetes, you know, we get into things. Why, why do we have these issues? Well, we know muscles critical in terms of glucose update, but also mitochondrial function. And, you know, one of the things that comes up is, and, you know, balance people fall. Well, walking is good, but you know, you can do core exercise. There's balance exercises. You can do a lot of things where you're actually using coordination strength. There's an issue of free weights versus machines. There's using bands. There's, I work in on a little trampoline thing where you're having to balance at the same time you're doing weights. So using, think about all the things your brain is having to do when you're exercising. Uh, but I do think is that walking is great. It's a strange thing sometimes where a lot of physicians are like, well, we can't expect patients to do more than that. Uh, that's a, I think that's a, the wrong message. It's, it's completely the wrong message. And I think we need to lead by example. But the other thing is if you really want optimal health, we put people on five or six drugs and that's a lot of medications to take, uh, with it. And if, if they were really exercising and eating a better diet, we can reduce the amount of drugs. So I think we want to give people guidance as what is optimal and encourage them to do whatever they can. But there's no sense acting like optimal. It's walking 30 minutes, five times a week. It is not optimal. We don't use, you know, five milligrams of low, low statin, which was the first stat anymore. I mean, people used to, but we'd say, well, that's not a, that's not that effective. So why are we recommending something that we know is it's beneficial, but it's not really optimal. It's not the most effective way to, to, to prevent things or treat things. And what role do you think resistance training has, whether it's machines or free weights? Essential. I think you, I mean, there's what you, you know, the issue that comes up is as you age, you lose muscle mass. Uh, so you either are going to lose your strength. You know, this really is it to use it or lose it, uh, a thing. So this is why it takes, it may, may take a little more time as you get older, because you may have to warm up more and then build up and do a lot more reps instead of doing real heavy weights, depending upon if you want to avoid injuries, but it's still highly beneficial. In fact, the benefits are probably even greater as you get older. They're, they're, they're all along, but I think it's even more necessary. тут тут тут