 n tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw tw in psychology. Approach-oriented behaviors. Exactly. Okay. And so what this means is it's something small, but it has a huge impact in the way it conditions us and shapes our reality. So what happens is children, if they are distressed, sad, anything like that, the caregivers are very attuned to the child and we're wired to need attunement. And so when the caregiver picks up on the distress of a child, they approach them. They try to figure out what's wrong. They try to sue them. They're there for them. And of course, that won't be perfect, but the vast majority of the time, the caregivers are very approach-oriented. Now, what this does is it causes this child to go, oh, I can trust people. I can rely on people. And these are the early conditioning patterns that they're learning. What age would that be? So our original attachment style actually develops between the ages of zero to two. And we can talk about how this was studied and demonstrated in a moment, which I think is really interesting, something called the strange situation experiment out of Cambridge university with John Bowlby and Mary Ainsworth. And so what ends up happening is because children are constantly getting this conditioning of my caregivers are here for me. They're supporting me. They learn I can rely on people. I can trust people. It's safe to express emotion is some of their early conditioning and they feel comfortable actually leaning on other people. And so as adults, a lot of their early conditioned patterns say, it's safe to trust people, rely on people. I'm worthy of being loved for who I am. Even in hard moments, I can share emotions with people and let people in. And so they're also comfortable with vulnerability. So that's our secure attachment style. And research shows that that's roughly 50% or so of the population. I saw that statistic. I couldn't believe that 50 to 60% of adults have a secure attachment style. Yeah. Do you believe, do you read that number? It's hard for me to say because there's a whole bunch of like more recent research that shows, oh, it's on the decline. It may be closer to 30%. But I do think that that original number does correlate with some of our divorce statistics. And research shows that individuals who are securely attached actually report being in more long lasting relationships. But even more importantly than that, they report being more fulfilled in their relationships, which I think is a really important metric because you could just be in a relationship forever, but not be happy. And that doesn't necessarily make it successful. And so when we look at secure adults, they make up roughly 50 to 60% of the population. A lot of the research that's been done since then isn't as reliable necessarily. So it's more through like polling, you know, things of that nature. But then we have our three insecure attachment styles. So wow, only one secure. So basically either your secure attachments, and this is just in romantic relationships. This is not in friendships, or is this all relationships? Great question. It affects all of our relationships. Because ultimately, your attachment style, in my opinion, is the relationship to yourself. It's your patterns, it's how you learn to connect. I often give people the analogy that your attachment style is the subconscious set of rules you've learned about what to expect when it comes to love and connection. And so with that subconscious set of rules, what's really interesting is if you sit down and you have a different attachment style than somebody else, especially in our closer relationships, it's almost like you are sitting down to play a board game. And you have the rules for Scrabble, and I have the rules for Monopoly. Like we may really want to have a good time, but with different attachment styles, we have different rules for what we expect around our needs, what we expect around communication and vulnerability. And so it can really shape relationships in sometimes great ways, but also sometimes really challenging ways. Yeah, I can totally see that. Yeah. So the three insecure attachment styles, the first one is the anxious attachment style. Now, anxious attachment styles, their overarching theme about how they're conditioned is that they have a lot of love, a lot of care in the household and a good bit of attunement, but it's inconsistent. So they go through what we call either real or perceived abandonment. So real abandonment could be the loss of a parent, you know, somebody passes away or a divorce, a parent leaves or perceived abandonment, which is really interesting because when you look at abandonment from a neuroplasticity perspective, small T trauma, like if we look at how the brain sort of fires and wires, small T trauma, lots of perceived abandonment, things like parents being there a lot, but then also working all the time, these really long hours. So love is there, love is taken away. Love is there, love is taken away. The repetition and emotion of that fires and wires, neural pathways that can actually have a very similar impact on what we fear and what our attachment behaviors are as a singular or a small set of big T traumas. And so you'll see anxious attachment styles, even if they go through more of what we call perceived abandonment, they will grow up and they will constantly fear love being taken away. So their big fears and wounds and relationships are around abandonment, being alone, being excluded or disliked or rejected and often not good enough. So they really go into a space of chronic people pleasing. They spend a lot of their time in relationships, just trying to maintain proximity, like just trying to keep somebody close. But unfortunately, a lot of the time, because they're so anxious, what ends up taking place is they accidentally push somebody away by holding on too tight, by trying to move the relationship along way too quickly. And I'm sure you've probably known people like this in your life. And you see like they're generally very kind and sweet and they care about people and connection so much, but they really struggle to have a healthy relationship to self, to have healthy boundaries, standards for what they accept from relationships. So that's the anxious attachment style. That I, you know, we'll get through the other two, but you know, I do definitely have certain questions, you know, as you're talking, I'm thinking about my little one, my five-year-old. And when she interfaces with us, we'll see her and then, you know, we'll do things like normal families do go and my husband goes to work. And we don't have any as parents. And for any of the parents listening, I have no control over how she interprets that. Yes. Right. And I mean, I'm sure that you'll give us tips as to how to maybe soften that for our children. But, you know, then it just makes me think nature and nurture and how do we impact the way that they interpret their experience? I would love to go into that. So we'll, we'll maybe when we sort of get to that point, we'll have lots of tools and steps for that because it's such a powerful question that you're raising. And it's such an important part of this whole discussion, in my opinion, how do we actually rewire what's not serving? So yeah, beautiful stuff. So, so then we have on the sort of other end of the continuum, we have a dismissive avoidant and the dismissive avoidant attachment style is somebody who basically grows up with an overarching theme of childhood, emotional neglect. Now, a lot of times it's not necessarily overt neglect. It's not like parents are never in the house. Child's trying to cook on the stove at five years old because they're hungry. Of course that can be the case, but we're more likely to see more covert emotional neglect subtleties. So for example, you'll see a lot of dismissive avoidant attachment styles grow up in a household where there's a lot of stability and structure. Food is on the table. Kids are at school on time. Clothes are laid out. Definitely not my house. Yeah. But along with that, if the child experiences emotional distress, the caregivers are not attuned. And in fact, they may even reject or deny the child's emotions. And so what their conditioning is, what their firing and wiring is, is when I feel negative emotions or express negative emotion, I am met with rejection, deflection, or being ignored and dismissed. And thus my emotions are not acceptable. So this child learns, I have to repress my emotions to be worthy of connection and love. And they adapt to that kind of environment and experience by going, I'm not going to show this part of myself. And as adults, they're often individuals who may sabotage, sabotage close connection. They may actually have a series of relationships where they leave as soon as things get too real. And they may be individuals, if they do stay in a relationship, that constantly close down, shut down, stonewall, and really go to great lengths to avoid conflict or avoid feeling too much, which of course can be difficult in a relationship because healthy, secure relationships are often founded on acceptance, vulnerability, communication. And they often struggle in those departments to properly work through conflict. And the thing that makes, you know, that immediately comes to mind with this dismissive, dismissive attachment style is people are on their phones more. Parents are on their phones more, right? And I could see maybe that is even probably increasing. You'll have to tell me, but because of all these electronics, we're probably setting people up for less than optimal attachment styles. 100%. Then it makes me think about this idea of tough it out, just toughen up, tough it out. And that's probably what emerges ultimately in a person who is more dismissive. Absolutely. And that's usually a lot of their messaging. And I think grit is an important part of the human experience, but I don't think it should be a mutually exclusive process where it's like tough it out all the time, but just ignore your emotions. Know that we want to balance it both. We want to be able to leverage understanding our emotions as feedback mechanisms, because a lot of times emotions are letting us know if we have a boundary crossed, if we have an unmet need in a relationship. And so if we try to shut down our relationship to our emotions, we lose out on that powerful system of feedback that's always there. And in turn, as you know, I'm sure we'll get into, you'll see that dismissive avoidance, they, as a means of repressing, go into a lot of self-soothing techniques like drinking, comfort food, binge eating. Like it's, it's significantly more associated with having creature comforts and unhealthy coping mechanisms. So, so, and we can get into, you know, more of that. So the last attachment style is our fearful avoidant, sometimes referred to as the disorganized attachment style as well. So our disorganized attachment style, they grow up in a household where the overarching theme is chaos. So the types of situations you would see may be things like having a cluster B parent, somebody with narcissistic personality disorder or borderline personality disorder, or even worse, antisocial personality disorder, having a parent who is struggling with an addiction, active addiction, alcoholism, drug addiction, substance use. And, and you would see in these types of situations that there tends to be more abuse, be it physical, mental, emotional abuse. You could also see in various situations, just a really difficult divorce between parents where it's very challenging and triggering for the, the child are put in the middle, parentification type of patterns. But in any of these forms, the overarching theme in terms of how a child is conditioned is they never know what they're going to get. So when they are young children and they're trying to co-regulate with their parents and caregivers, and their nervous system is really in training with that of their caregivers around them, there is a tremendous amount of distress in their parents around them. So the child doesn't know whether to look at their parent as a source of love or a source of fear. And in particular situations, you know, you may see if there's a parent who's an alcoholic, one day that parent is drinking a little bit and they're in a good mood and they're nice and they're loving. Another day, a parent is drinking a lot and they're cruel or they're vicious or mean, or in the case of having a narcissistic parent, you know, one day the parent is love bombing and they're sweet and kind. Another day, the narcissist is scary and potentially volatile or even violent. And so in these particular cases, this child gets wired with very competing associations about love. Love has really good moments and I want that. I want that closeness and the connection when I do have those nice moments. And yet love is scary. It's terrifying. So this child copes with this by becoming extremely hypervigilant. And as an adult, their actual attachment mechanism is not to cling like an anxious attachment style or avoid like a traditional dismissive avoidant. Their attachment mechanism is to read between the lines on everything so they can try to predict two steps ahead to know who or what they're going to get. Wow. That's, that seems like that would be a lot for a kid and probably a lot for an adult. Absolutely. And you know, what we'll see in the adult life of a fearful avoidant or disorganized style is that they end up being in a position where they in relationships are extremely hot and cold. They're there one day, they're very loving one day. And then when people get too close, they shut down and they get afraid. So they want love, but they're terrified of it at the same time. And so they're very push pull in their relationships. And you'll see those individuals be individuals who are more volatile themselves, have ups and downs in their relationship dynamics. And as a result, it can be really difficult to have healthy sustained relationships as a disorganized attachment.