 So there's a myth that kids, first of all, naringin, first of all, naringin, first of all, naringin, first of all, naringin, first of all, it's getting dispelled directly, that kids can't get stronger until they go through puberty because they don't have testosterone, but there are so many things that have to do with muscle strength and bone density and athleticism that has nothing to do with your androgens. And, you know, and so forever they thought that a kid could not see progress. I have seen it firsthand that that's just not true. I didn't know that that was a thing that children, that they don't think children can get stronger or see progress. Oh, I mean, yeah, they just don't think that it's, they think it's pointless. I think it's dangerous to have kids with weights and that's pointless because they can't gain muscle without testosterone. Well, women don't have testosterone with very little and they can still gain muscle. Yeah. It's an, and it's, it's a lot of it is independent of hormones, insulin sensitivity, insulin's most anabolic thing in your body. Like keep your kid insulin sensitive and just, just, you know, a reaction to strenuous activity. And it's not just about muscle size. And then the strength is a hard thing to measure because the kid's limbs are getting longer. So even if their muscles are producing more strength, they might not be able to move more weight because it's just on a longer limb for right now. Like adults don't grow limb length. So we can predictably see if a muscle gets stronger by how much weight they can use. But if a kid's muscle gets stronger, but that lever gets longer, they can't move more weight. It doesn't mean the muscle's not stronger. You know, so sometimes a kid will get slower in adolescence because their limbs get longer and it takes a while to catch back up to that. So they can't turn their levers over as fast. So there's just so many variables there. But it's just, it's extraordinarily important that kids are resistance training at a young age. Do you think that, is there an age where we have to begin to think about this many days a week? So for adults, for example, if you were to say a 30 to 40 year old, okay, we'll say, well, these are kind of different ages, right? Because 30, you're still pretty robust. But let's say for a 40 year old, 40, 50 year old, you would design a program that would be what? To start three days a week, hypertrophy three to four days a week. But as little as one day a week does have benefit, but ideally three days a week. Right. Yeah. But for a child who has not been through adolescence, and then we'll get to adolescence or even in adolescence, is there, is it almost, um, they should be lifting weights every day? So here's the, this is, isn't it what people think it's actually opposite. Okay. The more advanced you are, the less frequency you need or can handle. Wait, say that again. The more advanced you are in training age and the older you are, the less frequency of intense training you need or can handle. I would totally agree with that. So kids can literally max out if you were going to have them do this on a squat every single day and it would not, they would be able to recover from it. It would not affect their central nervous system because their central nervous system literally cannot produce that much of a charge yet. Whereas once you go through puberty, they're, they're more likely to get hurt. Their central nervous system starts putting out a huge vault, right? Basically a huge charge and they can actually start to hurt themselves and they can actually start to overtrain. You literally almost cannot overtrain a child. I mean, that's fascinating. When you think about the central nervous system, is there a way that we would have a measure by proxy? How would we be able to tell if the nervous system is being stressed? So it's one of these things that's very highly contentious right now because when they directly measure central nervous system recovery, it shows that the central nervous system recovers very quickly. But we know that not to be true based on what we see in our field. So they don't, they know it has something to do with like glutamate and, you know, cortisol doesn't go down. And like you have so much dopamine and release that your serotonin then can't get up and adrenaline. So they don't know if it's the actual central, the neurons themselves or the byproducts that have resulted that are, that need time to clear. So I want to caveat that first because some people listen to this that may be study geeks are like, well, studies have shown this central nervous system recovers very quickly. And I understand that. But we know as professionals in our field that if you're going to max out on a sprint or a jump and your athlete is overtrained with the high intensity stuff, it's going to take seven to 14 days before they can peak again. Wow. Um, whereas muscle tissue, you can crush a muscle four days later. That thing's probably ready to go. And there are variables person to person, muscle group to muscle group, but to get back to your question, very simple ways, um, to test it. Uh, you know, the carbon dioxide tolerances, CO2 tolerance, very cheap, easy way. Um, and just buy a grip strength tester. Very simple. Also more subtle ways, more qualitative ways, like quality of sleep. Are you waking up? Do you go to sleep really fast, but then you wake up in the middle of night that suggests your cortisol stays level throughout the night and it keeps waking you up. Now, if you're just tired and you crash and you don't want to get out of bed in the morning, that's probably more peripheral. You're just very tired. But if you fall asleep easily and you keep waking up or you can't feel like you relax or you can't get your heart rate down or your brain fog, those are all signs of your central nervous system needs a break. And do you think that, um, and it would be very, and what I'm hearing you say is that it would be very difficult to get a five or six or seven year old to that point, right? Physically, emotionally, right? No, because emotionally, if you're emotionally pushing and abusing your child, they will become overtrained in a hurry. But if they're having a good time and they're just doing it on their own, uh, literally a kid can squat, you know, the Bulgarian system for adults where they squat the max every day. Like it's a known thing they have to go through. That's called a dark period where it's a year and a half of overtraining your central nervous system where you're miserable to get to the other side. Couldn't they be more effective at that? Yeah. So that's why very few people do it. A year and a half? It's just, it's not necessary. Whereas kids can literally max out. A kid can go and sprint like on the playground. They'll have a period where they race each other and they will literally race full speed every single day for two months or until they move on to something else. And the kid doesn't come home and be like, I can't focus. They just doesn't happen. And where if it's an adult did that with a fourth or fifth day straight of doing one, even one max effort sprint, they would be completely fried neurologically. Their, their reflexes won't be as good. Their grip strength would be down. Their broad jump would be down quantitative measures. And the first thing an athlete does is after they're prepped, I'll have them do a grip strength test or a broad jump. And if it's more than 10% off their norm, it's like, well, you need to back off today. I don't care how you feel. Your performance is telling me you need to back off day. And that would that be for more of the, I mean, listen, we live in Texas and Texas takes their sports very seriously. I'm like, what state am I in? You're laughing. You know, it's true. I mean, they've got the training programs for these six year olds or whatever to go into the, I mean, it's just crazy. Um, is there an age that, so is there an age that that kind of starts looking at, um, CO2 tolerance? Would it be six too young? I mean, where, where do we think about? I wouldn't worry about measuring the central nervous system until you get to puberty. To puberty. You know what I mean? So it seems that as when puberty happens, everything changes. The thing that I would start at a younger age is, is, and this is crazy that people think you can't do this is teaching your child to regulate their central nervous system, teaching them breathing methods to bring themselves up the neural toning, breathing methods to bring their neural tone up and prepare them breathing methods to bring their neural tone down and help them relax and recover both in between workouts and in between sets. So there's ways to breathe in between sets. I call it intro workout breathing to where you can really bring your nervous system tone down and help you recover and then extend the duration that you're able to be intense during that workout. We can teach children this. I really feel like weightlifting belts should be everywhere. And hear me out here because you can put them on very loosely to where it's not tight. And you can teach your, your child to breathe braced breathing to where they try to put pressure on that weight belt all around and teach them how to brace while breathing, teach them how to like diaphragmatically breathe. And we can teach our children breathing. We can teach our children gate. We can teach our children to hold their tongue on the roof of the mouth and nasal breathe. We can teach them all these things that will extend to the time when they get to adolescence and the central nervous system becomes an issue. They're already prepared to help themselves recover. My kids are real bummed you came on this podcast because guess what is going into the Amazon cart today? Today. Today. is going to be my kids. Thank you.