 So dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari dari harder than ever. That part of my personality is so important to me. The results are the evidence. Fear is automatic. There is an automaticity to fear, fight or flight, but that regulation is something trained. The body knows how to heal. You have to just give it the right environment. And I was like, okay. So you have to practice patience and rest. The reality is in order for people to really embody and get to the position that they want to get to. Physically, it requires work. There is no magic. Now, the one thing I'd say about that, and this is something that I recommend to people too, is that... Danica Patrick, you are one of the most accomplished and recognizable figures in race car driving. You have broken barriers beyond and just pioneered for women a path that never existed. So you're the first, the first through the gate. You've competed for over 10 years at the highest level. You've grown up in the public eye and really under pressure. The only way that people do that and do it well is if they reinterpret the idea of pressure and stress. Now, you've been at the highest level of both IndyCar and NASCAR. And again, you've built this career defined by pressure through a passion, right? I mean, you can relate to that, right? Where something that you feel a calling to or really passionate about and like so much drive for that like everything is just the way. It's not an obstacle. It's kind of like just the way. Like it's, you know, it's not going to be easy, but you love it so much you keep doing it. That's why I always tell people like you have to find something that you love because if you don't love it enough, you're not going to put in the right amount of effort to be successful and you're going to eventually quit. And that's the biggest difference between someone that's really successful and that isn't, is that they just don't quit. Um, and you've probably learned that a million times, not only from yourself, but also from people that you've interviewed too, as I have as well, is that like, you know, having that vision and holding it and having what I would call when I was young and in go-karting and coming up through, through motorsports was blind faith. Unless you kind of just know it, like, you know, it's going to happen somewhere deep inside you. You don't really know how or how it's going to look, but you just know. And so, yeah, I had that my whole life. And I've watched videos of you very young. I mean, you were very young going through this racing and, you know, I think about my kids, my four and six year old, I couldn't even imagine them being able to cognitively understand the idea of pressure and challenge. But do you feel like you had to talk yourself into it? Yeah. I don't think you do know. Like I, that isn't, that is something that you learn. I think when you're a kid, you just feel something uncomfortable, right? You don't really know what that stuff is. You have to learn all those emotions. Um, just like you have to learn discipline and learn, um, discretion and what's appropriate. And when all these things are all just stuff that you learn. And I think that I learned so many of them so young, right? Like my dad was pretty hard on me and obviously racing is a competition. So it's, uh, it's, uh, you know, it's competitive. It's who be two. It's pretty, it's pretty obvious. So all of those things I learned really young and I'm glad, man, I'm glad I didn't learn what it was like to learn how to deal with pressure in my thirties. I learned it when I was 10. I'm not sure we learn well in our thirties. I agree. I agree. I mean like neuroplasticity and like subconscious programming is real set, real set, kind of like concrete right now. They give participation trophies. Yeah. I mean, and everyone and anyone is a winner and we've taken a step back from my perspective in terms of, let's just say good, hard competition. We all know how to win. I would agree that we know what it feels like to win. Even my kids, when they race each other, they know what it feels like to win, but how do you become good at losing? I don't think that you have to be great at losing. I think you just have to know how to not give up. Like I wasn't a great loser. My biggest fear was failing. Right. Other than of course, you know, um, throwing the first pitch at a Cubs game kind of thing or doing cardio in the morning or doing cardio in the morning. I was like, I quit that stuff years ago. Um, but I don't, I don't think being a good, good loser, like as an accepting it is necessarily exactly the, the narrative. I think it's a matter of being completely unsatisfied and there's two different kinds of fueling, right? There's the fueling cause you're more afraid to lose. And then there's the fuel of like the love of the win. And it's super common. A lot of people that are very successful, really fear losing. Um, and I did, um, more than I very much more than I enjoyed the win. The win was like meant to happen, right? That was kind of just like what was supposed to happen. So wins always kind of felt like relief more than anything. That is, um, that would be a heavy burden. I think a heavy burden because how at the height of your racing career, and God only made me five, one. So I was like the world, listen, the world couldn't handle anymore. I'm telling you five, one is plenty. Uh, yeah, the world couldn't handle any, this is true, but it's a heavy burden. You know, you think a lot about burnout right now. We hear a lot about burnout and those that continue on for the legacy, for the long haul, how at the height of your racing career, how many times were you up against that feeling and that fear of loss or burnout or, I mean, just putting myself in your perspective and then thinking for the listener or someone who's watching this, well, you know, maybe I'm never going to be a first female racer, but being 10, being 20, being in a position where the world is watching and also you're done at this moment of it's, it's kind of like when I was in medical school, it wasn't that I went into every test going, I'm going to use this. I'm going to, you know, I look at my husband and he's like, I'm going to dominate this test, you know, cause that's the only way failure is not an option. But for me, I was like, Oh my God, I just hope I don't fail. And that, you know, same from a nervous system perspective took me years and years to unwind and made me highly amped up everything, you know, and successful, huh? Uh, yes. Yeah. But if the outcome is success, regardless the path, but is it a, I don't know. Do you think it is? Cause I don't think it is. I think complacency doesn't lead to nearly as much success. I mean, I think really successful people have an edge, you know, they're like, they're not satisfied and they don't want to lose. And I mean, there's, there's, I mean, geez, you know, you look at even like our president right now and some of the things that he'll say on stage based on like, Oh, you know, I just something about like, Oh, I don't want them to win. Like he'll like, this is the president. Like he's won all, but he's as high as you can get. Right. So I think that when you achieve great things, I just don't, I don't think that you have, I don't think that you're normal. I don't think that you have like a normal rational level of sort of understanding or complacency or acceptance even within. It's like when I was a kid, um, when I was in lower level cars, like it was called Formula Atlantic. Um, I walk around the track and I would look angry all the time. I was very unapproachable looking. And I really ended up realizing that the way I had this sort of death look on my face was because I never wanted them to think that fourth place was okay with me. Like it was good, but like, I wanted them to know that I was still not satisfied. And so even I think internally I had to have like little mini goals. I learned that once I finally got, once I got all the way to NASCAR, it's like, how long did that take? I mean, that was in NASCAR. I was 30. So that would have been like 2013 ish. I remember the season started and it was not going well. And it was like the third race of the year. And we had come to Phoenix and it was like the local race for my sponsor GoDaddy as well. And I had like just stormed off afterwards. And I realized that there was so much negative attention and there was so much, um, it was the weekend before and the weekend before had all sort of like rolled into each other and they made everything continue to get worse from an attitude and a presentation standpoint. And then that took away from my performance as well. So I started learning not until then in my early thirties, the, the like increasingly important value of like, yes, there's this overarching goal of this, but having the little in little wins along the way, right. The having the, okay, if I just, you know, maybe I don't tell anyone that like top 20 would be good for me this weekend, but like, that's my personal goal for this weekend, knowing that it's going to take that to then set top 15 to top 10 to win. Right. So, you know, you have to have some little goals along the way so that you can keep yourself in the game. Um, because if you are a big enough dreamer, they can, I know I always tell people like dream as big as you possibly can, like as big as you possibly can to the point where you even don't even know if it's possible, but the more times you tell yourself that's your dream, the more realistic it becomes. And if you shoot for that and you fall short, then you've probably achieved a heck of a lot as opposed to like, you know, that's all right for this weekend. It's like, you need something to pull you harder. And so, yeah, I think that I was not a great loser. I didn't wear it that well. I was definitely known for being fiery, but I also think that that's what kept like, that's what created the success to some degree as well. You just can't take yourself out of the game. You can't take yourself. Right. So like something, another example would be like in the race, if I would let something make me mad and I'd come on the radio and I'd be yelling and screaming about something, it was sort of pointed out that it would slow me down or I would lose positions or it would, I wouldn't be as good on track in those moments. And it taught me to like, keep that inside and stop and stop letting these little moments take me out of the game. Right. You still have to have some level of focus. Right. And if you're way too upset or fired up or anything, you go into the red mist and you're just like, you, you know, you go into that panic mode nearly with the body. Right. And you just, you can't do, you can't have the appropriate amount of focus to be truly great at something. Fear is automatic. There is an auto automaticity to fear fight or flight, but that regulation is something trained. Regulation is trained and maybe there's nature versus nurture, but were there moments that you had because you're working in split second decision. I mean, I can't even count that. What did you do to bring yourself back? How did you, again, I'm sure you got more skilled and that probably translates to what you do now. I think conditioning, right? I mean, I don't know. There's probably a technical word for it, but like exposure, right? There's like, a certain amount of sort of exposure that you get that sort of desensitizes you a little bit. Like the more times you go on stage, like it might be scary at first, but then the more you kind of know it doesn't mean you don't care and you're like not nervous, but you get, you get sort of like the exposure training. And I think that because obviously starting when I was 10 years old and coming up through the ranks, it's not, you know, zero to hero in the split second that someone on TV is like, Oh, there she is. It's like, yeah. And the 20 years that came before it. So I think the exposure is something too, um, that plays a really big part. And I think that's also when we're talking about like that young conditioning to the difficult things that help later in life. It's that, it's that exposure conditioning that happens that gets you into it. And this is, I think the, the danger zone that we are in with, you know, kids, I think the, I think that kids are now as to like living at home until they're like almost 30 now, I think 29 is maybe even almost the average age for some people, some kids to move out. Well, I hope my kids never leave. I never leave at least right now. Um, but like that, we don't live in the era where like, as soon as you are old enough to get out of the house, you go do that. And part of that is culture and cost of living and the ability for people to do that. But like, if we're just looking at it from more of like a global way, like there's just so much more helicopter parents and so much more coddling and so much more like we don't let them fall and fail. I mean, back in the day, you know, when I, you know, decades ago, um, growing up, you, you truly got on your bike and you like went, I mean, I remember this, like I lived in the middle of nowhere, but you go on your bike and you, we literally weren't told where we couldn't ride our bike. Right. Now, what if I fall off and skin my knee or get lost? Or like, you're like learning how to deal with life and challenges and pain and, you know, stress in, in, in ways that now it's like, no, the yard has got a fence around it and you can't get out of it. And like, you know, there's so much more, I think coddling and less, less sort of character building and confidence building stuff that happens. So, you know, I do feel grateful for the time that I grew up, but of course, then add on that layer of competition and being pushed and achieving things and having that goal like that just kept adding. So like, I became a very, like I grew up really fast. No pun intended. Of course. Did you do everything fast? Yes, you do. Yes, you do. I mean, I took me until I was in my thirties to realize that though. Like I just thought I drove, but then I was like, Oh, I walk fast. I think fast. I talk fast. I, um, I move fast. I, I, I make decisions fast. I cook fast, eat fast. I mean, there's all kinds of things. I do. This episode is brought to you by Bond Charge. Now my husband looked at me the other night and said, should I be scared? And honestly, fair. I was sitting in the dark with a glowing red mask strapped to my face. Um, I don't have time for a 5 million step skin routine. I just don't, but I do have 10 minutes while I'm answering emails or pretending to read before I pass out the Bond Charge red light face mask uses red light and near infrared wavelengths to support skin health, which again, it's a great way to scare your husband. It's lightweight and it's portable. It doesn't feel heavy or uncomfortable. Since I started using it consistently, my skin looks the following smoother and just overall more healthy. I didn't have to add another complicated thing in my life to get the job done. Go to bondcharge.com and use the code Dr. Lion to save 15%. And listen, many of us make a ton of various investments, but skincare and something that works is an investment that you will not regret. Go to bondcharge.com and use code Dr. Lion to save 15%. When it comes to your nervous system, there were probably moments where you felt that it was just so heightened that it's unproductive. I mean, I, I guess I'm putting words into your mouth. Maybe you didn't. And maybe the interpretation of the environment was, was different, but let's say for example, and I just bring this back to pressurized situations. So in medical school and in, you know, college, if you don't make the grade, you know, if you don't pass organic chemistry, you're out, you get one test. Maybe there's two tests a semester, depending on where you go to school, you're done. And there's very little room for error, I would say. And there were times where it's totally unproductive. So I used to have just terrible testing anxiety. And again, this is seems so minuscule compared to going, I don't know how fast you go 200 miles or something like, yeah, but if I crashed, I was going to die, I suppose. But also it didn't mean like I lost my ride. You know, it wasn't like, you know, you do enough of it. Sure. But, but yeah, I mean, to some degree, were you like, okay, my nervous system is too, I'm too aroused. My autonomic nerve, if I don't bring this down a notch, I am basically seeing in this kind of tunnel vision. Not for me, because I'm pretty low on neuroticism too. Like I'm not a fixator. I don't like, I don't like, I don't, I don't spiral. That's not my nature. Um, it's not in my genetics, in my pathways, in my hormones, in my brain chemistry. Like it's just not in me. Um, and actually, if I'm being honest, the more pressure and stress I had, the better I did. I always had great performances at the big ones. Like it's something fortunately came out of me. So no, the more pressure and stress I had, the better it was for me. Was there less thinking or more thinking leading up to these events? The more stressful ones? Yeah. I think there was, there can't, there tend to be more thought and effort or thought and time around them. But, um, but once you, you get in the car, it's not about thinking it's about, that's why a race car driver can have a long career because having experience is really something that pays off. Cause you can't, you're not running a play out there. You have no idea what the other 20 or 30 or 40 cars are going to do. So, um, so the experience pays off, but I'd say, I'd say there's something I'll use this. I don't know if it's totally applicable, but I think that when you're doing something really high performance and maybe you notice it sometimes in here, maybe you notice it sometimes on stage, but sometimes you go into one of these flow states that feels like almost like you're not there, but it's flowing. And there's like, there's an, uh, there's a frequency that you're, you're tapped into that is, uh, out of body almost, or beyond. And it's, um, as a race car driver, you know, you notice this when there'd be like something that happened that really fired you up, or you maybe lost pit stops, lots of spots on a pit stop, or maybe got a penalty, had to start from the back, something like that. And all of a sudden you just went into another mode. You're already in another mode, but the ones that could get that next level, which is so it's so it's like, there's, there's like a, there's an aggression, but there's like a very present flow state to it. Those are the ones, those are the people that do the best. They can really get into that state. And that's why I'm saying like certain things, like, you know, you can be mad that something happened that made you like lose positions that got you fired up. Right. And you can take yourself out of the game and spiral and freak out, or you, it, or hopefully it dials you in and helps you focus even more. Right. And helps you take an elevated state to a focus place. Did you practice any pre-performance rituals? The only thing I ever did. And I, I mean, I started doing this when I was in go-karts when I was a kid without anyone telling me that I needed to do it. Um, but I did visualization. Like I would just sit there like on the cooler or in a chair and I would just, or I'd be sitting in my go-kart ready to go out when I first started doing this and I'd just sit there and I'd close my eyes and I would drive the track. Perfect. And so, you know, as most people know that are into psychology and, um, and, uh, performance is that, um, and, and methods of learning visualization, even if you visualize your muscle flexing can add benefit, which is wild. You're like, wait a minute, how does this thing being human really work? Like I'm never going to the gym again. I'm just going to visualize bigger biceps, but it, it, there is a measurable effect. What happens when the performance becomes your identity? I mean, that happened to some degree, right? I think the, the, the, maybe not the job was ever my identity necessarily, but like the, um, I learned this actually through health stuff too. Um, so that can help us get into some of that if we want, um, is that my identity was having results that were proof of effort. So if I didn't get results that proved the effort, like I knew that like things would just happen if they was the right amount of commitment, the right amount of effort, all these things, like there's good things happen. Um, and so I think that something that's integral to my being and who I want to be, how I want to be seen is I never want anyone to think that I didn't, that I'm lazy or that I didn't try hard enough, um, or that I didn't put in the effort. And so like, I like, that was very much like my evil face at the track. Like I'm trying to be better than fourth. Don't you know that? Or like when health stuff slipped for me, like I ended up realizing that a core thing that was really, really uncomfortable within me was I was like, I'm trying harder than ever. And you can't see it. Like I'm trying harder than ever. And so I realized that it's like that part of my personality is so important to me that, um, the results are the evidence. And that's because they should happen because they should happen. You should have control and full disclosure, you've been a patient of mine for, I don't know, almost three, a little bit longer. Yeah. Yeah. Three or four years. Yeah. Going on four years actually. And, um, the story of how we met, which is pretty funny. We didn't interview together and I interviewed you for my podcast. Yeah. Yep. And I, cause I had been watching your stuff for so long and you know, I made the, I made the like fatal, like ego mistake of being like, you know, I saw you very early on when you and Don would do these, like you were at a desk or maybe he was too. I can't, I'm like all these videos. And I thought they were, I feel like they were like 20 minutes ish and they were so informational and I've always been so into health stuff anyway. But then of course, as I was needing more information, um, finding more of it as well. And, um, it was just so early on. I was like, well, just not, there's not a lot of views yet. There's not. And I like, and then as soon as it hit, like as soon as you started going on, I'm like, all right, I'm going to ask the interviewer now. And I shouldn't have been a jerk. And I should have just like interviewed you. It was probably a few years though. If it was a few years. Cause like, I think I interviewed in maybe 22, maybe 22. And I had already been watching for a few years for sure. It takes time. When did you and Don start putting videos out? Again, we've been doing this for easily 10 years. I don't know when the video started. Right. And that was, yeah. So that, that, yeah. Early on, they were very early on. Yeah. And then, so I already known your stuff. And then I was like, and I've all, I'm so into health. So I was like, and you have to talk to you and it takes time to mature just like it takes time to mature into a really exceptional race car driver. It takes time to mature into a good scientist, a good clinician and a good science communicator. We didn't interview. And this is, and for the physicians listening, I think they'll understand you just have a knowing and maybe it's the unconscious competence of the people that you can really help. And I basically twisted your arm and said, listen, Danica, uh, I'm going to take over your medical care and you give me six months and I will give you freedom. And you're like, that's it. Yeah. Uh, no, I'm, I'm, I'm good. I was like, all right. And I've been so many doctors. This last try. I've been through so many doctors. I'm like, all right. It had been a while since I tried a new one. Cause I went through this phase of like, basically I, I got breast implants in and 2013 ish. I don't know. 14, no, it was 14 or 15. Anyway, I'd had them in for about five or six years at that point, six years at that point, maybe. Anyway, it was after three years that I started to notice stuff. And then another through through a few years later, like more cascade effect had happened and I couldn't get a grip on anything. And so I started just doing every protocol. I didn't care. I would stack a million things in a day. I had multiple doctors, action oriented. Oh man. I didn't care what worked as long as if I did everything, I'd just keep doing everything. I just was looking for something that worked. And then I got to the point where I started just working with one and then I'd work with another. And then I was just like, you know what, whatever. I'm just, I don't know. I don't know what's going on anymore. And so then when we met and, you know, I was like, kind of like, all right, it's been a little while since I tried another doctor. Let's do it. Let's try it. And I think I signed up for the shorter distance time. I was like, you know what, let's just do this and see how it goes. It was kind of like review labs, try something and then review them again, kind of a setup. And I was like, all right, let's do it. And here, and I delivered on my promise. Oh my God. I mean, yeah, it was, it was very quick. And the reality is I knew because you moved so fast that I needed to give you an early win. And for us, you know, we started working on your inflammation and you were training twice a day. You were in the room doing pushups and in, I mean, just, you know, I do like an, like a, like a car. I did CrossFit for a long time, which, you know, I don't know if you've talked to any of those kinds of people or worked on any, worked on those people. I mean, probably because there's, it's kind of a military base. Like if there's a very much a, that sort of culture to it. Um, and I, I just killed myself. I absolutely killed myself. Oh yeah. They worked at first and like, you just can't keep pulling that lever. Right. So, um, and then age happens and, and also like age is something. I don't think it's that as big of a deal. I think it's more about like, um, you can only handle something for so long if it's, if it's not good for you. Right. And then the body does a pretty good job, but then it, and then it ends up just starting like systems start to shut down and adapting and protecting the most vital things about you. Um, and so, yeah, I mean, I've gained weight, like lost my hair, like full inflammation. Oh my God. I'm already, you were exhausted. I had no recovery. Like at one point in time during all of this, I was also, I ran the Boston marathon. So I had to like train for that. And I was training either at altitude and Telluride, or I was in Arizona where it was summer and it was basically a hundred degrees. As soon as the sun came up, like overnight lows of 90 degrees, you know, like, I mean, I don't know why I didn't decide to just run it like during the dark. I was like, okay, I'll start as soon as it starts to get light. And then I'd finish and it'd be like 106 degrees. And I'm like, and I like horrible. So I had no recovery. It was just a disaster. You know, when you think about someone who's been able to put in effort and get outcome in your whole life, right? Cause that's what you did. How mentally, and there's a lot of people that listen to this podcast that go through health challenges and they don't have answers. Things are still really nebulous. There's nothing that even, even the most mentally tough people, when you put a health problem in the mix, it's, it's so difficult because you need a different, different discipline. Like the discipline that got you there is not going to get you out. So like the discipline of like work ethic and trying harder and pushing and pushing and more is, is exactly the opposite of what the recovery is. It's like, there was something someone said along the way where like the body knows how to heal. You have to just give it the right environment. And I was like, okay, so you have to practice patience and rest and all the things that didn't work for a long time, you know, that didn't work. And that were also not part of your benefit of whether it's performance at work or performance with your body or performance with your mind. Right. So it's a different discipline. And so I just, um, but I'm, I am grateful because it gave me, um, it gave me this ability to talk, to speak to it, you know, to come from a professional athlete, from a, someone that's been successful to be able to tell people like, it doesn't always work and it can't work all the time. So yeah, I took a different discipline. I really liked that statement. The idea of a different kind of discipline, because when we think of discipline, at least I do, I think of one way. Sure. And discipline is discernment, do the right, the next right thought into the next right action. And, and it's just driving. It's not motivation. What would you tell someone who is? Well, it doesn't feel very disciplinary to sit on the couch. That doesn't feel like discipline. Discipline feels like an iron fist or a, uh, you know, the wooden spoon, you know, it's like, discipline is like difficult. Get after it, get after it. But for the go-getter who got in trouble by doing too much, that is actually hard. The amount of re we were talking about very beginning. And so I'm kind of feeling my way into it here. Like the amount of reprogramming of that nervous system to allow myself to rest. Like it's like skin crawling at first. You're like, Oh my God, you're like, ants. You feel so lazy. Your mind's telling you a million things and you, you have to, you have to reprogram. What would you tell someone who is listening and they're in the same position? Maybe they've been getting after it their whole life and they've been successful and they were in the spot you were in. I tell them that if you want, if you want to achieve like the highest amount of health, that you'll get it by allowing your body to rest and recover and be ready to go for the next thing. Right. So you have to tell them that they're going to get what they want by doing this. It's not like, just enjoy the couch. I feel like I had to convince you. I feel like I had to convince you. Yeah. Yeah. Just enjoy the couch. Just watch a movie. Just rest. Don't, you know, whatever it's okay. I recommend, I'm just kidding. Although I have been trying to get you to talk you into drinking more, but, um, but I mean, I will tell I did, I did challenge you to pushups and it was literally the worst I've ever had. And I, you know, I'm, I'm pro you are. And I I'd say you, you, you beat me in the gym today and you know, you, you're, you're a, you're a powerhouse. Um, I paid her to say that guys, you know, that feeling after a really hard training session, where the last thing you want to do is sit down and eat a full meal. Yeah, I get it. And I'm not about forcing down a steak when my body just isn't ready for it. But here's the thing. Intense exercise and really all exercise is catabolic, meaning it increases muscle breakdown. So to protect my muscle and build new muscle and recover, I consume essential amino acids around my workout. This helps with the recovery. Body health, perfect amino helps me hit the protein threshold I need to stimulate muscle with minimal calories and not a huge digestive burden, like a large steak. The workout was the hard part, but the recovery doesn't have to be head to body health.com and use the code lion 20 to get 20% off your first order. That's a body health.com and use the code lion 20. But my upper body strength is pretty good. I mean, you're pretty jacked, but what would I did? I did live in this position for a long time. I mean, people have to recalibrate and reorient to the push. But I would also say one of the other things that I want to acknowledge that you did really well is you tuned out the noise. You're someone who has access to everything and everybody. And those people actually, from a health perspective, do the worst. What kind of noise do you always feel? Do you feel like, are we talking about like friends, family, social media? Like what are you talking about? The health and wellness noise, which is something that we, we, you and I talked privately about yesterday, you know, with the new diet guidelines, but there's so much noise and everybody is an expert and everything can kill you or save your life. It's too much. Just ask Paul Saladino. Everything can kill you. And it's, it's too much. And those that are following multiple people, or let's say they're impatient and they jump from doctor to doctor, to provider, to program because they're so action oriented. And can you imagine if you had done that in, in driving? Yeah. Now the one thing I'd say about that, and this is something that I recommend to people too, is that I did go through the doctors and I needed to, cause I had to get to you. And so every doctor's kind of got, you know, there's definitely levels, right? Um, you know, you don't wear your grade on your sleeve, but like, you know, and you don't wear your special, more intuitive skill, like skill sets and, and ability to read situations like on a name tag or like on your, under your name and a header. But, but in general, I do think that you kind of have to take your time and give dedication to a doctor at a time and go through a protocol and do what's recommended. Um, and you give it some time. And if it doesn't work, it's okay to move on because the, the job I found that a doctor tends to do what they've been doing. Like, and I think there's levels to that. Like I said, um, like if a doctor has good enough intuition and understanding and scope and knowledge, you know, they're more adaptable and, and able to help better, but generally like the doctor kind of had their thing. And so like, if that thing didn't work for you, it's okay to go to the next doctor. Um, but I do believe that I made the mistake early on of like compounding it all and having many of them and many protocols. And, um, and so I would say that, um, cause I'm so glad that I didn't stick with any one of them because I, I needed to get to you. And then once it works, it works. And it should like, this is like an analogy within racing that I'd say is that you'd put a, you, you change the setup on the car. You're trying to like fix a handling issue. One of the rookie mistakes that can be made by drivers is that they go and they just kind of like, they're like, Oh, it kind of helped. It kind of did that. No, if it works, it's obvious. That's all you need to know. And if it didn't, if it wasn't obvious, positive, go back. Like you have to go back to reset. You have to go back to baseline constantly. Otherwise you're going to end up with just, you know, uh, a very, um, out of, out of balance sort of set up on your car. So you had to kind of go back to what the computer says is like the right thing and then go from there and just one at a time. You try things. There was so many times that we would, I mean, shoot, sometimes we'd have to back to back something like going out at a time of day versus another time of day with the same setup. Make sure that you know where you're at. You can't just go in there with another one. So you really have to like, you have to go easy and you have to give the doctor the right amount of time. But, um, but I think that, uh, I think that, I think that it's okay to try a new one if they're not working. You said something to me yesterday, we were talking about, uh, hiring. Um, and you said, and also firing and you said, you got to move on really fast. And that maybe that there's a gut knowing if you think that this, and again, this is not just for providers, it's for anyone who's hiring. And again, any position, if you don't think there, if you just have a gut feeling that it's not going to work, I mean, how many times do we try over long periods of time to keep, or just want that to work because we don't want to, I don't know if it's make someone feel bad or just give them the benefit of the doubt. Right. Well, it's hurt their feelings. It's maybe not really knowing the full scope, especially as like a boss or something like that. You might not really see every last detail and in and out and like daily activity that someone does. You're kind of like, maybe not sure too, but like an employee should stand out. And until, and there are definitely jobs for, for jobs that don't need to be so standout, but like when you're looking for someone to be on your team, to do great things for you, it should be obvious. Just like the change on the setup, just like the doctor that works, just like a protocol, it should work. It should be obvious. It shouldn't just be invisible. Like it shouldn't, it's not business as usual. It should be like, oh my God, I couldn't live without this person. You know, this, this is like, wow, they're impressive. So what is that? It's like hire slow and fire fast. Yeah. And I, and I haven't always fired fast, but, um, probably all of us. Yeah. I mean, right. Exactly. And, and, but, but in the end, everyone that I ended up thinking needed to be, or like a position that needed to change, it was a hundred percent, like such a relief and like so obvious that it was the right thing. And so, yeah, you do have to, you know, I think our intuition is something that, and I'm not, and I believe that this, it's a little stronger in women. I don't know, maybe it's because we're a portal for humans or something, but, um, but like our, but intuition, and this is where I think even as an esoteric topic kind of gets into is that this sort of like patriarch matriarch, like, um, like gender struggle. It's not, it's about everyone doing, contributing what they are uniquely skilled at being able to understand and see. And I think that, I think that women are really good at that intuition thing, but the, the discipline of trusting it is the hard one. You, uh, we started, well, you started a women's group and I think that your motivation to do that was to really bring out the best as a collective unit. You know, there's a group of 10 of us and to really bring out the best. I thought that was wise because right now when I look out into the landscape and I think about this idea of stoicism and there's a level of neutrality and it's being detached from your thoughts and the conversations are, they're very male dominated. And I think you and I are very similar and many of our friends are very similar that we don't think, is this a male female, is racing male feet? We, we're not really thinking even along those lines, but what I do think is missing in the conversation is that the stoicism talk for the most part, it's men's stories. Um, yeah, you know, there's, there's, there's not a lot of stoics out there that you hear are women. And I think that there's been, and if you want to get into conspiracy, like, you know, whether it's conspiracy or just truth or, or an idea that like women have been more erased from history than, than men. Like, even when you think way back to like Greek times and like ancient times in Egypt and even places like that, like there were women rulers, there was women were in charge and, um, and, uh, and I, and I don't feel like that's, you don't really, you don't really see them as being prevalent figures for that. But I think that women and I, and, and maybe, maybe we don't deliver the one liner. I have no idea, but I do believe that we're very intuitive and that like the, the, we're good at creating, whether it's humans or a company or a vision or, or a blend of a group or whatever. It's like women are very creative and maybe that's a little harder to pen in over time. Do you think when you were racing and again, even now there probably wasn't, I'm sure there were trainers and I mean, they, they, it's unlikely that they had other female. Not really. There wasn't a lot of racing. I mean, I worked out and I trained, but I, I wouldn't say there's a lot of trainers or even like coaches. It's a weird sport. Uh, was there one, you know, was the biology and was the way of thinking about it more male? And when I say that is if you think about say special operations, um, the training protocol, I mean, there are things. And again, for example, they don't have, there's not a female seal. The training would be, uh, focused in one way. Again, it's not gender specific, but it doesn't fit, you know, it doesn't exist for a, for a hundred pounder like us to throw a hundred pound, you know, sandbag over a wall as part of our training is going to be infinitely harder than for a 200 pound man to do that. Right. And so I think there's like suitable jobs for people too. Um, and it, it just makes me think about the adaptation, physical adaptation. If it would, if you feel like it would be different, you know, if you could go back, would you have done it differently in a way to evolve you as an athlete, like training and all that stuff? Yeah. I mean, I definitely had a lot more salt in my water and a full disclosure, you'd had a bottle of salt with you. I was like, what is that? She brings seasoning to the gym. Oh yeah. Well I had a packet and I also travel with salt. I have a little salt in my, yeah. Cause table salt's garbage. Um, and, uh, and salt's very important. I literally feel like I would die without salt. So, um, I think there's certain things like that I would do. I mean, I think I'm in the best, best like body composition and strength of my life. Um, so I'm, I guess I did see you in like the, it was the, was it the New York post or it was something and they were, it was the headline. It was Danica Patrick in a red bikini and somewhere, somewhere, showing my ass. Um, uh, well, thanks to my doctor, you know, she dialed in, but also hard training. There's no shortcut. You know, we hear a lot of the, the conversation about medications and people go, Oh, well, um, you know, it's available to anyone and everything. So it's weights, but it's, but it's not the reality is in order for people to really embody and get to the position that they want to get to physically, it requires work. There is no, there is no magic pill. That's right. There is no for anything. No. I mean, probably one of the greatest gifts I was ever told also from a mental standpoint back in the day with a, with a therapist was that no one's coming to save you. I was like, I broke down and cried. I was like, Oh my God, I have to do this all myself. And it's like, no, you have help. But like, you have to, you have to rectify this within you. You have to forgive or accept or change or shift or whatever it takes to like, it's up to you. No one, no, I'm sorry. No, um, no forgiveness. No, no conversation is ever going to solve the problem within you. The problem you, everywhere you go, the problem will be there. If you don't figure it out, it doesn't matter where you go. So yeah, I mean, from a physical standpoint, from a mental standpoint, emotional standpoint, it's on you. Yeah. I like the saying, I'm sure somebody else has said it, but, um, but I like to say like, your life is your fault. And the immediate thought is like, Oh, but then it's like, Oh, cause like, it also implies all the good stuff. So every bit of success that you've, you've been able to accrue, like every positive experience, all of those things are you every good relationship, every friendship, every experience, every joy and laugh, like you in racing. It seems again, I've never been in a race car. We're going to change that someday. Um, well, I'll go go-karting. I've done that. No, I need to get you in a two seat. You need to sit next to me so I can, um, I'd be terrified, but I was just going to say, I can tell that this is not something you're like, um, listen, I'll do it. But those situations are so high pressure. And you've said that you perform better under this high pressure situation. I would agree with that. They're black and white. This is the outcome or this isn't, it's a right turn. It's a left turn, but in life, in relationships, in entrepreneurship, it is not like that. And it might not be at the height of, you know, anxiety or at the height of this ultimate decision. It's a low level buzz and a low level home. It is. It's, it's subtle. It's subtle. It's nuanced and it's subtle. That's much more difficult to deal with on a daily basis, which is essentially real life than those big overwhelming tasks. I think in that nuanced subtleness that we're talking about, about which you should, what you should be doing, shouldn't be doing, um, where your focus should be any, or, or like you just even like a, this is for me, this is not for me kind of way, whatever that is. And it could be work, it could be people, friends, relation, anything. Um, I don't think that is gray. I think that is kind of black and white. I think what's gray is seeing it. It's like hard to see. It's hard to really know. Like there's no concrete evidence of like first or last, right? It's, it's like, I don't know, should I change jobs? Should I move here? Should I do that? Should we break up? Is that friend hurt? Like, is like, you can look at a million scenarios and you're like, I don't know. And it's just kind of all, but like the subtle nuanced energy of it and this little signs and stuff that come through in your life through people or scenarios or intuition or, or like the, or like signs, like a bird could fly by and it might mean something kind of in your head. You're like, ah, whatever. It's a bird. Like it could be kind of stupid. Um, I don't think it's that gray. I think it's kind of black and white and he's just really hard to tell. It's really hard to tell. And that is something that I've only been able to cultivate more. I would say in my thirties on. Thank you to timeline for sponsoring today's episode. As we step into the new year, we're all thinking about routines, what to start, what to stop and what to finally commit to, but the body doesn't respond to resolutions. It responds to consistency and lasting health. Isn't built on trends. It's built on fundamentals, quality nutrition, resistance, training, recovery and cellular energy. Every second your cells are producing energy. That energy determines how strong you will feel, how well you perform and how resilient you are over time. And unfortunately, as we age, that system breaks down the mitochondria, which we know are the engines inside your cells wear out faster than the body can replace them. And that's where timeline powered by Mitopure comes in. Mitopure supports mitochondrial renewal, and it's been shown to increase muscle strength by roughly 12%, even without changes in exercise by improving cellular energy where it matters most. Muscle is the organ of longevity and without strong mitochondria, you can't have strong muscles. If staying forever strong is part of your plan, get 35% off Mitopure subscription at timeline.com slash Dr. Lion. Um, it's like getting more in touch with that because, and it's probably harder than ever nowadays with social media, with constant streaming, everything with every television show available. Like you wouldn't even go to the bathroom alone now, right? I do. And I lock the door and there's no kids coming in. Right. But do you bring your phone? Nope. Oh, good for you. I do. In fact, half the time, I don't know where it is. I mean, it's either, it's me and my, it's my phone and Ella. My dog, Ella is always just right there. She's a Malinois. Um, so I think that we don't really get a break to really know where we're at. So I would always tell people too, that like the best way to know who you are, which is not the easiest thing in the world to do, to know who you are because it also evolves. Um, but to know who you are and like, even know your set point, what I would call like your home energy that requires being alone. Like you really can't, how else are you going to find it? Like how, I mean, the way that I discovered it was when I was racing NASCAR and I was living in North Carolina, there was like a lot of time alone. And so like, it would be simple things like, you know, okay, well, what am I going to do? I don't have anything to do. You kind of figure out what foods, when you like to eat, like what your hobbies are, what your interests, what your home energy's like, like you start developing even more hobbies that are like, you kind of start figuring yourself out, but it's really hard to do when you're people pleasing, when you're socializing, when you're adapting, when you're distracted, like when you're in a routine, like you have to be alone a little bit. Have you ever experienced that? Was there ever like a time where you like learned what learned who you were more about yourself? Does that hit home or? It does. And I would say not so much in the quiet times. I think that scholarly activity and stuff, you know, school was not easy for me. I would study 12 hours a day. I would really, I knew that I had to compensate. Was it the stress that made it hard on you? That kind of took you out of the game? Like we were talking about, or was it more like you just weren't someone that like, there are people that have like insane recall, like they can learn at once and it's in them. Like, and I have, don't really have that. I'm like a firsthand learner. So like if I have experiential or visual, like sort of, I have to really like ingrain it into me and then it's in, but was that? Yes. I'd have to think about it. I'd have to draw it out. Yeah. And then I'd have to think about a creative way that it would be applied as opposed to just kind of passive learning. And that took a lot of time and a lot of energy. And those moments that it was quiet and I didn't know if I could do it, I would say that was a home energy. I'm curious as to how you would describe your home energy. Fun. Let's get it going. Like it's lighthearted. It's very funny, but I mean, that's just like being obvious about like what my home energy feels like to me. I'm goofy, I'm not serious. That's feels home energy to me. But I would just like for, for anybody, it would just be when you feel like a high frequency, like when you feel like, when you feel like, I would say I associated to a frequency. So like when your frequency is higher, when your vibes are higher, your energy is higher. When you're able to sort of see the best in scenarios more often, when you're less negatively affected, when you're less easily triggered, and also I think a really good sign that you are in your home energy and you're doing things that are meant for you is like, is that you like things, synchronicities constantly happen, constantly. Like you'll just be like day after day or week after week. You just be like, there's certain things you're having to be like, Oh wow, I couldn't have, I couldn't have even planned that. Or like everything's working out in ways that I could never even arrange or imagine. Um, I think that's also a really good sign that you're like in your home frequency and energy, because I think about the universe in an energetic way. And so, which is unusual for someone who has been very calculating for your whole career. Yeah, probably. And I think that we have to pause there because let's say someone was sitting here and you know, I don't know, I did this one post where I'm wearing crystals and maybe you're like wearing crystals and patchouli. And, but that's not how you've really gone through life. And I say that jokingly, but the reality is we are similar in that way that it's, you know, here's the data, here's the configuration, here's the science, what is the trajectory of X, Y, and Z. But what you're saying is there is, um, something beyond the cut, dry, right, left, that is perhaps even a universal language of frequency. Yeah. It's like in, it's in the field, you know, it's like in the field and it would be, I think, you know, from a, like a, especially creative people, they would talk about like it, something came through them, like the song came through them, the book, the idea, whatever it is, like the create, like the idea for a company or a product, like they're like, you've heard plenty of people, I think say like, I don't know, it just came through me. It wasn't really me. Um, and maybe that even happens from a doctor perspective, like, right. It comes through, like, I don't know where that you can tell the difference that you're like, I didn't think of that. I don't really know where it came from, but I have a knowing. And like that I think is, um, what we're talking about is like being, and that's subtle and nuanced, man. That's because there's no concrete evidence of that. There's no concrete evidence of like the, the, the coming through me. Right. I mean, there can be a song that gets produced or a certain thing, but like, but you can't sort of like push the button on that all the time. It just requires you to be in tune. It requires you to be present. It requires you to trust yourself. It is not something. And personally, maybe you know how to bring it in. It is not something that I can turn on and turn off. Right. Maybe if I meditated more perhaps, or maybe if I meditated ever, we have a solution. I mean, the best thing I do is pray. I do pray. I feel like I'm a very spiritual person, not religious. Um, I think all religions have, uh, uh, uh, uh, some value for sure and great values and, um, and then just get messed up by man. Um, but, uh, but I pray, I don't know. There's something to it. It's always worked. And you know what you were talking about that. And we frankly, and you know, we pray with the family. We prayed last night. We do. The kids prayed last night with their sweet little, with their sweet little prayers. The only, uh, yeah. I mean, I don't know how to tap into that to be, you know, knowing that you are operating in the correct domain in, again, it's very subtle. And I don't think we're meant to, in this reality, in this human experience, the way that it is right now, I don't think that we're always meant to be in that state. I don't think we'd be able to be here. I don't think that's the frequency we're meant to be at. We're supposed to access it, but I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't know. Yeah. I think when people get more and more and more like that, it's not that easy to be human. I know you have too much human work to do. I, I will tell you, I had a moment where I was in DC. I was on stage when RFK and Marty McCary and the group were addressing the nation about the dietary guidelines. And, you know, this has been something behind the scenes that I've, I've been working on for, I mean, 10, 10, 25 years, but 10 years of something that I, I didn't think would ever happen for our country. Yeah. And it was, you know, and I was just sitting there. That hadn't been a crazy experience. Surreal almost maybe. I was trying to hold back tears when I'm on stage. People are holding, eat real foods with the beef side and, and people were very excited. But for me, it was very personal because of my mentor who, who sciences, who wrote the protein aspect of these guidelines. And again, he's a scientist. Nobody knows his name. I mean, you do, if you, I know, because I started watching your videos together, but it was, it's fascinating to dedicate your life to someone and something and their science, because you know, it can drive humanity and to just, to just be there. Um, it was, it was a moment where just time stopped and I don't know if I can ever probably felt very light. Like it probably felt like a floating sort of sense almost. Yeah. It was. How did it feel? Well, I was like, am I, are my armpits sweating through this white coat that I'm wearing? And, uh, one of my best friends was, you can't take the jacket off then. But, um, it felt very right. It felt like it was a moment of, and I don't know, relief, completing a Dharma. It was completing a mission. Oh shoot. Now what it was? Oh, I mean, that's just getting started. Okay. Good. Better foods in schools. I have this playbook coming out. Like we can't find you on the beach in Costa Rica surfing. That's not going to happen for you. My next venture is, you know, I'm writing a book on strong women. And, uh, but it was this moment that you never, it's probably like when you see this Haley's common or shooting star that maybe as an astronaut, you've been wanting to see your whole life. And it was, um, it was something profound. And I say all of that because I don't know if I could ever recreate that moment or those moments, that feeling, I couldn't seek it out. I can only do the next best thing in front of me to be able to be in aligned with what they can happen more often. I'm hoping. And I think that, I think that I think from a, again, I like a little bit of a woo standpoint. It does seem like time has sped up in a way that like karma comes quick. Like things happen really fast. Like I do feel like there's something to that. It doesn't feel like we're like 1950 speed anymore. We are at warp speed and maybe it's a technology thing, you know, but like, it even just feels like from a personal perspective, like just things in life just happen really fast. And like things are coming to completion and lessons are coming around and, and being learned quicker. And so, um, so I guess what I would say is it's like something that made, you know, somebody that made their life's work to try and figure something out might not ever do, but maybe the next person does. Now I think that there's a, there's a, we're in this interesting sort of like place in the universe where I think that there's an opportunity to do that many times now. I think that, I think that this, and, and, um, and, uh, the, the momentum of one success can lead to the next for sure too. That is something that is very important. Credibility and the velocity at which information now spreads and the velocity at which we can make impact. I mean, shoot AI coming like, I don't know. Is that scary from a doctor's perspective? Like, I mean, from a materialistic sort of like hands-on or hands-off robot. And also even just from like a human perspective, from a sentient being perspective, like it, it, it concerns me greatly. I have a few comments. I love the idea of becoming better at diagnoses. This is amazing. I love the idea of a digital twin where we could say we recreate Danica Patrick and here's the protocols that are work based on her genetics and her physiology and our data set. Here's the outcome of what we'd expect in what way. The other aspect is, have you ever gotten those foot massages from the machine? Yeah. They're not that good. Exactly. Versus having a foot massage from another human being. That intuitively can feel like, and also has sensory and, you know, the robots can develop better ones, but like they'll never be able to, I don't, I don't believe they'll ever be, they're not consciousness. Consciousness, consciousness is born into you. Yes. And there's a nervous system that happens when two people, friends, relationships, patient physician, it's not two nervous systems. It's one. It's one connected nervous system. And that will never be replaced by technology. Right. Right. Exactly. Exactly. Like, I mean, that intuition to like, no, don't do that. I just have, you know, that, that doesn't exist with the robot. You know, it's just a linear, let's say it's a linear pathway for them. Right. And to care for someone, to care for someone, caring for an individual is not a construct that will ever be developed by a machine. Caring for your fellow human is something that is an eight to the human. So with that, on a lighter note, I'm going to ask you just a few rapid fire questions and we will close this out. What mattered more in your career? Winning or losing? Losing. I mean, like that hurt a lot more, but also like winning was the evidence of this, of the effort. Right. So, um, maybe it's a hard question to answer. What mattered more? What did I think about more? Um, you choose. I, I mean, I thought about, I thought about winning and success more, but I feared failure more. Yeah. I feared failure more than I enjoyed winning. Was there one belief about yourself that you had to dismantle? I said rapid fire questions. Sometimes, sometimes, sometimes, yeah, these are, these are, these are very deep questions. Um, I would say, um, I like the color red. No. Um, uh, I would say that, you know, learning that the fact that it's just cause someone's job doesn't mean they do it well, like realizing that your destiny was, was contingent on your, on you, right? Like just, and just because someone did something doesn't mean they do it, did it well. So maybe that's not like the most humble answer, but like not everyone's great at what they do. So sometimes you have to do it yourself. If someone wanted to increase mental toughness, what is the one uncomfortable habit that you would have them develop? I think the simplest and easiest thing to do is work out. That's it. I think that, I think you are creating discipline. Sometimes it creates discipline at night. You're like, Oh, I can't go out partying. I have to go to the gym. Right. So it's discipline from a, some, from a practical standpoint of lifestyle. It's discipline from getting up when you don't always want to get up. It's discipline to get out and go do it and be on call. Like maybe you're not in the mood, maybe you're tired. Um, and then within the practice itself, you find new limits. So you really, you gain confidence. And, um, when I wrote my second book called pretty intense and had a workout program in it, um, I did a trial group with the workout program as well and fed it out the whole thing and, um, and finalize sort of like the exact thing protocol by going through a whole trial group. And, um, and, uh, what was so beautiful is how much confidence spilled out from just doing the workout program into all areas of their life. So like, I think mental toughness that there, that takes a lot of mental toughness to do that. And then you get a lot of confidence and scope as well. And range really helps your range as a human leveraging the body as a tool in is the ultimate self mastery is the ultimate. And it reminds you that you have to prioritize yourself. I think that some people can be a real martyr for the whole, like, Oh, it's selfish to be really, really. It's not. Or is it that your way out? Is it Cheetos on the sofa? Just asking for an excuse. Are you looking for an excuse? Make it work, make it work and teach the people around you, whether it's your family or your kids or your partner, what it means to take care of yourself and have a little bit of self-love and self-respect. The best way to teach is to be an example. Exactly. And Danica Patrick, my sister and my friend, it is a privilege. It is a deep privilege to know you. Thank you so much for your time. Same sister.