 When you think about regulating emotions, and you know, you do talk about the autonomic nervous system, how does one, you know, when stresses are high and it's almost like a visceral response? The best way that I think we know to be able to do it is to leverage our physiology from like a bottom-up perspective. So everybody's probably experienced being stressed in the moment and it's very hard to understand. think yourself down from that, right? I would say to think yourself down from that. I would say it's almost impossible. It's almost impossible. It's almost impossible. It's impossible. Yeah. Like your brain is too busy being dunked in adrenaline to like know what's going on. But you can leverage your physiology and senses to down-regulate the autonomic nervous system. So, um, some of the easiest ways to do that include breath work, right? So, um, slow-paced breathing, um, anything that results in you exhaling for longer than you inhale. There's a ton of different ways to do that. Physiological size, three, seven breathing. Um, but that's essentially it, right? You spend more time exhaling than you spend inhaling that activates the vagus nerve, slows the heart rate, brings down blood pressure, and then you can sort of manage yourself. It feels subtle though. Yeah. As opposed to some of the other tools that you mentioned in the book that the breathing feels more subtle. Yeah. I think that it still requires you to have some active engagement in that process where you still have to think, Oh, hang on a second. I have to like, you know, get on top of my breathing. Other things that, um, you can do, um, one of the most powerful ones is actually just like, it's just closing your eyes. So when you close your eyes, you shut down some of these stress-related networks, um, in the brain. And a lot of that is because the thing that's stressful is something that you're looking at. So it's actually just very simple that you can just, you can just switch that off. Not that you've heard. Pardon? Yeah. So like, for example, you've heard bad news or, um, there's always, it seems as often that there's this auditory component. So it's, so there could be an auditory component and maybe the stressor has come through the auditory system, but if you decrease the number of inputs that you're getting at any given time, you're better able to process it. So vision is one that's easy to do, but that's not always something you can do. Right. Um, if you're a Formula One driver and you're stressed in the car, closing your eyes isn't going to help anybody. Catastrophic. Yeah. So then there are things like you can still manage what you look at. So there's this idea of something called the quiet eye that's, uh, very common using athletes, basketball players, and, but also surgeons and, you know, operators as well. So it's very purposefully focusing on, on your target for the first few seconds, right before you do the action that you need to do. Because when you become stressed, your eye movements become more erratic. So just purposefully focusing on the thing you're trying to do, which sounds like intuitive. Like, of course, like, why wouldn't we do that? But because we're stressed in the moment, we kind of forget to do it. Um, then other things, uh, include like, yeah, changing, changing what you hear, right? There's a lot that we can do in terms of music or other sounds that can, that can relax us in the moment. But it's really just thinking about what can I do to change what I'm experiencing, what I'm sensing that then allows you to sort of like take a breath, take a beat. Um, and then you can start to, to bring those stress responses down that the sort of the final important thing. There's a, there's a bigger picture thing, actually going into stressful environments, um, is how you think about stress and being stressed. That's very, that's very cognitive. It's not, you know, managing the fight or flight or time of friend or, but you need, so you need this, this is something that happens before you go into the scenario, right? So yes, you can have these set of tools to manage your response in the moment, but before you go into that kind of scenario, be it, you know, jumping in the car, um, whatever match it is you're trying to play or, you know, giving a presentation, like something that the rest of us might, might be doing on a day-to-day basis. These things are exactly, completely relevant knowing that the stress response is there to divert your attention so that you can perform in the moment and to divert resources, to adapt to the thing that you're being exposed to. So stress isn't bad, right? We keep like, we've gotten to this point where everybody's just saying that stress is bad. Anything that raises your cortisol, anything that raises adrenaline, right, is bad for you, but it's actually there to divert resources so that you can become better and stronger and adapt, right? So the mindset that you take into any stressful scenario actually changes your hormonal responses to that stress. Talk to me about that. Yes. So there's this, um, a ton of really interesting work, uh, a lot of it done by Alia Crum at Stanford, um, talking about this idea of, uh, stress being enhancing. So they take the, she's done a ton of studies where they take people and before they put them in a stressful situation and often what they do is something called the, the tri-social stress test, which if anybody hasn't heard of that, it's, you sort of like walk into a room and you get five minutes to talk on a topic that you haven't prepared and you, you're standing in front of a, like a panel of judges and they just sit and look at you impassively, like no facial responses whatsoever. It's incredibly stressful. Sounds like graduate school. Yeah, exactly. Um, and you know, there's a few other ways that you can, you can sort of stress people. But, um, what you see is that, um, before they go into the, that scenario, they randomize them to two groups. One, one group says stress is so bad for you, right? It's bad for your health. Um, it sort of helps drive failure and choking and all this kinds of things. And the other group, they say, well, do you know what stress is actually there to make you perform? And think of all the amazing people who've performed under, under, under stress, right? All the military generals, all the world leaders, Sully Sullenberger landing the, like his plane in the Hudson, like all that, all that kind of stuff. Um, you know, stress is, is a good thing, right? That allows you to, to, to respond. And then you stress those people and you see cortisol increases the same in both of them. Like it's still stressful, but you also see, uh, increases in other hormones that drive adaptation and recovery, like DHEA in the group that have this stress is enhancing mindset. And the stress, they've, they've also shown that the stress is enhancing mindset, like how much you believe that stress builds you up rather than breaks you down, predicts like, um, how, you know, whether you're likely to survive SEAL training. Um, so knowing that these, this can be a good thing, at least in the short term, uh, then changes your, changes your response to it. Um, and people who, where, where this does have an effect in the moment, there are other studies that show that people who have more of this stress is enhancing mindset and release more things like DHEA when they're stressed, they make better decisions when under stress. So it's a mindset going in, but it also changes how you respond in the moment. How long do you think it takes to really encode that kind of a thing? I know that it's variable for everybody, but you know, we've all had these aha moments where we hear something and then all of a sudden, you know, we like get it. Yeah. It can happen essentially immediately. Cause if you look at some of these studies, they, they just frame stress differently right before the stressor. Right. So just thinking about it immediately before you end up in that scenario is enough to start changing things. That doesn't mean that you will always remember that every time you're stressed, right? You're like, you're going to need to remind, to remind yourself, but you can see benefits, um, almost immediately. So I think that's just allows us to remember that anytime we're going into a stressful situation, think about the fact a, that stress is there to, to improve your responses, allow you to adapt. Also remember that you're usually stressed because you're doing something important or something cool. Right. So like in many ways, stress is like a privilege. Like there are chronic stresses that are separate here. We're talking about in the moment when you have to perform saving lives, um, or on, you know, whatever athletic field you're playing on, or, you know, out in the, you know, as an operator out in the field, but just remember that it's usually you're asking something more of yourself and that's, that's often a good thing. Um, and then again, that, that sort of gives you this knock on effect to, to improve your performance at the moment. And is it fair to say that the more you push yourself midlife or youth, the more, you know, we say future proof your brain, you know, in your title, it says future proof your brain from dementia and stay sharp at any age. And, you know, in the book you talk about nutrition and training and tactics. Is there a way that we become very good at managing this autonomic arousal, this embrace challenge that then future proofs our brain? That's what I think we see from a number of different perspectives. So I talk about future proofing your brain primarily in two different ways. So one is, can we, um, decrease our risk of dementia in the future? And we know that you absolutely can, um, through lifestyle and the environment. But the other one is knowing that the future is unknowable, right? What does the work environment or AI or technology look like in five years time? How does that affect how we, how we engage with the world on a day to day basis? We have no idea, right? Are you concerned? Potentially, but it all depends on how we engage with those, with those technologies. Um, and there's, I think there's a lot of frameworks that we can build around that. That could, so it could end up being a boon, but could also be disastrous. Um, well, but if, if you, if the human condition is to choose the path of least resistance, then we have these computers thinking and doing work for us. We lose these tactical skills of thinking and processing. Yeah. So, so the, the way that I think about it, and I think a framework is important because again, I don't know what these are going to look like in even, even two years time is that you essentially have two options. One is that you can use it as a cognitive orthotic. This is a phrase I've stolen from my friend, uh, Ken Ford, who runs the Institute for Human and Machine Cognition. Um, so an orthotic helps you build on your current capacities to do something you wouldn't normally be able to do. Right. And we see this in studies that have used things like large language models in students writing essays. If you try and do the work yourself first with no, no technology, no Google, no LLM, just like whatever you've got, you, you work as hard as you can to write this essay first. And then afterwards you say, Hey, Claude, what could I have done differently? What didn't I think about? What am I missing here? That gives you an orth, an orthosis because it allows you to kind of build on your current capacity and it requires you to still think and engage in that process. The alternative is, um, a cognitive prosthetic, which is right. A cognitive prosthetic. Prosthetic. Prosthetic. Right. So you, you use, you have a prosthetic leg. I've never heard that term. So again, I've taken this from Ken. I take, I take, I take, I take no, I take no credit. Um, a prosthetic you use because you don't have that because you don't have that thing, right? You have a prosthetic leg because you've, you've lost the leg or you never have a leg. Um, and so if you use AI as a prosthetic, then you're using it instead of your brain as if you didn't have a brain, right? That's, that's essentially the, the, the sort of the, where the thought process goes. So you either you can use these tools to augment what you're currently capable of, or you can allow them to drive atrophy of those skills, or maybe you never develop those skills in the first place. Um, and that's what I'm really worried about. Like even in my own fields, like I see colleagues using these tools to essentially do their science for them. And then you can almost see them de-skill in, in real time. So it's really just going to depend on, do we want to use it to extend our capabilities, which could be amazing, but it still requires us to engage our brain in that process, or do we just let it take over and do the work for us? Thank you.