 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter see that my son somehow, I have no idea how, is more confident moving through the world. And there were these inflection points over time where I would get clear on some aspect of my own doubt or fear, and I would see it play out in him. Tell me. I don't know. I can't really say. I wish I knew how. There's probably a million experts that you can have on this podcast that will tell you how structurally, cellularly, what happens in the mother happens in the child, even when the child is no longer the mother's belly. I'm sure that's true. But I'm watching it play out in real time. When I do my work, my kid somehow gets a little closer to himself and a little closer to me. There's a certain level of intimacy that I'm having within myself, fearlessness within myself, that I see in him. I don't know how to explain it. I wish I could. I wish I could be more articulate. I don't know how to explain it, but I could see it and feel it. And when he's older, I think he'll be able to speak to this. Like he will have seen me. I was very open about getting sober. It was in 2013, 14, 14, October. I was there. I remember. And I was very open with him about it. And I wrote this really beautiful spoken word called ritual of recovery. And he was there as I would practice it. He was there listening to it. I would practice it in all these different locations to really try and memorize it for myself and to offer it to people. And he would say that something changed within him when that happened. And I would concur. He was a different guy after that. And so was I. I don't know. I wish I knew. But I do know this for sure. I was unwilling. I shied away from my grandmother's death. I did too. She was dying. I was on vacation with a boyfriend and his family. And I was like, I'm not going. How ridiculous is that? I regret this so deeply. Grandma Bell. She was amazing. I wrote about her in the book. And she loved me so much. I can't imagine why I would have missed it. So I will never shy away from death again. And the way that I was able to approach my mother's death was very, very different. And that is a healing of a sort that is intergenerational. So you're picking up on something that I think is important on a personal level that your listener, the reader of this book, will find ways to detect it in their experience. It's one of the things that happens naturally. We don't have to really try. If I heal something within myself, the generations behind me, the ones that went through World War II, the ones that are coming after me, Jonah, if he ever has kids, and his and theirs, everybody heals. What we are going to do, actually, because I do have five copies, I'm sure I will buy at least five more. I would love to offer if you are listening, we've never done this on the podcast. But if you are listening, and you write a review for this episode, I will send out I'm not going to give you all my copies, I will send out three of the five copies that I have, and I will have them signed by you. Again, if you are listening to this episode, please write a review, I will pick the top three reviews. Yeah. And send them out a copy. I think this book is so important. And it talks about again, your writing is extraordinary. You know, I, as I've watched you grow up, we've both grown up in parts together. Yes. I always ask how and I asked James this to how is she just so good at things? How is she just so good at James is laughing because we, you know, I have a team of, you know, 13 to 20 people. And honestly, Elena could probably do all the jobs all at once. Matt, maybe not your job, but I couldn't do his job. But how does someone become and again, there's no ego to you it? How does someone become so capable? And is it because you continue to open up to your true self? One of the teachers in the lineage that I practice, Shunryu Suzuki, his sort of right hand for many, many years was a teacher by the name of Katagiri Roshi. Katagiri came up with this term, settling the self on the self. And I think, even though I've probably had all these capacities all along, and I remember several jobs along the way before I became a yoga teacher doing many different wearing all the hats in the room. But I think since I started sitting meditation, I'm just able to be aware of what is needed around me, because I've been settling the self on the self. And so I have this five very direct, intimate experience of myself. And, you know, I can look at the copy for your website and be like, hey, gee, let's work on this, and work on it. And in an hour, it's done because I'm also the customer. So it's easy for me. But I can do almost anyone's job, you know, And is it just from a level of clarity? Because there's not this self doubt, noise, ego, or? No, I'm I really am so interested in serving in whatever way that I can. And this just happens to be like, what happens sometimes between you and me, but we have taken care of each other for a long time. But it's very natural. And I think it's only because you and your field have a level of presence, and like rigor. Yes. And in my work, I have a level of presence. And that's what I can bring. And that yields a certain kind of rigor and attention and care for things. I think that's all you're picking up on. It's not a certain like, oh, she's so smart, talented, whatever. It's just that I'm present. I would argue it's smart and all of those things. We could all argue about that. But there is what I'm also getting at is there's a level of clarity that allows you to execute swiftly that it might take someone three months to do. And this is really an example for the listener at home. It is an example of what I believe is possible when you can recalibrate your mind. I am not there. I see it in you. I see it in Shane. There's a level of silence that allows for in my mind execution, which is kind of the very opposite of what you're doing. It's you're just doing the next right thing, the next moment, the next step. There's a level of ease that, again, how do we live well? And how do we live true? And how do we live effectively? Part of that is, I think a lot of us spend a long time doubting and running from things. Maybe that's something natural in your 20s. But perhaps that could end now. Yeah, that could end now. Just in a moment. And Suzuki also said, we're all like clocks. We're really wound up, but we have no idea what time it is. And there's, let's say, your listener is a parent. Yeah, many parents, for sure. Let's say is a partner, or somebody working in a certain situation that's really challenging right now. Any challenge that we have, we sit and we can begin to feel a sense of groundedness. And a whole bunch of thoughts that don't pertain will definitely emerge from this very productive mind. And then some really good ideas will emerge. But we have to be quiet enough and still enough to know to drop all of them. It's, you know, it's like sand settling in a glass or something. Know to drop all of them so that you can be very discerning as to which one you're going to pick up on later. It's not something cognitive either. I'll walk out of a meditation that'll be an hour. Sometimes I'll go and spend a whole month at Upaya Zen Center or, you know, I imagine I'll be at other places too at some point thus far at Upaya. And I'll sit for a month. And in that month, it'll be five to eight hours a day of sitting. But by the end of that month, I have so many good ideas. I have good ideas for you. I have good ideas for me. I have good ideas for James. I have good ideas for the household. Just things that add to the groundedness and the efficiency. There's another teacher by the name of Catherine Thanis, who invites us to, in her writing and speaking, she is long gone, to be this moment. Not be in this moment or of this moment or with this moment, but to be this moment. So if you're a parent and your kids are losing it. Yep. Happens every day. How can you be this moment? And you'll be standing in the kitchen. It will be a total zoo around you. And you can put your hands on the counter. I'm just going to be this moment. And then instead of shouting, maybe, maybe you'll whisper. Or instead of having a big reaction, instead, you'll actually sit down. And your kids will be like, what is home? What is going on right now? And the parent is sitting down. And everything sort of ratchets down three levels. And something actually that needs to happen can actually happen. Who's to say what the right reaction is. But at least you can start to feel a connection to what will serve in that moment when you can be that moment. Cool. Thank you.