 G strength and conditioning coach, performance consultant, as well as the founder and CEO of Prescript, a resistance training certification program that focuses on aggressive progress. He's worked with and continues to keep athletes from those in the NFL, NHL, and UFC in the game and injury free. I have so much respect for him and his knowledge. He is truly one of a kind. Join me in this conversation with Dr. Jordan Shallow. Jordan Shallow. Dr. G. I'm so excited to have you back in studio. I think we should do this every year. Yeah, it's been about a year, hasn't it? It has been. Yeah, a lot's changed. Yes, a lot has changed. What are you up to now? Traveling, working, yeah, working out, just more of the same, everything with nothing. Yeah. You do a lot and I am so excited to have you on. Here's why. I learn so much from you. You are a chiropractor. You won't maybe say that, but you are also really well known for movement, biomechanics, and really getting the best of the best up to speed. NFL, what are the other ones? NBA, hockey, you name it. Major League Baseball, hockey, tennis, UFC, Olympics, yeah. I mean, really low on the totem pole. Really subpar athletes. And because of your work with the highest level, you've had to really tune your skill. And there's a lot that people like me in the general population could learn from. I mean, we just did some warmups that we are going to be putting up on YouTube and I had never thought to do a lunge that way. Please talk a little bit about what it is that you do for athletes. Yeah. It really comes out of problem solving. I think like biomechanics is just a tool to solve movement problems. And a lot of times with athletes, it's a lot of it. It's really, it's actually more simple than working with general population because you, you at least have an understanding of something that they do really, really well, like repetitive movement patterns and things like that. So if you kind of take a principles-based approach and be like, okay, if I can, if I understand what the body has to do or what it can do, what it's capable of from the level of the nervous system or like joint mechanics or muscle mechanics, then I can kind of find a, like a safe mode. Like, all right, when, when was the last state that this machine worked properly? And let's try to revert it back to safe mode. If I can get them to touch home base every now and then, and this is true for the best athletes in the world as it is for the NARP population. I didn't say it. You said it. And it's ongoing joke. For me, it's just like, it's just, it's following a set of principles to, to sort of reset movement quality, movement quality. What I, you know, I think a lot about this from a medical standpoint, this idea of muscle span, muscle centric medicine, because the physical body, you said something I've never heard before and it wasn't a swear word. It was physical empathy. I had never even heard, nor had I thought about it consciously. And basically Jordan is an expert in getting individuals to perform the movements pain-free to the best of one's capacity. Is that fair to say? Yeah. And yes, you talk a lot about muscle as a sensory organ system. Talk about the neurological system, but this idea of physical empathy, I think a lot of the listeners are thinking about, maybe they're not professional athletes. Maybe they are just getting into fitness. Maybe they've been injured. And how does one begin to think about injury prevention? Because you created a system course thing called prescript. I'm assuming that it's before you get injured. How does one think about physical empathy and what do we do about it? Right. Yeah. So for me, like the term physical empathy came out of training athletes that were just a ridiculous structure, right? So to train some former NBA guys that are seven foot three household names, you know, seven, three, 420 pounds. And, you know, you have to look at the tools in the gym differently when you're dealing with a human that big. So I remember after, and I'm not going to name his name, but you guys can probably, um, fill in the blanks on who it was after working with this basketball player, I went and grabbed a few plyo boxes and I, uh, stood, I made myself seven, three, I'm like, I don't know, five, five, 11. I'll never say I'm six foot. Cause you're always catching to the neck for that. So I like, you know, stacked up some plyo boxes and stood on, stood on them. So I'm like, okay, this is roughly seven, three and everything, the entire landscape of the gym changed. Right. And I was like, wow, like that's, that's a, I don't know what it's like to move as someone who's seven, three, what are the challenges? What are the obstacles? What are the constraints, right? What are the biases? So then, you know, and we see this in various capacities from like the, um, you know, the, the super tall, in some cases, the super short, like, you know, working with, um, athletes in Cirque du Soleil, there's some, there's some, uh, gymnasts who are really, really short. It's like, there's a different interaction with gravity. And that got me thinking about, well, that idea at large is actually really potent. And for the coaches that we work with through our education system, that's something that we need to instill is like the majority of people who get into, some form of health and fitness, manual medicine, conventional medicine, they've usually been on the leading edge of their physical development throughout their entire life. As you eclipse these physical and mental developmental milestones, as like a teenager, you know, you played sports and then you got into maybe lifting weights, but you're always on this leading edge relationship with your skeletons interaction with gravity. And it's really hard when you work in like the exercise prescription field, more specifically to make good decisions around movement prescriptions without really understanding this person's relationship with gravity. Right? So one of the things that you need to kind of tap into, especially when you're dealing with the general public, because it's very obvious that the, you know, certain exercises might be different for someone who's seven foot three or someone who's, you know, four foot 10, four foot 11, those are, those are what we would call like end tails of a distribution rather like a bell curve. But what about, you know, someone who's 40 years old, who's never trained before, who is not necessarily overweight, but is never really trained, who doesn't have that, that interaction with gravity. And a lot of that, you know, you, you talked about the, the term using muscle as a sensory organ. Muscles are the second most abundant sensory organ in our, in our body next to our eyes. What is that? How does that even work? Sure. Uh, okay. So, uh, for us people that are, you know, just really, um, simplify it for me. Sure. So if I'm to, yeah, if I'm, if I'm to simplify it, to simplify it, to anthropomorphize the neuromuscular physiology of muscle as a sensory organ, I would think of it almost like a motion capture system where if we were to like, let's say we wanted to make you and I, um, like characters in a video game and like some simulation world. Can I be taller? Sure. Yeah. But what we would have to do is in the way that's currently done, they do this a lot in sports. So, you know, work with baseball, consult with a handful of teams in major leagues. The baseball is famous for the technology of motion capture. You see this a lot with golf and, um, you know, performance science around golf in analyzing swings and things like that. So everyone probably knows motion capture from film, right? So if you're, uh, we talked earlier about Lord of the Rings and Smeagol. So Andy circus, the actor would probably on a soundstage somewhere in New Zealand or Orlando, wherever they do it. And he wore this suit, right? The suit. And you guys can all picture it. Like, it looks like it has little, like ping pong balls taped all over it. Muscles act as like our primary input into our transmitter into a central processor, our brain. So muscles have, you know, we have, we think of muscles so often as like there's these vehicles or conduits of motor output, right? We lift things, we throw things, we catch things, but just as much as they are these, um, these conduits from motor output and exerting force, they are simultaneously and equally. So a receptor or receiver transmitting the position of the body in space to the brain, right? So the term proprioception gets thrown around a lot and we can dive into like the technicalities between proprioception and mechanoreception, but proprioceptors, there's actually three of them in the body. And what, when we're talking about proprioception and kinesthetic awareness and like our sixth sense, what we're technically should be talking about is the fact that there's organs within the muscle that are relaying this information like a motion capture, right? So obviously motion capture suit, we have all these like little ping pong balls all over the suit. We have the skin suit, all the little ping pong balls, all the really high res ones, they're all in our muscles. We have some in our skin. We have four of those the mechanoreceptors, but the, the, the meat and potatoes, the really, the high powered ones. And technically this, like the ones that transmit that signal to the computer fastest, those live in the muscle, right? So when, when we're starting to think about physical empathy, it's like, well, how do those, which are automatically reflexive, if you will, like they, they, they're not voluntary motor output is voluntary, but the sense, you think about your bicep, you contract your bicep, right? Yeah. Yeah. So like, but when we think about the sensory input, it can be as a by-product of voluntary, but it can also be a by-product of if you like push me, I'm going to react in a certain way. And on that reaction to not fall over is, is a pure reflexive by-product of the fact that my muscles are sensory organs. That's so interesting. It's not right. If you were just sitting there doing nothing, your skin might sense wind or change in temperature, right? That's a sensory component of skin. I'm assuming. Yeah. There's, there's four light touch, deep pressure, skin stretch and vibration and they never run single-handedly. Okay. They always run together. And muscle is what, what is that primary? So there's, there's three proprioceptors technically. So what you, what we just described there are mechanoreceptors. And this is, this is a lot of, when we try to bring this to like the general population, when we think about like foam rolling, right? We think about like Theraguns or we think about kinesio tape and we understand that the subcutaneous would be the technical word, or like you said, in the skin, when we understand that the, the, the little transmitters in our skin suit that relay back to the brain that help our brain create this motion capture image of where we are in space, right? Like I can't see my hand. I know exactly where my hands are, right? Because actually I have a lot of sensory receptors, actually the most sensory receptors in my hands disproportionate to their size. So we actually see this mapped in the brain quite well. And so like lips, hands and face are very concentrated with these subcutaneous sensory receptors. So that's why we have like a lot of dexterity and the dexterity, like the ability for a pianist to play, you know, so many notes with all ten figures and coordinate, right? That motor output, the ability to do that is actually driven by the hypersensory system. And the better the motor output is usually preceded by more sensory input, right? So when we think about the subcutaneous mechanoreceptors, and we think about foam rolling and taping and all of the, like the prehab modalities that we're seeing, a lot of times they're ill, ill defined as far as what the actual mechanism is, right? So someone might take a look at foam rolling. Yeah. Should they foam roll? Does it? Yeah. And it's, you know, there's, there's a very human element to this that I think people miss because science can, and has to, a lot of times control out the human element, right? Fundamentally. What do you mean? I mean, a lot of times making things reproducible or making things reproducible in science doesn't make them replicable in real life, right? So most often not. Yeah. So, but we need that, right? We derive a lot of principles from, from conventional scientific methods. But when we think about foam rolling, we think about, you know, the conventional modalities, go there again, foam roll, kinesio tape cupping, I believe is another fairly common one. Each one has a little story and we like, we like the stories because they kind of make sense if you don't think about it, right? So cupping, you know, you'll see the irritation in the skin. People are sort of walking around with like pepperoni slaps all over them for a few days. And it's like something about, um, what do they say? Something about toxins in the blood. It's like, I hope not. Cause that's really dangerous if your blood is that toxic, but it, or, uh, you know, the kinesio tape, oh, it's like lifting the layers of the skin. Sure. Maybe there might be some benefit to that. Or foam rolling is breaking up scar tissues. We have like these little stories that we attach on to like the potential mechanisms. But when we, we dig into the neuroscience, you see that likely what they're doing is they're just stimulating some of these mechanoreceptors. They're kind of like, they're creating awareness. They're, they're, they're, they're sending a transmission to the central processor. That's not there. Now those are usually transient and they're really the, the good meat and potatoes are in the muscle itself. So subcutaneous might just be a bit of a bandaid, but it's still useful. You know, it's undeniable that we went to a gym right now and someone said, you know, I enjoy foam rolling before I work out. I can sit there with research and go, well, you know, this study proves that there's no, uh, you know, performance increase and there's a performance detriment. It's like, yeah, but that's maybe one study, you know, on one person on one day, but the person who goes to the gym because they like the feeling of foam rolling and then works out like that, that is a vector is such a positive push forward. And I think a lot of times when we don't understand things mechanistically, we don't understand how to dose them. Right. So that's true of, that's true of any drug. And that's why I think these modalities are, they're telling to us that we're, that we're running a low resolution motion capture when people really tend to them. So someone might come to me and be like, and this is true at every level. I really like, you know, foam rolling my hamstrings. Okay. Interesting. Yeah, sure. Have you tried the other modalities and have you tried stimulating some of these deeper musc, uh, muscular sensory receptors? Because it tells me that the lights are off. It tells me that the receptors are down and we're running a low resolution image and they tend to this. So it's like, well, let's not pull that away from them. Let's, let's start to enter in and really flood that brain with more stimulus to that area. But the, the, the real meat and potatoes is going to be in the muscle itself. Would that be one reason? And this concept of skeletal muscle as a sensory organ system, obviously it is an organ system for strength. Um, hypertrophy is, we're going to talk about that, but certainly strength and there's the metabolic benefits, but this sensory part, I thought it was very fascinating because what I think that we care about, um, at least I, I, I know that you care about this is injury prevention or return from injury. Yes. There is that performance aspect, but this idea of how does someone live well long, how can they be able to maintain high physical performance without getting injured? Or for example, me, I really like to train. I've been extremely limited due to my hamstring and hip. My question is, could someone get by without ever focusing on training skeletal muscle from that sensory perspective? Cause I have watched some of your warmups that you do with some athletes and, you know, Matt and I, my producer, we were going through some of your training drills and you were throwing, what was he doing now? He was like throwing something against a wall, you know, whereas I, I'm going to go, I'm going to warm up and maybe I'll do clamshells or something silly. How important is that sensory component for injury prevention and maybe even optimizing for muscle mass? Right. Yeah. That's, that's a really good question. And there's a couple of ways we could take this. I think first understanding that there's, there's isolation of muscle action, which is like, I'm going to strengthen my bicep. I'm going to voluntarily, like you said, just contract this under some sort of resistance. And I'm going to do that in some sort of progressive over stimulus over time. Right. So that's like covers the motor output. So that's isolation of muscles action, right? My bicep, you know, it flexes my elbow. It does some stuff with the wrist and the shoulder, but primarily as far as most people are concerned, flexes the elbow. But there's also this idea of integration of muscle function, right? Which is the, there's a sensory component to that, right? So when we're looking at exercise, we want to have sort of this continuum of dosing exercises from, you know, isolation to muscle action, which will be movements that are usually more externally stable. Like the, you know, we talked briefly about like the difference between squat and a leg press, right? If I'm trying to grow my legs and I have a relatively novice client, the squat might pose too many constraints, right? The spine is unstable. The pelvis is unstable. We just can't really coordinate this movement. Again, being physically empathetic to someone who doesn't know how to squat, right? We look at squats as people who have been on the leading edge of our physical development is very easy motor pattern. You know, we show pictures of baby squatting and it's like, it's kind of a false equivalency. It's not necessarily fair to the person to project our skill level on them. So if we're really trying to challenge that muscle from a motor output standpoint, something like a leg press would be much more suitable, right? But over time, the integration of muscle function becomes paramount. If for nothing else is a tool of load management, which is like when we dig into biomechanics at its core, that's what biomechanics is. It's load management. When we look at injury prevention, the only thing we really have is our ability to sort of aggregate load in particular muscles and understand that performance is going to be our number one proxy to progression. When we stop being able to progress and the performance depreciates, then it's like, hmm, maybe we're pushing too hard. If I'm doing a leg press and like a hack squat and a back squat and a safety squat bar, those are very taxing movements, right? So I might be under recovering. Introducing now this other end of the spectrum of the isolation or the integration of muscle function, right? So some of the lunging that we did today, some of like the single leg hip drills, that is going to take the loadability away, but it's going to take the sensory input and ramp it all the way up. Now it's about- And you should explain kind of what we did. It's not all about strength and hypertrophy and performance, right? There's kind of this ability to move well that I think is, at least it's been lost on me for a really long time. For example, these little injuries. And so I had you take me through some exercises. In particular, we did a lunge. And I want to talk about, you know, as the listener is at home thinking, okay, how can I think about skeletal muscle in a way that I can be fit my whole life? They have to be able to learn certain movements appropriately, right? There are things that they have to be able to think about. Right. Yeah, no, definitely. And I think, I think first off, like as a heuristic, you know, it's hard to speak so broad, but I think this will help. One of the things that we discussed, we were talking a little bit about posture. And I think it's worth to first create a fork in the road for those listening and have an honest conversation with themselves and be like, what is my interaction with gravity? Like what is my relative strength to body weight ratio? That'll, that'll first determine where these conversations go and how to really choose exercises effective for you. Why? So the external environment is a variable that we don't really consider a lot of times. It comes back to this physical empathy thing, right? So you and I, we have a different relationship with gravity, someone who might not train, someone who might be overweight, looking to sort of start a weight loss or a fitness or a weightlifting resistance training journey. If they aren't honest about their relationship with gravity, some exercises are far out of reach and that we, we don't, we often prescribe them without thinking about that relationship, without approaching them with that empathy. Right. So things like lunges, you know, that's, that's a really difficult exercise for someone who doesn't have a favorable strength, the body weight ratio, right? Like, you know, you say someone who's been resistance training for a long time can squat two times their own body weight, right? Have a bar on their back, squat down, sort of butt to the heels and back up. A lunge to that person is very different, right? It's like us walking on the moon, right? Like it's with the strength they have relative to their body weight, a body weight lunge is different, but the body weight exercise and how often that just mass prescribed to people at home workouts, that's someone could be weaker. A close friend of mine coined this term, Kyle Baxter, brilliant. Some people are weaker than the forces of gravity acting on them, right? So if I woke up every morning and my strength was, was met with my absolute load. So like for me, if I'm squatting 700 pounds and then I, when I wake up every morning and I have 700 pounds on my back and when I go to the grocery store, I have 700 pounds on my back. I'm going to start to adopt a posture that's, that has that that's responsive to this interaction with gravity, right? This gravity, the combined center of mass of this bar on my back. So I think it's really worth, you know, if you guys are listening to this and you're trying to create a workout plan, it's like, I need to understand my relationship with gravity first. And you know, it's a gradient obviously, but you can kind of, in this context, we'll bucket it into weaker than the forces of gravity. You know, you're new to training because the way you should look at the gym is almost like a chess board, right? So a chess and a checkers board are the same board, right? What's different? The pieces, right? So when we look at the gym, it's the same equipment, but the pieces, the people in there are different and how we move the different people depends on, you know, that what type of piece. So if you're a novice to the gym, your focus might want to be at the very first using more machine-based exercises. Pat Davidson. Right. High ground training. Yeah. I will use the word stability as the English language suggests that is the proper word to use. But it's interesting because the, but guys that are very respected in this space also respect, you know, you and Pat Davidson. So, I mean, it's gotta be onto something. Yeah. And it's, we're all pointing at the same thing, right? Yeah. He's standing on one side calling a six. I'm standing on the other side calling a nine. But I think it's really used. It's useful in understanding the principle of like, what we're trying to do is we're trying to, and this is really easy. And I like the analogy because we start off and everyone is not everyone, but those who are on the less favorable side of the strength to body weight ratio, who have a different relationship with gravity. They're like a checkers piece. And what do you do with checkers? You make little jumps, right? There's no intricate L shapes and castles that do things and horses that do things. But when you make those jumps across the board, which means, you know, get a couple of exercises that as Pat would say, I believe you would say high ground, I would say highly externally stabilized, have a broad base of support. And just for you guys who don't know what that is or haven't listened to the podcast with Pat Davidson or the podcast that you did with Pat in your own pod, it's basically a lot of contact. So one is very stable. Yeah. Broad base of support. So stability as a concept in training is ever present. It's what is our center of mass and what is our base of support? So for those who, again, less favorable side of the strength to body weight ratio, just getting started, we want to find movements that have more of that external stability, broad base support, a leg press would be a great example because a leg press, we can titrate down to below our strength of our body weight. It's interesting because people usually start with body weight exercises and some people have way a lot more than the 10 pound leg extension that someone would do. Would that be fair to say? Yeah. Yeah. And that's a, that's a really stark contrast to see the difference. Like that is your body will go into a vigilant state due to the, like, I'll speak at a technical level. I'll bring it back down to kind of terra firma. Your body prioritizes or optimizes for a few things, right? Like walking and breathing, primarily not falling over being a big one. That's we're biped ambulatory creatures. We walk around on two legs, very unique property of humans. Not my kids, but we've, but we've optimized for that biomechanically neurologically. And a lot of in that optimization of becoming biped is moving a lot of muscular contractions to the side of the autonomic. It's pushed over here. It's taken care of for you. So you can worry about your taxes and everything else. You don't have to consciously contract to stay upright. It's very different than quadruped animals, which is like the majority of things running around. So we're optimized for not falling over when we start people off. And with this, with this dogma, this paradigm of like, oh, you know, body weight squats or back squats, or this is the king of this exercise, whatever it's, you're, you're putting people in like a vigilant state where their autonomic nervous system takes over and optimizes for not falling over, right? So you're going to get a ton of compensation that you can't equate for because you're not being physically empathetic to the person who is weaker than the forces of gravity acting on them, right? Where a leg press allows you to titrate down to their level and actually provide a stimulus where they can, they don't have to be reactive. Their autonomic nervous system doesn't take over to make sure that they don't fall over under this, you know, ridiculously, relatively heavy load, right? So yeah. And what I'm hearing you say is that universally prescribed for a beginner, I am also guilty of this is to start with body weight. And you are also saying that someone could be weaker than the gravity around them and the body weight for that person is going to, for lack of a better term, amp up or amp up the nervous system to become hyper vigilant, right? Kind of turned on more and they'll compensate using potentially the incorrect movements, even on something simple like a lunch. Is that accurate? Yeah. And the cool thing about this, I find it cool is visually and subjectively, it can look exactly the same. And this is where we have, this is, this is very important for people visually and subjectively. Like if I'm looking at someone do something like I'm, you know, I, I'm a subject to them performing an exercise and we have two people of different strength and body weight ratios, someone can in a vigilant state compensate to go through a squat pattern. That's probably the easiest. And two people can do it of similar, similar anthropometry, similar size and shape, but one be on the leading side of the relationship with gravity, strong, well-trained and someone being new and they'd be recruiting entirely different muscles, right? So it looks the same to me, but the internal state of how that, how that movement is being performed is entirely re-strategized for the hypervigilant weaker than the forces of gravity. Right. And this is where you, to answer your original question about like, you know, how do we use biomechanics to sort of like live this long and vital and healthy and injury-free life? It's like, you need to understand that you need to understand that. Look, just because I'm looking at someone to perform something next to someone else and similar, similar, you know, shape, maybe different size, but, you know, I watched the, you know, the joint angles and I go, oh, that looks like they're squatting just like this professional Olympic weightlifter, CrossFitter, whatever. If we don't understand that, like there's a, there's a, there's a, there's an engine running, a computer that's operating to optimize, not for performing the movement, but for not falling over during the movement, you're going to be loading tissues that you don't equate for. What would be an example? Give me an example. Oh, sure. Let's go with the single leg movement we did today. Right. So on the YouTube channel, we'll see a single leg hinge. We will see what is attempted to be a single leg. Right. But it's, you know what? I think it's, I think it's a really good use case for people to see, right? To all accounts, very well-trained. You're in better shape than 99.9% of the population, but even you can still not understand your relationship with gravity. Right. And this is where understanding the role of muscles and sensory organs comes in. Right. Cause you don't, you're not aware of some of these positions because you haven't trained your muscles like that same glute that does the clamshell that is just primarily worried about the motor output of abducting the hip, kicking the leg off to the side, real, like Jane Fonda Sunday morning special. I'm dating myself a little bit, but it's like, you know, but when the foot's on the ground, now the glute is only contracting as it feels the center of mass deviate away from the base support. Now it's like very reactive. So we see the leg kind of like, you know, like oscillating in space and you're trying to, like most people would say they're trying to keep your balance. I would say that you're, you're trying to stay stable and what's happening with that, like really rapid, what's actually happening in the hip when your knee is kind of shaking around people will experience this. If they try like a single leg hinge, what you'll see is that, you know, like, oh, my ankles are unstable or my knee. It's like, no, it's not that right. The foot is sitting there with a lot of sensory receptors going, where is this leg going? Because the hip isn't tuned, isn't trained with that input of the rapid stretch that, that would lead someone to being unstable. It's like, oh, I'm shifting a little bit this way. And then the muscle contracts and then it overcorrects. And this is, it's a process called neural polishing or neural sharpening, depending on your preferred nomenclature. And it's really interesting because, you know, we, on the video, I'll do a rep and I do this a lot and I have an awareness because I do it a lot. And for me, the nice part about, you know, this type of training, this training on the end of the spectrum of integrating muscle function and polishing that reflex from like that hip that's trying to really just keep my leg over my foot, right. Over my base of support is that becomes more efficient over time. I don't have to do that as much. And, and I think in one of the things that I'm sure we'll get into like warmup and prehab is it's about doing less. It's about additional over subtraction or addition by subtraction. Right. And so to answer your question about, you know, what is an example of two people doing an exercise that looks sort of, you know, the exact same as we, you know, we can both go through the hinge and you're like, okay, geez, foot's there. Her, you know, her hip joint is there. Other foot's on the ground. Her hands are approximately this far from the ground. Her toe on the other leg is approximately this far from the ground. If you know, we're trying to describe a single leg RDL for those of you following along home, and then I can get in the same position. And then I asked the, the, the, the million dollar question, which is, and this is where it becomes important. And this is where I think a lot of the, um, you know, the science may run astray is I have to ask the question of where do you feel this? Because I know muscles, a sensory organ, right? So if I'm trying to relay, if I'm trying to understand the relationship with gravity, I need to know what muscle is. And then I can kind of reverse engineer and go, oh, okay. So for that example, when I go on one leg and I hinge and I can do it barefoot, you know, no heel elevation, anything like that. I feel it in my glute, right? I feel it in the side of my hip where you did it and you felt it in your hamstring, right? Everything. I always feel it in my hamstring. And that's so telling, but to me, and it's like, you know, we can watch you squat and we can be like, well, this squat should be a more quad. It's like, no, it's not. You're in this vigilant state. You're, you're fighting this, this, this ghost in the machine of gravity. And you don't realize that, yeah, your squat can look like mine, but I'm going to load more quad and more adductor where yours, given the way that your body is, is interacting with gravity is going to load more of the hamstring. So it's not a hamstring strength issue that you might be having. And it might actually be a hamstring overuse, but it's not because you're overusing it from doing Nordics or hamstring curls. It's all the times you don't realize you're using it. Right. And that's where biomechanics becomes a real tool of load management. It's about equating for all of that, like dark energy that you're using when you don't realize you're using it. And this makes the idea of designing a program really challenging for someone who is a, not a professional at understanding, okay, well, there's a million different programs out there. How do I, I'm a 40 year old person who's never trained. Um, where do I start? How do I do it without injuring myself and kind of progressing? Right. I think fundamentally we need to return to that first question. What is your, what is your relationship with gravity? And like, have, have an honest take on that. And basically how would you ask that to someone? Oh, it's, I could tell objectively, right? Like, are you, are you out of shape? What is your history? And I think regardless of your discipline, and even you can try this on yourself and take a detailed history on your, your movement, right? Like, have you ever had any injuries? When was the onset? What was the mechanism? What's, you know, palliates it? What provokes it? How does it progress quality radiation site, time and frequency, intensity, all of those things. Um, friends, nobody should ask themselves those questions. I'm just kidding. Disclaimer, disclaimer, disclaimer, disclaimer, but if you are a doctor or someone who's maybe evaluating patients, yes. Yeah. And I think that's, and it's something that's often lost regardless of discipline, right? From the personal trainer to the chiropractor, osteopath, PT, DPT physician, it's like getting a movement history. That's where you're going to get quote unquote a diagnosis. So like, you know, usually by sizing someone up quite literally, like how tall are you? How much do you weigh? You know, what's your lean body mass? What should be ballpark your strength to body weight ratio? That's going to terraform the environment for us. Cause like someone like you lunges are going to be a great tool out of the gate. You have the relative strength in, you know, in the glutes, in the hamstrings, in the adductors, in the quads to, to support that. And we need to fine tune it a little bit, but that's all of a sudden on the table as like a skill that we need to practice. But to someone else who doesn't answer that question or is imposed that question, who is, has a less favorable strength to body weight ratio, that's like trying to solve a Rubik's cube with a desert Eagle to your forehead, right? Like that is such like a, it's such a ridiculous skill. Cause you even said, as we were going through it, I found it interesting as it's so often the case, when we start to really cue some of these positions that highlight the ranges of motion that are built within an exercise. And that's a fundamental key to building a good program is understanding like, where is the vegetables I can grind up in the spaghetti sauce. And what does that mean? It means like we can spend a lot of time on the front end doing like rotator cuff exercises or clamshells or core work and planks and all this. But the goal long-term of like building a really effective, efficient exercise program is understanding where these movement qualities of like, you know, whether it's hip stability, I'll use the term, or, you know, we talked a little bit about the lower trap and we did some dips earlier. It's like, how can we start to pick up some of these like prehab focused, you know, oftentimes scapegoated, uh, weaknesses or instabilities or insufficiencies in range of motion that are so often bottlenecking people and not rather do them in isolation in some sort of warmup, although that can be useful in short term, but we can start to look at exercises with a little bit more depth and clarity. The example that I always use is, you know, if I, if we walk out of the studio right now and you were like, you were upstairs or whatever, and you were like, you just yelled, ah, animal. I'd be like, oh, like it could be literally millions of things. Oh, her kids are home. But it's just like, it's just not enough. Like if you just yelled, ah, there's an animal, there's not enough detail, right? So if I, I'll use the example of this, the Sydney funnel web spider is the most venomous spider in the world. I think I'm not a zoologist, but I'm pretty sure that's the case. I've been to Australia enough times, but it's small, it's small. It's creepy. A common house spider is completely benign. You see one, let it, let it live. You're fine. When you look at categorizing spiders and you look at like the kingdom, the phylum, the class, the order, infor, order species, phylum, all that. There is six levels that you go through until they're different, right? But when we, when people look at exercise, they just go muscle group modality. It's a barbell hamstring. So the modality being the barbell and the muscle train being the hamstring, but it's like, we're not ever bottlenecked by that. And in building a good exercise program, it's really about how can I work around the bottlenecks that are going to slow me down from progress, right? So when we looked at the dip, for example, a lot of people would look at that and categorize it by like, oh, it's a body weight tricep, right? That's like saying it's, it's, it's a, it's an animal. It's like, there's not enough detail. It's not enough detail to actually incite meaningful action. What it actually is. If we're to look at like the movement source code, like the ones and zeros is yeah, it's a bilateral upper body movement. So we're using both arms at once, which is going to be a little bit more stable than using one arm, which is usually allow us a little bit more output it's body weight. So that titrates it down a little bit, but there's also this like great movement property of internal rotation of the shoulder. It's the most, if I think about it like that, I'm, it's the most internally rotated I get. And in order to get into that position, I need to have a certain movement at the shoulder blade and I need a certain accommodation for that movement at the, at the rib cage. So it's like when we start to classify movements with more depth, we get a lot more clarity on how to act. So that is the listener at home. I'm mostly thinking my dad who's 74. Hey dad. And he is going, wow. Um, I only know upper body, lower body, push, pull hinge squat, right? How does someone even think about planning something? Is this a skill that someone could learn that they could do? Yeah. How do they do that? How do you even conceptualize it? Cause the more, you know, the more confusing it sounds. I think there's, there's two levels to the more, you know, thing, the more, you know, it should lead you to a point of like being able to take action. And then you can go into knowing more and that actually paralyzes you from taking action. Right? So there's a happy medium in there where look, training is a lot like philosophy. It's not meant to be written down, right? It's meant to be done. It's meant to be like discussed and actually performed. So I think tracking is actually a really good place to start. But prior to that, you need to optimize for enjoyment. That's like a, it's like a bit of like a less than technical conversation, but it's actually the most technical conversation. I've had a lot of clients who know that they need to work out or think that they have to work out. And in a lot of cases they're right, but forcing them into the gym every day is just not going to work. They're, you know, they're, they're, they're actually the standup comedians. I have a friend of mine who's, who's gone through this process and it's like, he just, he's too all over the place and you put him in a gym and have him wait for 45 seconds in between. So first, so what we did is he went and he goes up and plays paddle ball now. Now he loves pickleball, whatever the little tiny, it's like ping pong, but you stand on the table. Now he wants to go back into the gym to get better at this. We optimize for enjoyment, right? So that's like thing number one, which, you know, you can learn all of the mechanics and biomechanics in the world. But when you work with real people, you have to optimize for that. So that, that's like priority number one, you're going to, you're going to, you're getting into this endeavor with enjoyment in mind and sustainability in mind. Second is going to be frequency, right? One of the number one things is going that it's really going to push progress is accumulating some sort of volume. And like, which means like just doing more, obviously it's, it's such a simple thing. We apply these big terms to, so if you have like three days a week to train, it's probably best to do a full body lift every single day. Right. And then that evolution can go from full body. And this is like a useful heuristic to follow. It can go from full body, which you're getting like the volume, like the number of reps and sets in throughout the week through like multiple days. So rather than having like an upper body day, once a week, you kind of get this like micro dose, if you will, upper body stimulus multiple times a week. Then as you get better at some of these skills and we'll like zoom in on each one of these, we'll zoom into a training day to see what this looks like. You can then go from a full body workout to an upper body and then lower body and then alternate, right? You'll be able to have a, you have a little bit more work capacity in the muscle. You'll have less bottlenecks in skill. So you'll be able to perform some of these movements closer to like a point of meaningful failure, which means like the muscle you're trying to target is the bottleneck. And then you can move from like a, an upper body, lower body to something like a push and a pull in a leg day. Right. So that's like a good heuristic to look at and be like, well, how much time do I have sustainably that I can reproduce this training week again and again and again, and be realistic. And when you have that heuristic, then it's like, okay, let's build a training day. The warmup piece is always, or prehab or whatever the preferred nomenclature is, is, is a little bit contentious. And I think rightfully so, because it's really contextualized. What do you mean? So yeah, the warmup, there's, there's just two sides of the aisle. It was like, no, you shouldn't warm up. You just like do the exercise that you are going to do and just do like lighter sets and go into heavier sets. Okay. I think that's a really good goal, right? Like Kelly Sturette famously wrote a book called the supple leopard. And that's the goal. Like, you know, you kind of just get up and go, but there's, there's a roadmap to achieving that. And, and the, the, the best way to look at it is, is exercises are actually skills, right? No one, no one patronizes or no one bats an eye when Kevin Durant goes out and warms up for 20 minutes before a basketball game and works on these small micro qualities of the game. And he's actually a really, really great example. You'll do, um, you know, he's seven foot tall, but he moves like a six, two guard and he like spins on one leg a lot and, you know, they'll dribble and they'll pass. And just to practice the art of dribbling and passing, these are the best athletes in the world. When we go into the gym, we're just like, Matt, just go. That is an expression of someone not being physically empathetic, right? When I hear that, I go, you aren't thinking of the experience of someone who doesn't interact with gravity like you do, right? Like you, sure. You and I can go into the gym and we can pull ups. You can go to get to that. Some people's training goal is to do one body weight pull up. And you think that, you know, it would be like me sitting down at a piano without knowing the keys. Like where's middle C? I don't, I don't know. I'm completely lost. And so when we go in and we formulate a warmup, a lot of times we can go general to specific. And if you want a really good general warmup, get on an assault bike for five minutes and breathe through your nose. You're going to get, cause it's just about generating heat. It's about generating heat primarily. Yes. Let's great point. Let's start there. Like the, most of the efficacy of warmups and research is about increasing the core body temperature. Not necessarily mobilizing the shoulder. It's just in, right. That's so, yeah, that is, that's different. Yeah. No, the shoulders, the hips and the spine, the rib cage and the pelvis, and as well as the central nervous system, all of these things can be optimized for what they're about to perform. And I think if we, again, we have to deploy some physical empathy here and be like, okay, you know, we could sit down in the gym as you know, the equivalent analogy would be like first chair violinists and we know how to, to, to strum all the notes and we know how to read theory, but you got to realize that if someone's first learning how to play the violin, it starts with, with, with musical theory, there's a cognitive phase to skill acquisition, right? So in a lot of times when you're, when you're new to training, think of like, think of what you're actually doing is either like learning a language or learning how to play an instrument. And don't be so caught up in, in applying resistance training research, which is obviously useful at a certain point as so far as your skill level intersects with the applicability of said research, but think of it like learning an instrument, right? It would surprise zero people. If I was like, if G, you came to me, you're like, I want to learn how to play the guitar. And I'm like, well, what do you think is the best way to do it? You'd probably go, I'm going to play 20 minutes a day, five days a week. Like, yeah, you're going to learn much quicker than someone that goes, I think the best way is to sit down on a Sunday for eight hours and play until my fingers bleed. It's like, well, no, you're not optimized for learning. And I think if, if you're in a situation where all of this could sound overwhelming, change your reference point to, I want to learn how to train. Right. And then that, when you apply like almost like pedagogical principles of how people actually learn and you respect that movement in the gym is a skill that is comprised of many micro skills, just like, you know, Kevin Durant in the basketball and the, and the passing and the dribbling and the layups and the dunks and the, and the pull-up jumpers and all that. He practices those before he plays because skill acquisition is a process. There's a cognitive phase, which could be our warmup, right? If we're trying to learn like today, like, you know, we did a squat variation. So if I was to organize a lower body session for you, I'd be like, okay, wow, like this, the single leg hip, I'm going to use the term like single leg hip stability is a little bit, you know, I'm not seeing an expression of a trained understanding of where her hip is in space. That's going to be tough. That's going to lead to a lot of compensations and squatting. And you know, your hip hurts when you squat. I wonder if these two things are related. So it's like, we're about to sit down at the piano and I'm going to be like, Hey, here's a scale. I want you to play the scale first, right? It's some sort of pentatonic thing, just rip through. Okay, great. And that's the cognitive phase, right? It's like, you're sitting down and you're looking at the music and you're going, okay, this is the notes in between the lines. These are notes on the lines of treble clef, all that fun stuff. And then, so that's the cognitive we're learning. And then in the warmup, when we look at training, like learning, the warmup is understanding some of those, you know, more elemental movement notes, like ability to internally rotate your hip or rotate your trunk or flex your trunk or extend your trunk or laterally flex your trunk, which we did today. It's like, these are, we need these notes, just like we need the notes on the sheet. And then as we move into our workout, now we start to look at like, well, now we're, we're associating, you know, we're going to take that, that side bend from like the little plank variation we did in the beginning of the workout during the warmup, like learning that movement. And we're going to apply it. We're going to apply it to that walking lunge. Like, Hey, remember when we were doing that warmup, I need you to shift a little bit to the side, just like we did in isolation. And now we're integrating in that associative phase. And then, then we start to look at these more complex movements like squats and deadlifts, which in the grand scheme of athleticism is not that complex, but you do have to do it right. It is complex to the, to the person who you're not being physically empathetic to. It's not complex for us, but I don't know. It's complex for me. I still can't get it right. And, but all you're missing, all you're missing is the base colors, right? All you're missing is some primary movement. You're an, you're an artist relative to the paint analogy. If we think of like hip internal rotation, thank you to our place for sponsoring this episode of the show. Our place has changed the game for me. Our place makes cookware and a number of other kitchen appliances. Now, in case you didn't know this, I'm a mom of two little children. My kids right now are five and three, and I've spent a lot of time being very concerned about what I was cooking in because kids, let's face it, are vulnerable and their bodies are much smaller. I was very worried about these forever chemicals that are in traditional cookware, forever chemicals. And, you know, we've all seen Teflon. Maybe we've used Teflon and eaten out of it for many years. I know that I have, and I didn't want that for my kids. So when I heard about our place from a fellow physician, it changed the game for me. And before our place decided to come on as a sponsor, I have to tell you that I purchased the perfect pot and it has changed the game for me. So if you are listening to this and you want cookware that is PFAS free and does not have toxic chemicals in it, which you should. So this is a toxic free ceramic coating, beautiful pot for healthy, safe cooking. Very important friends. I strongly suggest you check out this company. You can go to fromourplace.com. That's fromourplace.com and use the code Dr. Lion. You'll get to try these products for a hundred days and I guarantee you will love them. It's our place, a hundred day trial with free shipping and returns. Use the code Dr. Lion. You'll get 10% off. These products are incredible. Our place, well done. Thank you to Thesis for sponsoring this episode of the show. I've been working with Thesis for a handful of years now. Why do I love Thesis? Thesis is the first and only customized nootropic company. What does that mean? Nootropics are substances, nutrients found in nature and the human body that enhance cognition. The way that you think, your memory, how sharp you are. These are critical functionings that we all need and who doesn't want an edge? I have used Thesis personally when I did my first TED talk, when I was writing my first book. Thesis has been a game changer for me. Their products are evidence-based, science-oriented. And by the way, these formulations are better than any formulations I have ever seen. I went to takethesis.com. You should go there too. Don't wait. Takethesis.com. You'll enter, you'll take their quiz, you'll enter in all your information and you will get a customized nootropic box to trial different formulas. I have listed a handful of my favorite from logic, clarity to energy. These are products that I use routinely, helped me really, really function to my full capacity. You can try yours. Go to takethesis.com. Enter Dr. Lion. You'll get 20% off your first box. That's takethesis.com and use the code Dr. Lion. Do you want to know what I drink in the morning that is a little bit salty and gives me a huge pick-me-up? Well, I'm going to tell you. And that is Element, Chocolate Element. That's LMNT in my coffee. I brew a black cup of coffee with a shot of espresso. And then I put a scoop of collagen and a little bit of MCT oil in it. And one fourth a packet of Element Chocolate. Sometimes I use chocolate mint. I've also saved chocolate caramel. It's kind of this like chocolatey caramel. Amazing. So I get my caffeine. I get some collagen for, of course, hair, skin, and nails. And I get electrolytes in my coffee. Sodium, potassium, magnesium, all amazing. I have now created my own supercharged drink. Maybe you get headaches with your caffeine because you dehydrate yourself. Or maybe you get headaches because you sweat a lot while training. Or maybe you just live in Texas where it's hot. And so you definitely sweat a lot. You definitely get headaches. And this is why I love to add electrolytes to what I'm drinking. And it can be coffee. It can be water. Lately, it's been coffee and it tastes amazing. You can get yours at Drink Element. That's DrinkLMNT.com. You'll get a free sample pack when you use the code Dr. Lion. And by the way, if you don't like it, it's totally risk-free. You'll get your money back. No questions asked. I love this stuff. You will too. Back to the show. But the listener, they, how are they going to, they are not going to be skilled to be able to understand. Are there certain things that they have to do so they know? Would they practice an internal external rotation? Sure. Would they, how are they going to, with their coach or whoever, begin to think about what, so we know that they're going to do three days a week, maybe to start. But how are they going to even choose what kind of exercise or anything? Think of the safe mode, right? Go back to walking and breathing. Like how does our body move through space, right? How are our joints meant to move through space? How do we, from our, so something like a lunge, the reason I picked that exercise earlier is because it's basically taking the, that fundamental movement of the lunge or of, of gait cycle of walking by pedal ambulation. And it's spreading it out on the table for us to see where the insufficiencies, right? So, you know, the warmup, if we're talking about the lower body, there's some primary things that we're going to need to consider. One is going to be like the position of the pelvis, right? A lot of this is like core strength stuff, right? So doing some sort of core exercise now, depending on where you're at, this could be something that's like a more static, like the big three, like a plank, a plank or a side plank or curl up or bird dog, something very rudimentary, but understand that that doesn't scale. Right. So that's like, okay, we sort of solve for, hopefully solve for the pelvis issue. Then it's like, so core. And is that done? Does it matter how you design it? Is that has to be the first exercise? No, no, not at all. These are like, we're, you know, it's almost like nutrition in a lot of ways. It is. I actually, frankly, think training is much more complicated than medicine and nutrition. Because the human body expressions, for example, I know what your blood sugar should be. I feel very good about understanding where your blood sugar should be. I feel very good about understanding where your insulin and your sodium should be in your blood. If I check your blood, there's a reference rate. I am five foot one, maybe 110 pounds. Matt over there falling asleep because he did drive from Dallas this morning is six one. You are six feet, 260 pounds. You squat, Matt squats. I squat. The leg lengths, everything is totally different. It seems it's almost nearly impossible to say, you know what? You are doing it correctly. You are actually moving the muscles that you're supposed to be. I mean, it just, it is in my mind and maybe I'm just overcomplicating it. Very confusing. I think as the complexity and the variation and presentation scales, so does the range of normal. But how would someone even, I mean, we think that we know what a normal squat looks like, right? But leg length is different. Pelvis is different, right? Are there, and then we pigeonhole people to move a very particular way. Is that the way? I think that's, I think that we need to move the mile marker. I think we've, we've built a very, um, we've built musculoskeletal hypochondriacs. Human beings are unbelievably resilient, right? And I think, you know, what we're talking about is better, right? What we're talking about is, you know, we're optimizing for perfect, but I think optimizing for one enjoyment and optimizing for better is the, is always the goal, right? We are so resilient that we have, we have so, we have such a margin for error and resistance training that I think goes broadly, uh, disrespected. And because it's easier to make a point about saying binary, this is good or this is bad. And I may be guilty of this sometime in this hour, but it's, it's definitely something where, you know, we're so resilient that we get to try again in a lot of cases, like resistance training is unbelievably safe. It's unfathomably safe. Totally. If you are someone who is worried about, you know, getting injured in the gym and you're making decisions that have some sort of fear from, um, you know, and I think everyone tries, everyone who's done a dispense information on training is trying to try to help undoubtedly. But if you have like a female daughter who's 13 and she's playing, you know, some level of competitive soccer and you're not losing sleep every single night about that, about the risk of her getting injured, but you're worried about, you got to understand relative risk. That is, you want to tear an ACL, be a 15 year old girl to play soccer, right? That is way more risky than being, than going into the gym and training. So I think giving yourself some freedom, right? To, to make, to make the not best decision and improve on that. And I think tracking much like nutrition, tracking your workouts is a great place to start. And it's, and it's not tracking strength. Are we tracking reps? Are we tracking all of it? Everything, right? Like, cause think of it this way, you know, you deal, you know, you deal in nutritional space, right? Are you just tracking macronutrients or you're just tracking protein, carbs and fats? It's like, well, it depends on the complexity of the issue, right? Like if I have someone who's like, you would know if you got your blood work done, but I'm getting better. I'm just kidding. I'm kidding. Not really. But it's like when we, so it really depends on how complex the issue is we're trying to solve. Right. And I think a lot of the conversation around resistance training is it's about the tactics used to win an argument are different than the tactics used to solve problems. Right. So you need to, as you filter through information, cause I think there's, there's heuristics that I think people should, if they listen to this in the pursuit of health optimization, I'm always trying to remind people when they digest content like this, that understand that you're, you know, we're five men around and blind men around an elephant, right? So as you listen to me talk about resistance training and try and hopefully give some principles that can be extracted. And then you go listen to another episode about nutrition, just by nature of the way that we're digesting this content, we're, we're all standing around this giant elephant of health and fitness with our eyes closed. And we're going, one person's going, it's, it's a, it's a hose. It's like, well, no, it's actually the tail, right? Or someone's like, no, no, no, it's, it's a tree. And they're just around the leg, right? It's like, no, it's an elephant, right? So it's a good perspective. It's a good perspective. The individual is going to do so far. We know they're doing core and we know that they're tracking. What else do they have to be doing? And also the other thing that you said is don't worry about injuring yourself, get the job done and understand there's flexibility in the movement. And also you brought up something that I don't think anyone ever has is that body weight exercises might be challenging. Those are the things that I've taken away so far, but I do want you to talk to that 40 year old woman who's never trained. Sure. I think another good box to tick is in a lower body session, we're going to try and get something that replicates gait cycle. Now, don't let that term scare you, run away with you. I want you to do something single leg, right? There's going to be properties of moving on one leg that are oftentimes under trained. Now, again, we need to go back to zero. We need to go back to go, do not collect $200 and ask yourself the question of does a, you know, does a walking lunge, is that a favorable movement for you based off your strength to body weight ratio? If go collect $200 and can continue on. So I think that's a really good, so our options there are, you know, walking lunges or stationary split squats. And then we can start to be like, well, I'm, I'm, it's interesting. And that's before just a general squat or anything else. Absolutely. Because it's like, again, that's a squat. If we go back to the motor learning and we talk about like, you know, the, the, uh, cognitive associate of an autonomous, I have a colleague of mine, Killian Hamilton, brilliant. And he, he runs a course on this. The squat is, is something that's meant to be autonomous, right? Like, what does that mean? Autonomous means something you can do without thinking it's coordinated, right? Like, you know, if you watch, let's use the music analogy. Like if I'm watching someone learn how to play guitar or learn piano and they're in the cognitive phase of like, okay, uh, every good boy deserves fudge F A C E right on the line in between the line. And then they're learning to go, okay, so C is here. That's associative, right? And you're not going to put, you know, some sort of Mozart symphony and C minor in front of them where they need to be like that C needs to be autonomous, where they can go and go, okay, cognitive, associative, autonomous. I can look at that circle on that line and go, boop, there it is. I don't even think. So it's like, and this is, this is a really good proxy. I think for people who have a trainer or they're working out is, is queuing is something that's really telling. Cause I think what we should be focusing on, like if you have a trainer or you work out with someone and they're constantly like the squat, we'll stick with this as it's sort of like a universal, uh, that people can attach to you. It's, you need to constrain movements rather than cue them. So if you're doing a squat and I'm telling you 13 things during the movement, and I find it vital that you do all 13 of these things, I've picked the wrong movement, right? I'm going to put you on a leg press. So I don't have to cue that much stuff. So it's like, if you find yourself in these positions where you kind of need to be like moved around a bit, it's like, okay, just change the exercise to something less complex, right? Cause there's, you're not at that autonomous phase. We haven't built some of these underlying movement qualities so that this can be autonomous, right? And autonomous in a way that's loading the tissues we want to load. So single leg over, over, but if you can't stand on one leg, don't squat with two, right? I think that's, and I, I don't think I was that stable on one leg. Terrible. Well, no, cause I mean, is this all true? You're cause you're a really interesting use case because if we understand stability from a physical, like what it means from physics, not even biomechanics, you're relatively short, you know, relative to me. Now I should be more unstable. Like you're, you're a Porsche going around a turnpike and I'm a Jeep Wrangler or something based off of the physics of those two objects with a broader base support and a higher center of mass, the Jeep should flip over. You're a Porsche that can't keep the wheels on the ground, right? So you're actually, your center of mass is closer to your base support, right? If, if I wanted to push someone over, I would get low first. Why? Cause I'm getting my center of mass. I'm becoming more stable, right? So yours is actually a, like, not alarming again, we're dealing with exercise, but it's, it's your, your relative instability to your structure is actually not cause for concern, but it's cause for opportunity. It's like, wow, like, gee, you, this should be easier for you given like the, the, the physical specifications of this movement for you. And it's more difficult if we can start to get you better on one leg and do those lunges that we did and do those single leg hinges and work on, you know, Bulgarians or, or whatever. That would be the best way to progress or even to be able to be stable in my squad. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Because what, what we're doing then is we're tapping into that sensory component of the muscle because you are on one leg. And when we are, this sensory component of the muscle is fascinating. When you were talking about warming up and doing the foam rolls and doing all that stuff, you're, are you technically warming up the muscle or are you warming up the brain? Yeah. The peripheral, the peripheral, the central nervous system, right? So, but it's very telling. And I think this is, if you're someone who gets some sort of relief transiently, I'm sure of foam rolling, amazing foam roll, there a gun, put tape on whatever, but now you've opened up a window, the real, the, the, the sensory component of the muscle is going to be part of the resistance training of the singles, like when you're standing on one leg. So let's put together a warmup for you. Like, this is literally what I'm going to write in a spreadsheet. You like foam rolling. I would suggest a certain, a few places, always a key, if the takeaway, if there is one, if you're ever looking at some sort of like myofascial release, I'm going to foam roll. Um, you know, let's say like the iliotibial band, the side of the thigh, move your leg around, right? A lot of people just kind of oscillate back and forth, like the rolling a pizza, right? You want to actually change length of tissue. Well, I know I'm going to change length of my quad if I flex my hamstring, right? So rather than just sticking on one point or rather than just rolling back and forth on the side, you like stick on one point and then actually flex because now you're getting input from the muscle. But does that mean that you'll be better able to perform the action? Even though let's say I'm foam rolling and I'm going to go and I'm going to try to do these walking lunges where I'm continuing extending this gait cycle. Um, will I be able to become better at it just by queuing up my brain? Yeah. Cause you're, you're taking those transmitters, right? And you're giving, it's like you're, you're putting a spotlight on them. You're, you're, you're really, it is controversial, right? This foam rolling, this KT tape, all this stuff. And I think it's a matter of understanding the mechanism, right? It's looking at it from first principles and like, uh, we love looking at things from a structured perspective. And I think that's one of the axioms that really leads us astray and injury and rehab and prehab. Like people love looking at like, Oh, it doesn't break down scar tissue. I was like, yes. And we, that's, that's not the debate. The debate is, does it work? Right. And it's like the foam rollers wouldn't be as prolific if there wasn't a mechanism. So rather than just kind of like looking through this paper towel roll and being like, Hmm, the only way this could work is if it breaks up scar tissue. It's like, well, actually the tensile strength of scar tissue and research is shown to be like far more resilient. And if it did, you'd have way more problems on your hand. You'd probably break your femur, but it's like, okay, well, hold on a second. Don't throw it out. It wouldn't be so prolific. It wouldn't be in every gym across the world if it didn't, if it didn't do something. And I think we like looking at the structure of the call, it's like breaking it down. It's like the central nervous system and personal nervous system. Don't play those games more complex. And then the single leg, everyone should do some kind of single leg movement. Would a lunge be enough or should they do how many, do we have to choose variations in the movement? Oh, sure. That's a really good question. As we're building out, I'm thinking of my dad, he better be training because right now all he does is bands. No offense. He does live in Ecuador, but if he's going to be doing walking lunges and we say, you know, I call you and I say, Jordan, is that enough for him? He's doing his core. He's choosing, I don't know, he's doing some planks. Now he's doing walking lunges. I mean, is that going to be enough? Whatever you're picking as an exercise has to be progressible in some fashion by some stimulus. So a lunge can be enough for now. But so here's the thing. And this is where I think we can reconcile a lot of camps in this because some people are very like anti-warming up. Some people are very anti like anything that's not just challenging the muscle as a motor output component and rather than a sensory input component. And I think there's a place to all come to the table and be like, look, if you lack some of the, uh, let's call the motor skills and a motor skill can just be a range of motion to have an ability to control the range of motion. If you lack that, and we can find an exercise like a lunge. Lunge is great because it expresses so many different of these intricate range. And you don't even know about it. Just kind of do it. Okay. And keep whole foot pressure and you'll be okay. Right. Again, our, our, our, um, our margin for error on improving physical qualities is quite large because the human, the human organism is quite robust and thank God for that. So it's like, if you just do lunges and, you know, again, preface strength, the body weight ratio, if it's not like a super, uh, challenging movement for you, given your strength and it's, but it's a little bit unstable when you go to swing that leg through, you're like, eh, get a little bit, then do those and then do them until you get better at them. But then it's, then now what we have is like, well, we've like unlocked this like bi-lot or unilateral movement pattern, right? The split stance position. And it's like, you know, we need to have scalability of load. Now it's like, you know, do it with dumbbells, right? And now we can, now we can do Bulgarians and do a Bulgarian. We don't have to, there's a lot of discussion about, you know, as, as we build programs and think about it, that you have to change it up, confuse the muscle. Do you have to do any of that stuff? This is, it's a really good question. And the axiom that I like to follow is, you know, first you have to look at strength versus hypertrophy. Because it's progressible. Because if we're talking about progressive overload, and I do want to get to the other components, if it's whatever we have to do for upper body. But if I'm doing a lunge and I'm going to progress, I mean, I could progress for probably years, whether it's tempo, right? Tempo, weight, et cetera. But I don't know, do I have to confuse the muscle and change that up? Or do I just? I'm going to start high level. Okay. You have to optimize for enjoyment, right? There's, you know, I was a competitive power lift for years. So I'm the type of person who can go in and just train, you know, primarily move the needle on three exercises for a decade. And I'd be okay with that. But you got to understand, but be physically. So the answer is no, you don't for strength or hypertrophy. So it's two different conversations. I know I'm waiting to get to it, but we got to finish the program. The axiom is for hypertrophy, you need progressive overstimulus. And you need to understand that progressive overstimulus encompasses progressive overload, right? So I really prefer the term progressive overstimulus for hypertrophy and general resistance training, because it takes into account, you know, increasing the density, like taking shorter rest periods, increasing the overall volume throughout the week, adding an additional training day. These are all Libras we can pull. Is one more important than the other? Negligible at this stage in the conversation. But if you're trying to get stronger, you need to have progressive overload. Load is a very reproducible medium of stimulus, right? So that's why majority of people- If you're trying to get stronger, you have to increase load. Okay. Right. Makes sense. I want people to follow the axiom of progressive overstimulus. There has to be progress. Getting stuck in the rat rays of progressive overload can lead a lot of general population people Yeah. Right. Because it's like, there's a- I hope you guys are listening up. Jordan is a little hard to follow because actually he looks like a meathead, but he's very intellectual. And what he's saying is everybody just repeats progressive overload as if load is the only thing. It's just the most reproducible. It is about stimulus and there's multiple ways to create an input or a variation in the stimulus. Right. Which is not just weight. A progression of the stimulus. Yeah. A progression which is not just weight. I mean, we do tend to progressive overload and it would be useful if we're going to go back to the program and try and build this out from that point. We're waiting. Waiting. Right. Right. I mean, the last thing I would want to do is I would rather create confusion than as people ask better questions and think I'm giving them all the answers because I think the space is a bit, well, it's just, you know what? It matters to me because the scope of this, of getting it right, will change medicine hands down if we can prescribe exercise. So I don't want to add to the noise. So it's like, and I apologize for it being a little bit of a wrap, but it's confusing. We're, you know, as Joe Rogan says, we're chimpanzees with universes for brain. So it is, it is confusing, but I think maybe confusing is the wrong word. It's complex, right? It's confusing too. So if I were to add to that, it's like, I think that just like, oh, the one end of the spectrum is like, Hey, let's do something single leg of some capacity to your ability for lower body to really kind of get that pelvis moving, get the ribs moving, you know, really exaggerate that gait cycle expression and all that comes with it. And there's a bunch of technical stuff we could talk about that we're not going to. Another thing I would in the other end of the spectrum, I would look at, okay, the isolation of muscle action. I would have just as I would have the gait cycle expression of integration of function. I would make sure that there's one exercise a week in the early stages where it's highly externally supported. Leg press would be a great example for building out that lower body that we load, you know, safely and efficiently to muscular failure with minimal constraints, right? To really touch the other end of that spectrum. So, you know, are the lunges going to be the thing that really build hypertrophy or hypertrophy, the muscle of the legs in the early stages, probably not, not as effective as the leg press, but does the lunge create, does the lunge offset some of the movement quality that the leg press over time, if done in isolation will, will leave us with? Yes. But does it also free up, uh, you know, us, our ability to transition into something like a back squat, which could be like kind of a marriage of a marriage of both, where it's like, we have an unstable environment where, you know, we've mastered the lunge. We've increased some weight. We do it more often. We feel good. Well, you know, we're really building our overall strength in an environment that's really stable in the leg press. You know, I start with the progression of squatting. It's like a counterbalance squat or a goblet squat, then front squat and hard bar. Do you care which one? I do. I do. Because again, it's, it's, it's complex, but I prefer most people start with a variation we looked at today, right? If you're new to the gym, putting a bar on your back is usually not a good idea. And not from a, not from a danger perspective, right? Like a lot of fear mongering around axial load of the spine, putting a bar on your back. I'm not, I'm not necessarily worried about the bones of your spine. I'm worried about how you're that vigilance of the nervous system and how your body's going to react to something pushing you forward. Would, are you concerned from, um, an autonomic perspective? Are you concerned from a feeling of stress perspective or just concerned from, uh, a movement quality perspective? I'm concerned because the majority of people are loading tissues day in and day out that they don't realize loading. The majority of people are going to come in and to fit your case study there. That person you described is going to have tight calves, tight hamstrings, tight low back, right? And because all of those muscles are acting to hold them up, there's a falling forward. They, they don't have a good relationship with gravity. So the last thing I want to do to someone who's falling forward is put a bar on the back and push them forward more, right? We're forcing that vigilant. Which is probably the thing that people always do when you're starting out. Let's do a, um, a back squat. Yeah. Back squat. No physical empathy. Do I love this concept? Does it matter if it is a leg press? Would one have to isolate the muscle group? For example, you said unilateral movements, then choosing something that you could load where the person is going to execute well, right? Could it be a hip thrust? Could it be, uh, you know, what would some of those examples be that would be able to meaningfully load the body? Right. So when we look at like leg pressing patterns that closely replicate the squat, one of the reasons I like that is because it's going to, it's going to be very economical in the sense of movement at the hip, right? So one of those movement qualities that I'm like hiding into this is like a general heuristic that we're not going deep into is internal rotation of the hip. One of the things about the hip thrust that wouldn't necessarily in my mind categorize it as the same level of a leg press of just, you know, we're not talking about hypertrophy of any sort of specific muscle group. We're just talking about bang for buck exercise selection that has, you know, a high threshold of stimulus, but also has a lot of, uh, desirable attributes as we move, which would be what, right? So internal rotation of the hip and position of the pelvis. How would, would the leg press put? Oh yeah. Okay. You have to. So when we, so think of it this way, like if, if I throw a punch, I, there's a tremendous amount of rotation happening at my shoulder. Some people might look at this as just the expression of like flexion of my shoulder, but to the equal degree that I'm flexing my shoulder, I'm having the same amount of rotation occur. So when we look, we want to look at the research, right? And we want to talk about like, Hey, let's train for longevity and let's talk about, you know, training to stay pain-free. The number one deficient range of motion associated with low back pain, which is the most common presentation of, of, of any musculoskeletal disorder by the CDC for like ever, by the way, every year, forever. Maybe they should update it. I don't know. Well, I mean, they, they wouldn't have, they, if they could update it, it would mean that people were solving this problem, but they're not efficiently solving the problem. The number one associated deficiency and range of motion that's strongly correlated with low back pain is the lack of internal rotation at the hip. It's multifactorial. A lot of times your pelvis is in a good position to internally rotate the hip. And wait, wait, before you stop, how does someone, so someone is thinking about their hips right there, but they put their hands on their hips and you're talking about that. It's a lack of internal rotation of the femur. Yep. Yeah. Um, and is that on movement or is that, for example, I'm just sitting here, right? Do I have lack of internal rotation? So we could test it passively. We could test it active assisted. We could do it active and active resisted, right? If you don't have access to it sitting here passively, they go over to like come across and trying to like crank it over. I see. I see. Okay. Definitely not going to have it. But it's like, if we can start to find exercises that control for this without your say so. And this is where like, you know, we could sit at the beginning of a workout and be like, Hey, hip internal rotation is really important, right? These are X number of drills to do to improve hip rotation. The thing we did today, the standing single leg RDL. You love that. I love it because it's, it's such, it's an expression of that movement quality. It trains the muscles to be sensory organs. It, it makes you aware of the adjacent position of the pelvis and the femur. Then one of the major intersections of force transfer in the body. Right. And leg press for everybody then. Um, everybody. Okay. I'm sorry, but listen, I want to make sure cause we only have 20 more minutes, believe it or not. I want to hit everything. There's so much to hit. Um, the next exercise I want to finish the programming piece because I really want to get to the idea of strength and hypertrophy and where is this continuum? Um, cause I have personal questions and Matt, you've got tons of questions. Um, what are we doing to finish out, you know, Sarah in Arkansas who's never lifted away? Okay. So we'll, we'll do a warmup. We'll integrate it with sort of our higher skill movement. So, you know, maybe our warmup for her is some sort of like, um, if, if there is pains, if she likes something foam rolling, stretching, whatever, cool, do that. Let's go right into like, and this is important when we do warmups and when we trial and error this and have fun, be creative with it. Like training to me is like such a creative expression that people just, they, they, they, they, they dole out to someone to just tell them what to do. It's like, if you really enjoy trying and look optimized for enjoyment. So if you enjoy following a program, do that. But so we're going to have her, if she likes, say she likes foam rolling the ITB, it's like, okay, great. Let's get that leg moving while you do it. Let's then stand up. Let's go through some walking lunges in succession. It's really focused on some of the things we talked about. I then want you to go into like your most unstable movement. So I want you to practice the skill of squatting, right? So, you know, for her, it'll be heels elevated counterbalance. And if you're not on like the favorable side of gravity, maybe we do it supported with like TRX straps or something like that. So we elevate the heels, we push that center of mass back. Then we can go into some sort of a single joint exercise. Maybe we do like, I prefer for most people, I think the seated hamstring curl is a really great place to start. What would be another example? Would a leg curl be one? That's a. So the seated hamstring curl poses a unique position of the femur and tibia that's going to promote. It's like this idea of spaghetti in the spaghetti sauce. Like I think it would be, if you have the choice between the two, I think it's a really good tool. One, it follows a lot of favorable hypertrophy principles. You're training the more lengthened position of the hamstring, but it also could be a position where we promote more tibial internal rotation, which is often lacking. And it leads to ankle mobility issues and knee issues when we're deficient in it. So rather than focusing on some smaller muscles, I think that's a really economical way to keep your toes up to the ceiling, kick yourself in the butt. We're off to the races from there. We're going to hop on the leg press, right? I want to get to a point where we have at least one set where you feel like you couldn't have possibly done another rep. Right. And that I want like the hamstring curl, same thing. I want you to train to failure on that. I want you to train to failure. How heavy should they be loading? That's, that's a million dollar question. Right. And that's where the tracking and that's where, that's where that comes in. Right. Like how do you, how do you create a macronutrient calculator for everyone that tells them what their base will metabolic rate and the total energy expenditure as you try it? It's a scale move. Does it not? Okay. We're going to adjust accordingly. So then, you know, then that's a pretty solid base. You could look at some lower extremity stuff. I think direct calf training is a great way to get some movement through the foot and ankle. I like doing that. Oh, calf training. Is that important? I think calf training. So a lot of people complain of ankle mobility issues. Now an axiom that I like to follow another one is where there's a lot of bones. There should be a lot of movement. I don't do any captain Matt. Do you do calf training? I did. Yeah. Why? No one ever thinks of that. Again, it's a movement quality thing, right? I'm trying to. I mean, you're talking about like calf raises? Seated calf raises. That's it? Right. So seated calf raises to me, like when we talk about sensory input, our feet have a ton of sensory input. And a lot of times they're nerfed by the shoes that we wear. We sort of walk around in this very padded environment. We're sort of like, you know, we're, we're muting the stimulus into our feet and you know, there's a lot of potential motion through the foot that we lack. So, you know, most people focus their energy on ankle mobility. I don't have enough ankle mobility to squat. Well, it's like, okay, the ankle is only one joint that's caused by the talus and the, and the tibia primarily is two bones. There's not, there's way more. I would rather you focus on foot mobility. So kick your shoes off at the end of the leg press and go to a calf raise machine. If the gym allows you to just trying to do your calf raises barefoot. I love that. I'm going to start doing that. It's just, you know, we need to optimize for movement quality first. So by doing that, it's going to help me. You're going to mobilize the foot. You're going to decrease stress on the tibia. When we're dealing with runners that talk about, uh, shin splints, you talked about bunions. A lot of that comes from an inability to move through the, through the feet, right? I thought it was just genetic. No, it's a lack of hip internal rotation. We see, so we'll see bunions with our really fast runners, like our four, three, four, two mid or mid to high four, two 40 guys, a hundred meter sprinters, sub 10 guys. They have six toes that bunny is sticking out. Cause they're, they're producing, absorbing and transferring force all on that big toe. That's why the bone changes bone lays down just like muscle does. So lower body, have we wrapped it? Okay. And how many days a week? So I would, if you can dose that and you might pull one of like the hamstring curl out. If you can dose that one to two times a week, while again, I love it. There's a lot. We understand that there's lots of, it's very complicated, but again, this is a really good way for thinking about it that I, I personally haven't thought about. I don't think other people think about it in this way because I am so happy to hear that you guys have been getting your blood work done. Um, most likely because arguably we know that nothing is more important than staying on top of your health responsibilities. Right now there is more talk than ever on hormones and you know where you are at. And the only way to do that is to get your blood work. And I'm so grateful to our sponsor inside tracker whose service I use myself to test my own hormones. They offer 10% off inside tracker subscription and any plan, just head over to inside tracker.com slash Dr. Lion. Let's face it to live your healthiest, longest life possible. You have to get your blood work done. Most people put that off, but that is not a champion mindset and you are here to get it done. And by the way, let's say you've got an aura ring or an Apple watch, and we all know you've got DNA inside tracker looks at all that and gives you meaningful recommendations, things like food, supplements, workouts, lifestyle choices, and even ways to optimize sleep and stress. Yes. Sign me up. Whatever it takes, whatever it is that you want, you are going to do it better with your blood work and knowing what is going on. Go to inside tracker.com slash a doctor lion for 10% off all their stuff. I recommend and take Puree O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil. Why? I did my training in nutritional sciences with a heavy focus on muscle health. There is an abundance of evidence supporting the use of omega-3 fish oil in overall health, muscle, brain, mood, the list goes on. Now, I won't take just any omega-3 supplement. I only want the best quality fish oil. That's why I've been using Puree. This is the ultimate in high quality and high class brands. Puree's O3 is third party tested. I trust it to be free of heavy metals and other impurities. Every batch, which is amazing, of Puree O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil and all of their supplements are tested against more than 200 contaminants with all results published online. Puree Omega-3 Fish Oil offers a high dose of 2,000 milligrams of long chain omega-3 fatty acids, EPA, DHA in natural triglyceride form. Now, I worked out a deal in exchange for sponsorship. They will offer my listeners 20% off the entire store. That even applies to already discounted subscriptions. That means you'll get almost a third off the price. But to get this offer, go to puree.com slash a Dr. Lion, or you can use my promo code Dr. Lion. Don't wait. You'll love it. You are not looking at muscle as a strength organ. You are looking at it as a sensory organ. And then everything else fits around that model. And I think when in the, here's the real, here's the linchpin. When you focus on, or when you pay attention to it, not even focus, when you just pay attention to it, you're going to see a, an objective increase in strength from a subjective interpretation of the awareness of that muscle, right? So in, I'm in a roundabout circuitous way, I am focusing on motor output. And then a good proxy is, look, when you go through these drills, like we went through today, you're going to see a rapid spike in your, your strength because you're just in better positions. Positions dictate function. I actually felt better. And we, I mean, I actually felt better, which is I never leave the gym. I usually am kind of in pain. So, but there's a good way to book in this. Once that stops, once your exercise is like, Hey, I'm getting really good at this single leg stuff. It's like, okay, we can, we can scale the dose back. And then maybe we put in another machine. Maybe we put in a squat, right? So like that performance is a really good indicator. That's a canary down the coal mine. Like when you start locking in those lunges and locking in those single leg, then I'm like, Hey, we're going to introduce some actions and we're some hinging now. You're like hinging my hamstring. Yeah, no, you're ready. You have the subjective marker that tells me that we can start to introduce more load to that hit because I'm, I know you're not going to move vigilantly. I know you're going to move with intent and load the tissues that I want you to load now. And the last, and you know, everyone's thinking, well, how do we know if you're loading vigilantly? I would say my answer would be if you are loading the wrong tissue that you shouldn't be, would that be right? I mean, you're not, you're loading vigilantly when you're compensating, where you're not contracting the muscle you're supposed to be. If you're not autonomous in the movement. Okay, great. Right? Like if it doesn't feel good and that's where like the sensory component comes in, it's muscle that's telling us that we're feel good. It's where we're landing that center of mass, right? We're stable throughout it. If you don't have that feeling, you're auto correcting the entire time. It's fascinating. Are you writing a book on this? Is that a secret? Yes. I mean, I've written three already. I know, but you're writing another one. Good. Good. Upper body. Yes. Next thing. Great. And is that all we did that day or we're doing other things that day? No. I mean, what we're going to do is we can start to mix and match, right? Like a bit of a capsule wardrobe of lifting upper body. Great. Single arm rowing movements, really economical exercise. So single arm dumbbell row to single arm machine. This is going to scale. Do I do machine or dumbbell? I don't know. Do you have a history of low back pain? If yes, then maybe go on machine. You're going to get that rotate rotation or anti-rotation component. You're going to get the shoulder blades moving. You need a lot of rotation through the, through the, the, so you said one arm row, um, machine or dumbbell. Um, but you want a rotation when you're doing it. I want the shoulder blade to move with the rib cage to stay fixed. Okay. Right. And I want, so you're going to get a ton of oblique. You're going to get a ton of like transverse playing core. You're going to, so, you know, someone who might, why don't you pick that? Because it, uh, the economy of it, how many different things are at play in this movement. So I don't need to worry if I can get someone to pick up, you know, half their body weight in one hand, I don't need them to do a bird dog anymore because it's like, well, now we we've, we've equated for this movement quality of, of trunk rotation. Right. And it's what would otherwise be a very remedial exercise. And we've now built the strength far past this threshold of a, of a quadruped, you know, bird dog exercise. Right. So it's, again, the vegetables and the spaghetti sauce. I'm not optimizing for muscle growth early days. So someone wouldn't have to do a bird dog if they can do a one arm row. You don't really. Yeah. That's, that's, that's kind of the idea. And now not to say that these are, are written off entirely. No, no. Cause you're talking about efficiency. Right. Exactly. So I love the one arm row for that reason is that it just creates this massive moment of rotation at the trunk that is hard to replicate while also training, you know, the extent of your shoulder rotation movement of the scapula. So it's a really, to me, a really efficient exercise. Then we're going to try and get into the overhead. Now that's going to look a lot different to a lot of different people. Right. So the overhead could be pull-ups. I think if I'm to like, and I'll try to do this efficiently, if you have a machine and I think that the, the best machine, in my opinion, if I'm to build a gym, I'm going to have, I'm going to have as many of these as I have squat racks, the assisted dip and pull-up machine. It to me is one of the single best pieces of equipment ever made. Right. So I haven't used that in years. It is. It's just, it's just an express. It's a full expression of the shoulder. That's going to, that's going to really pick apart and get those, what I would call like the intervalence mechanics of the shoulder working. Right. So a shoulder is, it has like a nucleus. If we think about it, kind of like a model, like, you know, the nucleus would be the diaphragm. So the upper extremity really starts at the diaphragm and then the diaphragm interacts with the rib cage with the direct attachment to it. And then the rib cage interacts with the shoulder blade. And then the shoulder blade interacts with the humerus and the arm. Right. So we have like the nucleus, we're drawing like a bore diagram for the chemistry friends out there. That's the diaphragm. Then we have a rib cage, then a scapula, and then a humerus pull-ups and dips. They take this outer valence and they solve the diaphragm. They could solve all the way into the diaphragm. Right. So rather than focusing on, you know, breathing drills, which again, highly contextualized, I can get my shoulder into maximum internal rotation and hyperextension and maximum flexion and rotation. And then I need my scapula to accommodate and I need my rib cage to accommodate to do that. And I can titrate my own body weight to the point in which I can express these movement qualities without vigilance. Right. And these are really on off switches for people. So like you asked a really good question, how do we know if we're moving vigilant with a squat? That's kind of tough. You know, do you feel stable or not? Can you do a pull-up? Can you do a dip? Right. These are very like off on like one zero type scenario. And people will also say that oftentimes they will have rotator cuff problems or shoulder injuries, right? Especially someone hits 40. You know, Sarah hits 40 and she's in, I don't know, she lives in Arkansas and all of a sudden her shoulder hurts. Right. Can she still do that? If you tie, so the pain and injury one is tough because we first need to understand there's a difference between pain and injury, right? Pain science is unbelievably complicated, right? Injury particularly is referencing tissue damage. If there's tissue damage, there's going to be a sliding scale of pain. Our goal, if there's damage, tissue damage structure is to out function that structure. How can we use movement and our ability to compensate to bypass loading that tissue more? A lot of times a rotator cuff is a scapegoat because we're lacking movement somewhere else, right? And then one of the, one of the things that, you know, injury prevention really, uh, one of the adequate notions. Is that what prescript stands for? Um, yeah. Prescript is a, there's an evolution. It's like an ordinance or a law, something that comes before. So it's like, well, how do we prepare movement quality so that we can continually progress? Well, I don't want to get sidetracked because we only have 10 minutes. I wish we, I wish we had longer. Um, the, um, overhead press or the overhead movement. So that's not a press cause it's a pull. Right. Presses would probably be our furthest progress. We would probably at mass scale, aside from doing them potentially on a machine, I wouldn't say most people go down that avenue right away. But the dip is interesting and we cover that on the YouTube cause I would have, again, I haven't done dips in years. I'm going to start. Yeah. Um, what else are we doing for upper body? So we've done a, um, a row, a pull up, a dip. Yeah. What else? I would get. And a dip because it's interesting. You are talking about training muscles, but you're also talking about mobility and stability because the movements that you're choosing, um, seem to cause the scapula to glide. They're really engaging, um, in multiple planes. Yeah. I mean, the goal is to try and cause biomechanics, we look so, so, uh, uniformly and just siloed into muscle mechanics, but there's what's called like, let's for simple terms of joint mechanics, you know, structure doesn't dictate function, but it does indicate function. Structure doesn't dictate function, but it does indicate function. My shoulder can only move a certain way because of the sliding surfaces that it, that it's comprised of. Right. So yeah, we're trying to get you to end range. And that's where a lot of the economy of these movements come from is because at the end range, I'm going to, then a pull up, I'm going to have to use like a really, uh, undertrained muscle in my rotator cuff to do an assisted pull up with a, you know, one of those machines that help when I'm doing a dip. I actually, one of the reasons I love dips is because one of the things it does is actually trains a unique property of the lat, right? It was like, oh, a dip lat. It's like, yeah, a lot of people, when they get to the bottom, like, oh no, like it's bad for your anterior shoulder. It's like, no, it's actually really good for your lat, which is going to help protect that anterior shoulder. We're going to be training it. So normally we do pushups before this, as you know, but we're going to be, we're going to start training that. Seriously. Amazing. Yeah. And again, it's all about economy. It's all about movement quality. It's about, it's about taxonomizing movement past just muscle group and modality. What do we have next? So upper body rib cage, rib cage. Now this comes by way of core. We talked about core a little bit of movement preparation, get your spine and your trunk moving, right? And then think of three planes. So, you know, uh, Stu McGill has this, the big three exercise, the bird dog, the curl up and the side plank. What do you see that for what it is mechanistically? It's moving the rib cage or in this case, not moving the rib cage through flexion and extension front to back. And then, uh, you know, lateral flexion or side to side or the transverse plane rotation. But it's that model is all about not moving it. When we look at the rib cage and we look at the spine, we see a lot of joints. What's the axiom? A lot of joints or a lot of bones, a lot of movement, right? So picking an exercise. And this is like, this is where I think people should really embrace the creativity of exercise programming. It's a ton of fun. Like it's, it's one of the single most enjoyable parts of my job. And it's like, okay, I create an index now. So we have bird dog curl up side plank. This is an exercise, do this at home. And then when you're going through social media or you're digesting content about fitness and you see core exercises, be like, what is this most like? Is it front to back, side to side, or is it rotational? And then start to put them all on a list. Bird dog. What's a curl up? Curl up is just kind of like a sit up and a hook line position. And then the third line, the third one was side plank, right? Because each of those is one is front to back, the curl up, right? One is side to side, the side plank, obviously. That's interesting. The way that they're picking those with the spine. It's a really good way of categorizing, but I, I challenge a lot of people to take a far more robust approach to their spine and far less of a fragile approach and be like, look, this thing is meant to move. So the drill we did today was one of my favorites. That was awesome. What is that called? It's just like a side bend. It's just a side bend on a bench. And all I'm thinking of is I'm not thinking necessarily about the obliques. My reference point isn't muscle. It's movement quality. It's a movement quality of taking your ribs and taking your pelvis and just moving them apart, right? Getting those ribs to open up, right? Allowing for something that's so autonomic. Our ribs move with our breath. Our breath is by definition autonomic. So when we're looking to complete our upper body and really complete our session, looking at the rib cage and spine and being like, Hey, we have three planes of movement. Let's things that move front to back. And we think like rope crunch would be one rather than just doing a plank and resisting my spine from moving. I want my spine to move. I want to find these end ranges of extension. I want to find these end ranges of flexion. I want to find these end ranges of rotation. You have to train those, correct? Yeah. And again, it's, it's, it's, it's a movement quality thing. I noticed I didn't say rectus abdominis obliques or anything. It's all because these are the real bottlenecks to, you know, you're, you're, you're, you're, we're trying to get to a conversation around strength and hypertrophy. You can't have those conversations meaningfully unless you talk about movement quality first, because all of it's going to be compensatory. We have five minutes strength and hypertrophy. Okay. I am a bit confused. Now the conversation is you can be stronger without a significant amount of hypertrophy. Yeah. But then the question would be when you are training hypertrophy, you're not necessarily getting significant strength. Is that accurate? Right. Uh, to a certain degree, like the, there are two, there are two circles in a Venn diagram. They're not one, but isn't that odd? No, because we just got to understand what's adapting, right? One is a neurological adaptation that's highly predicated on skill. Right. And one is metabolic adaptation. That's, that's highly predicated on tension. Right. Like, do you know, um, Jeremy Lenecke? No, we, you just actually answered the question that we probably spent three hours talking about. Oh, that's rare for me to sum, sum, we were talking about, and he is a world leading expert in blood flow restriction. Interesting. He was in Arkansas and we were, um, I'll send you a couple of his papers. He's an amazing, lovely person. He, um, we were talking about this idea of strength and people will say, okay, well, we know how we get stronger, but we don't necessarily know why we get hypertrophy. And I said, you know, probably for some kind of metabolic adaptation. And he was like, yeah, but we don't know. And you just said it beautifully that strength is this neurological response and hypertrophy is metabolic. Yeah. And we see this, like we're seeing in the Olympics right now, right? Like, you know, there's weight classes in sports that guys are guys and girls are lifting weights far beyond my capacity. But why, how do people get stronger? How do they get stronger without getting bigger? Because we don't need increased cross-sectional area to a certain point. Talk to me. I mean, that's, that's simple. How, well, let's first, how are we measuring strength? Let's start there because you know, there's, there's a lot of different, um, there's a lot of different outlets that we're looking at because, you know, are we measuring strength? Let's, let's pick sports. Are we measuring it by like a powerlifting, like squat bench and deadlift? Are we measuring it? Um, is it more velocity based? Is it something like shot put? Like when you say building strength, like what are you, what are you lifting, lifting something heavy, powerlifting something? Okay. Powerlifting. It's like, yeah, those adaptations are going to be predominantly efficiently based, efficiency based. So interesting. And they're this neural, neuromuscular connection, right? Is it neurologic? Is it, and also is the, the muscle, the fiber change? I mean, the fiber types would change, but we really look at fiber types typically from type one and, you know, the variations of type two and maybe mixed fiber fiber types, but it's probably not a strength fiber type. Is there? No. I mean, it's really going to be, when we're looking at people deadlifting and squatting heavy weight, what you're really seeing is an efficiency, an efficiency to move through the pattern, like an unencumbered, uncompensated movement quality, primarily that then a lot of the adaptation is just going to be, you know, residual tissue building. Um, so like what are the bottlenecks? That's maybe a good place to start. Like you're going to be using like, uh, it's, it's a tough conversation to have without kind of getting too technical. I mean, it's a, it's, it's a very, yes, it's a tough conversation. But I just think primarily if we look through the lens of one is more neurologic and one efficiency and skill based. Yes. You, I thought that that was genius. I got one. I answered one question succinctly in two hours. Uh, Jordan shallow. I have so much respect for you. I hope that you will be a regular guest on the show. You're brilliant. And I know that's embarrassing for you to, um, uh, being complimented, but you're very, very articulate and intelligent. And I think that your way of thinking about things, it's very innovative and it's not the same kind of dog chasing their tail. It's how can we think about movement patterns? How can we think about the sensory input? How do we think about strength, stability, mobility, and you'll be training up and, uh, certifying other trainers, which you have and do. Isn't that right? Yeah. I mean, my goal is to, to, to just change the paradigm and cause it is all the same, like coming from like a more clinical sports med background, but also a strength and conditioning background, but also competitive strength athlete background. It's, it's all the same system. Right. And I think it's the scope of practice of someone who works in prescribing exercise isn't realized yet. Like the problems that you can solve without, without surgeries or without anti-inflammatories, without drugs. And it's like, you know, there's, there's, there's a lot of depth to how we're looking at this. And, and it's a lot of, and I, I feel like this is like a good disclaimer to end on. Like if I look, like if that book is on, you know, in your neighbor's front lawn and I look at it like, Oh, it's, it's a, it's a, it's a brown rectangle. I'm right, but I'm not. But at the level of depth that I'm looking at it, I am. But as I get closer, I go, Oh, it's a book. But then I get closer to again. It's like, well, there's actually words on the page. So if I looked at that and said, I don't know, say you wrote like Jordan on the page or something like that. And I said, Hey, that's Jordan. Or that says Jordan. He's like, no, it doesn't. I don't know. I'm just at the wrong depth. Right. So like part of what we're trying to do is, is to allow people to create a high resolution image of the body, a big picture, right? What's wrong with what's hard about making big pictures, high resolution. It requires a lot of pixels. And then when you know how to zoom in and zoom out, and you understand these things, there is no limit to the problems you can solve with movement. Right. And it's, it is complex. And if you're listening to this and like, honestly, if you're reaching the email, me, Jordan at the muscle doc.com, I will literally write you a program because it's worth it to me to apply these principles at scale. And it's something that I think people, because it's so mass produced because exercise programming is so just like, you know, eight weeks, this in the challenge or whatever. And those are great. Again, let's optimize for enjoyment. Number one, like let's not control the human being out of what we're doing. And it is something that like, I find a ton of enjoyment in and the people, the athletes I work with find a ton of enjoyment in and the non-athletes I work with have learned to find and be inspired by, to get life, breathe, breathe into them through exercise. Like there's, there's literally the scope of practice of movement prescription is it will change the scope of medicine forever. If we understand how to create this high resolution, big picture. Jordan shallow, you are leading the charge. We will include where to find you all of the things. I am so grateful for you. Thank you so much. Thank you.