 Is there something that happened? Was there a moment that made you start to reflect on transitioning from being super gritty to finding a middle balance for more empathy? I don't know if there was one moment, but I think there were like lots of little moments leading up. I think it's really easy to get caught up in wanting to win. Like, I went through a period in the beginning of my first business where I said the only thing that matters is this. And it's because, like, me and Alex, my partner husband, we put all our money into it, we had no money, we lost all of our money, like we were broke, and I was like, I don't give a about anybody else. I need to make money. I was like, what am I gonna do? I'm not gonna go back, like that would suck. And so I just said, like, I don't really care about friendships. I don't really care about seeing my family right now and care about anything. Like, I need to make this work. So there's data. I don't understand, I actually don't. Like, I do not think failure is a bad thing. I think people have a bad relationship with failure. They look at it like it means something about them, they look at it like it's a bad thing. Like, every time you fail, you are that much closer to success. Like, I really do believe that, innately, in my blood. Like, there has been nothing that I have to see that that I have not failed at first. People are always striving to make it. Do you feel like you've made it? Um... Laila. It's so good to see you. It's good to see you, too. This is great. We're gonna do it in person in Las Vegas. Amazing. I'm so excited. So you've been in fitness for a long time. Yes. I've been in fitness for a long time. I've been in fitness for a long time. I've been in fitness for a long time. I've been in fitness for a long time. Yes. Technically. Right. And my question is, do you think that you would have come as far if fitness wasn't a standard? It's actually really funny because I was talking about that with my husband, like, literally a week ago, which was, I'm so glad that I actually had the foundation in fitness going into business because I think just with how immersed I have been in it and like how much up the obsession it's taken over my life, I don't know if I would have been able to take care of myself. I think I had the foundation there. And so we were both talking about that. Like, I think that if I hadn't had the foundation, there's a few things, which is like, one, I don't think that I would have been able to go as long as I have or have the endurance because I wouldn't have known how to take care of myself. And so it's like, if I hadn't known how to eat or how to exercise or sleep or like any of those things, I think I would have burned out pretty quick. I think a lot of people do. And I would say the second thing is that the skill of learning how to do things that suck, that are hard, that you don't feel like doing, that go against, it's like things that feel bad, but then you learn are good for you. Like most things. Which is most things, right? I think fitness really taught me that. I would say the last one is like confidence. You know, every time, like when I got into fitness and I was super overweight, I didn't have any confidence. And I learned that you never feel ready. You never feel like you should be in the gym. You never intend until eventually one day, it just kind of happens. And it's the output, not the input. And so, no, I don't think that I would have been able to. And like I still love fitness so much because it's like no matter what has happened, I think a lot of people see what I do and they must think like, you have no life. You do it. I will not go a day without doing exercise. Like I have never, the only time that I've not exercised, like if I'm post-surgery and I cannot, I think one time I had a really bad flu and I didn't go on a walk. Besides that, it's been like 15 years. That's, it's unusual, right? So I see entrepreneurs in my practice and I can always tell a working entrepreneur. You know why? Why? Because they work all the time and they don't take care of themselves. And there's this inevitable burnout because it's predictable. Yeah. Right? You're chasing these highs and lows, but the season to entrepreneur is really steady. Really steady. You said something else that I thought was really interesting. This idea that there's confidence and belief. And I was thinking about the warriors in the arena. You know, like my son's name is Leonidas. We talk lots about the Spartans and he's training for the SEAL teams, by the way. He's four. He's four. That's really cute. It's really tough when your four-year-old wants to cold plunge and you're like, no, bro, I'm out. I'm good. Yeah. And it makes you look, yeah, pretty weak. But besides the point, you know, I think about those Spartans and the warriors and the gladiators. I don't think that they had self-belief before they stepped into the arena. No. Like, I think it's interesting because I think now, I mean, I think a lot about this actually, which is almost like even just like the, like, if we go back really, really far, we didn't even have language. Now we have language. And it's like, how does that affect how quickly we take action because we're, you know, we instead of just going and doing the thing, we have the option of like talking about inventing to somebody and like almost emotionally vomiting about the thing until we do the thing. So like that's super meta. But I think about that a lot. I think it's just a fallacy because like for me, when I start anything, like when I was 100 pounds overweight, before I started my first business, before I started my business I have now, that was only four years ago, before I bought my first business, before I made my first piece of content, which by the way, I had a net worth of hundreds of millions of dollars when I started making content. I didn't have any confidence or self-belief in any of those things, despite even having high levels of self-belief in other areas. But those other areas had small areas that were transferable, not, but they weren't fully transferable. And I think what happened was that the first thing I ever did in my life that really changed my life was losing a lot of weight and getting into shape and doing fitness and realizing that it was literally just boring AF. It was nothing fancy, nothing special. It's like, everyone asked me, like, how did you lose 100 pounds? Like how much cardio did you have to do? None. I just walked. I walked, I lifted weights and I just ate moderately. Like it was just the boring stuff. And so when I look at all the other areas of life now, I use that as like an anchor to get into anything else. Like I remember I was like, I can lose 100 pounds, I can learn how to start a business. And it's like, okay, now if I can learn how to start a business, I can learn how to start a different kind of business. If I can learn how to start three businesses, I can learn how to buy a business. Like it just stacked in terms of like, I had evidence to pull on that I'd done something before, but every time I got into the same situation, like I got in front of a camera to make content or I was like, I'm going to buy this business. I'm going to do diligence. I'm going to hire this person that's millions of dollars a year, whatever it was. I didn't have belief in that area. I could recall things that I'd done before and be like, you're the type of person who can do hard things, the type of person who can build self-belief, but I didn't have belief in those areas. I was like, I was ready. I was always terrified. It's always the kind of thing where you're like, not sleeping well the night before, you feel sick, whatever. Like I tell people all the time, like, I still get a stomach ache about these things. Like I am a human. And so I think that it's now I'm at the point where I'm like, okay, understand how this goes, which is like the price that you pay for your dreams is discomfort today. But like you don't get the dreams tomorrow unless you pay the price of discomfort today, which is doing something when you don't feel ready. Like what is discomfort if you really like think about it, right? Discomfort is doing something before you feel ready. Like if we really boil it down, that is most the time what that actually is. It's the anticipatory anxiety. If I don't know how this is going to turn out because I've never done it before. And so I think about that a lot because I anchor so much to that before I started my business, like if I can lose a hundred pounds, I can do this. Like I lost 100 pounds. I play second to bikini competition. By the way, almost passed out on stage because I was so nervous, but I did it. And I was like, if I can do that, I can start a business. And I think for a lot of people, they believe that in order to do the thing, you have to feel like you're ready for the thing. You have to have these prerequisites checked off and all these things. And it's like, I joke with people when they're like, Hey, what should I study? What course should I take to learn business? But I'm like, you just fucking get in there and do it. Like, I don't know what else to say. Like you've got to get in the arena and actually start. People ask me like, how do you learn about business? And I'm not there. Like are you just gatekeeping? Like you're not telling me about books you read. And I'm like, I have read like six very good books on business and outside of that, everything comes from just trying stuff and not being afraid to fail. But do you become less comfortable? Less. Do you experience less discomfort? Because now you're, yeah, because now you're seasoned at now. You're, oh, I know what to expect. I think that I'll say, I think there's global discomfort and local discomfort. My general level of anxiety has gone down over time because I've taught myself how to manage those situations. And I've proven to myself that I can confront those situations. My localized anxiety to like right when I'm going to step on a stage with 10,000 people or 15,000 people is still there. But I don't have anxiety about my anxiety anymore. It's not. I think in the beginning you have anxiety about even having the anxiety. And over time, I think what's happened is that I don't have anxiety over the feeling of anxiety. I understand that I'm willing to pay that price to get the life I want. And that price is usually just like a feeling in my body that just I don't love having, but I understand I need to have in order to get what I want. Does that make sense? It does. And most people think about where they want to go. Did you think about where you wanted to go? I've always thought about the person I want to be. I haven't thought as much, I know it sounds cheesy, but like I haven't thought as much about where I want to go more than I thought, who do I want to be? And then what roads could take me there? And I think I'm flexible in terms of like what the road looks like, but I'm really fixated on like what I want myself to look like. And it's just constant improvement in every area, like mostly around my character. Like tell me about that. What do you mean? When I think about, so I'll give you an example. Like I think that early in my life, like when I started losing weight and stuff, I was like, I want to be more resilient. I want to be grittier. I want to be tougher. I want to be strong. I want to be disciplined. And I got really good at that. But there's another side to who I want to be that it started to atrophy because I worked so hard on this, which was like, I want to still be able to be empathetic and kind and funny and caring and supported. And so in the last 18, 24 months, I've said, I think I'm good enough over here, but the version of myself that I see and who I want to be in this world that I think can give the most to the most amount of people has this just as strong as this. And so I've said, OK, how do I train this muscle instead of this muscle? And so what I read, how I work, conversations I have, my intentions, I said every day are focused on that rather than this. Because I'm like, this is now almost automatic. I can do that in my sleep. It's not hard for me to go hard. But it is harder for me to learn to slow down, to stop, to be compassionate, to be empathetic, to listen, to be present. And I'm getting a lot better at it. But it's like it all came from like, I looked at, you know, who is Layla when she's, you know, I think about when I'm like 65 years old and someone's interviewing me, which 65 is not super old. But like, it's still like 30 years above where I am right now. Right. And so I was like, she's a lot softer than you are right now. And that was like two years ago that I had that kind of like check in with myself. And so I think it's just all anchors around like who you want to be and what do you want to be known for? Like I think about like when I die, what do I want people to say about me? Thank you to our sponsor, One Skin, for sponsoring this episode. If you've ever felt burnt out from skincare, too many products, too many promises and not much to show for it, you're not alone. What finally made sense to me about One Skin is that they're not focused on surface level fixes. They're focused on changing how your skin functions over time, which is incredibly valuable. Their products are powered by a peptide called OS-01. And it's designed to target senescent cells, the aging cells that drive inflammation, thinning skin and loss of resilience. I've noticed improvements in skin texture, hydration. And I've talked about this before, especially under my eyes, which has always been a problem area for me. And right now I'm using their eye cream, broad spectrum, face sunscreen and topical body supplement. This is skincare for people who care about longevity, not just quick cosmetic wins. You can get 15% off One Skin by going to OneSkin.co and using the code Dr. Lion. That takes a lot of thought. Is there something that happened? Was there a moment that made you start to reflect on transitioning from being super gritty to finding a middle balance for more empathy? I don't know if there was one moment, but I think there were like lots of little moments leading up. Like, I think there was a moment where I was like, I'm not sure if I was going to get caught up in wanting to win. And I made this podcast about like, you want to be really careful what people applaud you for, because it's like people tell us we're really good at something. They applaud you for it. You get likes on Instagram. People tell you that you're amazing at this thing. But if it's not aligned with what you want to keep doing to get where you want to go, it's really easy to get caught up in it. And you don't even realize it. And I think that, you know, I think that's a really good thing. I think that's a really good thing. And you don't even realize it. And I think that, especially with the culture that we have today, I think like when I first, I'm being completely transparent, like when I first started making content, because I'd done everything behind the scenes with my businesses prior, I wasn't like public facing. I started making content. People were like, yeah, like, you know, it was like the first like, I would say like, feedback I got was just like from a lot more like people that were like, yeah, we love the discipline and the hard work and look how hard she works. And like, I almost felt like I had to, at that point, you know, maybe four years ago, show people that I had that in me because I felt like, from being honest, people didn't know that I had the ability to work that hard because I'm old. And I felt like I had to prove that I'm strong and that I'm disciplined and I'm all these things. And then I want to say it was probably about two and a half years ago that I was like, watching my own content. And I was like, I don't even like her. And I was like, why don't I like it? And I was like, I've gotten so hardened because I'm trying to prove something to people that I don't care about, which is crazy based on the fact that I do not need to do this. I don't need to work. I don't need to do any of this. But like, I feel the need to prove that I'm capable of something that I already know I'm capable of. I've proven that to myself. And when that happened, I said, like, I want to go. Like, I almost had to say, like, I already know who I am. I've just leaned really far in one direction. And that was when I was like, I want to not only get back in touch with more of this other side of myself, but also like, I want that incorporated in everything. Like that was the point in time where like, I had my team. I was like, listen, I make jokes and crack jokes. I'm like a fucking dad jokes. Terrible. Not even funny to a lot of people, but like that's. I understand about that. Yeah. I'm like, I want to show that. I want to show like me, you know, with my husband, I want to show behind the scenes. We started doing vlogging because I was like, I want people to see that. Like you can be successful and not just be these things. And I want to remind myself of that because I don't want to be an extreme person, either one of these directions. I want to be me, which is both end in the middle. And probably ever evolving. Totally. Yeah. We're never stagnant, right? I mean, like, are you the same person we're five years ago? No. Yeah. Not yesterday. Just depends on which side of the bed I wake up on. I mean, you know, my kids are still sleeping with me. So they're jujitsu-ing me in the face all night. So you just wake up pretty cranky. That makes sense. But when you really started being forward facing, was there something that you were hoping for? I always just thought, like, when I started making content, it was not out of the need for the business. In fact, like my content doesn't even loop back to my business. Like I don't have like a funnel. Like if we were just talking about it, actually, like literally before this, I was like, I don't do shit with it right now. I, we sold our first business, my husband and I. And that was about seven years after starting it. And I was like, what is something that I could see myself doing the rest of my life? And then I thought about what kind of impact I want to have on the world. And I said, well, what would have to happen? What would have to change about me to have that impact? And I was like, I can't keep hiding. I think I need to get, I need to be more public facing. And that was when I said I want to get out there because I think that I want to show people, especially at that point, you know, everyone on Instagram was just like, oh, look at my Ferrari and my money and all my this and this is like, look at my money. You know, and they're like, oh, let me show you how to build a business. And I'm like, what real business owners? Like, look at all the money I have. Like nobody that I know that's like really good at business is like, let me show you how much money is all over the place. It's like, in fact, they're probably the opposite. Right. They're the opposite. They're like, I don't want to know what you see this. I don't want to have to deal with these lawsuits. I got enough shit on my plate. Yeah. Um, and I was like, it would be really cool if I could show be transparent, um, in a way that inspires people so that when it gets hard, they realize that that's normal. And for people that want to be in business, but don't relate to that very like, I would say like ego driven status driven, money driven side that they can see like, you can have other motives and still succeed in business. And so there's just kind of all those things I was thinking like, I didn't have something that I looked up to, um, especially a female when I was starting in business. And so, you know, I had a lot of everyone asked me, it's all men that I looked up to. And I think also because on the other side, there were some females, but they didn't talk about business. They just did business, but they didn't talk about the same tactics or strategies that men did. And I was like, well, I would love to learn from you. But like, I don't know, come on, Kris Jenner. No, but like, you know, like somebody's got to like talk about that. Right. And so that inspired me to start making content in the first place. And then I think the first 18 months were just like absolute dog shit. Like it was, it was terrible. Like people just said so many things about me. There were so many after I got past that first 18 months, then it really started to feel like relief. Like there weren't so many people saying such mean stuff. And then were you listening to it? Listening to it? Like, you know, seeing it. Um, I didn't actively look for it. So I'm not that type of person. Like I don't search my name often or do any of that stuff. Like I'll do it. Like I literally think I did this morning for the first time in like three or four months. Um, but I will see things and people will message me or tag me or all friends send me things. You know what I mean? Like, why do they do that? Don't do that guys. They do that to me too. It's so weird, right? Yeah. The thing is, it's like, it doesn't round me up, especially because of the stuff I went through in the beginning, but I'm just like, this is unnecessary. Like I just don't, I'm like, what kind of a troll? Like I've never said a mean thing about anybody and I can't like fathom having a life for you at time. Do you imagine having time? No, I just, I think that I'm like, you have to, I can't even find my socks. No, definitely not. Yeah. So it's that. Um, and so yeah, I think making the content and being public facing was like, how do I spread the message faster? And that's what works for a lot of people right now. Why do you think there's not that many women in positions to provide? I don't want to say value, but for example, to look up to, because I think that it's almost across the board, even in the longevity space or even in, you know, um, you know, my husband was in the Navy and, you know, I think about our other seal friends like Jaco and Johnny Kim and these guys that, you know, I would say a lot of the team guys also resonate, but what about women? It's interesting because I've thought about that a few times. So here's my theory on some of it, which is like women gain nothing. From the opposite sex by showing how much money status they have. So like a woman being like, I have girls that will come to like, I don't understand, like I have a good career. I'm making my own like, girl, you don't give. What are you on Tinder? Right. It's like, he doesn't really care that much about that. Like, um, I think that like, I often think about it like, what are we programmed biologically to do? And like men, it's like, if you have a lot of money and status and fame, women typically flock to you. I think for women, I'm not sure. I think that it might be intimidating to a degree for men. I mean, I don't, you probably get this, but like, I definitely met people who are, get more shy because of it. And so one, I don't know if it reinforces the pursuit of finding a partner. Um, the second one is that I don't think that I think women have been socially conditioned not to advocate for themselves. So I don't think that many women, at least I think about myself, it wasn't like you're not really taught to speak up. You know, I think now the narrative has changed, but I think a lot of people that's still like programmed is like less self advocacy. And in the advocacy that did exist, it was like, you know, I think about like when I was in middle school, high school, it's like, it's just like, okay, uh, to like look good, not to use your brains. Um, and then I would say like the third piece being I have, there are a decent amount of like, I would say studies to support that like a lot of women, um, have, there's a lot of female business owners, but there's not a ton that have, there's not still as many out there speaking up who have larger businesses, which might be again, because they have kids and they want privacy or like, I think about that, like maybe that's the reason why. Um, but like when I look at the women out there that are teaching business, it's like often smaller. So it doesn't get as much reach because if you think about anybody in a place of authority, if you want to get rich, you have to have a lot of credibility where's credibility and business come from having a bigger business with more money. So I think about those three things as like the reason why there's probably not as many. Um, and then I think that there's just a natural, like just being completely honest, how the f**k are you supposed to have a business, make content, have kids, have a husband, be it like that is f**king hard. So there's just a constraint of time where it's like, it's called you sacrifice sleep. Right. Yeah. Lots of sleep. 100%. It's like, I mean, I don't want to do that. So it's like, I think about people that have kids, have a business, have a relationship, have friends, and now I'm going to make content about it too. It's like they had something has to give you. Can't be everything to everybody. And so I think that it's difficult for a lot of women, the ones I've spoken to that are like very legitimate in business. They're like, I just don't tell on it. So how do we determine business legitimacy? I mean, I think about anybody in business. I think about like being legit in business would be like the, I mean, I'm not saying I find this, but like, I would say like the quality and quantity, meaning like the, if you were to test a business and say like, how is it legit? It makes a lot of money, grows a lot and people say good things about it, customers and employees. And I would say if you have those three things and like, you'd be like, that's a legit business. I think that if you have a business where people say good things, both internally and externally, but it's small, it's like you have credibility with small businesses, not large businesses. If you have a big business that has lots of money, et cetera, but nobody says good things about it, you have credibility with scammers. So that's how I think about it. That's helpful because I think a lot of people are listening. So my audience is, you know, they're really interested in evolving. And even though the entry point is medicine, we really bring on the best to the best in all of their domains. And I think one of the big challenges is, you know, in our content, for example, a lot of the scientists that are out there are men. There are some women, but it is not easy to get them to come on, easy to get them to be forward facing. And it just, it's confusing because I think there's so much to gain from a sisterhood. You know, right before this, we called one of my best friends, Emily, for Stella, Emily, love you, you're probably not listening to this podcast, but whatever. And there is something special in women supporting other women. But you know who you see that mostly in the guys. I think the bros, they're like there to support each other versus the women. It's more, at least from what I see, more like crabs in the barrel. Yeah. That's interesting. I do think that there's like, if you think about competition amongst the sexes, it's like, I think men are like, they fight with their fists. Women manipulative. So it's like, I think when I speak to other women, they're like, Oh, it's hard to find people I can trust. That's always like the, do I trust women? And I'm like, I look at the same way as hiring people. It's like, well, if you let one person burn you, you're never going to have a team. If you let one friend burn you, it's like, you're never going to have friends. So how do you evaluate trust? Or how do you, you know, you probably have a lot of people coming to you for a lot of different things. I think that trust is, I think like if I were to say, how do I know I can trust somebody? It usually comes from being able to predict their behavior over a long enough time. So I think that the difficulty with trust is that it just takes time. Everyone says, trust just takes time. Why does it take time? Because if you want to understand somebody and be able to predict their behavior, which makes you feel safe, you have to have had enough time spent around that person or expose that person to understand. I know I read a study once on that. It takes about 80 hours to form a real friendship with somebody. I was like, well, why is that? I think it's because in order to really trust someone, you have to just see how their behavior plays out over time. So I think about that with people. Do you find you're more guarded now than you were in the beginning of business? Oddly no. Because I think I was so guarded then. Like I wouldn't even be able to be myself talking to you right now. Like I would be so self-conscious. I think I was very insecure. Like me 10 years ago, so insecure. I think that's part of it each. We all go through that, I suppose. And then with the insecurity is like, well, if I can't trust this person, will I be able to amend the situation? Can I take care of myself? I think it was I trust myself more now. The more I trust myself, I can trust other people. Does that make sense? Yes, it does. Yeah. What do you think people get wrong in business and life, relationships? Are they different? This is just like, I think I definitely feel about instead of like wrong, I think there's trade-offs, but I think that there are universal patterns that people tried to defy. I would say that one of those would be like, if I could give anybody like the biggest thing I've learned in my lifetime, which I got to learn by like a very young age is like money does not make you happy. Success does not make you happy. I think that people conflate happiness and success and there's such a different things I can feel super happy when I'm not super successful. Like I can tell you, because in business, you have good and bad years. Some of my happiest years have been the ones I've been the least successful business, probably also not a coincidence. And I think that, you know, it's funny because I remember somebody told me when I was like 21 and I was like, listen, I'm not going to be if I was like, what do I do with my life? Right? And I was like, they're like, had you already sold your business at this point? I was no, not at that point. This was when I was 21. So I was young and I was trying to figure out what I wanted to do. And somebody was like, you could go into physical therapy and you could make $85,000 in year one. And I was just like, that's too slow. And they were like, listen, money isn't going to make you happy. And I remember literally being like, hi, brother, find out for myself. Like, yes it will. Yeah. I will find out. And I didn't, you know, I say that half heartedly, but like they're just different skills. And I think that a lot of times in life, people think that if they succeed more, they're going to be happier. And that's just not the case. And I think that I think that there's feeling content. There's feeling confident. There's having respect for yourself. There's trusting yourself. Those are all, and those could help with happy. You know, like having a solid foundation of like feeling like you've got your back. But I don't think that the two are related. And I think I know a lot of people who I do not want to be like that are very successful, like wildly successful, like most successful in the world. And they are so miserable. Yeah. And I've just told myself, I'm like, I'm just not willing to compromise my quality of life to succeed. Like I'm just, I just don't want to do that. And I think it was like two years ago, I really started thinking about that. I was like, I know my personality. I know myself. I can be very obsessed and fixated and not do these other things that make my life good and build connection and relationships and stuff. Had you always valued that relationship of connection? Always have doesn't mean I always prioritized it. Like I went through a period in the beginning of my first business where I said the only thing that matters is this. And it's because like, you know, me and Alex, my partner husband, we put all our money into it. We had no money. We've lost all of our money. Like we were broke. And I was like, I don't give a about anybody else. I need to make money. I was, I don't have what am I going to do? I'm not going to like go back. Like that would suck. And so I just said, like, I don't really care about friendships. I don't really care about seeing my family right now and care about anything. Like I need to make this work. And so for that, there was like a three period, three year period where we literally said when people would be like, Hey, do you want to go to dinner? Me and Alex said the same thing. People would be like, we don't do dinner. And they were like, why? And we're like, we just don't do friends right now. And it was like, Oh, I remember saying, Oh my gosh. And then being like, what? And I was like, I just don't even know how to do that. And it was because honestly, like in the beginning of my business, I was so scared.  ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, ab excuses, by the time it was 23 out of 100 employees and I'm like, I've never even managed somebody before. That's bananas. Yeah. And then I'm like, I gotta figure this out. So it's like every waking moment, all I wanted to do was figure that out because I took it really seriously. I'm like, listen, all these people paid me all this money to deliver these products and services. 23 years old. Yeah. How do you even go through that? That's so accelerated, you know? I mean, you grow up in business. Yeah. It was like the wildest few years of my life, honestly, I think. But the interesting thing is like you asked me about fitness in the beginning. Like I anchored so much to that when I was going through it because it's like you're going through an identity shift. You're changing your lifestyle. You're learning a completely new skill. It's what you think about all day. Other people see it and they're talking about it. Like it's a giant life shift. And so yeah, it was really, really hard for me, but I also gained so many skills. Like I wouldn't have traded it for the world. Like the person I was able to become and how much confidence I got as an output of all the things that I did, I think it was such a gift. Yeah. Makes me think a lot about a lot of sacrifice. Yeah. You know, I did my fellowship in geriatrics and nutritional sciences and I gotta tell you what, I didn't want to. I mean, I was rounding on nursing homes. You're going, you're seeing 30 patients that are going to die a day and it just was not what I signed up for. Yeah. But I did it so I could do nutritional sciences. And I just thought, man, just one more day, one more day until the time is complete and the sacrifice seems to be transformative and it's who's willing to sacrifice to be able to move forward. I agree with that. I think I'm so careful to talk about sacrifice because people are like, oh my God, what are you gonna do? Sacrifice your whole life for this thing. And I think what you just said is exactly what I tell people, which is it's not forever. But in every season, it's like you think about life as like a wheel. You probably see us with people with health. It's like you have to, there's the constraint. What's the constraint of your life? Right? And then to move forward in that area, that constraint, you almost have to put the rest on autopilot, say, I'm gonna sacrifice growing these other areas to grow this one area, raise the thermometer, like the set level there, and then I'll probably move to the next one. I think about that because like a lot of entrepreneurs you meet with, I'm sure it's like they've done the business and they've maxed out. But it's like now the constraint of even their business is their health because they can't function properly because they don't have their health. And that's, I mean, yeah, you see, it's like even thinking about like Brian Johnson, right? Like he went and did all the business and then he's like, dude, my health sucks. It's like it's such a common thing. So I think about it like you're sacrificing right now. This doesn't mean forever. And I think that's really important context for people because if you tell somebody like forever, you're going to have to put this much mental energy into this thing. It sounds very overwhelming and they say, I don't want to do that. I'm not going to make that sacrifice. But if you said, what if you only had to do it for 14 months? And then it's going to become normal. You're going to have built habits. It's going to feel automatic. And you're able to think about other things and have headspace. Let's talk about something I see consistently in my practice. Women who train hard but wake up exhausted the next day. You're hitting your workouts, eating your protein, but you're still sore for days, still dragging through your afternoon, feeling like you can't recover fast enough to stay consistent. Listen, recovery isn't just about rest. It's about giving your muscles the specific nutrients it needs at the right times. And that's why I love body health products. One of the sponsors of this episode. The most important nutrients are the essential amino acids, which the body can't make. They play a critical role in the repair and recovery of your muscles. The challenge, getting enough essential amino acids usually means you need to eat more protein than you are right now and at the right time to optimize recovery. I know on busy days, I struggle to eat enough protein and let alone enough calories. The idea of one more chicken breast, I don't know, makes me want to vomit. But I still need those amino acids. And that's why I started using body health's perfect amino. No more chicken breast. Hey, no problem. It delivers the essential amino acids you need, but in a low calorie format. I take it with smaller meals and especially on training days when I need the extra support. Recovery is where transformation happens. Make sure you're giving your body what it actually needs. Go to bodyhealth.com and use the code LION20 to get 20% off your first order. That's bodyhealth.com and use the code LION20. Yeah, that's actually a really good point because things are hard in the beginning. And then after two years, you level up and it's not even though the original feeling of sacrifice. Yeah. It evolves 100%. And I think it's almost like the mental energy of these things more than it is even the time. It's like when you know it's a problem and you're trying to fix it and you're sacrificing these things, like it takes a lot of mental bandwidth. So it's one thing that I think about a lot. But I mean, you know, like I talked to people and they're like, you know, I want to follow in your path and I want to do what you did. And I'm like, OK, well, then you'd have to sacrifice what I would did, which like I'm not even able to tell you if that was the right trade off or not. I don't know because I can't have lived my other life that I could have had. Like I didn't have kids when I was young. And now if I want to have kids, like it's going to be a lot harder, you know, because I'm older now. And that's a real sacrifice. I could work the rest of my life. I can't have kids the rest of my life. And I tell women now and when I talk to them, like that's a real thing that I kind of wish somebody had said to me. Because if they were like, hey, just do it now and get it over with. And then you know, whatever it's like, I might have done that. Maybe it would have worked out better. I don't know. But I have to if you want to borrow them. You might change your mind real fast. You're like, you're good. You got out. Yeah. Yeah. But as the years go on and you've achieved all the success, the same stressors, they don't exist in the same way. Right. Is that fair to say? Yeah, no, no, no, I don't think so. I think it just is a new level. You get to another level and then you have a new stressor of something different for the most part. But you have more skills to pull for. How long do you think those levels last? Two years, five years. You know what I'm talking about? Yeah, I do. You know, you seem to jump or everybody, not you in particular, but there's the beginner phase and then there's the next business or the next accomplishment. I think it's more about exposure than it is time. And I think I say that because of my first experience with business growing so quickly. Like, if people are like, what's the level? It's like, okay, maybe right now the level is like, you have to get over like fear of public speaking and being in camera or whatever. Okay. Well, if you speak once every two weeks, it's going to take you two years to get to the next level. But if you speak every day, every other day, once a week, it's like, if you expose yourself to it more, I think that you can get to the next level faster. It's like, whenever I find something in my life that I realize that's stressing me out, I'm like, how can I stress myself out more? That's right. You have to pause there because that's a really good advice. That's really good advice. Yeah, I'll take it. Increase cortisol. Yes. No, just kidding. But everybody thinks self care is leaning into the softer thing in that way. It's not. No. So say that again, because I don't think I've ever heard someone verbalize that. It's hard to. Yeah, I don't verbalize it because it sounds bad when it comes out. But like, you have to stress yourself out more in the short term to get to the other side faster. So like something I talk about a lot of people, I had like a quote that went viral is like fears a mile wide and inch deep. It's like the moment you step into the thing that's been freaking you out, stressing you out, et cetera, it gets easier. You realize it was it's not an ocean and it's a puddle. And it's like, OK, I've just got to like jump through the puddle a little bit to get to the other side. But it's that most people have one experience and then they say, oh, I don't want to touch that. And then they're like, ah, and it becomes this thing in their life that like they have to circumvent around everything they do from this thing that they're scared of or that stresses them out. When in reality, if you had said, I'm going to do this thing, actually, I'm not actually every day for two weeks, expose myself to this thing that stresses me out. But the other two weeks, not only will you most likely not be stressed about it, you might actually like it. You know, I mean, I think about that. I'm like, I used to be so, so stressed. I remember like I made a podcast cover. I made a YouTube channel. I did all these things. I get in front of the camera. I was like, you know, and like mind you, I would speak in front of 100 employees I had live with like no script. And I loved it. And I loved it. I didn't even have the camera and I was like, I just... My armpits are sweating. Yeah, yeah. And then I realized I was like, okay, I'm going to commit to doing this content thing and I'm going to do every week, this many times a week and I'm just going to commit to it. I'm not going to stop. And it's like, I got over the initial hump so quickly, the more I did it. Like, I remember I did in one quarter, I did like, I can't remember how many speaking engagements it was. I'd never do them anymore, right? Because one, they don't stress me out anymore. Two, I don't like traveling that much. So I don't like doing it. I did so many in that quarter. I remember by the end of the quarter, I was like, oh, I like doing this. I could keep doing this. And I was like, oh, wait, no. That's too easy. Yeah. And then I was like, wow, I took something that I was so scared of that caused so much stress in my life. And now I actually like it. So I think it's just, like, it is so much easier to condition ourselves than we think. It's almost like, I mean, you probably see this in medicine, but it's like someone's intolerant to a food. Start with a tablespoon every day for a week and then two tablespoons and three... And then all of a sudden, something that you were intolerant to, now you're like completely fine with and you actually crave. It's like, I've had that with foods as well. So it's like, I think about the same with anything in life. It's just, I think the hardest part is the first step. Because we all want to not feel the stress or the fear or the anxiety in order to take that first step. We're like, no, no, I have to solve the feeling before I go do the thing. But it's, you know, that doesn't... No, it doesn't work. Yeah. I think that's, I mean, that's really wise advice. I hope people really hear that. And the other thing is we don't hear that a lot from women. And whether it's a man or a woman doesn't really matter. But I do think that there is something to be said for that, to lean into the harder thing. Yeah. You know, there's this idea of stoicism, right? And you know, when I think about stoicism, they got a lot, right? Yeah. It's very neutral. But the part they missed is kind of the connection and being able to feel and be together with family and what is... You know, it's not just all about, you know, go hard or go home. Yeah. That's tough. I think that... Well, I'll speak freely. I think that a lot of women, at least like what I have thrown up in it is like we have to prove ourselves to be like we are strong and we are. We can do it too, right? That was like a slogan how long ago. Like, what was it? Like anything a man can do, I can do better. Is that it? Yeah. But there are things like that means you very far in this one direction. And I think it's... We're at this weird point right now. At least I see it like the very few times I'm on social media and often people just ask me about these things. It's like you've got women that are super hard boss babe, women that are super hard like tradwife, right? That's what they call it. What is it called? Tradwife? Traditional wife. I was like, I want one of those. And it's almost like this. And I think it's not just... It's probably not just from men too, but I think they have less social... They're not really acceptable of being super soft in society as much. But I think stoicism also became cool in the last decade because it also goes in that direction. But there's so many things that I think like we are naturally inclined to do and do as women that help this side, that come from this side. If we can learn to foster relationships, connect with people, have empathy, listen, support people, encourage people, create safe spaces for people, it can't supercharge this other side. But I feel like at least so many women I speak to, they're now so afraid to show this side of themselves because they feel like now what's cool is to just be like this complete thing that's like stoic and doesn't cry and has no emotion and this and that. So it's really interesting to see all that. And I think it takes a toll on people because it's like you're trying to be one or the other. It's like just be yourself, which is like humans are dynamic creatures and we change all the time. Yeah. The social media thing is really tough because it shows the side of human nature. But I think it also brings out the worst in people. Yeah. Well, you probably see it a lot too, especially like in health. I feel like that's so polarizing. Yes. I mean, but like you, I see you post and you're like, you're working out, you're pushing heavyweights, but then you've got your kids with you and you're like, come on, buddy. Let me wipe your butt. Yeah, exactly. And it's like, you know, figuring that out has, I'm sure not been easy for you because it's like a different energy at times that you have to bring to the situation. Yeah, I don't know. I try to be as, at least for me, as transparent as possible, but people at most people don't know is that I'm actually hilarious. Yeah. But yeah, just ask Emily. I try to be as transparent as possible. But also I'm not on social media. I'll, I have a great team that helps me. So that way I'm not thinking about what I should be doing. I'm just very much, this is what you see is what you get. I swear a lot more than I do on camera or in my podcast. That is true. And I'm not nearly as good of a cook. But other than that, I try to be as, because then it feels very inauthentic and I Yeah, and you wouldn't want to do it. Well, but I feel as if there's two reasons why people do things. And maybe this is too much of a black and white statement, but either it's really in the service of others or it's in the service of themselves. And there's probably this bi-directional relationship because when I am doing and being of service, it makes me feel better. Yeah. But the primary goal isn't for it to be about me. And it never has been. And my husband's the same way. He is a, you know, he's a veteran. He's a surgical resident working 100 hours a week. It's about being of service. And so then the other side is it's about me, me, me. And then I think that that the social media landscape doesn't differentiate between the two. We don't, we don't know. And I think that part is challenging. Yeah, that is true. And you can't really tell on social media much. I mean, like I've met so many people that then I see this social media and I'm like, oh, I meet them in real life. I'm like, oh, you're awesome. Or I'll see them in social media. And I'm like, oh, they seem amazing. I meet them. I'm like, oh my God, you're awful. You know, it's so hard to know anything nowadays. And I mean, I feel grateful. I didn't grow up like, you know, glued to a screen. That would be tough. But yeah, do you limit your time on social media and try to have more in-person interactions? I actually feel like because we have like this office and all these people, like I actually try to get on social media. I have to try to get on it, which I actually like because I, like if I looked at my phone usage, like what I am glued to on my screen is my Slack for sure. Like we use Slack to communicate with the team. Like it's like the most hours on my phone used. So if you guys are not on there, you're totally fired. Yeah. Everyone's on Slack for sure. So I haven't had a hard time with the social media usage, but I see it in like almost every, but that's like a forcing function. Like I'm sure if I was not in the office doing things, I would have. How would you be spending your time? Reading. What are you reading? Oh, I love that. Cooking. Yeah. I like doing those three things for sure. What kind of stuff do you read? I read a lot more about psychology, human behavior. Like that's pretty much all I read actually. Anything recently? Good. Interesting. No, I think I've been interested in this like reading more about the evolution of men and women and like how we've gotten to kind of where we are today because I see so much about it and like culture. So people call it. Right. And I think it's really interesting because I, like you said something earlier was like you feel responsible to a degree to do. Like I feel responsible as a woman in business who has a brand to understand if my influence is positively or negatively affecting people. And like that actually will keep me up at night. And so understanding how I've gotten to where I am and then what's happening in culture right now, like I see a lot of people unhappy because they're single. Like so many people are single now. And like I think about that like I don't understand. Like when I was dating, it was like, it was just different. It wasn't this like nobody can find a mate thing. Yeah. That's weird. And I see that and that seems. Do we know that to be true? How many is that what the statistics say that people are struggling or is it maybe the people that you're exposed to that are in business wanting to do other things? Interesting. That is like I've seen it both one way or the other, which is like, you know, I've seen stats saying that the birth rates are declining. Then you see stats saying, I don't know. But I do hear a lot of it. I have so many women that reach out to me and they're like, I cannot find a man. I don't understand why I have so many men that reach out to me like, how do I find a wife like you? Like literally those are the questions I get. And so I'm like, what is going on? And literally I'll do it. Ask me anything. I'm like, why are people asking me about this? But it's probably because I'm married and in business. How long have you guys been married? Almost 10 years. Okay. Do you think there's something special to do to maintain a relationship with two extremely high achievers? Yeah, it's hard. It took a ton of work in the beginning. And as you change as people, it takes a ton of work as you change. Like I even think in the last two, three years, like we've definitely both changed laws, people and we like joke about how this is like our second marriage with each other, like literally recently is like a thing. And so it takes like almost like when we've been going on dates, I'm like, literally look at my husband and I'm like, he's a new person now. Like I have to like go in with like, ask him questions as you would if you didn't know this person, because people change and you just make assumptions. And I also don't want to be the reason that anyone I'm with remains the same as they are rather than growing into who they want to be. And I think you can keep people there with what you reinforce, how you label them, how you treat them because of things they wanted that they used to want to be. And I think in order to keep a marriage, I mean, like you can probably relate to this, like you have to keep one. I think it's really hard if you both don't grow. Like if you both aren't growing, that's hard because. But what is there to talk about? The second piece is that I think you have to be curious enough to get to know the person all over again when they are changing and then say, great, now let's talk about how do we be married? How does that say it to this new version of each other? Well, I mean, what have you experienced with your husband? So, you know, my husband is a little bit of an enigma. He's actually they're probably pretty similar. Yeah. So he was a seal for 10 years. Yeah. And while he was deployed, he taught himself physics and calculus at war to then come back and teach trauma to special warfare. Wow. And then went to medical school. And now he's a surgical resident. The joke is, is he went from working with us to now treating. It's a zyrologist. It's just so funny. But he is a professional teammate. So he's all about the team. Oh yeah. That makes a ton of sense. He's always like, what are you doing? Want to hang out? What are you doing? I'm like, I've already spent an entire day with Go. And so it's really cute. But I will say, I was thinking about what you were saying in terms of the beginning of business, she's working 100 hours a week. The responsibility of the family is 100% on me. I run the businesses. I take care of the kids. I do not outsource all my childcare. Yeah. I have part-time help by design. I'm taking care of all of it. So the challenge is, you know, from my perspective, just speaking also freely. My husband does listen to this podcast. I mean, I'm sorry, what I'm about to say. Resentment can build up. He is working. And I promised very early on that I was going to support the family and him. He served our country, put his life in danger to protect us. He can do whatever he wants. Yeah. And that, and as I made that promise, we're now four, five, six, seven years later. Yeah. Of him working these hours, at least he's not deployed, but it's a lot of responsibility when you're like, Hey, can you please pick up the kids? I picked up the kids for the last five months straight. Can you do it? Yeah. I mean, it's not possible because he's in surgery or doing whatever he's doing. He's sleeping in his car, which is probably the joke about getting a wife. Yeah, totally. I'll take one. Hey, if you guys are looking, you can apply. Yeah. I mean, I get it because even when me and Alex had to get that we don't have kids, but you know, we looked at like the house responsibilities and he was just like, these things are not important to me. Like I just honestly don't do like when we met, he didn't do anything. He would not do laundry to the degree he would just buy new clothes when they were dirty. God, that must have smelled really wrong. Yeah. So, and so I said, I was like, listen, I just want to make this easy. I will do take care of all house stuff. That doesn't mean I will be doing it, but I will take care of it. And I will also take care of all the food stuff. And it's been 10 years. And like there, I mean, we'll get to points where I'm like, listen, I can't cook. Like I got to not cook anymore. And then, you know, then I go back because like I love cooking, I love baking, but not when I'm like so busy. And that's the problem, right? As you're growing in business, your stress increases. What worked in a relationship early on, you know, I made these commitments. I'm going to take care of everything. Now I'm going to release my second book. I have a third book coming out, which I'm interviewing you for, which is all about women. And I wasn't the same person. The stresses weren't the same. The responsibilities. This episode is brought to you by Bond Charge. Now, my husband looked at me the other night and said, should I be scared? And honestly, fair. I was sitting in the dark with a glowing red mask strapped to my face. I don't have time for a five million step skin routine. I just don't. But I do have 10 minutes while I'm answering emails or pretending to read before I pass out. The Bond Charge Red Light Face Mask uses red light and near infrared wavelengths to support skin health, which again, it's a great way to scare your husband. It's lightweight and it's portable. It doesn't feel heavy or uncomfortable. Since I started using it consistently, my skin looks the following. Smoother and just overall more healthy. I didn't have to add another complicated thing in my life to get the job done. Go to bondcharge.com and use the code Dr. Lion to save 15%. And listen, many of us make a ton of various investments, but skin care and something that works is an investment that you will not regret. Go to bondcharge.com and use code Dr. Lion to save 15%. Yeah, are not the same. And so there's this kind of dance where you get more skills, like you said, but also you have to be able to look at yourself and then evolve those parts. If that makes any sense whatsoever. Oh, it's almost like you have to renegotiate the terms of the relationship. That's right. I mean, it's like a business. It's like, listen, we both your partners and I look at it like because we have to come to them like, listen, every time we have one of these, it's like, we're partners in business. We're also partners in life. Like, I'm like, you negotiate our terms. Like, dude, you're broke. So you put in this what equity and I'll put in the money. Yeah, it's terrible, but true. No, it's funny. But I do think that that is like the premise of it. It's like everyone goes into a relationship thinking like this is how it's, it is not, it's not going to be that way forever. You will change so much. They will change so much. And, and those things change. And like, I mean, I've been very honest with Alex and I've been like, oh my God, I, I think that I cannot do this and do this. And he's like, great. So like, let's just talk about how, you know, and I think it's being open with your partner about what you have to give, you know, and then, you know, it's interesting for me is because like I recently was like, I actually miss doing some things like baking and cooking, etc. Because like I actually went to culinary school. I wanted to do that for a little bit. I did. And so amazing. Yeah. So for me, it's like a creative outlet, but then it's all do it. And then he was like, this is amazing. I'm like, don't be, it's not an expectation. Like I just do it when I have time. It's like create, like I literally can think freely when I'm doing those things. It's like your hands are busy. It's a great time. Um, and so it's interesting. It's like it changes so much throughout the relationship. I think, I think people just expect now. I think a difficult part is like now, especially with women having more responsibilities and expectations of themselves and dreams and goals than ever. You have to be more communicative with your partner. Yeah. And we have to say, like I do see a lot of women that I know. And they've been like, why won't he listen or talk to me? Like I want him to just like be my emotional support almost. And I'm like, men for so long, that has not been their, their value in a lot of the late like a lot of, there are plenty of men who are, but there's also like what is innately like the absolute, absolutely. Right. And so I've had to have these conversations. I'm like, he's, he's not your girlfriend. Yeah. And I literally had the conversation. I was like, that's what you do. I talked to girls about those things. I talked to my girlfriends about those things. I put that, that I don't expect to get that same level of connection with my husband when I'm talking about these things. And so I do feel lucky I learned that early on because I see that being a huge, I would say demand that women have on men right now, but I feel is some men have it to get for sure. Um, and not the ones I know. So, okay. Right. But I'm just some do. I'm like, honey, I, um, I'm really pissed off. She's like, you want to talk about him with you? Absolutely not. Yeah. I've no interest. Cause yeah, he's going to give me the one, the same. He's like, did you, no matter what I say, his answer will be like, well, did you break our family rule? What's that? Well, I'm going to say it, but team, you got to beat this out. It's, are you being a or don't be a. And then rule number two is don't get up. That's funny. That's it. Don't be a. And you're like, great. Good talk. And you're like, honey, oh my God, I had to fire this person and, you know, I don't know what we're going to do. And, and, and I got to work on this book cause they sent a deal in and I've got to try to do this merger acquisition with the part of the business. And he's like, okay, well, did you break rule number one? And I'm like, oh my, my dad, he's got him all in it, like, whatever it is. And I'm like, what? He's like, are you going to. I was like, oh my God, I'm never asking you. And then he's so upset every time where I'm like, Hey dude, I don't talk to you. I'm going to call someone else. Yeah. You just know, you're like, this is not for you. I already know what the answer is going to be. Yeah, 100%. You're like, it's funny. My husband, like, you want to talk about that? I'm like, not going to talk to somebody else about this. He's like, cool. Works for me. He's happy for me. Yeah. Good talk. So mine isn't. He's feelings are very hurt, but you know, he'll evolve. He'll get there. And then he'll be like, honey, I want to talk to you about this thing. He's like, this thing having to work and I was operating. I'm like, uh-huh. Oh, like, are you going to hear what he's like? Yeah, I am. Good talk. And that's it. Because that's what he wants you to say. I'm so glad that I just gave you what you needed. This is going to work out well. This was so easy. Totally. Totally. That's great. What do you think people do wrong? So for the women, maybe not even. So in the relationship, the one thing is perhaps not having the expectation that they're going to be a girlfriend, which I totally agree with. Also, my husband smells way too bad to be a female. I'm like, dude, what is that smell like? Yes, well, that is not. He's like my laundry. Oh my God. Well, like, did you wear deodorant today? Yeah. Today, we have to fumigate everything. Fumigate? It's disgusting. Yeah. So he runs to work, rain or shine. Oh, and then doesn't shower. And no, and then runs home. And the clothes are there. It's disgusting. But, you know, when I think about the one thing and I watched a video that you had put out and it was, what it was, I mean, I've watched a handful as I prepared for this, but there was this one, it was like, you know, this is the mistake that everyone is making. It was, you know, you don't, what was it? Deserve. Oh, hold on. I have a note here. Cause this was, this was the one thing that it was, oh, belief, what most people get wrong, belief in themselves. About belief? Yeah. Oh, the thing that most people get wrong about belief is that it is a self belief. Yeah.  and the other thing that I like about this is that it is a... They think it's an input and not an output. So they think in order to do something, I must have self-belief, but you have to do the thing to have the self-belief. So I think it's like everyone's like, I'm not ready, I'm not confident, I'm not this, I'm not input, therefore I can't do this thing, but it's not the input. It's actually the output of doing this. What if say for example you believe that you can run a business and not you but maybe... And then you just can't. Do you think is that a possibility, is failure a possibility? Failure is data. I don't understand. I actually don't. I do not think failure is a bad thing. I think people have bad relationship with failure. They look at it like it means something about them, they look at it like it's a bad thing. Every time you fail, you are that much closer to success. I really do believe that innately in my blood. Like there has been nothing that I have seen that I have not failed at first. But how did you get good at that? The way that you are talking and thinking is very, it's just very well thought out. You know, it's, it is, it's a lot of introspection. I think it's being able to be the scientist, not the judge. So it's like the judge, the internal judge is like, you suck. You're awful. You're, you failed. That's because you were not good at this thing. You are bad at this. You should do that. Like it's constantly building a narrative around why this failure means something about you. Whereas the scientist is like, let me look at all the conditions. Did we do this? Did we do that? Did we miss information? Did we do this piece wrong? Like it's looking for the evidence to find out why the thing failed, not building a narrative around why you are the reason why it failed. Do you catch yourself in self-talk? Do you think that that's important? I do. Um, I used to be really, really bad at it. Like meaning I would be able to do things, but I did beat myself up a lot for them. And I think that over time, I've been able to catch myself. So I don't smart beat myself up over things. And I practice, like people think that you're just going to have new thoughts. You have to practice belief. You have to practice new thoughts. It's not just going to come in lately. And so for me, it's like, how do I practice this belief? I would do these things to reinforce the belief. I would say these things to reinforce the belief. Like I, for example, um, I'll give you one example of that. Um, I used to be really bad at saying no. And so I always thought that I was like a pushover. People got to walk all over me. I was like a door, door mat, doorstep. Uh, and I finally started saying, okay, what would I have to do? And how would I have to act to really believe that I was not a person that could be walked all over? Okay. Well, I would say no more. I wouldn't apologize for it. I wouldn't over explain. And I remember when I started doing that, I'd be like, no, I can't do that. It would feel so uncomfortable. But after doing it a few times, I was like, wow, I'm the kind of person who says no. And now ask people, they're probably like, dude, she's the queen of saying no. Um, my husband's like, you've been the opposite now, right? Because you reinforced this belief in the other way. Um, but it wasn't like the feelings and thoughts and belief was there before I did it. I just started doing it and the action reinforced the thoughts and beliefs. And then eventually I started having the thoughts and beliefs. Like I am the type of person that is able to say no and hold my boundaries. But it came out of my mouth and, and through my actions before it came into my head. Hmm. And you just interpret the feeling differently. So when you say, when you said no the first hundred times, probably not a hundred, 14. Yeah. You're like, oh God, can't believe I did that. Yeah. And then maybe you wouldn't have the feeling or you didn't respond the same way to that. I looked at it. Physical orientation. 100%. I think that oftentimes it's not that the discomfort, the anxiety is ever going to go away, but we change our relationship to it. Do you think it doesn't go away? I think some of it. I think you can train a lot of it out. Yeah. I think it's not like anybody lives with zero anxiety or discomfort. You know what I mean? Like there's going to be a new stressor situation or something, right? And so I just think like I might now in a situation where I go to walk on stage instead of being like, I'm so terrified. I'd be like, I'm so excited. I think I've changed my relationship. Like there's going to be adrenaline and cortisol because there's a huge room of people shouting, but I don't look at it like, oh, it's going to shut me down and I'm going to fail. I look at it like it's lighting me up and I'm going to have more energy. So the butterflies are in attack formation. Yeah. I love it. Yeah. Um, what is next on your radar? Um, expansion, um, for my company. So building a bigger footprint across the country is like super top of mind for me right now for 2026, um, in terms of how we're going to expand as a company. I would say second to that is, um, I have just hired, you know, uh, six executives in the last quarter. And so my role is going to change point of 2026. I'm going to, you know, up level and have like a completely new focus just so I'm completely vision strategy, um, building out like our operating model with our hold co and operating companies. And then going with that, um, I would say like on a personal side is leaning more into, I would say, um, skills that have atrophied as I built out like the very discipline side of myself. I think I learned a lot about myself this year. Um, going through like, I mean, you know, I reached out to you and I was like dealing with health issues and that has, I don't need to learn a lesson twice. Smart. Um, pretty smart. I recognize like where I can put in systems now to make sure that I can keep going. And so for me, it's about like, how do I stay in the game? How do I continue to build a life and do a thing that I love and not sacrifice my quality of life along the way? And so I've had a huge focus on health, on, um, building more time and space into my schedule so that I can now do bigger things for the business that are more, I would say like, uh, longer term thinking because it requires that of me now. And I think those two things actually go hand in hand. They, it sounds like they do. Yeah. Do you think, and I hear this a lot, people are always striving to make it. Hmm. Do you feel like you've made it? Um, like yes and no. So I would say no from a business standpoint. No. From a personal standpoint, I don't feel like I've made it, but I am really proud of how far it's come. Do you think you'll ever feel like you've made it? No, I don't think we ever do. I think we die feeling like we haven't made it. I don't think it goes away. And I think I try really hard now as in my second business, I made this promise myself, like I'm going to try really hard to acknowledge my accomplishments and like give myself a pat on the back, like you're doing good. I, I will continue to do what I do. No matter what me being nicer to myself doesn't make me go any less hard, but it does make it feel a lot better along the way. Uh, you can absolutely attest to that when you have a family, do you think you'll let your kids go into business? I would hope that they come into business and hopefully with me. I would love that. Listen, I'm hoping my kid becomes an astronaut, but I'll take it. That's going into business. Layla Hermozzi, thank you so much for coming on the show. Well, thanks for having me. It was fun.