 I wanted to kill myself. A meeting disorder is like being in a relationship with the most abusive person you can imagine. You literally, you get up and you're afraid. You're afraid because your history is that within two hours, you're going to be damaging yourself. You both are strong icons. If a woman is just getting into her 40s, what is the number one thing that you would tell her about drinking? You have to get clear around to her wife and understand that for most of us, it's going to be a journey. If you don't put the effort in and consistency, I don't think you're going to get the results or you're not going to get them when you think you should. The single most important thing a woman in her 40s can do to transform her body is to be consistent. This is going to make us a little unpopular. From the evidence that I have seen, there doesn't seem to be sex differences through or for training. There's no statistical difference between how a woman, the rate at which a woman gains muscle, even in menopause. I know this is so hard to hear. I'm really glad to hear you say this. Music Michelle and Joan McDonald. Welcome to the show. Well done. Well said. Thank you very much for your time. Thanks for having us. You both, from my perspective, are strong icons. You show the world what is possible as women who, shall I say, are over 40? Just keep going. I'm age positive. I love saying I'm one month away from being 55, which is literally true. Extraordinary. And you're almost 80. Incredible. Which just seems like a far-fetched thing. I don't feel like that maybe. You have only Divini in your side. Yeah, I do. I'm both sides, so it's good. Joan, nearing 80, you started training at around 70? Yeah, I was close to 71. Whereas many women, I would say in their 40s, are scared to train or are afraid because they don't think it's possible. And or they're still living under that old rubric that lifting weights that will, building muscle will make you manly and in-boxy. That's still very pervasive. And I think we're seeing a return to that right now, which is very alarming. And I think it's really important that leaders, I've said this so many times that female leaders make it fun, make it sexy, make it cool to be in shape. And then we support that with the evidence which you're doing. Look at your lab markers. Like what tests should you be getting done? Like index to scan, BMI, where you're looking at, you know, are you thin, which might lead to frailty in 20 or 30 years, educating people around that? Or are you having sufficient muscle? Or are you doing things to support that muscle? And so being science-based, evidence-based, cool, having real people living and walking the talk, showing that it is great and fun to be in shape and you don't look manly. I mean, you hardly look like a guy. I hardly look like a guy. I'm still trying. I'm still trying. Now, Michelle, you're trying to look like a guy. Yeah, I'm still trying to get jacked. Michelle, you both have various histories. So when did you start training? I've been in Al's my entire life, but I would say with weight now that I know what I know is a CSCS, purposeful, intentional training, progressive overload, all of that really started when I was 39 when I did my first competition. So it was like, oh, this is what you're supposed to do when you go to the gym. And why do I see that? Because in three months, my body looked like it had never looked before. And I've always been on the smaller side of things. So I'm sitting at, I weighed myself this morning. I'm doing a photo shoot on Monday with Paul Buschetta. I was 114.5 pounds. I'm at the end of a cut. I normally sit around 120 at 5 foot 2. Well, way back in 2010 when I started at 39, I was averaging 104, 105 pounds. Wow. That's very light. 104. Huge difference. 104 pounds. 105 pounds at 5 foot 2. Yeah. If a woman is just getting into her 40s, what is the number one thing, most important factor that you would tell her about training? I'd get a coach. I would agree with that. Yeah, I'm not going to. I'm not going to. If they want to transform their body. Yeah. If they want to transform rapidly, as you know, as a physician, getting the right help can really accelerate that. Now then the question is, well, how can you tell who's legitimate? Yeah. Whether you're legitimate or not, I always say look for the outcomes that you want, similarities to where you currently are. Then make sure you can talk to them, right? Like go online, DM them, talk to them to make sure that it's real. I know Joan's image has been appropriated. And as you know, if people think it's really easy to track down these things and get them to take it off their website or take it off their Instagram, even, it is. It was like playing wack-a-mole. So you really do want to do your due diligence with the socials and just track that the person in the image actually did the program. But to get to the actual point, what would you say? Getting started, what would you say? How does a woman in her 40s get started? Or one that wants to transform? You really want it. You get someone like Michelle in your corner and she doesn't take anything or give me any more leeway than she would anyone else. I had to toe the line. I was dragging my feet a lot of the times, but I knew that she could do it with others. So she could do it with somebody else that she doesn't even know. She should be able to do it for me. It's probably even more difficult to do it with a parent. She would probably target you than she would be on one of her clients. Would you say that if you were to pick, and again, everyone makes a psychotomy, is it diet? Is it exercise? It's everything. Everything can be. You've got your sleep. You've got your food, your protein. The macros are great because you've got the three things that build your body, which is the protein, the carbs and the fats. And they're in different portions for different people because your body is different. We're not all built the same and we don't all have the same needs. But that being the mindset, the meditation is really great. You want to be able to calm yourself and meditation helps. Why? Because you can't be living off your nerves all the time. You mean the five red bowls and thousands of days and no go? But then you could maybe handle that, but the average person can't. And like I said, we're all built different. We are all going to have different outcomes. But you can normalize it, I guess, in a sense that you put the effort in, you'll get the results. If you don't put the effort in and consistency, I don't think you're going to get the results or you're not going to get them when you think you should. I like that. And if I'm hearing you correctly, what you're saying is the single most important thing a woman in her 40s can do to transform her body is to be consistent. Michelle, just curious. Yeah, I think I wish I could say that there's one thing because if you're doing something consistently, but it's the wrong thing. Then you're not going to go anywhere. And I think mom was trying to allude to that as well as it's there's there are a few pillars that you want to get ticked off. If we're talking about major transformation, that is sustainable long term for most people that are getting started that their their ground zero is, oh my God, I am literally turning into what I thought 40 would be when I was 10 right when you're 10 40 is like, are you still alive? Right. If you get 40 or like, wait a minute, I still feel like me. But what happened to my body is that overnight like overnight. What happened to my body now I know as a coach nothing happens overnight right because I track data all day for my clients like oh okay like what's going on here. And I go and look at their macros or I see that cardio is missed or whatever right wasn't tracking what gets what gets measured gets managed and it's like let's let's dial that back here. So for gals getting started. I think number one, if I was to say what is the number one thing if I'm thinking of not just like losing 10 pounds now but the long term, you have to. You have to get clear around your why and understand that for most of us is going to be a journey right like is your why. So what is your why originating in your true self or is it a why that you've appropriated from external factors because you've never really been trained on how to be thoughtful about your core values and who you are and your life aligning with that your husband your wife or whatever it is your career your geographic you know settlement know your why shift it if necessary and we're so lucky now that there's podcasts that you can tap into where people are you know really deep into it and I thinking of like and my let and friend of ushered and shetty and I mean there's some really top ones where you can tap into that there's even apps for that for that now communities figure out your why look at this not just as an aesthetic outcome. I think aesthetic hooks are great especially for women because it gets us started and that's okay like use vanity right I want to look good I want to fit into my like size two or size four like use vanity have fun with that no shame but long term to make sure you're making the right choices. This will help your health outcomes what are your labs what should your labs be now what test should you get done now like a dexascade to check your BMI looking at that what should I be prioritizing now so that when I'm 70 if we future pace I'm still healthy. So this is where you would have information where you're not just choosing I want to be a size two but I want my muscle mass to fat ratio to be here so that when I'm 80 my metabolic health is great right I don't have type two diabetes I don't have osteoporosis right my cognitive function cardiovascular health is great. If you listen every week and feel like we are in this together which I believe that we are learning growing and building strength then I created a way for us to get connected even more closely it's called forever strong insider premium community for listeners who want to go deeper you get at free episodes which I know you'll love bonus Q&A where your questions shape the conversation behind the scene moment because let's face it on hilarious for my daily life and written takeaways to keep at your fingertips but more than that. You'll be supporting the show so that we can keep creating content that matters if you've ever wanted to feel part of the inner circle. This is your invitation. Join us at forever strong that supercast.com or through the link in the show notes as you become more mature right by the time you reach your 40s you then have to reorient yourself as to the reason as to why because when you're in your 20s the why you could look at a push up and you would probably get biceps. I mean your body's a lot more malleable but it becomes in part less so at least that's what I've seen in my clinical practice but if they can orient themselves to a way of thinking about health which is what you both have said and then executing the next right thing which in my mind would be believe it or not if I depict diet or training I would pick training first. Obviously you want both but in my mind if that woman wants to transform her body and she is in her 40s she has to be doing some type of resistance training. I'm not going to disagree with you and I'll tell you why because if we can get a woman focused on getting stronger. Then the things that you have to do build muscle train with intention get recovery and eat to support muscle growth it covers everything else so I would agree with you. All leads to health. All leads to health. You've been an athlete and a trainer for how long? I would say the trainer bit like coaching. I would say I'm a coach before I would be a trainer. Started in my 30s. This always surprises people but I was a yoga champion for Canada. I'm actually not surprised. I'm actually not surprised by that. People say really there's competitions in yoga? Absolutely. That part I'm surprised about. The fact that you were a yoga champion because you're talking about mindfulness and obviously there's this bidirectional relationship between muscle and mindfulness. I'm not totally shocked by that. There you go. Usually people are totally surprised by that. No. But I did coach people. I coached advanced yoga. I coached teams to compete. I first started and then as a yoga teacher as well I noticed how much mindset played into things and whether or not somebody was genetically gifted definitely came secondary to their mindset. I think Charles Glass is one of the greatest trainers out there said that in an interview. What's most important like in bodybuilding because he's coached a lot of chances. Is it genetics? Is it diet? Is it the progress like his mindset? Because people get into it. And then when it gets hard that's when you really see who you've got in front of you. And if you can accelerate putting them in that place of hard then you can change things very quickly. So if someone is risk adverse or doesn't tolerate doing hard things easily if you put them in that place quickly then I think that there's a better chance of moving them off the axis. And mom for sure exemplifies that grittiness. Right? Very gritty and I think that's the secret to her success and she has decent genetics. You know when I saw her triceps coming in and her delts coming in at year two and it takes time right at first it was fat loss. Right? And yes there was muscle built but I think it was year two, two and a half where it was like oh my god. And I said I always thought- This was at 71. This would be 72. Like 72. I'm almost at 72 yeah. Right? And it was when I took you shopping at Forever 21. And I go what are you taking me here for? These are for young kids. And like nothing's going to fit me because she's still that mindset that people do and they have massive weight loss. They still see themselves as being a size. I don't know I think you're up to 16. Close to 16. Between 14 and 16. Right? Your size? Your size. Okay. 0.2 pounds away from the 200 with a 39 inch waist which has metabolic risks as you know. But there she was in there and she put on this little strappy top. Green top. And it had great what we call in body building goon lighting because it's direct overhead lighting. Not pretty for the face but your muscles pop. And I said mom stand there put your feet here put pressure hands against your thighs and I took a shot and I posted it. I showed it to her and she was like her jaw hit the ground. She's like that's me. I'm like yes I didn't you know I had never seen my back before. And that's something that is a great shot. If you get someone to take a picture of your back as you're training. It's a motivator. Like I couldn't believe how developed it was. And that's me. You're 70s which this is a very important conversation for women to understand that you can build muscle and get stronger at any age and build visible muscle. It might take a little bit longer but it is absolutely possible. And I would ask if you were to say your top three exercises and these are very challenging questions but here's why. The goal of this podcast in particular is how do we pave the way for women in their 40s and beyond who are interested. How do we provide them with an invitation to move from interested to action oriented. One thing is do not be afraid of the gym. Because no one else is really paying that much attention to you until you start doing really good things. Like when you start actually training and making a difference to yourself. Like you can feel that you're getting a little stronger all the time. That's why the buddy system is great too. But I didn't have people paying attention to me until they could see my back. They were looking at me from my back. And that's boy you should see your back. How well you're developed in that thing. People are encouraging you at the gym. And they are always surprised when an older person comes in and actually does something and not just they're there to judge you. They're not going to judge you. They're just not going to judge you because they're admiring you. Was there a moment before you stepped into the gym? And it's interesting because by this time you've already been a fitness professional in multiple domains. So was there an ease to going to the gym where you're feeling like maybe you were going to do it? I had to talk myself into it. I went past that gym for almost a year and a half before I finally got up enough nerve to go in and ask questions. And I only saw one part of it. There was a downstairs as well. The upstairs was mostly cardio. Was that filled with women? Yeah, I mean it's true right? We're seeing that chip now. There was men and women. I didn't know about the men part like how that was going to go because you know my generation women were not really welcomed in a gym. And therefore you avoided them if you were the average person. Was that something discussed? Is it a known thing for example women of your generation? Would you guys talk and say you know what? Now we're going to go for I don't know tea and toast. I would play some kind of sports. I wasn't a real big sporty person but I thought I liked the idea of sports. I like to be able to participate. I like to be able to learn something. So I did several things. I played lob ball. This was in my late 30s, early 40s that I was doing this stuff. I went bowling. Like that was an acceptable sport for a woman. I tried lawn bowling. I loved it and I did stained glass and I did a lot of things that I've always wanted to do and never even tried it. But I was curious about a lot of stuff. And if you don't try how are you going to know if you like it or not? How do you know it's going to work or not? You got to try. That's one of the things I would tell someone if it wants to do anything. Give it a try. I'm really intentional about what brands I bring into my home. And I've been using Ranch Basics, one of the sponsors of the show, this cleaning product since I was pregnant with my first child. And listen, I've tried all different kinds but this one I love and I feel safe around. Ranch Basics, whether it's in my kitchen, my bathroom, laundry room, everything feels clean without that harsh chemical smell. And frankly, I think it's really important to have a safer cleaning supplies overall. And it comes in a concentrate. So just dilute a little bit for cleaning, for countertops, floors, it is fragrance free, it is safe for kids and pets. I'm so grateful that they are going to be offering you 15% off and free shipping. With this starter kit, all you have to do is go to branchbasics.com slash doctor lion. That's branchbasics.com slash doctor lion. I think in my family, we were very sporty because my father, he was really into sports. My older brother was the king of the kids. He was a top athlete, usually the captain of the team, the pitcher, the center and hockey. So we were very, very sporty. So I think there was a big drive. Certainly I was really pushed by my father. He didn't push me, but as a young girl wanting to please daddy, I wanted to become a jock. And so that was my, I was a real convoy. And I think that rubbed off on you a little bit too. You would come to my games and you played law, ball and whatnot. But when you first started at the gym with me, you know, so I was heading to Mexico when I saw, it really hit me because I wasn't, I was only seeing mom a few times a year. It really hit me that mom's health was at stake and she was, was heaving and puffing coming up the stairs. Were you in Canada or were you? We were in Canada, but I was leaving for Mexico. It was in my husband and I made the move. I was actually back and I would come back again relatively quickly after that incident where mom told me she, her doctor was going to increase her blood pressure medication for power lifting me. So, and then I took mom back to Mexico. But that moment when she, when I saw that how unhealthy she had become, she'd been overweight. But the extent really hit me. And there had also been several times when I noted that she seemed very depressed, like I would call her on the phone and it would just be like, oh, nothing's here. Just really down, you know, it was strained between mom and dad. My dad's passed away. But it was strained. It wasn't like this beautiful retired life that they had been hoping for, which is another issue. Like a reality, even gals in their 40s, like, oh, this isn't, this isn't how I thought it was going to be. So there she was unhealthy. Her face was different. I mean, she was 200 pounds, right? So she's like 132 right now. And if you've lifted 70 pounds, you know how heavy that weight is. I'm probably five, two and a half. I think you're five one now. No, I'm not. I'm always going stand up straight. Your little marsupine is going to get crushed. So you were almost 200 pounds. Yeah. And I did get up to 205 at one point. And this was in your, how old were you at that time? I was 70. Yeah. Because I didn't, I didn't start with you until I was almost 71. Yeah. And you felt that she had hit a low point. That for me was a low point mentally and physically. But you were well on your, your medication is that I didn't even know she was on blood predetermination. And she was definitely hiding that. She says she wasn't, but I'm like, I'm an expert in my field. I pump out radical transformations in a ridiculously short period of time. And then we maintain those radical, we, we build on them. Right. Like this is your radical. And I always say to my guests, like your, your, your after picture is going to become, mark my words in a year. It's going to become here before. And I know right now you think that's impossible, but this is going to be here before. So that's what I do. That's what I'm known for. And I was like, for me, it was also a realization and you're right. It is challenging for family to help each other in this space. And I'm sure even for medicine, it might be the same. Like the knowledge is there, but people won't execute on it versus if they were paying somebody. But I like, I, I'm like, I have to, I have to do this. I literally called upon like Tony Robbins would say all the forces of nature, whether it's God, whether it's my expertise, whether it's my subconscious, my husband, who is a great regulator. He really calms people down. I said, give me the strength and power to help my mom. And I had my Friday night lights speech with her. I sat her down at the dinner table and I'm like, mom, we got to, we got to change now. Otherwise, um, you know, and probably two or three years, you're going to end up with a nursing home. You could have a stroke. You could lose the function of your mind. You saw that happen with, with, with dad, how radically you decline when you start having these major health, um, what did your father pass away from complications from a fall. So he become quite frail. He broke a sips three times and he fell down, going up the stairs, um, had a pooling of blood in the brain. He wasn't found for likely four hours. Mom was gone. And so that he was ended up in a, in a, in a fist facility for three, I think two or three months and he declined rapidly after that. But it wasn't never himself. He was almost like he had dementia, uh, because the, the pooling of blood had affected his brain capacity. So I said to mom, like you're, and that was pre COVID. I mean, I see that all the time when COVID was happening. If mom had not been in shape, she was a perfect candidate because we know obesity increases the co-morbidity for death from COVID. Um, as well as many other things that we're, are high respectors, like dying from a heart attack. So I told her, I'm like, I'm not going to be there in the nursing home, wiping your bum because there's things that you can do now. And that's what a coach does. I think it's a difference between a coach and like a therapist. Like we actually are going to say those hard truths and we're also going to give you a strategy to get out of it. Like this is the hard truth in two to three years. It's, it's a nursing home. You might lose the function of your brain. Strokes are serious. A lot of times you can't recover from them and there's things that you can do now that will give you incredibly radical outcomes and it'll solve for your life problems. Like you'll have energy. You'll be able to go on things independently. You'll be able to lift your suitcases up and she, she went for it and I have a group. I said, I have a group. Oh my God. I can't believe I have a group. That's the other thing that I meant. I always mention when I talk about these radical transformations, it's a contained, it's a kind of radical transformation. It's a container. Right. So when we're going to take someone through this transformation, we do it in a container with other people and there are certain non-negotiables that you need to do to stay on the boat. And those non-negotiables come from experience where I see it's all pattern recognition. Right. If somebody does these things, their risk of failure is guaranteed. If they do these behaviors, their risk of massive success is guaranteed. So as the expert, I have to say, these are the non-negotiables. This is the behavior we want to reward. And this is where you're going to find resistance. And the moment you find that resistance, you flag it. And I would say that probably your practice as a coach has changed over the years. I can only speak for myself as a physician. You know, when you are new to medicine or probably new to coaching, you kind of are like, I got this. And then as you go through person after person, there ends up being this evolution of what becomes effective. And when you started, so you started roughly how old were you when you said in your mid-30s? With yoga. But when you started coaching people. Coaching would be in 2012. So I would be 42. Okay. And during that time when you started coaching, what were some of the things that you were doing then that you probably have now changed almost a little over? My dietary recommendations have changed considerably. What were they when you started? I found some old diets that I used to give out. Well, number one, how I did it was different as well. I always coached macros. But when I first was into bodybuilding, I was taught almost like a point system. That's like the old Weight Watchers. Kind of, but more if Weight Watchers was bodybuilding. So certain carbohydrates would be in this bucket. So starches would be in this bucket. And then vegetables would be in this bucket. You'd have your super low calorie. Like this is basically free. Like your iceberg lettuce and celery, cucumber. I did that all through college. Yeah. So all macros. It was very low nutrient density. Yeah. Well, not, yeah, we, ours wasn't because we're trying to build muscle. Yeah. So we're trying to, we're trying to, I call it bodybuilds or weight manipulating mass. We can gain tissue. We can lose tissue. We can gain specific kinds of tissue. We can lose specific kinds of tissue and we can do it on a deadline. Right. And that's the protocol depends on what's in front of us, what you're willing to do and the timeline. And it's like, we can, we can do this, but this is what it will cost. Right. So it started like that. It evolved into macros, especially with using the app, My Macros, which I love, because I'm a chef and you can create your meals that both satisfy your macros, which should be tied to your health and physique.  lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, lingonberry, ling to recover and focus. It doesn't just affect you, but it also affects your kids. And that's why I use BonCharge. They've created science-backed tools that help balance our modern industrialized lives from harsh indoor lighting to too much screen time. Their blue light blocking glasses are a nightly ritual for me and my kids' barrel mines. They help calm my nervous system, protect my circadian rhythm, especially if I just happen to look at my screen, which we all know that never happens. I also love their red light lamp. I turn them on as soon as it gets dark and I use the big panels 10 to 20 minutes each day. They are some of the best red light products I have ever used, low EMF on the market, and right now BonCharge is having their holiday sale. So you can save a massive 25% off. Just head to boncharge.com and your 25% off code will automatically be added to your order. The sale will end on the 31st of December 2025. So hurry and don't miss this chance to save on your favorite BonCharge products. When I started dieting, it was, you're gonna laugh, you might, you might not, crystal light. I don't even know if they still have crystal light. Yes, they do. Wait, are you ready for this? I don't think I've ever talked about this. I still use, okay, I won't judge you. Crystal light on frozen somewhat thawed broccoli. Just go with me. Oh, I've never talked about this before. I'm gonna go, wait, wait, wait, I gotta share now. I've just because I like making guys look sick. So frozen, you know, partially thawed broccoli-esque on a skillet with like lemon crystal light. There's probably a teenager listening to this going, that sounds amazing. Do not do this. I'm not recommending anyone do this. Don't do that with because they didn't have all that the stuff that they have now and the knowledge that we have now with, we're so lucky. Boiled chicken ninja creamies. Oh my god. Boiled chicken. I was a boiled chicken girl. I would travel and like rubber boiled chicken. Oh yeah. I was like, is this a hockey but wait, I don't even have hockey totally totally with I would also do the white rice. So zero nutrient doesn't really yeah, five or a little bit barely and whatever nutrients were in that chicken cooked out, definitely cooked up except for the macro protein. By the way, when you flash freeze, you blanch it and you destroy a lot of the nutrients and it could have been cauliflower. Maybe it was cauliflower with or cauliflower rice with a tropical mix. I mean, it was my addition. Yeah. Of Hawaiian rice. Disgusting. Very low nutrient density and I was hungry and low satiety, low pleasure and it leads to binge behavior, right? I or unsustainable. Yes. And I want to talk about eating disorders. You know, I want to touch on it and just this eating obsession when I so I am not a foodie. I have become much more interested in food because we cook at home, but I've become much more interested in the nutrient density. Right. Yeah. It's a beautiful language. Super important. My, however, I'm not letting off the hook on this because I spent easily four years of my life super obsessed and focused on food. Yeah. Hungry, very restricted. And you know, you might find me, you know, going off the deep end and my deep end might be weird for some people. You know, I love trail mix and I love to dry fruit. Whereas I know that in the past, you have struggled in a similar way and I do want to get down to the nuts and bolts of, you know, the three best exercises for women because I'm going to, I want to test my knowledge, but before we do that, I do want to hear your experience because obviously you are someone who stays in great shape and that requires knowledge of nutrition and that requires consistency, but it probably has not always been as easy as it is now. Yeah. For sure. So, you know, it's, it was so long ago. I am almost 55, but I was very, very, I was a very sick young girl. I was, I was thinking of my waist to do because now that I'm almost 55, when I look at a 16 year old or even a 20 year old, I'm like, Oh my God, you're so perfect. Look at your skin. Do you know how beautiful you are? Or smart you are or how much potential you have. I want to caveat that because we're more than just a pretty face, but it's just more that when you're young, when you're 16, there are so much else to be pouring your energy into besides self-immolation, self-flagellation. And that's what the eating disorder is. And especially for women, you are wasting so much energy that you could be pouring in to developing your skills and your experiences. So, yeah, for me, it started off from sports. I was a 16 year old. I was in a small town, 16,000 people. We had a coach, but you know, the coaches that the coaching that woman got that girls got at that level in Canada, they're not top coaches. Nutrition education has come a long time and probably mindset coaching. I mean, I don't know what's happening at school these days. So, but you know, hopefully it's evolved. But there was no coaching around nutrition. So I wanted to be a, I wanted to make it to regionals. I was a track and field athlete. I was a hurtler and a high jumper. And it looked like the thin girls were faster. There's also some pressure going on behind this scenes, you know, as there always is in high school, like being cool and what were the cool girls doing. And I overheard a girl in our small circle of friends. She was a competitive figure skater. So figure skating, gymnastics, and dancing. Those three are rife with eating disorders. And so she had told us, Oh, I've discovered this thing. You can eat this, and then you stick your finger down your throat and you don't have to, you know, don't have to pay for it. And at first, when I heard, I thought, wow, that's ridiculous. But then later on, it stuck with me. I was in a vulnerable state. I had no coaching. And when you're young, you know it all. And you don't talk to people and ask questions. Now we have social media, but that could be really dangerous now with these online groups where people are teaching each other how, how, how to be unhealthy, basically. I just starved myself. I just would stop eating. The coach of me knows now colorically what I was doing. I was having Horlick's drinks. What's that? They're like a drink with milk and malt. And they're actually like thinking about like a hot, it's like a hot chocolate. So colorically, maybe around plus the milk, like 250 calories. But I thought it was nothing. And I was still under eating for my size of my energy expenditure. And then I would, I would have a cookie, right? And so that's, I tried fiber pills and that's how it started. And then it rapidly escalated. I went away to a, to a camp. I worked in a camp for boys, actually, and it escalated there again, just the pressures of the social changes that were happening, trying to navigate the politics of being, you know, a senior role 16 and 16. And just not having, there's no mentorship, no access back then it was really different. You know, we don't have, like I said, access to these amazing podcasts and apps and whatnot. So that it just escalated very quickly. And I was caught in a cycle of like, basically starving myself. And I would be successful. I got all the way down to 88 pounds. And I can't, I'm like, I would have to chop off a leg to the 88 pounds. And now I can't even imagine how I did it. But I, I was, I was just lost and I was very functional. bulimia is very easy to hide. You look like a normal weight usually, but it's a terrible battle inside. And so that was all the way until I was 30, when I found yoga and yoga really, and yoga became, you know, why did I create the framework that I did when I started coaching? It was always heavily in mindset. It comes from yoga and my own journey, right? So understanding when your nervous system is not regulated, being skillful and having strategies in place before you get dysregulated, how to drive a wedge into triggered behavior, have pleasurable alternatives that can calm you down, because usually when we're doing some kind of a soothing behavior, whether it's alcohol or some video game or something that's distracting you from achieving your goals or being who you are, you're trying to soothe, you're trying to calm down your nervous system. But you're doing it in a way that has long term negative consequences. So I brought that into my, my, my coaching. And I would always say like, you know, you go to a bodybuilding event and you'd see, you'd see girls bringing bags of candy and, you know, they would not even last from the morning show to the evening show. They get onto the evening show and they would have huge distention. They'd have alcohol backstage and you'd see people a week later in the gym and it looked like they'd never left the barbell in their life. It was insane. I'd even see guys suffer from that. So making sure that my offer was always different from that, like, listen, I'm here for long term health for you, right? We're gonna, we're gonna be very competitive on stage, but even leading up to an event, I'll start coaching mindset. All right. So what's working for you now? What is your why doing this and trying to create a long term to dextre and coach the mindset? This episode is brought to you by Manicorah. Not all carbs are created equal and somewhere along the line, we started treating them like the enemy. But when they're used intentionally, they can actually fuel performance and recovery. And that's why I use Manicorah honey every day. I think of it as somewhat of a functional carbohydrate. It's not just sugar. It's loaded with prebiotics and antioxidants that support digestion and immunity. People have been using honey for hundreds, if not thousands of years. My personal favorite with the family, I drizzle a little bit of delicious honey over some sliced apples and pears. It gives me a clean energy boost and my family loves it. What makes Manicorah special is where it comes from. These, they gather nectar from the Manicorah tree in New Zealand, create honey that is naturally rich in these bioactive compounds. In fact, it has up to three times more antioxidants and prebiotics than the standard honey. And now is the best time to try it. Manicorah is running their biggest sale of the year from now through December 2nd. Head to Manicorah.com slash Dr. Lion to get $150 off your first order with their Black Friday starter kit, which includes an 850 plus Manuka honey jar, 35 honey travel sticks, which I use all the time, a wooden spoon and a guidebook. That's Manicorah.com slash Dr. Lion and save $150. So you suffered from anorexia bulimia, the combo? Yeah, bulimia is often both. You starve and then you binge and then you say you'll never do it again. For almost roughly 15 years. It's like yo-yo dining on steroids, right? 15 years. Yeah, 15 years. Well, in university, I tried to kill myself. So the first year I lived off campus. I lived with a gal who, I switched school to the last minute, probably I drove my dad nuts. I was into McGill University. I was on the dorm, ready to rock and roll. And then I got it in my head in August. Again, the young people were so full of passion, but we make strategic mistakes. And then we have to learn from experience, but I switched school. So I didn't, I was too late to get a spot on campus. I was off campus. I lived with a gal who had a graduate boyfriend. So she was gone. So I was all by myself in the basement. I mean, it was just a recipe for disaster because again, I was also young. So I was in accelerated learning, went to a, went to a special school for bright kids and I was in university at 17. So I was young, socially awkward, already had an eating disorder, had no support for it. And I'm living off campus in a house by myself where the ability to binge without repercussions, nobody, nobody could see, nobody could hear. And really you're, it's like being in a relationship with the most abusive person you can imagine, you know, an eating disorder is like being in an incredibly abusive relationship with yourself. And when you, when you think about the, the, the tear and the trauma of being in a abusive relationship with the partner and you think of how traumatizing that can be, when it is in yourself, you literally, you get up and you're afraid, you're afraid because your history is that within two hours, you're going to be damaging yourself. And, and without being graphic, I would, I would be bulimic seven times in a row. So within three hours, I would force feed three to 5,000 calories into myself. It was not pleasurable. It's literally like force feeding a foie gras duck. I would purge. I would say I would not do it again. I would do it again within 20 minutes. And it would happen so many times that I wanted to kill myself. So that was probably like one of the big moments where mom, mom came and I called, I said, I think I'm, I'm going to kill my, I think I've killed myself because I swallowed like a bottle of Tylenol, which probably wouldn't have killed myself. It would have just completely destroyed my liver. But that's how bad it was. Then I became functional. So I didn't cure, right? But I came functional meaning. So did you, did, Joan, did you, I was not aware though she, yeah, she, she, you came down. Oh yeah. Yeah. I came holy, yeah. And she knew I was ill because I, I was in therapy when I was at private school, right? So, but yeah, I took, you know, I don't want to say you can't help people that have, um, disorder behavior, whether it's alcoholism, but, you know, it's, it's, they have to want it the same as with, do you think, and you've been coaching for a long time? Yeah. First of all, there's a lot of strength in that story. And I do think that a lot of young women go through that in some capacity, maybe not as I'm sure you, it's a spectrum. It happens on a spectrum. Yes. It happens a lot more than we think. Yes. Yes, I agree. I think that story is really important because I am sure that a lot of women are suffering probably even more so now with these eating disorders. Again, I don't have statistics in front of me, but we're still very, the rise of social media. I think that I think actually we're seeing a rise with eating disorders in men. They're actually rising up now, but I don't know that in women that they've significantly increased. But when it comes to transforming your body, what I want to be clear is disordered eating takes place on a spectrum and we don't want to over label eating disorder. Um, when it's, uh, I think Tony Robbins talks about this, right? Like everything, it's so much can be, can be trained or changed when we frame it properly. And once we start labeling disorder on behaviors, it's almost like it's out of our control. And we always want to keep that control, but no, when we need to get expert help. That's I think the biggest point. And be open. If a coach can take your money and they'll, and they say to you, listen, I, I don't feel comfortable taking your money. I really think you should take this money and put it towards therapy, then take that positively, right? Don't run and try to find another coat to coach you, because eating disorders, if left unchecked, uh, can have really major repercussions. And the more you, the more times you do something, the more it's likely to become ingrained, right? And so you always want to think of that. It's, it works to our benefit when we're repeating a great heaven and it works toward detriment when we're repeating a bad habit and getting away with it until we're no longer again. So I think with, with the eating disorder, just a lot of it is, is the frame, really communicating with the people that you need to, that can, you know, help you check yourself before you wreck yourself. Um, and then for me as a coach, it's really about coaching my client towards well, upleveling their why, right? So let's start with the aesthetic. Like I said earlier, no shame in that, right? But let's start evolving that in talking about your health metrics, your longevity metrics. And then obviously I've got to provide the protocol that makes it achievable, matches where the person's skill and energetic levels are, and so on and so forth. So that's that journey. I think it, I think it's very easy to get into this and obsess about macros. And I actually, I get in there and, um, and I coach coaches, I say, you know, you've got to assess if this client needs to actually go on a treat meal and they are specifically not allowed to measure something. And, and, and then they've got to report a treat meal, a treat meal, I call it a treat meal, not a cheat meal or I'll call it a social meal. Go ahead and have a social meal, can't measure anything. And I want you to check in how do you feel? Use this. How do you feel? How did it feel? It becomes easier for people to go out and have a social meal and not think about it if they are on a journey of body transformation. It depends on the individual. So I mean, people are on a spectrum. And so some people, um, it is easy. And then other people, we have to give them those guardrails. They function better with it. Other people, um, just don't need it. They don't want it. They don't need it physiologically. They don't want it emotionally. And they're fine to have like a high calorie day with very specific, um, targets to hit. Uh, they're the real pipe A athlete. I just want to win. They just want to win a bunch of those patients in our practice. So, um, so it depends on, you know, depends on some and people change. Like right now, where this person is being new, they might need to work on emotional regulation in chaos, right? And not having to like, know and nail everything. And then three months later, we've evolved and we're working on something else. So that's also that nuance of who do I have in front of me? Where are they on their journey? What am I coaching? And is the still in my lane, right? As a coach or now do we have to like reach out externally to another expert? So like, I hope that kind of ties off that. Yeah. For me, it's been incredible. And I say to gals that are still struggling, you know, I'm thinking about food too much. And I think there is a place for, you know, certainly in bodybuilding. I might ruffle some feathers here, but for, um, GLP ones, they're right. It's properly used in association with all the other things. Obviously in bodybuilding, you're hitting that hypertrophy marker, but it's a it's a tool. So, you know, research based use it. I totally agree with you. Yeah. And we use GLP ones and those types of medications in our practice. And we've been using them for the food noise. We've been using them easily 10 years. Yeah. So not obviously, you know, GLP ones got approved for um, weight management, but prior to that, there were other medications and we've used them in practice. Yeah. Yeah. Because sometimes very appropriately used. Yeah. Yes. The food noise is real and it could, whether it is a distraction for some or something else, it's still impacts people so deeply that if you can remove that, it is like a breath of fresh air. And I do think, and thank you so much for tying that back. I do want people to hear that don't wait if they feel like they need help from a eating disorder perspective. If there is shame around it, or if there's any of those things, there's a ton of resources. And again, it's a spectrum, which I think it's a really, really important. And we in our journey move through different pieces of it. So just being cognizant of that, be staying agile. What you need, your needs and your experiences today should not and likely won't be your needs and experiences in a future environment. And then we always aspire to grow, have a growth mindset. I can't do this yet. This is, and don't, don't, don't shame. Um, um, and, and, and please embrace pharmacological intervention where it's appropriate and where there's research and the safety protocols have been in place. Do you consider yourself now resolved or in a mission? Okay. Oh yeah. So as you are coaching people, do you think the orientation towards health or towards nutrition? Is there a way to do it without putting people into this kind of obsessive way? Because what I'm hearing says that the eating disorder was a coping mechanism. It wasn't directly related to the food. Exactly. But now as we think about the world of health and wellness and nutrition, and the use of GLP ones, do you think that as we start to reorient ourselves to nutrition, that it puts people at a higher risk? Or is it, does it become a higher risk? Have you seen that? You know, as women are trying to transform their body? It's a very complex issue. I'm glad you brought it up. Uh, as a coach, I would say, number one, I have to provide a strategy that somebody can't execute on. And I need to educate you on the pieces, the protocol that I'm asking you to do, whether it's educating you without clobbering you over the head, educating you around the why that we're choosing to focus on fiber or the why around we're choosing to train this way or not train this way or why we're doing the cardiovascular piece for now, for where your body is now, and give them choices so that they can make an empowered choice. Right. Well, if we don't want to do this, then can you get blood work done? So we make sure we're not getting deficiencies. Right. So talking like that, giving them choices, creating space. I also have to be able to assess, you know, the fit of what it is that they're asking to achieve with where they are in terms of their ability to regulate themselves. So before we turn the cameras on, we were talking about emotional and maybe it wasn't emotional regulation, but it was more nervous. Nervous is the regulation. Which is tied into emotions. Yes. And what you were talking about is really, if you cannot regulate your nervous system, then it's going to become much more difficult to make the next best decision, whether it is training or whether it is food, because, you know, we've all been in a very stressed state. Typically those decisions, if you cannot bring it down five notches are not going to be good decisions. This all kind of brings things full circle that while we talk about training and we talk about nutrition, we also have to recognize that there is a discernment component. Because as a coach, that's outside my lane to coach you strategy around an eating disorder. But disordered eating takes place on a spectrum. Right. And so I'm not going to be a, I call it a lazy coach and say, well, I can't, I, there's nothing I can offer you because you can't control yourself around food. Right. There's definitely education I can do there. There's strategies I can offer. But when it comes to an actual eating disorder, that's out of my lane. Right. And there's that assessment that has to happen and also great communication because that is a different, that is a different place. And from my experience, if I look back and think if I had had great help, could I have shortened that window of time? And then what would great help look like? Right. So could I have shortened that window of time of suffering, get those years back? Oh my gosh. Like, I was not able to, you know, go out on a date without thinking about food and how I was going to go purge afterwards. Like, I just wasn't present. And it was just such a waste of energy. I think women are fantastic. We're fabulous. We can change the world. We can create jobs for other people. We can shift legislation. We can grab babies. Like, there's so much that we can do. And we're really taking out a major player that can contribute to society when a significant portion of the population is wasting their energy with this emulation. Like, we just, it needs to stop. And that's, you know, what drives me changing the narrative. It's really changing the narrative. I say around aging for women, but it's really about what does it mean to be a woman? What does it mean to be strong? Right? What is masculine? What is feminine? What can we do now as gen Xers, right, to change the narrative for the gals that are coming up behind us, right? The gals that are in their tens and 15s and 16s right now. And it's a, it's an extremely important conversation. Yeah. I look at my daughter, she's six, but I mean, she's watching, she's seeing just again, we don't, she's not allowed on social media. Smart. Her say she's also not allowed on electronics. You know, I recently took the kids to the park and I decided that we shall do a push-up challenge. You know, I don't know if I'm a very popular parent, but anyway, I'm not. And, you know, out of all the kids, it was, you know, five boys and my daughter, she was the one who wanted to do it. And the boys were like, I can't do that. So it's, it's an interesting perspective because I hadn't really thought about it until now as we think, okay, well, what does strength look like? And if someone was starting on their journey, and let's say they've got a great coach and they're lucky enough to be coached by you and you collectively, do you pick, if you were to say, if I call my mom and we say, okay, we're going to give her three exercises that we want her to do? That's difficult, right? But are there three exercises that you feel as a coach that everyone should be able to do? Three movements. Everybody should be able to do wall pushes, which is your, you're standing so far away from the wall, hands on it, like around this area. So your hands are towards your push, okay, push, push, push, like as if you're doing a push-up, but you're doing it against the wall, working with bands. They're fabulous. I've had to do different exercises with bands. You can, a small, even a two pound barbell in your hand against, I love hearing you say that and I want to talk to you about why, love hearing you say that, against with a band in your hand as well. And you step on it and you lift it up like you do a bicep curl, bicep curl. That's, it should be easy for anyone. You can hold on to the counter, like it's assisted, but you can bend your knees, like squat down, try to keep your back as straight as you can and then squat down as far as you can. And you keep doing that within a week, you're going to change that. We probably say squat to sit into a chair and get back up again. Oh yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, I know that a lot of people, you know, for older people, they have to, you know, have to hold onto both sides and, and, and rock until they get up. It's very difficult for a lot of people. Especially in their shape. Yeah. And even if they're younger, like before they're 40, I know of girls that can't even do that. And it's happening earlier and earlier. I do not believe that sarcopenia, which is,  oh, it's happening so fast. That's right. 2016, sarcopenia, which is a decreased muscle mass, functionality, and strength, is considered a disease of the older population. I do not believe that to be true. I believe that there are going to be phenotypes of youth starting way younger, way earlier, decreased muscle mass of strength and function. Michelle. Did you say what are the three things people should be able to do? There are a handful of questions that we get from the audience. And one of those is the three best exercises for a beginner. A woman in her 40s is starting. And again, I know that. That's I going to give you a nuanced answer. I know it. I have a few answers. You want to tell me what you think? Tell me what you think. I think that everyone, but again, I mean, there are obviously, I need to be able to provide an answer. So don't say everyone should be able to do 10 pushups, because you'll die on the cross for that. But what I will say is that I'll provide an answer because I can give you a thought process to why. I think everyone should be able to carry, hold something, and carry this. Functional movement. This would be a movement that I think that we do all the time that helps with activities of daily. And stay independent. Yep. So be able to carry. Yes. You have to be able to do a carry. Now, if I were to pick my second best exercise, do I think that you have to do a pushup? You don't have to. It's my favorite exercise, because it's just fun. Who doesn't love to do sets of pushups, but you should be able to push. It could be a wall push. It could be a pushup. But I do think that upper body strength, but I'm not tied to that answer of a pushup. If I had to pick a third exercise, what do people have to do? I do think from a value perspective, someone should be able to, and you guys, the coaches might all yell at me, but to put something overhead, you have to be able to, again, I'm a trained geriatrician, which is to do that. Yeah, I know who I am. Of course I do. So after seeing all of these people in nursing homes, we begin to think about, as they're going to physical therapy, what keeps them out of a nursing home? They have to be able to get up off the toilet. They have to be able to carry their stuff, and they have to be able to put stuff away. So my third exercise, again, you can pick it, but some kind of overhead activity doesn't have to be a heavily loaded one. But those would be my three. I think those are brilliant. Now I want to hear your three. If I'm talking from, I had Dr. Stuart Phillips on my podcast, Strongly By Design. I love Dr. Stu Phillips. He's fabulous. Won't come back on our show. Stu's a good buddy. I've known him for years. I love that. And we had some tension because I'm a coach, and I specifically about changing the narrative for women. And I'm like, we can do more, right? So I agree. And him and I disagree on this too. I know. I'm not going to say go for a walk. I'm not going to say pick up the pen. Well, how is that going to help attack two muscle fibers? Yeah. So OK. So the main line is Stu. But Stu. You are being called to action here. But I do agree that at a minimum, two great purposeful, intentional, got to add those caveats in, intentional strength training programs. And we can start low if we're talking about getting people started. So then it would be like, well, what should you be able to do? You should be able to get up from the floor unless you have a joint issue that prevents that from happening. But if you fall down, you want to be able to independently get yourself up off the floor. So what's your exercise? Let's say they're in their 40s. So they're younger. Would it still be a push up or some kind of push? For that piece, you're looking at core strength. And there would be pushing involved, right? So you've got to push yourself to get onto your feet. There'd be knee mobility. So you'd have to train. This is sorry, but the truth is to get up off the floor, you'd have to train all of those different pieces to get you up off the floor. So I've got to give you three exercises. I gave you three. And I'll say overhead press. And I've given you three. You have to give me three. OK. Well, to just be able to function and get up off the floor, you three best exercises, three beginner exercises for women. And we'll just say 40. 40s and 50s. I'm going to caveat. And I'll probably get burned on the cross for this. I'm going to say, what should a strong 40-year-old? Oh, I love it. What are you strong? But they're a beginner. So what do you got there? So this is what you can aspire to and what you have to train for. You have to do some kind of a squat or leg press movement. So they're the same movement? I was very curious about that. I don't know the answer to that. So you think a squat or leg press, this is good. So if you can put a barbell on your back, we have access to a safety squat. And you don't have hip dysplasia or doorknob. Yeah, we're talking about if you could do this thing. These are real points for a 40-year-old, by the way. A strong female, not an elite female, but a strong female squat. And you're in shape, right? Because we're not talking about total mass, but more lean mass. Squat your body weight. That's going to be a shock to some people. I've got a lot of pushback from that. A strong female. So we don't care about this, people. A strong female, you should be able to do that. If you can't do those things on a leg press, then I would say we're looking at including the sled for eight reps. OK, great call. Sled, did you say sled? The sled. But when you're actually pushing, hammer strength is like 118, just the sled alone. But you should be able to leg press for eight to 12 reps, double your body weight. OK. You're 120 pounds, 240. So the sled plus, I'm not going to do that math, the sled plus, right? Right. That's a strong, average female. So periodize yourself to that goal. So one more. There's two more, right? So that takes care of the lower body. OK. The upper body, again, this is the pull piece, right? So you should be able to lift off the floor a strong female, 1.5 your body weight. Pull off the floor. Pull off the floor. Would this be a deadlift? What kind of exercise are we looking for? If you don't have back issues and you can do a deadlift off the floor or a mediant deadlift or like a belt squat machine, RDL, that would be pulling off the floor for eight reps. Now, that's going to seem like a lot of weight for some people, but I have so many clients that are actually able to do that after a certain period of time. So somebody that was 120 pounds, you know, you're looking at, sorry, I said 1.5. I take that back one and a quarter times for eight reps. So somebody that was like 100 pounds, they're going to be able to lift 125 pounds. And this exercise would be the belt squat? You can do a belt squat, Romanian deadlift, right? Yeah. That could be a deadlift or a barbell Romanian deadlift. So those would be the options if you don't have contraindications with your back. And you might have that. Yes. Yeah, for sure. If you can't do that, then I would say, well, let's move to, because that's your whole posterior chain. And there's definitely a skill to that. And if you don't know what you're doing, I would definitely get some training to how to do that properly. If you have contraindications, then could you do a T-bar machine where your chest is supported? For that, you know, probably we're looking at half, you know, a third to half your body weight. So working yourself towards being able to that pulling motion with that's your back, your arms, your, and your lower back would be secured. So I would be very specific to that. Why that's important. Again, very functional. Your back is a woman, your back, the backside of your body, your back, your glutes, your hamstrings, you can really put a lot of mass on. And if we're talking about aging well, we want to have a decent amount of muscle mass. So where are you going to put that on? It's not probably not going to be your pecs. It's probably going to be the backside of your body. And we see that when we do the before and afters, the backside, we see all this muscle over the course of a year. And it's really exciting. It's easy to see. It gets you, you know, hooked into your why. Like, why am I doing all this stuff? It's working. When we think of the typical, if I think of baby boomers or older and I think of their posture. Oh, right. I'm not a baby boomer. When I posture is terrible. Yeah. Oh, I'm just kidding. By the way, for those two are losing strong back, you want to hit the 80s with really strong back, strong glutes. That's going to be how you're moving forward. And so that's your, your lower body. That's the pull piece either it's pulling, including your, your legs or it's pulling just the back only. And then there would have to be, I would want to have that push piece in there for sure. So making sure that that is lead push or any kind of push. It could be a sled push. It could be, I'm not going to say probably three years ago, I would say everyone should be able to bench press. But with my clients majority being in their fifties and seeing the amount of shoulder and elbow and inflammation issues, tendonitis cropping up. I'm like, ah, you know what? I'm sadly, I've got to take that off the table. So making sure that you are training your, your pecs and your front delts. And I like functional movements like the sled push if you have access to it. But if you have something like, like mom said, like an incline push up and bringing that incline down, if you can do that push, I take overhead pushing off just because it's, I have so many injuries. But a lot of clients, but you make a really good point. How do we, you know, and I'm probably wrong on that. There has to be a way to be able to get stronger in that plane. Yeah. You usually, usually as a flat press or a machine press, I'm getting really strong with that. So in the old days, I would have said with the bench press, you should be able to bench press like for eight reps, half your body weight. But we don't know where anyone came up with these numbers. Do we? Oh, I'm, I'm giving you those numbers as a coach, right? A strong female and what I see my average client being able to achieve, no matter if she's never weight lifted before in a year or two, where we can get her to. That's what I'm seeing across the board. Like I'm seeing girls in their sixties being able to hip thrust, 225 pounds. And I like the pushing piece because your triceps, your pecs, those are important, especially when we think of getting up off the floor. Can we talk about glutes? Oh, we always can talk about glutes. I love glutes because I don't have any and I would like to know for myself. This is true. I'm asking for a friend who's sitting in front of me, who's sitting next to me. Oh, he is me. Are there certain exercises that are the best for building your glutes? You have great glutes. I like the frog one. Good. I do that one. Do you? Yes. Laying your glutes down, face down. I get pushed back for that one. People are like, I feel so embarrassed at the gym. It is a goodie. Okay. Wait. So this is not the frog pump. Is this where you're laying on your back? Oh, this is when you're laying on a bench on your face. I've done that. And you lift the barbell with, have not arched your feet. Carlos is fired. Carlos, my trainer, he's fired. I've never done that one. It's, you can really feel it. I'd sit with Brett on this one. I mean, he, he's just studied this so much. I usually make the barbell hip thrust or the glute machine hip thrust. In my most beginners, that will be the one lift. I, I really try to make sure we, that the coaches are putting that in. So we have a bunch of programs and the hip thrust will be in there. The only caveat would be somebody at home, but didn't have access to that. We'll still do like a dumbbell hip thrust. But couldn't you use bands and tighten the bands on both sides of a bunch and then use that? You can, but there's a journey that a woman, in my experience, and I can only speak for my bubble, right? There's a journey that a woman goes through where, and I think my mom's video that made it onto, it was like the Google, you know, who sent it to us. We'll post that. Yeah. She, she was on like the Google, um, uh, no, the U2 and U2 year wrap up. And it was her hip thrusting 200 pounds for, I think it was 12 reps. And as a coach, she had never barbell hip thrust before, but I saw her. I said, try this hip thrust and her movement patterns were great. And so I said, I said, let's, let's work on this. And within, I think a week or two, I was like, let's keep putting weight on. Let's keep putting weight. Well, yeah, you had, you and Hattie were there egging me on. We were all like, those are good friends, you know, but she didn't know the weight she was using. And when I said, Hey, she's putting it on, I'm not even seeing what it is. She was shocked. And so a lot of us, again, women were so, were so ingrained that we're not strong. And, um, and we lacked that confidence going into the gym. And there's so much empowerment when you put those big, big girl plates on the 45s, and you can walk into a gym and you can move that weight. And so that's part of that mindset journey that I like to coach. And it's a very safe movement. It's a very short range of motion. There's not a lot of skill involved, honestly. And if there's glute machines now all over the place in gym, so we can always do that. If I really feel I want to pull back on any skill aspects to that lift, to be able to, to be able to acclimatize being strong safely. And we know from research that is, is as effective as a squat and a squat has much more difficulty when it comes to skill and injury risks and injury risks. I still think I coach a lot of gals from zero to hero with it and it can be done, but, uh, there is more skill required from the coach, especially online. However, so glutes for me, hip thrust, love it. That would be my, my number one. Good. I love doing those. We, I always have that in my program. So this is good to know. I guess I have to rehire my, my coach, my trainer, but you said something that I want to just pause on and that is moving safely and that exercise and training is a skill. So important. How do women in midlife take care and prevent injury? Are there ways in which? Totally easy. Okay. The, in the modern era, it's so easy. You've got a smartphone, videotape yourself. If you're in a fussy gym, you can either change gyms. There are stealth ways you can videotape yourself now with your watch, put the phone on, put a magnetic piece on it, go put it somewhere, be totally unobtrusive. Um, I was just like, switch gyms if you can, but you can videotape yourself. And why is that important? Because you can see, right? A lot of times on YouTube, I think Jeff Nipper is great. Yes, Jeff. Jeff, I'm going to the gym. Yep. And I have bad form or I don't really know necessarily what I'm doing and I want to hire somebody, not, but let's say I'm traveling and I don't want to get injured. Okay. If I'm going in there, is there a way that I can, that's what I was going to ask. Use machines or are there common mistakes that you see when women come to you that they do that put them at risk for injury? Yeah, absolutely. So, um, number one, like use machines if in doubt, you don't have time. Um, you're already making 50 decisions on life. You can't go on YouTube and look at a shorts by, by, by Jeff Nipper on how to do a lateral raise, then go do a lateral raise machine. You're so locked in that you really can't screw around with your movements. How'd you get it? Right. Um, if you have the scope, you know, to hire somebody that is tried and true. For example, they have clients that are your avatar. They can literally tell you, oh my God. This was me five months ago. I've learned so much, right? So if I am a great coach, somebody's going to tell me, and I pride in this, I've learned more from you in three months than I have with my trainer for the last 10 years. I'm like, then I done my job. Right. So if you can hire somebody, if you're really proactive videos that you can watch on YouTube video to yourself, how does it feel in general slower is better. So slow down the negative, introduce pauses, know where you are. If you are a beginner, so that means people aren't coming up to you and saying, wow, you are so good at your training. Are you a coach? Are you a trainer? If they're not doing that and I get asked that all the time, then just slow down, slow down the negative, which is when you're lowering the weight generally, right? Slow that piece down because that allows you to lift less weight, but get yourself to approximating failure. That just means like nobody should be talking to you. You can't talk to anybody during the last couple of reps. Right. So slow down the negative. You can lift a lighter weight. So even if your form is a little bit off, it's probably not going to impact your joints negatively, but you're still able to push your muscles to where there's enough stress to drive the adaptation you're looking for. Progressive stimulus. Yeah. Yeah. Very, very important. Right. And then how are you feeling? Right. So if you're doing an exercise for your quads, like that squat or even a hack squat because the machine and you're feeling it in your back, that's a red flag. You should not be feeling it in your back. You're something is going wrong. Right. So either you have an issue that has to be dealt with medically that you didn't know about and as we get older, there's, you know, and if you have been dieting your whole life, maybe you have osteopenia, osteoporosis, maybe there's a lot of women have issues around their lumbar spine when they hit mental pause. Just with age, not eating properly, not training properly. Do you have disc generation issues? It's more common than we think. Right. So that's not just your form. Like maybe that's something that has to get investigated properly. Hopefully you have an amenable doctor for that. Or it's your form. Right. And could you use a belt? Right. So my gals that do tend to are more prone, especially gals that travel a lot and are sitting down or are working and sitting down and don't, aren't able to stand up and work. There's some great, I love the, and I'm not sponsored by them. I love the Slimatum Pro Trainer. I've had to use it in the past. Oh my gosh. It's a really great training belt. You'll see it a lot in IBBMPC gals, bikini gals, but it actually is like a really decent amount of support. It's relatively comfortable. It has like a wide and it has a tie piece and then it has a Velcro piece. Right. And the support through the obliques in the back is considerable. It's not like a belt that you're clunking on. You can wear it under something as well as over. It's just comfortable and functional. And so I would say, and I've told my clients that if they're feeling their back, I say, listen, for this week, I want you to wear the Slimatum Pro Trainer just to be on the safe side and then make sure you're doing some extra core work. Like a McGill sit-up, bird dogs, anti-rotational things like a payoff press. Let those are great exercises. Let's touch on core. Yeah. Are there number one, why should we do core? For your six pack. Because your core, if you have ever hurt your back, your core is everything. It's so preventative and an important part of transferring power from your lower body to your upper body. It affects your posture for women as well. I would tie core into pelvic floor health. They're very knit together. And that's one thing that we face as we age, whether or not you've had kids, incontinence and prolapse. So and none of those are fun or sound fun. And they contribute to balance. Yes. So and when I say they're not the core exercises, but if you are a woman and have pelvic floor issues, potentially see pelvic floor specialists, core exercises. Yeah. Are there a handful? Because you'd mentioned bird dog, Pavla press, I'm a guilt. Yeah, I think I think most CSCS is are going to say, especially with that avatar, the 40 plus female, where most of us aren't coming into our 40s trained on core strength. You're, you're those are the basics. You're going to be wanting to do properly executed dead bugs. And there are there are advancements in dead bugs like dead bugs kill me when I pull my navel into the base of my spine and really keep my lower back down on the floor. And I'm mindfully moving. I mean, 30 reps and I am cooked like cooked. I would also say have pride in cooking yourself, right? Which is like getting to that lactate threshold burnout sooner rather than later. If you're somebody that's like, oh, I can do like 50 of them. You're probably not doing doing them intentionally. There's mind muscle connection. There's opportunity there that you can take advantage of. And so just staying super humble and trying to use the appropriate muscle more. And usually it's going to be slower movements and really feeling the muscle as you're doing it versus the body is so efficient. If it's if you tell it just I want you to do this thing, you can figure out how to do that with minimal exertion. And it does that quickly. Like within a couple of weeks, you're being efficient. You're doing more. But are you necessarily using that exercise for what it's supposed to be doing, which is targeting your core in a kind of multi movement way? So dead. Yeah, bringing this back to presence, which being present at training, right? Totally makes a ton of sense. When and dead bug. OK, right. And there are advanced dead bugs. So you can do the simple dead bug. If you're a bird dog or dead. Sorry, bird dog. And you guys are very good. You know, I put bird dog in our book. So it's a great one. But anyway, and you can do it like from plank. Right. So you're playing opposite legs. That is like that gets the the fascial sling, the cross body fascial sling, which you'll find a lot of people find one side. They're like, oh, I can do it on one side. But on the other side, they're. And do you have women in your programs and when you're coaching them? And just in general, do you recommend that they do those exercises every day? I don't think you have to do them every day. I think when you're learning them, it can be really smart to get more frequency. So several times a week, dosing them in three to five times a week. But small doses and learning the movement is key. And then once you've got it, like I like three times a week. I know had he loves to program some core as a part of her pre-workout. She's really big on that. So whether it's like a payoff press, you can do kneeling, pay a lot of press. You can do a one-legged payoff press. You can advance all of these. You can do them with weight, with bands. So pay a lot of press up some kind of a side plank. So you can go all the way up to a Copenhagen plank. Why side plank? Because you had mentioned anti rotational movements. Can you talk to me about why that's important? Why side planks important? Why I guess you could use a lot of love. Maybe yeah, rotation. And is there a reason choppers? Yeah, which choppers? That you want that kind of anti rotation, rotation movement. It's so important to transferring power from the lower body to the upper body. And so if you're an athlete, obviously that's so important, whether you're playing soccer or volleyball or whatever, you've got to be able to transfer that lower body power. But for functional movements, for just aging, well, that's where you're going to reduce your fall risk. Right. And you know, do you know Gunnar Peterson? I don't. Should I know that person? He is amazing. He's like the old Peter. Yeah. Alright. I'm gonna be a singer. I will link it. Hey, Gunnar, you're due on the podcast too. No pressure, but he talked a lot about he's like, oh well, you have to have rotation and anti rotation movements in there. I'm like, why? He's like, I don't know. When you get up and you twist, you don't want to. I don't know. You can put your back out. I was like, yeah, yeah, you know, that is a really good point. And there's so many different ones you can do that are fun. You can do like side, I like side plank, debited, clam. Nice plank. That's so multifunctional. I wish it's a little bit more advanced. Pale off presses done properly are great. I love doing single leg. That gets such a challenge. And so the kid, I don't think I've ever done a single leg. So what she's talking about in balance. Yeah, you're right. I don't have that's probably why I didn't do it. Yeah. The core is back. People think you're six-pack now. The core is going to be when we think of like stabilizing force, it's going to be your back, your obviously your TVA, your, your central abs and your deep, sorry, your obliques. And then you also have the, the, the, the glute muscles are involved in that as well. So when I engage my core and I grace for a heavy lift, my glutes were involved. My back. Like, yeah, squeeze your guts, squeeze your glutes. But I wanted to add that in too, because it's, it is important. And I do see anecdotally, I do see with my clients, no engagement of their core and their glutes together. It's hard. When they're walking away from the camera, they're setting up their camera, they walk away or they're walking to the equipment. That's when I see it. I'm like, they're just no core. There. How can you tell? Is it that they're, yeah, they're abdominal because if someone is going to videotape, but we should do a challenge, which by the way, I don't know exactly when this comes out, but we have not announced it yet. General. I'm trying to see if I'm getting the like, don't talk about it yet. Yeah. Am I? We applied and got a national holiday for November, which is going to be, this is probably confidential, but it's national muscle health month. Oh my God. I totally love that. National muscle health month for November and the state. Great question. Texas is its own country. But it's national. I love that. So, and I don't know where this fell into this, but we were talking about glutes and, you know, as women are learning to train the importance of muscle. I do. Moving well. And moving well. Moving well. Because you could have muscle, like I said, but then. Oh, the glute. The glute. So how do you, so if someone sets up their camera, this is for national muscle health month, because it's really should be national glute month, but it's not. It's globally a muscle health. If someone sets up their camera and they want to know if they are engaging their core in their glutes, should they be feeling their glute on each step? Could they see if they're not engaged? Visually, you'll be able to see it. So it's very easy to have your little city of this and you're like, I, I want, I want to see just video to set your camera up and just forget about it. You got to forget about it. Right. Because if you're thinking about it, then you, you're not going to get what's really happening and see how you move. Your glutes are in the biggest muscle in your body. They should be. And when you are propelling yourself forward, they are a big part of that. However, they should be. However, I see the vast majority of my clients and we videotape all my clients are be videotaped. That's our kind of standard. Do they put, do you then put into a program or are you just watch it visually? Like a program that analyzes angles and gate and no, we don't do that. I do think that is really great, but we literally, they, when you apply to work with us, we ask you to submit three videos so we can analyze and put you in the right docket and just kind of know, all right, this is what we're, we're, what we have to trade. Have you ever wrote some back and be like, do we're not talking about those kind of videos? No. No, never did that. Although I have had gales because it's hard to get in. I've had gales actually talking to videos and like, oh my God, I love you. That, that, that grit, that mindset is awesome. But so if you're walking away and you're, how do you know you're not engaging your glutes? Well, obviously you have to be wearing some kind of a tights where you could see, but you'll really see as you're moving that there's just, for lack of a better word, like it's, it's flaccid. If you're using the muscles, there'd be a contraction. And so what it should feel like is if a gal can do a Romanian deadlift, I would say, well, your glutes and hamstrings when you're walking should feel like the top third of Romanian deadlift. So think of how it feels during the top of a Romanian deadlift. Or if you can think, if you're able to jump, right? So just think, how do you jump? Like that's how your glutes should feel. You can't jump with your glutes relaxed. You just, that is one thing that I have not seen mastered. You actually happen like, you know, use them several times and they're just, they're engaged, they're toned, they're engaged. They should be. I'm so lucky I lived with my husband and, you know, he's a six time champion. And I just, I look at him, his glutes are never off. They're never off. They're always engaged. They're part of how he stands and moves and his abs as well. Do you think that's a male feral thing? Cause I look at my husband and he's the same way. No, I don't. And the reason why is because with the opportunity of working with some high level athletes, including my poor friend, Hattie, so she stayed with us and she'd be like doing the dishes in her bikini. Same thing. Never, they're always, they're part of how she stands, how you're stacking the rib cage over the, the hips. Um, if you're not using your glutes, you're going to be off. You're either going to be in severe anterior tilt with, um, your abs not engaged, right? Because if you're in extension, you're not able to lock your abs in. And as I said, the core really is from your, you know, your, your, your front side, your lats all the way down and more back muscles in your glutes, or you're in posterior tilt, which a lot, that's probably easier. A lot of people are more, are they more posterior tilted? I see both.  and alfalfa-pyridine. I see it both, but you'll be able to see it anyways. It's a fun exercise to do, and then can you train it? Yes, you can absolutely train that. If you train your RAS, your Articular Activating System, onto this idea that you can master that as a woman, you will master it. If you look at, there's so many female athletes, but particularly in bodybuilding, and it's why I do love bodybuilding, because, and I see this in my clients, it opens the door that you are allowed, at whatever age you are, 40, 50, 60, to really deep dive into how to run your rig, so your body's your rig, how to freaking run that rig. Here's the blueprint. Everything's a learnable skill. You can learn it, and you're allowed to get crazy with this, like, obsess over it, dive into it, because there are so many positive health outcomes. Again, you can do all the weightlifting you want to, but that doesn't mean you're not going to have Dowager's back. If the other 20... Not going to have what? It's called Dowager's back. If the other 20 hours of the day... The hump at the back, okay? You're not engaging. Is there a standard amount of...and I know this is nuanced, so I'm going to be okay with this, but for a woman who is starting a resistance training program, should that be a minimum of two days a week? Should it be three days a week? Again, I understand it depends on how the training program is done. From your guys' perspective? It's four days a week, three of weight training and one of yoga. Anyone says yoga is a sissy thing, doesn't know how to do yoga. It's not. You have to really train your body. Your balance. Your balance and everything. I have very poor balance, but I'm working on it. I was in my undergraduate. We worked on some of the first postmenopausal women's studies. Nice. The exercise. There was a series of studies. It was postmenopausal women and then it was a combination of men and women. It might not be in that order. It's probably a combo of men and women first. The five days a week of resistance training was yoga. They used yoga as the resistance training component. I'm sorry, it wasn't five days a week. I think it was between two and three days a week, but the resistance piece was yoga for the beginner, which is interesting. I know that was really interesting. Do you feel that there is a sweet spot for women in their 40s? The science says, the evidence says that two times a week is a great starting point of intentional training. I think it's 150 minutes of hard exercise and that's not just resistance training. That could be cardiovascular training, but 150 minutes a week. Then two resistance trainings a week. However, in my experience, I think, and this is the mindset piece, getting great outcomes that you can see and feel in three to four months, that's going to be probably one of the biggest hooks. That doesn't mean you're training every day, but it means four times a week for 40 minutes, really purposeful training and making sure that you're sticking to the same program for enough time that you're able to actually progress ability, range of motion, weight is key, so not switching from exercise to exercise, but really progressing. I do think, and then you've got your food has to be, and you want to talk to someone. Does it matter the age? Let's say you guys are both different generations. Joan, you started with four days a week, one of those days was yoga. Do you find that in another generation, earlier generation would get the same type of benefit, but what you change is maybe the weight or how do we think about it? Someone is listening to this and they're not trying to answer this question. How do we think about scaling? I have always trained the individual. There's one message I would want to impart the audience where I have had success with women. It's you train the individual. You don't train the age. You don't train the individual. So mom's program only started to differ from, say, Wendy's program when she had a shoulder injury. She fell off her bike. She probably already had arthritis in the shoulder, fell off her bike, and then that turned into a lot of inflammation, lesions, which ultimately required her to have a surgery. So taking those overhead presses out became key. So you look at the person that you have in front of you. If I think of somebody who's very obese, so where mom was when she was 200 pounds, I had to think of the weight on her lumbar spine from her TVA, her transverse abdominal muscle having to hold on to all of that visceral fat, which is the truth, right? And the strain that would cause on her back. So I put her on the leg press. She's secure. She's locked in. It's very simple to execute. There's no strain on her back. We're going to train her leg strength. So I really think of the individual. Don't get too cut up on your age other than being formed. Sex, no. We know that there's no absolutely no difference. I think Dr. Lauren, Kalenzo, Sen, please. I would agree with you. This is going to make us a little unpopular. But from the evidence that I have seen, there doesn't seem to be sex differences through or for training. It is a good foundational program that is individualized for that person. It's a good foundational program based on skill level, contrast indications based on injury. There's no statistical difference between how a woman, the rate at which a woman gains muscle, even in menopause. I know this is so hard to hear. I'm really glad to hear you say this. There's just not same thing with weight loss. There's no special menodiad. There's no special menotraining program. You can't adjust your program based on what you want to amplify. And male bodybuilders do this too. You have a weak chest. You're going to have to rotate in more chest training frequency. So same thing, but the actual training program, progressive overload, sufficient volume, mechanical load, it's the same. And there is so much drifting going on. So just being aware of that and just because something sounds sciencey or somebody isn't expert in something doesn't mean you're not being shown. So that's difficult to navigate. But it's challenging. But there should be a red flag if somebody has special knowledge that major bodies aren't aligned with. Yeah, it's very challenging. But the good news is having good training programs and good nutrition, whether you're in perimenopause, menopause, male, female, yes. Before we go to our strong seat questions, which will be in the supercaster section, which are going to be super fun, lots of supers, I want to touch on nutrition. And I just want to understand your principles for body transformation. If we were to pick, let's say weight loss, how do you guys think about nutrition for weight loss? I think that one is pretty simple. So I mean, you have to be in a deficit that doesn't always have to be from food. It can be from managing your neat cardiovascular expenditure. But you have to be in a caloric deficit. So if we're talking about food specifically, number one, you can't play around with your protein. You want to have that make sure you're prioritizing protein in your meals. I prefer to have people dose their protein out in all of their meals. So every meal is protein centric. It's great for satiety is a big one because satiety equates to adherence. Right. You want to eat foods that don't digest immediately and leave you reaching for food, you know, in an hour. Otherwise, you're not going to maintain your caloric deficit and muscle mass, right? So we don't want to just lose weight. And this comes into the effective use of a TLP one, right? If we're just focused on the scale, then we put ourselves at risk of bone loss and muscle loss. We don't want to do that. We want to make sure we're getting our money's worth, right? We want to actually gain muscle, maximize bone mineral density, and have that favorable muscle to fat ratio. And you can do that. It's not that hard. So a protein's got to be there. Preferably dose it throughout the day. I'm a big proponent. Keep it super easy. You know, I tell my clients, what's your ideal weight that is healthy to maintain for your size? Probably it's what you weighed in college or something like that. Totally agree. Super easy. And I just say, like, hit a gram. Just hit a gram. So if you were 120 pounds on college, you're 160 pounds now, aim for 120 grams of protein, split that up in your four or five meals a day in your golden. And I think mom now, right? Like, there's so many options for protein. It's not just chicken and salad. Yeah, it's easy when you have the protein powder. It's not good protein powder. Without a doubt about the creamies. Oh, what's a creamy? It's like ice. It's like an ice cream, but it's, you know, ninja. Yeah. Yeah, they have ice cream maker. Yes. So you basically your protein show. Yeah, I'm waiting to see if my neighbor can actually get that to work well, which he says it's amazing. Yeah. Oh my gosh. I got to get it down to Sam Miguel. Oh, man. She's a ninja creamy. Oh, I love making them. And I just love eating with whey protein. What do you make of it? I make it with whey protein. Okay. I'm going to buy one today. Oh, there are. I'm going to go and say, yeah, I'll let you know what is the one that we have. It's it's amazing. Literally, you freeze your your protein shake in these little containers 24 hours. You run it through the machine. He sold five minutes sold. It is so I mean, there's just there's no excuse other. There's so great. Yes. Low calorie or calorie free seasonings, condiments. If if you're if you need to have that flavor profile, if that makes you happy, there's so many options now. There's just so much that you can do. There's big things that you can make now. There's bars available. I see things like Fairlife out there now is traveling and I needed protein and they I saw the Fairlife. I'm like, that's brilliant. I love seeing that we're seeing more protein options for mainstream people instead of all this. So protein, empty foods that you're used to seeing. So and then fiber, you know, I've got to talk with that. I tell my gals like aim for that 25 grams of fiber. If we're doing a cut where I'm going to be honest, if we're bringing carbs down because you're you started with low calories, which is often the reality of older people. They're just not eating as much as they should be for their size. But we have to drive that fat loss. We might have to bring carbs down to a place where how are you going to hit 25 grams of fiber? So that's where we're supplementing in with fiber. But ultimately, if you can, you want to be following a diet and being a deficit where you're able to hit that 25, 20 to 25 grams of quality fiber. And you do that by eating a variety of produce and whole grains if you can, if you can digest that or tubers if you if you can digest that legumes if you can. I love chickpeas and lentils. They're the two easier legumes to digest versus like a black bean. And eating the colors of the rainbow, which is easy, right? And so, you know, one week you're having tomatoes and greens, then the next week you rotate in some red peppers, then the next week you switch your greens from green beans to, say, broccoli or peas. So you just easily rotating it in. Keep it simple, right? If you're going to execute on this kind of restrictive. Really simple. Then we previously thought. Yeah. Talk to your girlfriends. Join a group of people that can, oh, I've got this great recipe. It's four ingredients. I do have a low carb bread pudding, which is a great approach. Oh, that's almost like an oxymoron. Yeah. You can, you're working to come over. Is it in your book? It is. And I'm obsessed, well, I'm obsessed with it. So basically, we tried over the last two years all these different recipes. Yep. And, you know, this was one of my favorites. What's the secret? You can hear the secret. Does it have frozen powder in it? Well, you might not like the secret. I'm not going to tell you, but you can try it and then I'll tell you. Okay. It's amazing. Bread pudding, my house, apple bread pudding, my house tonight. I love apple sticks. If you come later, you will meet some gremlins. Are those your, is that your children? Oh yeah. No, they were born gremlins. They just became my children. Okay. Michelle and Joan, I am so grateful and just delighted that we were able to sit down and have this conversation. You both are just incredible icons. Thank you so much. So honored to be here. Thank you. Oh my God. I hope we gave some action. We'll take away some of the people listening and just, I've always been in awe of what you're doing. I think you really helped put protein and focusing on building muscle on the map. So keep doing what you're doing. Thank you so much.