Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging,Olging, You really have to have a lot of self-discipline and comfortableness in your own skin. Because you tell your friends and they say, oh, absolutely not. No one makes it. Don't do it. Your parents are saying, oh, gosh, that's so dangerous. No one believes in you. You're the only person that believes in yourself. You have to break things up in your head. You can't think about how overwhelming everything is. That's when you don't make it through those hard moments in life or in whatever you're trying to accomplish. You have to really just take it moment to moment. I just wanted to jump on here with an exciting announcement. I am hosting the second ever Forever Strong Summit, April 26th, 27th in Houston, Texas, 2025. There's going to be two days, the VIP day on April 26th. You will learn from former Navy SEALs, from former Secret Service, from individuals that you do not want to miss. Myself, my inner tribe will be there to support you to learn everything from muscle health to science to nutrition. You don't have to be an expert. You don't even have to have a background. All you have to have is a will to win and stay strong. I will put a link in the show notes below. Please go to my website, drgabriallion.com. We sold out last year, and I would hate for you to miss this opportunity. So if you're waiting for a sign, if you're thinking you need to change something up, and you need community, friends, we've got you covered. Dr. Shane Kronstadt, welcome to the show. Thanks for having me. You had a beautiful tour of the podcast studio. You've never been here before. How did you like it? I was a little let down. No one welcomed me at the door. I was expecting sparkling water, greetings, full tour. And instead, you got a can of sardines and said, welcome, here's lunch. Yeah. I wanted to have you on the podcast. You are my husband. I'm so lucky. You're a physician. and a urology, for those of you who don't know. That is all things related to... Kidneys, bladder, testosterone, men's health, reproductive organs. As a second-year surgical resident, you graduated top of your medical school class and have authored over 40 publications. 50. 50 publications. Still can't find your socks. But I wanted to have you on the show because I talk about you all the time. And part of people forward-facing, for example, myself, who's spent time and effort educating the world, I don't do it by myself. I have a teammate. And, I mean, to be fair, I have many teammates, but none of them like you. So we want to hear about you. No pressure. But I want to start with you've done a lot of extraordinary things. And I want to hear a little bit about your background and how you got to the SEAL teams. Sure. Yeah, so I grew up in Virginia, near D.C., and single-parent household for part of it. And when I was around 20, 21 years old, you know, after high school I worked for a couple years to help out, I decided to join the SEALs. Were you a good student? I was not a good student. I was terrible. When you say terrible, are you talking about D- or what? I mean, I did well when I showed up. Attendance was a problem. You were somewhat of a delinquent. Is that true? Somewhat's an understatement. Yeah, so I applied to enlist in the SEALs in 2008. And at the time, I think I was just a little tired of seeing Death to America by Iran and North Korea, mouthing off all the time. And I said, what can I do that's the most high-value thing that can deliver me to places like this to move the needle? I didn't want to just do something regular and not move the needle. So I said, SEALs are it. I actually originally joined the Navy, and I had this nuclear engineering job. And then they told me I had to pick. So I picked the SEALs. And then in 2008, you could apply to go straight to the SEALs. Typically, you would have to go in, get a job, and then try out later. But they had this new pipeline. So what you would do, they'd have this. You would test out academically, and then you'd do a physical fitness test. And you'd compete nationally to try to get a contract. And so I trained for that, took a little bit of adjustments, fine-tuning, got a contract, and then 2009 is when I shipped out to go do it. You trained with Dr. Now Dr., actually PhD, Dr. Mark Devine, who is a former Commander SEAL. But you skipped through the whole part about how you did martial arts, and you really fine-tuned your skills. You were always pretty tough. You skipped over that. And by the way, you saw that Be Someone Special video. This is why it's so great to be interviewed by your wife, because I technically have wife clearance and know all of these things. You get away with nothing. Nothing. Absolutely nothing. That takes an unusual individual to be a really poor student, to be somewhat of a delinquent. But you were always very disciplined when it came to martial arts and things that were physical. You saw 9-11 happen, and you decided that you need to go serve your country and do something about it. Yeah. I mean, I actually told myself in high school I'd never join the military. I said, I'm not going over there. That's okay. I said I would never marry a SEAL either. You said you never talked to me, right? We'll get into that later. Yeah. I mean, when I grew up, for a part of my life, I didn't grow up with my dad. I don't really know him. I grew up with who I consider my dad when I was eight years old. So, you know, I was fortunate. I had a lot of good male role models in my life. And I grew up probably since the age of four doing martial arts. I did that up until the level of Black Bell. And I played football, went to the national championships, and then I dropped out of football sometime in high school after playing a couple years to pursue martial arts full-time to finish up. And then I switched from that to mixed martial arts, Muay Thai, started Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu. That was around the time I went to the military. And I didn't want to take any risks to get injured. So I stopped doing that and kind of picked it up intermittently throughout my life. But, you know, I was pretty fortunate to have a lot of male role models. And I think that instilled a lot of values in me. I think martial arts instilled a lot of discipline and values at an early age, which I found very valuable. And I think I was really fortunate to spend my whole 20s in the SEALs where I had a lot of great role models. I learned from a lot of great men who were leaders, who had a lot of years and lessons learned overseas, and just, you know, very strong role models that I really got to spend those formidable years in my 20s with, which I think really gave me a lot of value in my life and made me help make me into who I am in some ways. Were there things growing up that were hard? You know, you and I are raising two little children. We have a four-year-old and a five-year-old. But it's not as if those things are easy. And it's not when we think about parenting. Discipline, integrity, respect are real things. When you were growing up without a dad for a long period of time and also not necessarily a clear direction other than martial arts, were there things or was there a moment where you really thought, okay, I am going to enlist? I mean, the real Hollywood true story is I was probably, you know, 19, 20. I wasn't really doing anything. I was motivated to do something, and I couldn't really quite find it. And I was looking for it, and I kept looking. I think eventually I saw a few guys on leave come home from the military and it started to spark my interest. I was interested in going to school, but I think it wasn't really the right time for me yet. And I think that I started to dig more into it. My grandfather was in the Navy. He passed away before I was alive, but it kind of had always been in the back of my mind. And I think that, you know, I went to a recruiter one day to get more information, and I kind of toyed around with it for a while, and it seemed like a good fit. I was looking for something more physically active, something more hands-on, something that would make a difference. And it seemed like it had all the moving parts. You know, back in 2008, you didn't really know much about it. You couldn't really get a lot of information. The SEAL teams, you mean. Yeah, I mean, you really kind of had to infer, make a lot of inferences about what it is, what you might be doing. It's pretty dangerous. A lot of people were dying in the war. So, you know, it was no small feat to say, I'm going to go join the most dangerous job and go into a, you know, profession where a lot of people are dying. Did you think about that a lot? Yeah, I mean, it was on my mind. Young, 20, and wanted to bang your chest and get a lot of girls. And say hoo-yah a lot. That came later. Mark, we love you. Mark Devine. Yeah. These are big, I think that people do not recognize what the real job of a SEAL operator is or a tier one operator. Yeah. I mean, I think there's a lot of glorification about the military. I think it's a great career. I loved all of it. I would do it all over again. I loved everyone I worked with, mostly. And it could be a tough room to work in with 20 alpha males in a room, trying to be number one. But, you know, I think that, you know, it's a dangerous job. You love it. But, you know, at the same time, you're signing up to do something that's really, you know, I mean, the truth is you do, it's called Sea, Air, and Land, right? That's how you infill into a target through the sea, through the air, through the land, skydiving, diving, on foot. But really, what's the ultimate goal? The ultimate goal is to capture or kill probably the baddest guys on the planet. So you really, it's a job surrounded by, around killing people and taking out the garbage of, you know, the world's most dangerous, terrible people. And, I mean, these guys are doing terrible things, killing innocent people, doing unspeakable things, you know, I really don't love to talk about. And so it's not that, I think people kind of glorify things, but there's a lot of things that aren't glorious. Would you allow your son, our son, Leonidas, Michael, named after the King of the Spartans, join the SEAL teams? I mean, I think so. I'm not sure. We'd have to talk about it. Was there a moment that you, and what I'm trying to illuminate here for people is how you think about things. I am very fortunate to interface with some of the most extraordinary people in the world. Yeah. And I think that out of all of them, you are one of the most extraordinary and uncommon among the uncommon individual. Thanks. No charge. When you were going through training, was there a moment that you felt that you were not going to succeed? Okay. So if you'll let me ramble on for a little while. How long is that going to be? I know. She warned me that I can't do this, but we're going to do it. So, you know, you show up, right? You go to boot camp, and we were in the specialized boot camp, okay? You work out twice a day, and there's probably about 500 people trying to go to SEAL training at the time. And so we get through that. Everyone thinks, you know, well, let me back up. You tell people you want to go to SEAL training. You really have to have a lot of self-discipline and comfortableness in your own skin because you tell your friends that they say, oh, absolutely not. No one makes it. Don't do it. There's no chance. No one makes it. Why would you do that? Your parents are saying, oh, gosh, that's so dangerous. No one believes in you. You're the only person that believes in yourself. And so you basically have to be very comfortable with believing in yourself against everyone not believing in you. And how does that work? And you probably have a few people who might be willing to help you out, but they still probably deep down are like, all right, well, don't let this guy's feelings get hurt. I talk to people later, and like, oh, God, he said he wanted to be a SEAL. I was worried about that. Is he not going to make it? You know, things like that. I think some of my really close friends knew that if I wanted to do something, I would do it. And I guess that's how I was, even from a long time ago, if I didn't recognize it. Some of my friends did. But you show up to boot camp, right? We go there. You're doing your two-a-days. Everyone's in a special, special operations performance part. Then they have this new push to get more SEALs during the war, but they didn't want to change standards. So they open up this course called PreBuds where you would work out twice a day. They'd have these Olympic coaches. They'd have you swim. You'd swim two miles a day. You'd go on running trips with Olympic running coaches, do all these workouts, weightlifting, calisthenics. And so then we're probably around 500 people, and at the end of two months of boot camp, two months of this PreBuds course, they said, we're going to take the top, I think, 350 or 250 guys with performance. So they did. So then we went to SEAL training in Coronado in December. And then when we got there, they basically just beat us for free until Christmas and let people go home and come back because we couldn't really class up yet. And so then we started this course, and they said, okay, we're going to take the top 168, 178 performers. So you can't really just show up. So they took the top 168 performers of our run scores, O course, swims, whatever else they were judging us on. If they thought we were tough, I don't know. So then we started. And, you know, I think by the, you know, you meet these guys along the way, and there's a lot of people that are jerks, and, you know, they're rude to everybody, like, oh, we're not going to make friends with you because we don't know who's going to be here, and it's probably not going to be you. You mean the instructors? No, just other guys in training, you know, a lot of guys with a lot of hubris. And you see all these guys, they're amazing. You know, this one friend, I thought it was phenomenal, ran Boston in less than three hours. He was a stud. His friends were SEALs. He was jacked. He was ripped. Mentally tough. This other guy I knew. Did he make it? I'll get there. This other guy I knew, he could do 100 dead hang pull-ups, no problem. Tough, right? All these guys, you know, tough guys. And then, you know, you go through SEAL training, you meet some guys, and we get through probably to week four, after four weeks of in-doc and four weeks of our first phase, and we start hell week with, you know, the 168 down to 110. 168. individuals out of the top 500, and now, four weeks in, you're entering into hell week, which is what? So, it's six days of continuous training with an hour and a half nap on day three and day four. It's non-stop. No sleep until day three or four, and that sleep is an hour and a half. And I think it's worse to go to sleep because you have to wake up from it. Sounds like having a newborn. Yeah, yeah, kind of, right? You know, these guys, and I remember talking to a friend of mine, we were close, he was a corpsman, he was in the Navy already, he was a medic, and he was trying out for SEALs. Everybody kind of says, well, what's your backup plan? You know, and I think, you can't have a backup plan when you have goals or something you really want to do. It's the plan A only, right? I think when you have the plan B, you're planning to fail. You're okay with plan A not working out. You've made contingency plans. You've kind of set yourself up for something else to happen. And I think that's a mistake people make all the time. I think you really have to, this is plan A, this is what I have to do. It's against all odds, but this is how I'm going to do it. And you really have to be really strategic about all these things. And I think that, you know, we started Hell Week. All these guys were the first guys to wash out. The guys who I thought were tough. And you get to the end of it, you know, and you see these guys six days in, you know, my friend and my boat team finished with a broken hip. You know, I got in trouble, so I was getting beat all the time. You don't say. Were you mouthing off? You know, I try to wear one of those Nike white performance t-shirts, you know, it's with these guys. There are 14 of us. Some officers, some guys got rolled back, and these guys who knew what was going on, they're like, oh yeah, you know, you keep your top button button up. No one will know. Let's all wear these, you know, Nike performance shirts so we don't get our nipples chafing and bleeding like everybody else. So we did it. They all got injured or rolled out or quit, and I was the last one I got caught. And so then instead, anytime there was a break, I just get beat all the time. And I may or may not have got waterboarded. Officially, no, for the record. And by some psychopath. Anyways, yeah, it was great. So, yeah, I mean, you have guys like this, you know, you finish with a broken hip, right? I mean, these guys are ready to go. And how we would look at it, I think with a lot of goals, right, they can be overwhelming. You can look at something and say, this is impossible. That looks impossible, right? And I think that probably a lot of people who are just doing it for themselves, you know, for themselves, for the wrong reasons. They probably are the first ones to leave. Enough about Shane. Let's talk about one of the sponsors of the show, and that's Element. I've been using Element, and all of us, actually, Shane included, have been using it for years. It's really changed our game in terms of electrolytes. It has sodium, magnesium, and potassium, all minerals the body requires. Sometimes we don't need more caffeine for energy, even if we like it, but we need water and electrolytes. I use Element daily, often in iced tea or just straight water, between workouts or sip it throughout the day. Shane uses it when he is training for marathons. Pretty sure we could all drink more. Not that kind of drink, by the way. Element is a zero-sugar electrolyte drink mix. They also have sparkling electrolyte water. Each stick pack of Element delivers a meaningful dose of electrolytes free of, again, sugars, artificial colors, or other just weird ingredients. Element is formulated for anyone on a mission to restore health through hydration, and it's perfectly suited for athletes, folks who are fasting, those following a keto, low-carb, whole food, paleo diet, any kind of diet. Get your free Element sample pack with any purchase. Be sure to use my code drinklmnt.com slash drlion and try their new Element sparkling electrolyte water. It is a 16-ounce can of sparkling deliciousness. first one's a dropout. But I think you have to do things for the right reasons, and I think a lot of us did it for reasons other than ourself, because your motivation goes out the window quick. And people experience this in life, in a business, and when times get tough, you know, your motivation's gone. I mean, you have to say, why are you doing this? You have to have a reason you get up to do it every day. And I think that that probably carried us through a lot, carried me through a lot when I was going through some really tough, dark moments in my head. And I think everybody thinks about it, you know, but not everybody pulls the trigger on just walking out because you want to do it. It's like residency, right? Hell week. You know, it's not the job, it's training for the job. Say that again. It's not the job, it's training for the job. You know, residency's tough. There's lots of things that suck in residency. But, you know, there's a lot of things you're doing that you're learning and getting trained that are valuable. And it's to set yourself up to be successful in the job later. And so someone listening to this, thinking about the thing that they're doing when it really sucks. One could recognize that it's a very fleeting moment, the suck. And the suck might last for a year, two years, but you're training and doing it for something bigger. And if you could just hang in there and see it through and not let the internal voices or even better yet, and this is something that I've noticed about you, very neutral. There's not a lot of drama with anything that's going right or going wrong. There's not a lot of deep emotion attached to those things. Yeah, and I think that, you know, it's important to keep in mind a few things. I mean, you have to break things up in your head. You can't think about how overwhelming everything is. That's when you don't make it through those hard moments in life or in whatever you're trying to accomplish. You have to really just take it moment to moment, evolution to evolution, we would say. If we get through Hell Week, we would go meal to meal. We'd get four meals a day. We're just trying to make it to the next meal. We're just trying to make it through that single evolution. If you just make it through that moment to the next moment to the next moment, eventually you're done. And I think, I have a lot of friends who are phenomenal people and they still are, but that one moment of weakness, and I love this saying, it's true and it's unfortunate, but it's one moment of weakness for a lifetime of regret. And I think that's people with cheating, people with quitting on themselves, people have that one moment of weakness and they make their own decision. And I think that you really have to be careful with that. And I think you can prepare yourself for those moments and some people, they don't make it through those moments, but I think that people look back and have a lot of regret and then they try to fill that void for years. I have a lot of friends who try to fill that void for years. And they don't really have to. They're wonderful, amazing people, but it really eats them up that that happened to them. And I think that one moment of weakness can change the whole trajectory of your whole life. In the moments where it's really dark, I just want you to share this because there's a lot of, humans are complex and we think a lot about a lot of things. And when things are really hard, I'll turn to you and I'll ask you for your advice. And I already know what your advice is going to be. I would love for you to share when things are getting really tough or maybe someone shared it with you as to how to make it through those hard times. Well, I think, so I learned this better than anybody. I mean, I don't think SEAL training was easy for me. I think it was very hard, but I loved it, right? And I think at the same time, you know, you can just feel sorry for yourself. I remember this guy walked up to me and said, stop feeling sorry for yourself. And it just, it flipped a switch in my head and I realized I was feeling sorry for myself. And I mean, this, you know, this might not be the best answer, but I was going to ship out to boot camp and I had my SEAL mentor and I said, hey, do you have any advice for me? And he said, yeah. I said, okay. He said, don't be a pussy. And I said, what bullshit advice? That's terrible. It's the most worthless advice I ever had. And then, you know, in moments of life, I've been SEAL training and other things and I think to myself, I'm feeling sorry for myself. I'm like, am I being a pussy right now? Like, I am. Holy shit. I said, you know what? I'm not going to be a fucking pussy right now. I'm going to get my shit together. I'm going to fucking crush this evolution. I'm going to kill this. But you know, I think it was never easy for me. I failed a lot, right? And I made it through all the way through training. There were only 10 of us, 10 to 12 of us who made it all the way through without getting held back for injury, for performance, because you'll often get a second chance to redo a test and then you're out. You know, I always found it very hard because, you know, there were a lot of tests I failed for the first time and, you know, I joined the SEALs. I didn't shot a gun before. I didn't do land navigation. I didn't do all these things. You know, I swam, but, you know, I wasn't a pro swimmer or collegiate swimmer. And so I would be up against the wall a lot of times and I would say, all right. I mean, it draws a lot of anxiety, right? You fail something, you know, in medical school we had our baby two weeks in and then I failed the first test and I decided to take it right away instead of pushing it back. I was stupid. And then I had to make up for it, right? And my back's up against the wall. Your whole life is hanging in this moment that you have to perform in in a day or two weeks and it can cause a lot of anxiety and stress. And I think everyone goes through that in some capacity in something they're doing. And I think that you really have to do different things. You have to be very resourceful. You have to put your ego aside and ask other people who are doing well and doing this better than you even though you don't like to admit it and say, hey, give me some advice. What are you doing that I can implement now and let me do that. And it's hard to have these habits that you've had for a long time and just throw them out the window immediately. But you have to do it. And you have to say, what can I do between now and tomorrow to make a difference? And I think that I asked other people, I sat there and I practiced and I practiced and I practiced hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of times by the next day. And I went in and I performed. And I think I had this solid moment I remember that really changed the way I look at things. And I remember I did this land navigation course, very challenging. For some reason the Green Berets think we only use GPSs. And your wife. But actually we have a very hard compass course. And, you know, sidebar, they told me one time, they said, well, what are you going to do when your GPS fails? I said, well, I'll pull out my second GPS, obviously. But we have this very challenging compass course and you would have to go through this brush in the mountains of California. You had to be able to read maps. You had to count your 100 meter pace foot by foot steps using pacing beads. And every single turn had to be precise and you had to carry all this water and weight. And you had to hit all the points. I think you had to hit at least three out of five targets or five out of seven. I think it was three out of five. And you had to make this this comms window. Okay. So I did it. I hit my three out of five targets and then I had to sprint about a mile and a half to get there on time. I was so exhausted. I had to sit down for a minute because I had all this weight I was sprinting for a mile and a half. I took a minute and I called but I called late. Even though I had been on the target on time I called late. Wait, what is call? What is called late mean? I made my comms to the people that were, I don't know, checking in with us to say, hey, I finished the course. I hit my targets. Boom. By four o'clock whatever the time was. I called it 405 something like that because I was smoked and I need a second. Well, I had to go to this review board because they said you failed the test. I said, well, no, I hit all my targets and I was there on time. You can ask my buddies and they said, well, you didn't call on time. I said, okay. And they looked at me and they said, Navy SEALs are the best combat divers in the world. They said, do you think we should change our standards for you or you should rise to the occasion? I think that hit me in that moment and I said, you know what? You're fucking right. And so I went out there, I got my shit together, I course corrected, what can I do better by tomorrow? I went out there, I fine-tuned myself, I made much more precise movements, I was really much more on top of it, I dialed everything in, didn't lollygag along the way, did everything I needed to do and the next day, I hit five out of five targets and I called them an hour early. And that's a mindset you have to have. I think that, yeah, I'll leave it at that. And to wrap that up, also, never break rule number one. But, yes. But, you know, I think that it's, it's the adversity and the challenges and failures in life that makes you better and I think that failure is not always bad, it sucks in the moment but I can't tell you how many times I've failed something and because I failed it, it made me better because I had to improve in that area and I became better in that area than I would have previously. And I met a lot of guys, SEALs, who, you know, it's easy for them, you know, they get through the whole thing with no problem, they crush everything, they're studs. But the first time they hit adversity or a challenge, they didn't know how to react. And people in life, you know, when you hit adversity or a challenge or failure for the first time, people can't respond to it. But because I feel like I've had so much adversity and I've had my back up against the wall, I've learned to adapt and how to overcome challenges and I know how to handle them and I know how to attack them. And I think that when I meet challenges, I know how to deal with them. And so I'm much well more equipped probably than the average person. And I think, you know, I hear this BS a lot where, you know, I have something that's hard and I do it and people say, oh, well, you're a SEAL, of course, you know, that's easy for you. And I kind of call bullshit on that because I think that it's not because I'm a SEAL or because someone is whatever title they are. In my opinion, and we disagree on this, those are just a marker, right? That's a marker or a metric. I think that you're a SEAL not because you're a stud or whatever you are. It's because I have these habits. I put in hard work. I'm disciplined. I'm willing to work hard. I'm not willing to quit. And I'm willing to do all these things. And all these things individually add up to become that person. And it's not the person that has all these skills all of a sudden. It's all these skills and attributes and discipline every single day, every morning at 3 a.m., every moment in those hard moments that add up to make you that person. And that's what makes someone great. It's not just this nominal title. It's the person putting in the work. And I think that anyone can put in those efforts and work in their domain in life if they choose to. But they have to make that choice and they have to do it. And that is where the difference maker is underlying for a lot of people in success. And you mentioned that you and I believe a little differently on this. And that's true. And where I think that we don't see eye to eye is I believe from my experience, so people might not know this, but I've spent 10 years taking care of tier one operators. And to this day, I sit on the Seal Future Foundation medical board and I take care of your brothers. Luckily, I don't take care of you. We have Dr. Lisa to do that. And here's what I've seen. Over time, a good physician recognizes patterns of disease. But an effective physician recognizes patterns of people. And I would say that there is a genetic component to allow someone to become a SEAL or a tier one operator. And what do I mean by this? And again, I can be wrong, but I was interviewing Matt. What was her name? Who did we have on? The ranger? Yeah. Not Lisa Jaster, who is also amazing, but we had another neuroscientist on. Allison Tab. Yes. Allison Brager, actually. And what she said is when they looked at the gene profile of the rangers, they all had a genetic mutation that allowed them to sleep four hours a night. And Jocko definitely has this mutation and you do too. That they could get up and perform. And that they were able to perform no matter what. And that their body required four hours of sleep. I do believe that there are certain genetic components that allow people to be able to navigate austere environments, whether at war or not, that allow them to then continue to chisel away at these attributes. Right? You could have all those attributes and then decide to be a serial killer. Or you can have all these attributes and decide to pick something else at life. But there seems to be some, in my opinion, that no matter how disciplined you are, there are some people that are built differently. And I will also say that every SEAL and Tier 1 operator agrees with you. And how come that gene wears off at 35? But I think you're right to an extent. I suppose that's true. I think you're right to an extent. You know, I would say that everyone who makes it to SEAL training can become a SEAL. This episode is brought to you by AG1. And I have to say that I am so grateful to them for fulfilling my own nutritional gaps as well as Shane. We all have intentions on eating a diet full of variety but the reality is that humans are creatures of habit. I don't know about you but I continue to eat the same five foods over and over again. Same with my husband and our family. This means I am definitely missing certain nutrients. And AG1 has solved that for me and my family. When I'm traveling, when my own nutrition isn't ideal, AG1 produces high quality, comprehensive, effective, foundational nutrition and the supplement has been rigorously tested and formulated to support nutrition needs. It's easy. It's health in one scoop. These nutrients are combined with a range of phytonutrients which are listed on the label in specific blends. They are supported by research and they contribute to a series of benefits including nutrient density, diversity for the gut microbiome and we all know that antioxidants and prebiotics really help in our overall health and wellness. Even more amazing, AG1 has committed the last 14 years to continuously researching, innovating and testing and improving their product through a lens of uncompromising quality. And AG1 is offering new subscribers a free $76 gift when you sign up. You'll get a welcome kit, a bottle of D3K2 and five free travel packs in your first box. So, make sure to check out drinkag1.com slash lion to get this offer. They all physically can do it. But mentally, some people don't. And probably that's true in a lot of aspects of life and business and things that people set themselves up for and residency. You see people switch out as surgical specialties, you know, multiple times a year. You see lots of residents switch out from urology to radiology or to peds or to something else. I think that all these people can do it. It's a choice and maybe it's not worth it to them. You know, I had this moment I was in boot camp. You know, I think I went through life at some point thinking, why doesn't everybody do this or this or this? And I think, you know, it's okay. Everyone is happy doing what they want to do in life, right? And that's great. And I, you know, I think everyone should do what makes them happy. Not everyone wants to be a surgeon or a SEAL or a doctor or, you know, the best at CrossFit. I think that's not for everybody. But I think that, you know, everyone who shows up, you know, I think they want to be there. They want to do it. But it's a choice and I think that everyone can do it who are in those positions. The difference maker is in the head. And when you go through challenging times, and this is more tactical for the listener, is there something that you fall back on? For example, do you listen to something motivational? Do you have a strategy? And maybe you don't. I have strategies, yeah. I do like David Goggins for motivational speaking, you know, gets me pumped up. He's great for that. But, you know, first time I jumped out of an airplane, I didn't really want to jump out of an airplane where I could see people walking around a thousand feet doing a stack line jump. And I think they instilled a few skills in us. I think that there's something called box breathing, four by four breathing. I'm a big fan. You can use that in combat, in life, in stress, anxiety. Basically breathe in for four seconds, hold it for four seconds, and you breathe out for four seconds. And you do it four times. And you would be surprised how much you can regulate yourself with that. It helps. It helps in the short term. You can take a deep breath and you can brush it off. I think also the anxiety, the build up in your head of so many things, this build up of this op you're going to go on, this build up of this financial difficulty you're facing, this build up of this social encounter you're going to have, this build up of this thing you're anxious about. I think that actually the event in and of itself is way less significant and way less dramatic and way less of an issue than it actually is in your head. And sometimes if I have something really terrible that I think is going to happen, I just play it out in my head. I say, all right, well, okay, let's play it out. If this worst case scenario happened, how would it play out? And then if that happened to me, say, I don't know, I lost all my money, right? How would I respond to it? What would I do in response to that situation? And I would say, well, I would do this and because I'm going to do this and respond this way, actually, I think everything would be okay. So it's not actually that bad. I think that I would be okay in that situation. And I think if you play it out, you would realize that it's not as bad as you are making it out to be. And when every time I've done something that built up in my head, it's never as bad as it is in your head. And that also segues into teammates. And when we think about building a strong family and building a strong foundation, you and I are teammates. I would love to share, maybe you can tell the story about how we met. I mean, we're going to talk about fitness and balance and all of these things. But our journey together started in a way that proves, I don't know if it proves mindset is everything or mindset is the foundation, but maybe it proves that when you come together with a teammate and you have inherent alignments as to what you think is important, then you can build something extraordinary. Yeah, I mean, I had some interesting encounters as a combat medic. You know, as a SEAL, you know, it's a unique job because in some other units you attach people and your only job is to be the Ranger medic and you're fully in that role or whatever your job is, right? The 18 Delta Greenbrain medic. But in the SEALs, it's slightly different in the fact that everyone's a SEAL first. Everyone goes to comm school, to breacher school, become a medic, a sniper, whatever, what have you, right? And they have these additional skills. And so the job is to be a SEAL first, but you're completely self-sufficient as a unit. And so you don't have to attach all these other people and you know the caliber of the person next to you is of the same caliber as you, right? To an extent. You know, some guys are better than others. And, you know, so it was interesting. I went to this combat medic course. It was about a year. Did a lot of surgical training. Went to the hospitals. Did a lot. Went to some courses. And, you know, my first encounter in real life having to use those skills was on my last operation in Afghanistan. On the way home, you think everything's over. And of course, that's always when something happens, right? So we're on our way out and, you know, I hear over the radio that, you know, something happened. Someone got hurt. You heard an explosion. And so then me and my buddy, they say, oh, well, there's mortars coming or whatever. No one really knew what was going on at the time. So me and my buddy get out and we're rushing over this guy who, suppose the guy's legs blown off. And we get over there. The EOD guy clears to him. Goes with an Afghan soldier. I guess they throw a couple of tourniquets on. They bring him and I meet him. And we meet on this little hut. And, you know, we're not really in the clear. It's still kind of dangerous at the time. We don't really know the tactical situation at the moment. So in our minds, you know, it's still kind of a hot, dangerous situation. So I see this guy. I mean, he's got a concussion. His arm is bent sideways. He's got two amputations, one above the knee. One's just tissue hanging everywhere. There's blood all over the place. He doesn't speak English. I don't know how to communicate to him. There's fragmentation all over his body. Fragmentation meaning? Like metal pieces, you know, that penetrated into the skin underneath the tissue. And, you know, I was like, holy shit, this is crazy. And I just thought, I said, man, I don't even have time to mentally process this. I'll deal with this later. So I just go into autopilot and I start, you know, trying to work on this guy. And I'm, you know, working on this guy. And I talk to my buddy and he has to communicate over comms and I have to communicate over comms, you know, at some point. And, you know, I remember when I was in training and I, I think it was in training, it was at the team or something, but I think it was always why I have this calm nature about myself. I think it was really this one moment that really defined me to have that ability because I really don't get stressed out. There's bleeding in the operating room or whatever have you, stress, stressful situations. I would say that's true. You are not, you, I can always count on you. You're not going to be stressed. I remember that he said, all right, well, you're in a team, you're the combat medic, right? Someone on your team gets shot or hurt. You have to be the calmest guy in the room. You have to take a deep breath. You have to go over the radio regardless of how you feel inside. You have to be really calm because the moment you start freaking out when someone on your team is shot or someone's hurt, everyone's going to start freaking out. And so it's your job to regulate yourself and regulate everybody else and make things seem very calm when you are talking to everyone. And so you have to be calm in a stressful situation. And so, you know, I remember we were treating this guy and, you know, I had to be in that situation and it was interesting. You know, I was very lucky and fortunate that I had a lot of training leading up to that moment that prepared me for it. And luckily, this guy survived and against all odds and he did well. So, you know, I don't know where he is anymore but he did well. And another crazy story was, you know, I was in Africa. Going to Africa really kind of changed my outlook on life. You know, I was very fortunate to go. You know, I met some of the greatest, most hardworking people I've ever met on the planet, the nicest people, the best culture. And, you know, I think I was at a point in life where probably a lot of people are now. You know, you see a lot of people in the country who are very conflicted, very angry, very dissatisfied. There's a lot of back and forth every four years about politics. People are at each other's necks all the time about politics, about different things. It wasn't like that, you know, back in 2015, 2013. But, you know, this is around 2015. But, you know, I got to a point where I was really kind of thinking, wow, just, you know, people suck. You know, everyone just kind of sucks, you know. And why were you thinking that? Everyone just cares about themselves. They're self-absorbed. No one cares about each other. It's just very disheartening to see all the time. And, you know, I remember when I went to Uganda and I was in different parts of Uganda and I had the opportunity to participate in some aid work because, yeah, I really, you know, I was there to do my SEAL job but I got to also help medically a lot of people and do some aid work kind of on the side just because I wanted to and I had supplies and equipment to do it and met a PhD who was helping with some, you know, children who were, you know, orphaned from the AIDS epidemic. They lost a lot of their working force, you know, 30, 40-year-old, you know, adults, males and females. It's a lot of orphaned children, et cetera. And you would see, you know, they really didn't have much, you know, probably the average income, I think was around $1,200 a year, right? You could have a full, you know, fine five-star meal for $8, $12 to eat out and you would see, you could clothe and provide electricity and full support for a child for $10 a month. I mean, it's insane, right? And I remember I went to this, I used to go to this orphanage once a week and I'd go hang out with the kids and spend time with them. We'd play football and I'd mentor them and I'd, you know, hang out with all these people and there was this guy, he stood up this orphanage and then I was in a hotel in Kampala in the capital and I was in the lounge at whatever hotel I was at and I met this one lady, she was telling me about what she was doing and she said, well, I teach in China for one-third of the year and I teach in, I don't know where she's from, Australia maybe, the other third of the year and I take all my own money and I come here to Jinja and I put up these kids and I help pay for them, I support them and it was in that moment that I realized I think I had it wrong and not only did I meet all these wonderful people in Uganda but I met all these other people who were out there doing good things and I said, maybe I got it wrong and I'm not seeing all the good in people because they're out there doing it because they're not at home in the U.S. doing this and that, they're overseas helping make a difference and I think that was in a moment that I realized I was wrong in that moment and that was very refreshing and restorative for me but there was another time, interestingly enough, it's just kind of a wild story, I was there, we were going to go to support this sniper range up near this whole area with some stuff we were doing. Anyways, so I had to pack this box of medical equipment to go up there, it's an hour, hour and a half away from our camp, we live in the villages and so luckily, you know, I like to be prepared for lots of situations, I don't like to be kind of not prepared so I showed up, brought what I felt like I needed which was a lot just in case and then we get this phone call, someone called my team leader and they said, they need me to go to the Capitol. I said, why do you need me to go to the Capitol? They said, oh, well, there's this American soldier and they think he's really sick and you're the senior most American medical provider in the country and I said, me? I'm just like an E5 medic, how am I the most senior American medical provider? It's got to be a joke and so, they're like, no, you're it. I said, oh, all right, I guess call the driver and so, we go to drive another hour, hour and a half to get to this place and there's like comms issues, we're using these cell phones with cell phone cards, if anyone remembers what that is with your minutes prepaid, it's a thing and so, I go to meet this guy, he's got acute appendicitis, I start him on IV erdipenem early which is a very broad spectrum strong antibiotic in vans. We use that in a lot of combat wounds because they're dirty very dangerous and a lot of people survive their wounds of war and die from infections and so, we tend to go broad spectrum so, I had a lot of this stuff already and so, I go to meet this guy, they do an ultrasound, it seems like he probably had ruptured already, I mean, there's, I don't know if it was inflammation or the appendix was leaking but there's fluid around the appendix so, we had to do something so, he turns out to be kind of sick and the whole thing in Africa is you had to be able to hunker down for two or three days so, I had gone on this course at USC in LA to try to learn, you know, to further sustain myself and learn a little more longer term surgical care, surgical nursing, ER trauma care. to keep someone alive until, yeah, until you can get out of there. Okay. And so, interestingly enough, still can't find your socks. Yeah, yeah. I mean, that's what I have you believe at least. Yeah. Or, change our son's diaper. Yeah, yeah. So, we, we pay cash, I don't know, a hundred bucks cash, we rent ambulances, we're flying down with the ambulances on, you know, with their lights, putting IVs in this bumpy road, we get to this hospital that's not been totally sanctioned by the, you know, whoever site surveys these hospitals, but, so it was a little, you know, whatever, we might not have been supposed to do that, but, it was referred by this British doctor, expat, who said, I know this Western trained provider, he does, you know, five appies a week, he's good to go, go to him. So, we, we go with the information on the ground, we go to this guy, and we get there, and there's a little bit of, uh, tension, I think there is still some, um, racial issues happening, I don't know the full backstory, probably similar to South Africa, in some ways, but he went less in the OR, so, we're like, all right, well, you gotta let us know what your OR looks like, this is safe, this gotta get surgery with you, you know, I can't just throw him off to some surgeon that we don't know in the middle of Uganda, and so, he meets us in the middle, and that was because he was under American care? Well, basically, we determined that he was too sick to get medevaced, and it was an eight hour flight to the American base, we were pretty far out there, Africa's huge, so it would take eight hours to get him there, and we felt like, if he was ruptured, or pending rupture, or sick enough to the point we couldn't fly him out, that we would have a real big problem, But why not just let this guy do it? Well, that's what we did, so we kind of met in the middle, he showed us a video on our cell phone, of his OR, like, okay, I guess this is fine, and then, you know, the PA eventually, who was supposed to be covering, was in another country, because he was covering multiple countries, he kind of met me there at some point, we met at the hospital, and him and his assistant, or whoever's working with him, you know, we went in together, and it's interesting, because you had to go with metal detectors through a hospital, you got to have a lot of metal detectors, at the time there's Al-Shabaab, this is Al-Qaeda associated terrorist organization, and there's a bombing up the street, the courthouse, there was, at the same time, Al-Shabaab went to Kenya, right up the street, and murdered a whole university, a Christian university, because of, you know, differing beliefs, which is obviously a radical thing to do, but that's what happened, and so there's a lot of violence, terrorism at the time, it wasn't super safe, and so basically, I had to go in there unarmed, because there was metal detectors and everything, I couldn't have a gun, and so we, we paid for the surgery, on our government credit cards, and he got the surgery, and he came out, you know, the PA went to go, spin up the medevac, and try to work on resources, you know, it couldn't do a lot remote, right, we don't have, wasn't really like that, right, so he had to go, drive a couple hours, start working on things, I said, I volunteered to stay behind, and so I stayed behind, and I think I saw, you know, three guys walk in, and two walk out, right, kind of thing, three guys walk in, and two walk out, okay, yeah, and so I'm there, and where, into, into this hospital, right, so they know there's still one guy in there, and so then, I see, I'm dealing with this guy, he's post-op, this appendectomy, and, it's really sketchy, you know, and then I, I look on this person, he's got like, $30,000 cash, average tax is like, $1200, I'd definitely get murdered for that money, it's like, holy shit, this guy's got $30,000 US dollars, in his pocket, it's like, alright, so I took that, you know, it's like in a horror movie, I walked out in the hall, I looked at the lights flickering at night, I was on the other end of the planet, completely alone, unarmed, in this, right up the street, from where all these bombings, and like, different things happen, and, yeah, it definitely felt like I was hanging out there a little bit, and this guy starts crashing, he's like, turns gray, his O2 sets are in the mid 80s, it's like, holy shit, he's getting a fever, he's getting post-op, sepsis, it was a disaster, so, you know, it was definitely above my pay grade at the time, I'd do the best I could, he ended up doing fine, you know, I just got to try to keep him going for a couple days, it was like two days, you know, you couldn't get labs, you couldn't like, do anything, couldn't make anything happen, you know, so it was just really trying to do the best you can with what you had, basically what I had in my box, right, because I couldn't get any of the residents from the Ugandan residents to come up, and that's the things, did you feel stressed? I felt nervous, that's for sure, nervous for your life, or nervous for all of it? Yeah, yeah, I just like pin my box up against the door, keep, you know, a couple white Americans in this area by ourselves, you know, unarmed with $30,000 cash, this guy's super sick, was that when you decided that you were going to go to medical school? because what people don't know is that you did your pre-med, some of your courses, while you were in Afghanistan and overseas, you were studying and teaching yourself physics and calculus at night. Yeah, that's true. Yeah. Is that why you decided to become a doctor? I think, you know, why I decided, I think I really enjoyed being in the hospitals, I liked medicine, I got to get some, you know, month rotation here and there, and the OR, different, you know, the ER, different places, and I knew it was something I wanted to do at some point, but, you know, it was Operation Red Wings, I was in Afghanistan, I said, I just got accepted to Columbia for, you know, a pre-med degree course, and I decided, I'm not going to do that, I really like being a CO, I'm going to re-enlist, so I re-enlisted, I put it on the back burner, I said, I would like to do it, but I'll do it later, and we were going to the most dangerous part of Afghanistan, and southeast, and we live in the villages, you know, seven months at a time or so, and I had the most unusual, you know, first deployment cycle, I would say, I had kind of a couple deployments built into this cycle, and I went to South America for a while, I came to Afghanistan, I went to this headquarters, I went somewhere else, and this guy in Europe was on this contingency response force, where any seaborne operations in Europe, you know, like pirates, anything like that, or Israel, were kind of the response team, right, so he was having a baby, so like, all right, we're going to send him on paternity leave, you haven't quite made it to your village yet, so we're just going to pull you, so I got pulled to Europe to cover that for, and it'd be in two months instead of one, like they promised me, and we did a couple of these exercises out, with piracy, in the med, and or see, and then I got to go back, and I'm waiting, and I'm basically just by myself all over the world, with a roller bag and a gun case, it was really, it was pretty cool, interesting, catching helicopters by myself, trying to get all over the place, and I get finally to where I'm about to push out to my village, you know, and it's been just such a process to get there. Thank you to One Skin for sponsoring this episode. I bring sponsors of products that I love, and use on my own skin. I first became obsessed with One Skin, because on IG, I saw a girlfriend whose skin had completely transformed, and when I was like, hey girl, what are you doing? She said it was One Skin. Now, I've always had issues with this texture under my eyes, and my skin, I've tried a million different products, and I've landed on One Skin. It's really helped me personally, which is why I want to bring it to you. Now, I've been using their broad spectrum sunscreen. In fact, Shane also uses this, the eye cream, and the topical body supplement, which by the way, I love the way it feels. It's unique, clinically tested peptide that helps with DNA repair. You all can get 15% off One Skin with the code Dr. Lion. Go to One Skin, that's O-N-E-S-K-I-N, and use the code Dr. Lion to get 15% off. And I had to catch a ride at the infantry by myself, and the road got blown up by this 300-pound bomb that sent this up-armored vehicle probably flying hundreds of feet. And you can only go in this place called Route 1. It was only a road in. We're trying to go to Southeast Afghanistan in the summer. Really, I think it was the hottest area at the time. And so I had to sit there, and we had to wait until, I don't know, it was safe to go. So there was a surgical team on the base, and because I was a highly trained medic at the time, you know, I said, hey, you're going to be interested in scrubbing in and helping out if you need me, or if I can. We have pictures of that. Yeah, it was the only time I had a gun in the OR. And it was at this point, I just want to kind of tie this all together because I want to talk about relationships. And it was at that point that you decided you're going to be a doctor? Yeah, I mean, I had always kind of wanted to, but I think when I was in there, it was where people who would get shot or hurt in the war would come in to get stabilized and get surgery, or local populations, the Afghans who got in car accidents or got hurt or injured, they would get helped and stabilized. So I got to go in the OR for about two weeks straight and go help out a lot, and it was very inspiring. I wanted to be a military surgeon, trauma surgeon. You know, I thought, what better can I do than help guys who are going out there? Who are getting wounded defending our country? I couldn't think of anything more I'd want to do just than that, you know? And, you know, I'd see guys get hurt, like guys who were within the infantry and who were on our base. And, yeah, it was very sad. It was disheartening to see. And I just, I felt like it was something I wanted to do. And so, I decided I'd probably pursue that. And I started kind of making moves towards that. And I would do distance courses. I would self-teach and test out when I got back. And then eventually, when I was a combat medic instructor, I'd go to night school. And this was at Fort Bragg. Yeah, Now we're moving into, you're now back home. And this is actually when we met. So, you had come back home. And you were full-on getting ready to go to apply to medical school. And you still had to do your night courses. You were at the schoolhouse for those people, military, you all know what that is. Non-military. Fort Bragg is, so there's Special Operations Command. Do you want to just explain like in two sentences what Fort Bragg is in terms of what it teaches? And it's the focal point for the Army, right? For their Special Operations Command. Yeah, so it's... Just really, really quickly. I don't want to spend too much time on that. Yeah, sure. So, it's where a lot of the Green Beret headquarters are. There's a U.S. Army Special Operations Command is there. And there's a primarily Army Corps Special Operations Combat Medic or 18 Delta long course, short course. And that's where the training happens. So, the SEALs attend it. The PJs used to attend. The Civil Affairs, Flight Medics, Rangers, basically all the Special Operations Medic's go to that course. And that's changed a little bit. The SEALs have their own course. But I was basically working at Army Command there. Kind of one of the only SEALs in the building. And it was good. You know, I taught a lot. I got to have some good experiences, some bad ones. And you woke up at what time in the morning? And you do this for two... How long were you doing night school? Three years for night school or two years? Yeah, it was tough. So, I did all my prereqs. You know, one of the benefits of going there is I could do all my prereqs in the building I was teaching in at night. And so, they just condensed courses. Just as hard, but just less time to learn it. And so, I would get up, you know, four or five in the morning, go teach, lead guys in PT, do what I have to do. I'd go teach out on the elements and the cold and the heat, whatever. I'd be exhausted. And then at 6 p.m. And to share without sharing too much, you were teaching how to respond to gunshot wounds, stab wounds, amputations, anything really serious that someone would see in a war zone. Yeah, all combat trauma, chest tube, surgical airways, suturing, IVs, first responding. And what time would you finish? I'd probably finish teaching the course out in the field around 6, and then I'd have to go to school at 6, from 6 to 10 p.m., drive home about 30 minutes, stay up till 1 or 2 studying, and then go to sleep and do it again. And it was just a brutal cycle for three years. You know, it was in one of those moments where, you know, I think people get stuck, right? So people, I mean, that's a tough situation, right, to overcome. But I think, you know, that's how people get stuck. You know, you either have to do it and just suck it up or you're just going to be in the same situation you are in every single day. And so it's either, sometimes progress takes a lot of sacrifice. Progress always takes sacrifice. And one of the things that I turned to you and I said, you know, when I was pregnant with our second child, I had already had our first child. And by the way, we were apart. You were still active duty and I was pregnant and alone living in a studio in New York City. That was the first child. The first child, yeah. And I was commuting from downtown to uptown pregnant on the subway while you were still poor choice, poor choice, active duty. And that was hard. I spent the majority of my pregnancy, I mean, all of the pregnancy, most of it up until you transitioned out by myself, which I would say was very challenging. But I don't know if we spent too much time thinking about that. And I think for all, a military wife, there are certain things that you sign on for if you're going to be a military wife, whether that individual, that individual is deployed or non-deployed, especially if the skill set is unique like yours was, the demand, or yours is, the demand for your skills and to give back and to teach was rigorous. You were getting three or four hours of sleep a night while you were prepping to get into med school, which by the way, you had to have 4.0. I was pregnant and alone in New York City and we had had our baby and I was working on my book at some point in time and I had turned to you. So this, I guess, when we were together now because after you had gotten out, we were together. You moved to New York. But I turned to you and I said, listen, I recognize that I have to do all these things. I have to stay fit. I have to do what I'm saying if I'm going to talk about fitness and nutrition. I have no idea how to get it done. And while also we had a toddler, not a toddler, a baby. And do you remember what you said to me? Yeah. Yeah. And you will see him on, try not to remember. And I would say that you still say this to this day. If I really cared about it, I would just wake up a little bit earlier. It's true. And you will see Shane occasionally on the side of a milk carton for a missing person, but it was really good advice. Oh, a missing for a while. Yeah, for that comment and many others. Lots of others. It kind of connects us now as a team. And for those people listening or watching this, what does it mean and how does one create a very strong relationship where you do things in a way that, you know, we weren't micromanaging each other. There were just ways where you had to execute on your behalf and I had to execute on my behalf because even now you're a surgical resident, which the duty hours are 80. He may or may not be doing, I don't know. More than duty hours. Yeah, right, which are 80, which is not really the amount of hours, questionably, that you're working. But of course, you would never say that and I wouldn't be noticing. But there's a lot of challenges with that. And I will say that I think that we have been able to position our relationship where it doesn't create a ton of strain. We are able to, no matter what, have a great dynamic while going after the things that are meaningful, while knowing that our family still at the root is the foundation of it all. And I will say very quickly, we were introduced by commander, retired commander Mark Devine, who I don't know exactly when this is going to come out, but he will be speaking at our event, the Forever Strong event. And when he introduced us, he said, hey, can you help this SEAL? He's really interested in going to medical school. And I thought to myself, sure, I guess, be happy to talk to him, anyone who's serving our country in that way. And by the way, I'd also been taking care of military operators, tier one operators at this time. So I knew that any intelligent woman would never date a tier one operator. Tell me where I'm wrong. Especially a guy that grew up in the team. because it's a cultural thing. And what do I mean by that? Let's just say they are a, what is it? A ladies man? Should they say? You know, I had some of the guys come in. Am I getting in trouble without saying anything? No, no, no. What's happening here? I'm just going to continue on this. Are you gaslighting me? I just will continue on this road. But I thought you were amazing. And many of your brothers, whether you knew them or not, would come in and say, hey doc, what do you think about this girl? And she's in Kansas. What about her? No, in California. And this one is in Hawaii. And they would just scroll through. Fake news. Fake news. Never heard that. And so any woman who wanted a real relationship was not going to be dating a tier one operator. No offense, because there's many guys that are great, but just from a cultural perspective, just from, this is my opinion. And I, we spent a lot of time talking through some of the medical things and we really liked each other as people. And I wasn't thinking anything romantic. I had just come off the tail end of a relationship. I was certainly ready, not ready to be involved with anyone. It was a last thing. You know how it is. After you are in a long-term relationship, you don't, not ready to date. I mean, you need to at least give someone at least a year. I didn't even think about it. And you met me in person. And that was it. And that was it. Yep. I knew right away. You said you knew right away. Took you a little bit longer. Took me months longer. What I think is interesting about it is you said that you knew right away and you said that the same thing that kept you alive overseas during war times, there's a bit of an intuition about that, that you said that you'd had the same feeling when you met me. I don't know. You have these feelings that, I don't know if it happens often in life, but something feels real. Something feels powerful, strong, subconscious. And I think I felt that before. I remember when I was running one night in Africa. It's at this decision point in life. I could feel it. And I remember I felt that again when we first met. And you decided that that was it. I was gonna, I was the one. And as soon as you told me, there was a moment where you told me after months of just being friends that you thought that we should date. And what happened after that? Well, she loves to tell everyone she stopped picking up my phone calls. True or false? True. Right. She said absolutely not. And also, don't ever call me again. I would never go out with you. And maybe that's why I, you know, maybe that's what did it for me. Do you remember what you said to me? You said there's a chance. So you're telling me there's a chance. And I said, listen. Listen, dumb and dumber. Yeah, dumb and dumber. Tweedledee and tweetleddone. There's absolutely zero chances. And so, for at least a month, maybe longer, I refused to pick up your phone calls. It was two weeks. It was not two weeks. And it was definitely not two weeks. It was at least a month. And I remember talking to my friends about it. And they said, if you, because I liked you as a human. I really liked, I mean, who wouldn't like you? Pause. Awkward pause. Here you were, this stud, super capable and total ladies man, not interested. But I really liked you and I found you while you looked like a knuckle dragger. I was 15 pounds more jacked for the record. You got into running marathons. Somehow you decided that in residency you were going to run marathons. And I will say this is unique to I think your type of human is that when you decide something that is it. There's really not a lot of thought that goes into it. It's you are going to do it and you go all in and you convince yourself that this is the way. And I think that's actually what happened with our relationship meeting me is you decided that that's it. I was going to be your woman and well look I think anyone who's studied physics and has really kind of dived you know dove into it time is not linear right? And I feel that I felt like it always was and it always has been. It was just kind of this feeling where I knew. And so I really couldn't allow myself or the situation to be any other way. And I have those moments in life where I really feel something like it's already happened. Because I think a lot of times it already has. And maybe not everyone agrees with that but I think I mean hey time's not linear. We look back you know 10-15 years ago it happened then but you know I think depends on how you want to frame it. And that's a really fascinating thought process. And finally after talking to my friends they said don't you ever pick up that phone call. If you pick up that phone call you are going to ruin your life. life. Yeah Genna said that. I know. Genna is one is my that's right. It is true everyone has now come to love you. Genna is one of my best friends and he is a four board certified physician at Madigan Army Base and I picked up the phone call. Just four. Yeah four four total underachiever. I scored number one in pain in his boards. But it was probably the best decision of my life. and it has been honestly people might be vomiting right now. Vomiting probably for sure they're vomiting. But also would say you know oh great that's amazing you have a great relationship. but it has been largely knock on wood easy. And why do I say it's easy? It's not that our lives are easy. Our lives are complicated. There's a lot of moving parts because we care about doing things well. We care about our kids. We don't outsource them. We don't do a lot of things that I think would make our lives easier. and we also have an understanding of what we believe and how we function as a unit. And to share some of those things that I think are really valuable when one is building a dynamic that and I don't use the word balance is family health and work. It's not true. It doesn't happen. There is no such thing. But we do have non-negotiables. And they are both physiologic non-negotiables and what do I mean by that biologic? I mean in terms of training and fitness and nutrition. And then I think that there are also dynamic relationship non-negotiables. To start with the fitness non-negotiables. I am very specific about the times I train. I know that I'm going to train no matter what. Three days a week, I'm not going to miss those days. And Saturday is going to be a day that I also train. I train full body three days a week and I add in one or two days of typically yeah, one or two days of some kind of max effort at the end of those workouts. Typically on a Friday or Saturday and you oftentimes don't get the opportunity to work out but when you do just what does that look like? Yeah, so for starters, you know, I think it's important to sign up for events. That's probably why I initially signed up for a marathon. I was moving out to New York City and I said, oh, it'd be cool to see all the boroughs. But I signed up for these things originally because it forces you to work out when you don't want to. You can't just not work out for a marathon. It's going to be very painful. I've kind of tried that before. It didn't really work out very well. I finished but it was painful. You mean the time where you decided to run the New York marathon and not train for it? Off the couch marathon? Not a good plan. And then you said I've done harder things. Yeah, yeah, I was hurting. This episode is brought to you by Shane's ultimate favorite supplement and that's MitoPure by Timeline. Now, Shane runs marathons, has a very busy work schedule and he tells me when he takes MitoPure, he feels it. It gives him strength in the gym, it gives him endurance and it gives him energy. This has been an absolute game changer of a supplement for his mitochondrial health. Now, MitoPure is a precise dose of the postbiotic urolithin A. It works by promoting essential cellular cleanup, processes that clear out dysfunctional mitochondria and Timeline, I have to say, has done an incredible job at leading first with science and has brought you the only scientifically tested urolithin A on the market when it relates to targeting the effects of age-related cellular decline. You might feel the difference in a form of energy levels, better workouts, or what my husband says, faster recovery, more endurance, the list goes on, all of which will help you achieve your physical standard. We have been using MitoPure in our family for years. This is a staple supplement. Timeline is offering 10% off your order of MitoPure. Go to timeline.com and make sure you use the code lion to get this discount. It's timeline, T-I-M-E-L-I-N-E, MitoPure.com slash lion. So, yeah. So, anyways, I think those things are great. You sign up for a jujitsu competition, a marathon, whatever you want to do, right? It keeps you honest to an extent. It'll help push you to work out on the days you don't want to. But, after that, you know, it's really kind of become something I enjoy, a habit, and part of my lifestyle now. And, I find it very challenging a lot of the times to work out during the week, because I work a lot. And so, I would love to work out. When things are going well, I can get one to three workouts in a week, maybe 30 minutes, if I'm lucky. One to three workouts in 30 minutes, how often does that happen? It's happened zero days the past couple months, which sucks because I'm doing Boston next month. But, it's not a big deal because I get most of my volume on the weekends. And, it's good, two or three hours to myself, which I need. You know, I'm inside all day, and so, the last thing I want to do is go sit inside again at the gym. And so, I do like to run and be outdoors and get my sunlight, be in nature, kind of a little meditation, take some stress off, and I'll run, you know, do some speed work Saturday and some distance on Sunday. And, because I do so much of my volume on the weekends, it's not a big deal that I don't get three to nine miles during the week. I think that, you know, for people that are really busy, you can still do it. I think that you have to compensate for it on the weekend, but you can make it, you know, it's not ideal, but you have to kind of deal with the situation you're in. And I think that that's what I do, is I try to really kind of just make it work for the lifestyle I have, and that's the best I can do. And so, luckily, I've got your support, you know, all the time with that, so it's been very helpful. And I think it's important to support your spouse because if you decompensate physically, then I'm yelling at you all the time. When you get sick, how sick are you? Scale of one to ten. Is that cough real? Do you really have pneumonia? Stop faking it with a man flu, right? But you say it all the time, you know, it's a lot harder to be sick later than to put in a few hours now. Or I see it on the internet, they say working out for yourself isn't selfish because when you're old and sick and you can't take care of your family, then it's really going to suck. And I think you talk about it all the time. So get it done regardless, it doesn't have to be perfect. And for those of you who are starting out, I don't necessarily just working out for long periods of time on the weekend. But if you have to and you have to be in the situation, then you do that. But what are my options, right? You know, I know this other successful surgeon and he's very busy, right? He's got doing trials, you know, he's operating a busy clinic. He gets away at 3 a.m. to run an hour or two hours every day, however long he's running because he's going to get it done. We talked about, you know, what else am I going to do? Am I going to get to the residency and be like that guy who's fat and out of shape? And it's embarrassing, right? I mean, if I'm in this job I'm going to be in, am I just going to not work out for 8 years, 10 years? I mean, what is the alternative? The alternative is there's no alternative. It's either you're going to do it or you're just going to not. And I don't think not doing it is an option. And it also sets a terrible example for our children. And that's the other thing is, while I have more time than Shane does, I have my routine, Shane has his routine, and then we incorporate fitness with the kids. So the kids will come with me to the gym, not always in the morning. They kind of are in a slump with that. They'll work out something. They used to love it, but for whatever, I'm hoping they'll pick back up in the summer. We don't really make it a big deal because we want them to enjoy physical activity. We make it fun. We make it fun. We go rock climbing. We go to the gym together. Let's talk about what we do as a unified family rather than doing things indoors or on electronics. My recommendation, and I would say our recommendation, is sign up for a rock climbing gym. Bouldering. The little kids can do it. Our son is four. He does it in a Batman outfit. He doesn't get very far. And there's lots of bouncy, mats for them to fall. And then we do it with them. And my daughter does it. We love it. I guess technically that's indoors, but it's not indoors on an electronic being sedentary. Also the weather is wherever you live. There's a few months every year where you really can't be outside very much. But the point is if there is a solution, which there is always a solution, you have to find it. And you set the standard. Our kids are strong. Our kids are physically capable. They're not very well behaved, but they're strong. Definitely not well behaved. So rock climbing gym, indoor, outdoor pool. We're still working on swimming. Jiu-jitsu. Jiu-jitsu. And we do jiu-jitsu three days a week. I train jiu-jitsu one day a week with the kids. The kids do two other days for a total of three days of jiu-jitsu. We don't overschedule them. We're very tight on routine, bedtime, low-level lights, and we try to keep everything together. I will also say supplementation. Let's talk about our kids' supplementation. I'm just going to mention this. A lot of controversy around melatonin. I don't see why there is controversy. The data that I have looked at, I have no trouble giving an extremely low-dose melatonin and keeping the overhead lights low to get my kids and keep them in a great rhythm. Fish oil and multivitamin. My son, our son, still likes to carry around a bottle with his mini toy gun, cowboy boots, and tank top, and he rocks a mullet. Lots of lettuce. Yeah. We call lettuce, yeah. Lots of lettuce. And those are the ways that we structure things. And one of the things that you had said is that sign up for something that you cannot quit. Sign up for, for example, my husband runs things for charity. He can't not show up to the Boston Marathon. He is running it for charity. The other thing is I do think that we should talk about some of our biggest challenges in a relationship. What? Children. Children. Children. I mean, are they? Yeah. I mean, it's definitely one of the biggest challenges in relationships. Yeah. We don't fight about anything else. Dude, you cannot, are you kidding? Your side of the closet is an absolute mess. And also, food, nutrition. You're much more flexible on nutrition. I will never forget. Listen, friends, when you come home, if your wife literally is a nutritionist who has trained professionally in nutritional sciences and you come home with a box of Cheerios, Nature's, like, what did you come home with? These, like, five boxes of something that you picked up at the VA or something? Shin Ramen? Whatever it was, you better believe that that's all getting thrown out instantaneously in the garbage or donated immediately. It's part of my running training. Yeah, running training is called in the garbage. To keep up the carbs. Yeah. Really trying to do nutrition. And I will tell you that there's definitely friction for us when I said, listen, you cannot eat that in front of the kids. Well, when the kids run 20 miles on Sunday, they can eat it too. Okay, well, so we will clearly disagree on this, but really, being a good example when it comes to not eating a bunch of junk food in front of them. And if you're going to do it, don't do it in front of your wife either. I think that the other thing, our biggest truck, you do have a truck. And by the way, your truck is messy. There may or may not be snacks in the bag. Yeah, I know. I saw them. Don't worry about that. But I also think that our biggest challenge is to turn off of work and not have our phones or computers or anything. And we... I don't think we have that challenge anymore, but we have had that challenge. We had to learn to disrupt. And because right now everything is on 24-7 and there's always work to be done, but I would say if you can spend quality time and maybe that quality time is an hour of fully focused effort with the kids, then you're winning. what else with the kids I think are hacks or tips or tricks that we do to keep them on the up and up? Well, they don't get to watch movies during the week. It's weekends only. So we're pretty disciplined about the electronics. They act terrible when they use them. We definitely have a routine with exercise with the kids on the weekends. We... What else? We do the workouts with them, so that's good. Yeah, I think that those are the things that are really important. Working on manners and respect and also we pray before meals. We also pray before meals. Yep, every meal. And that is why do we do that? Because it's important to be grateful. It's important to take a pause and a moment to recognize that we're all just very lucky humans and to instill that kind of gratitude is really important. And we do force them to sit down for dinner. They don't really listen, but that's right. You absolutely do that. Try to create time around that with the family and even at the hotels, you know, we sit down at the table, same routine. Yeah. And interpersonally, you and I, my job is interesting. I travel a lot. You know, I interview, I interface with a lot of people and you also do the same. Maybe not travel as much, but you're always, I'm not necessarily part of your world exactly in the hospital, in the OR. Although I do collaborate with your colleagues at Paylor. She wasn't putting my name, no, she's like, why are you doing all these papers without me in my department? It's my residency program. That's pretty funny. That was pretty funny. Bring me in. What are you doing going solo operations with my attendings? Get out of here. That is pretty funny because we are both physicians. I don't know if you want to say anything more about that. It is funny. I am friends with your attendings, which is awkward, but amazing because we are doing research in hormones, andrology, sexual medicine. We have a lot of cool research together. We do. We both have some common interests. We go to this research meeting once a month about men's health, sexual health, hormones, a lot about testosterone, andrology, infertility. It's great. We definitely both, I have other interests in urology as well, but that's definitely one of the interests we share. It's good. We can have that together. We'll link. We published a paper on environmental exposures in bladder cancer in the military, which I think is more of the things you're interested in cancer. Well, segue, that was actually a very important topic because some of the research I'm doing now are in burn pits, and burn pit exposures in cancer. We looked at the PACT Act, which was this act that was passed to give benefits in service connection and treatment, which is ultimately important for that, for patients who had burn pit exposures, who registered for the burn pit registry, you can get treatment, service connection. So they had all these cancer exposures, everything in urology too, except for bladder. So we started publishing about these exposures in prostate cancer risk, which were thought to be a thing, and then we confirmed it with our meta-analysis, so that was new, and then we did a paper on bladder cancer exposures with Agent Orange, depleted uranium, water, and clamp plejeune, etc., and we're now recently working on this burn pit project. And what I wanted to tell people was, what was interesting was Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network, BCAN Network, is an advocacy group that actually advocates for patients and moving the research forward. There was opportunity for me to help out with this research because she knew we just did this paper on exposures, and so she was involved with BCAN, and they were working on getting it covered for the PACT Act, and so we kind of shared the research. A lot of people were involved with this, I was just a small part of helping out, but I just thought it was exciting because we got to help share some of that research and some other research. I was able to partner with some of the people I knew in the military and some of the nonprofits, and people were able to piece together a lot of documents from the bases. Is this an open access paper? It's not published yet, but we have the paper ready, and so we presented it at their conference, and we gave them all our data. They had a lot of their own data before this, too, and between the time of August and January 1st, they had gone to Congress with everything, and actually it got approved in January to be a covered illness and service connection for patients. So if you didn't know this, now if you have urothelial or bladder or upper tract cancer and burn pit exposure, you can actually get covered in service connection. That's probably one of the fastest times I've ever seen something where research went from the bench to bedside. It wasn't much bench, but it went to the bedside pretty quick in like six months, policy change. So that was huge. And that's something BKN Network does all the time, so shout out to them. Okay, well, that is really extraordinary. That was just kind of sidebar for my paper. Are we keeping that in? No, just kidding. We'll definitely keep that in. But let's circle back because I wanted to spend a little bit of the remainder of the show about our relationship and how you build a strong dynamic as a forward facing unit. We're done with bladder cancer? Yeah, we're way done with, I was like, is he going to stop talking about this? Or what? Do I kick him under the table but I can't really reach him? One of the things that really determines the trajectory of an individual is their partner. because it is the most important decision that one makes. They're either going to make or break you. If you care about your relationship, they're either going to be your teammate and help move your life forward or they are going to completely, utterly dismantle you at the seams. Fair to say? Let's talk about a few things. He's like, where are we going with this? Is she going to bring up the socks again? Number one, how we have relationships externally. So this is unsolicited relationship advice to have a bulletproof marriage. and that is you are introduced and involved in all of my friends. I don't have sidebar friends, male friends that you do not know of, that you are not either introduced to, text introduced. We really keep it together and you become friends with them because if I'm friends with them, I don't know, I'm assuming they're amazing. because I have amazing friends and you also become friends with them. And this might be a little controversial but my phone is totally unlocked and you have access to it at any point in time. In fact, I will hand you the phone and say, can you read me what this person said? There is no hiding for messages or any of those things. And also, if you're one of my best friends and you're a female and you're listening to this and you say, don't tell Shane, if it's a female thing, I definitely won't tell you. I'm just kidding. Unless I get approval, I won't share those things, right? Because there is, you know, someone tells me something in confidence. I don't look. Well, but no, no, no. But in terms of how we create a dynamic, there's no question, there's no friction there of questioning. Is this person doing something unscrupulous or outside of the realm of what should be done? So I think that that's important. The other, is there anything else that I think is really important or that you think is important that we do well? Oh, how we fight. When we used to fight, I would say that probably one of my least desirable traits is a bit aggressive. And I don't know if extreme is the word. Maybe underselling it. And when I used to fight, I would threaten you a lot early on in our relationship. And that made you feel really uncomfortable about the stability of the marriage. And I I'm going to share because I can't say I was very nice in the beginning of our relationships, in relationship when we fought. But I now no longer, because you taught me, there's no threatening. We're stuck together. So we either can figure this out or I'm just going to be yelling for a really long time. Five foot one crazy person. One in a fourth. I'm five foot one in a fourth. Okay, sorry. And I think that that's really valuable, right? If you have made a commitment to stay together, you guys are together. And you are the team and you are the unit. Do you have anything that you'd like to add to that? No, you said it all. It's perfect. So I want to do a lightning round. So this is rapid fire. Okay, and there's no overthinking. This is so let's do a rapid fire speed round, which I guess a rapid fire and speed round would be the same thing. And there's no overthinking it. It's just gut reactions. Thank you for the lesson in synonyms. Okay, you are so welcome. Okay, let's do it. Number one, are you nervous? Are your armpits sweating? No, and if they were, I'm not allowed to wear deodorant. Because of paraffins. Oh my God. Let's come back to that. Yeah. Because that is very funny. Because all the surgeons say I stink. Okay, so before we get into the rapid fire, real talk here. I'm not a fan of traditional deodorants. I am not a fan of traditional makeup, hair care. Are you sidebarring deodorant in hair care right now? Yeah. Actually? Yeah, dude. And those Navy seals or bust. Anyway, so I replaced, I threw out all his old spice and Gillette and I didn't know. New spice. It's what frankincense, essential oils. Yeah, I did. Yeah, yeah, it's true. And it doesn't, it didn't work for him or his body comes through. So he decided to stop wearing it. And finally, at your job, what happened? Yeah, because she keeps promising me this illustrious deodorant that never actually, that doesn't exist. No, we have it. I bought deodorant. Yeah, see? I use it. It doesn't happen. It's not here. I use clean hair products. Yeah, yeah, they said I stink. I smell. They said, what is that? Hey, dude, just to let you know, I got a whiff. What's happening here? Anyway, so his department told him that he now has to wear deodorant. it's been physically, you know, it's been directly told to me. Okay. Okay. All right. Number one, what do you say to yourself when you're feeling negative or down? Don't be a pussy. Yeah. And that's rule number one. Number one. That's right. And if you break rule number, and then rule number two, refer back to rule number one. And this is our family motto. So I, see me say never break rule number one. This is rule number one. Number two, best mental toughness hack. Best mental toughness hack. You have 30 seconds. I don't know. I like four by four box breathing. Okay. Moving on. I don't know. Okay, great. Everything I said. Refer back to number one. Refer back to this podcast. One workout or physical thing, because obviously you can't work out every day. Everyone should do daily. I think you should start the day if you can. with a nice, easy, 30 minute cardio. Something like that just to get the blood flowing, juices going, kind of get your heartbeat up. I think if you can do that, it's great. I like doing it to start my day. I think you start your day with a workout, it's great. This is not my section, but I would say you should do push-ups every day. I do push-ups every day, multiple times a day. There's no reason you can't do push-ups because it takes less than a minute. That was my answer, not yours. I used to do it when I put my scrubs on, every time I change, it was a good time to do it. Or the pull-ups every time you walk through the door. Number four, moving on to number four, it's called rapid fire, not long answer fire. I've done a lot more rapid fire than you, let me tell you. This is true. This is true. I could never be deployed. Can you imagine me? Honey, where's my gun? Is this gluten-free? Green bean coffee? This is not Starbucks. Okay, last book you read or paper. We'll say book and then you can Handbook in Urology. Okay, moving on. Last podcast you listened to? Dr. Gabrielle Lyons show, Abe Morgenthaler, phenomenal, by the way. Phenomenal. I couldn't put it down. I went to bed late that night. Oh man, you have to listen to Abe Morgenthaler's podcast. This is the guy who... She thought I was messing around, but I'm seriously, I'm just kidding. I mean, again, I am nothing special. The guests that come on this podcast are extraordinary. And Abe Morgenthaler, if you guys did not listen to it... That's one of the best podcast episode I've ever heard. Brought testosterone replacement therapy to the modern era. Whoa. All about prostate cancer, testosterone, controversies. Not in the rapid fire round. Oh, you can keep going. Nope. Number six. I really pushed back on adding this one. Yes or no? Seed oils. Yes or no? I don't know. Exactly. Don't care. Exactly. I don't know. Yeah. Are they bad? Amen. I eat a lot of things I'm not supposed to. Okay, there. We've talked about this. I know. I don't know why. Listen. Is it in Shinraban? They wanted to put this in. Healy and Julia said we're doing this. Okay. Cito is in Zen? Nicotine. Yes or no? Yes. Although it does make your gums recede which is a no but yes. Cholesterol. LDL. Friend or foe? HDL is my friend. I don't know. So essentially don't ask a surgeon a cholesterol question. Number eight. Meat. Overrated or essential? Definitely essential. I got to have meat in every meal or I don't feel good. I eat lots of protein. You do eat a lot of protein. A ton of meat. You do. Dr. Shane Kronstadt. Oh gosh. Thank you for coming on the podcast. I just I love you so much and I feel just so honored to be your wife and everything that I do I could not do without you. Same. Love you. Thank you so much for listening to this very special episode. If this video helped you drop a comment with your biggest takeaway and if you want to see more on mindset fitness or life balance let us know in the comments. Till next time stay strong.