 Welcome to the Dr. Gabrielle Lyons show, where cutting edge science meets innovation and practical application for everybody. In today's episode, I sit down with one of my favorite scientists, Dr. Heather Lyons. In this episode, we discuss all about dietary protein guidelines, also dietary proteins role on satiation, and so much more. This episode will blow your mind in terms of how the research is going to be done. conducted and distributed in ways that is conducted and distributed in ways that affect our world. Please join me in conversation with Dr. Heather Lyons. Dr. Heather Lyons, thank you so much for joining me today. Oh, it's great to be here. Thanks for the invite. Yeah, well, I've been trying to get you on for, I don't know, maybe a year and a half, but we've done it. And I have to tell you, I have been such a fan of your work. Well, thanks. I did my fellowship at WashU in nutritional sciences out of Sam Klein's lab. And when I started looking at your data, talking about breakfast skipping and adolescence and this nutrition, protein and behavior, it really, really changed everything for me. So thank you so much for all the work that you're doing. Oh, thanks. So it's a great topic. It's been a great area of research for me. And there's still a lot to uncover. Yes. Protein, satiety, which we're going to talk all about. You know, your research, you are an associate professor at the University of Texas at Austin. You were at Purdue before and you were at the University of Missouri right before that. Yeah. And you've really paved the way when it comes to protein and satiety. You were also part of the 2020 Dietary Guideline Committee. And I want to start there. Sure. Please tell me a little bit about your role on the 2020 Dietary Committee. Yeah. So it was very similar to the other committees in the sense that how you apply. So it was an application process and it's self-nomination. And so, you know, I was encouraged by a number of folks to give it a go. I'm a physiologist by training, not nutrition. So I ended up stumbling into nutrition for my postdoc and then have been a researcher in nutrition ever since. And so I submitted my information. And then when I heard back that I was on the committee, it was pretty humbling. It is a daunting task. And there were experts in the field that are on those committees. And so it was, you know, when you first start the process, you don't really know the ins and outs of things. And so I was on two different subcommittees because that's how it works. And then you get to review the entire body of evidence. But it was a year long process. And, you know, the 2020 was the first time that questions were posed by the public and from USDA and HHS. And then it was our job to tackle those. Same thing with 2025. Those questions were already posed. And so, you know, that actually, it was different because the other committees, the committees chose the questions to ask. So it was really, I think, a step in making sure that the public were being heard. But most of the people say with the 2020 guidelines, there was a lot of indeterminate, limited evidence. And so the joke is that, well, we didn't do a whole lot. And I would say we, I think we did a lot addressing the gaps in the evidence. And so hopefully just making people aware, trying to increase rigor for methodology, adding more criteria that we really should be looking for, even if they're cohort studies or randomized control trials, what is it that we really need to include as criteria to start reviewing that evidence? Because I think that's the tricky part with all science and all evidence. There's bias, but then there's also just limitations with studies. And I think it's important to evaluate that strength of evidence. And so a lot of those topics were yet to be determined. And so the 2025 kind of tried to extend that. Some of the topics weren't covered in 2025. But, you know, it's moving forward. And I would say with the 2020, the biggest thing that I was more aware of now is related to breakfast. And it was the recommendations that then went down to the schools in terms of saturated fat, added sugar, and sodium. And it's going to be a daunting task for schools to try to figure out how to limit that. So what did they discover? So in the 2020 guidelines, prior to that, so the guidelines are updated every five years. So that was before that. So it was 2015. From 2015 to then the 2020 guidelines, what changed? Yeah, so I would say the biggest thing with the from 2020 to 2015 to 2020 was the recommendations for birth to 24 months had never been done. Pregnancy and lactation were other recommendations. And so within those life stages, there were a lot of different recommendations first that came out. So I would just refer to those. First and foremost, the rest was a lot more just confirmatory. I would say some of those big things. The ones that I was referring to in terms of school or breakfast was the added sugar piece, that the recommendation with the 2020 was to limit added sugars down to less than 10% of daily intake as part of those discretionary calories. And so interestingly, with that recommendation, though, it wasn't so much grounded in evidence as it was, that's all the calories we have left over when we're trying to meet our food groups. And so there's not a lot of evidence looking at added sugars. There's some there, but it's still limited in nature. But because a lot of those foods don't carry the nutrients that we need. That first target was, you know, sugar sweetened beverages and just trying to limit added sugars. It seems like that's, that's just one small recommendation as opposed to increasing dietary protein consumption, which hasn't been updated since I don't know, 1980. Yeah. Were you surprised in terms of the follow through with protein recommendations? Yeah, so with that one, there was a specific question about protein or macronutrients. And so in the dietary patterns, the charge of that was to look at all diets and categorize them based on macronutrients. And most of that that came out in terms of macronutrients was that there was no convincing evidence to support that. And do you agree with that? I agree with that in the confines of how the criteria were set. And I think that's something that most researchers or most individuals don't that aren't aware of those nuances. And it becomes a significant nuance, simply because when you look at the criteria, the studies that I would say 90% of the protein studies are out are within the AMDR, the acceptable macronutrient distribution ranges of 10 to 35%. So all of those studies where we're looking at lower versus higher weren't actually included in the body of evidence to look at macronutrients because they were within the AMDRs. The subcommittee. So take a step back so I can fully understand this. So the AMDR said that the criteria needed to be between 10 and 35% and they took those out. Yeah. So the AMDRs for, you know, carb there's yes for protein, carbs, and fats of just specifically using protein as an example is 10 to 35%. And so when that subcommittee looked at macronutrient diets, they went outside of that range thinking about ketogenic diets and some of those other diets. And so none of those studies that had an AMDR for protein within that range were evaluated. And so that's 90% of the protein studies that we do. And I would say most of us in the nutrition space, we examine protein content within the AMDRs because we know that we need, you know, healthy carbohydrates. We need fats. And so, but you can modify protein on the lower end of the higher end. And so that's why most of our studies are there because it's meeting recommendations, but then we're talking about that higher end. And none of those studies got reviewed. And so it wasn't surprising when the determination came back that macronutrient diets, specific diets, really, there's no benefit one versus the other. And it was simply because they were ignored. And then the other piece is the energy restriction. For the 2020, no energy restriction trials were also included as part of that analysis because at the time we weren't focusing on weight loss or weight loss maintenance or the prevention of weight regain. The 2025 had the luxury, I guess I would say, of including those as outcomes. Before it used to be just weight in general or obesity. But now it's moved into we do need to focus on weight loss or the, you know, the prevention of weight regain. And so the 2025, we're able to include some of those studies. But it just was released. And I haven't gone in to look at the references for those. So it was surprising but not surprising when you look at what that criteria was. And so that's why I think it's really important for transparency to understand and then to also understand with the guidelines, what are their inclusion criteria? And then how is that actually driving some of those recommendations? Do you think that that's on purpose? Well, some would question. Some would say that it is or it isn't. And I would say, you know, a lot of it depends on the lens that we're with. So I wasn't on that subcommittee. And it's okay. I was on beverages and eating frequency. But if I was on that committee, my lens, my approach would be different knowing what I focus on and knowing AMDRs and where most of that research lies. If you are not a protein researcher, you're not in that space, it may be something that doesn't get questioned. And so I think that's why I don't know if it is a bias, if it's intentional or if it's just the fact that they're not in that space. And so they're just questions that don't get raised. But it should have been, if we're making dietary guidelines, it probably should be necessary to have experts in each macronutrient field, especially when we're thinking about making recommendations for carbohydrates, proteins, and fats so that the individual understands the nuances. Yep. And so that's another thing that most of those are represented on the dietary guideline committee, but that doesn't necessarily translate to the subcommittees. And I've had previous mentors and colleagues that have been on the previous dietary guidelines in the same situation. They weren't on some of those subgroups that were, I would say, creating those criteria to focus on. And so I think moving forward in the future, I think anybody that gets invited to be on the committee can be more vocal. And that's what I would say. Somebody asked me actually just two days ago if I'd be on the 2030. Absolutely. Now I know what to know. I know I can ask. And I know if I want to switch to a different subcommittee, you can do that. So there's just things that when you're not, when you've never been through the process, you don't know. And I do think it needs to be represented. And how many people are on the committee? 20. So 20 total on the committee? Mm-hmm. And then the subcommittee? There are three to four. So it's very small. Yeah. And how many subcommittees? It depends on the research questions. I believe we had 10 to 12. Wow. That's a very small group making large decisions. Yes and no. So at the end of the day, everybody reviews all of the summary statements for all the subcommittees. But for me, just personally, my perspective is that we didn't have access or we couldn't interject on the early stages for the criteria. And so looking for me, I mean, we all have inherent bias. I am a protein researcher, so I have a special focus area in that. Looking at it from that lens, there were just things that, in my opinion, were missed that we didn't have the chance to ask. But when the criteria is set and then the summary comes in, we are able to look at it, review, ask questions. At that point, it's a little late to go back and make big changes. But I would say, again, the evidence that gets presented is accurate. The recommendations are based on evidence, significant evidence. I think I would just question that are we missing pieces? Are there additional questions that need to be asked early on? And that just has been missed. Had they included some of the other protein studies, what do you think the outcome would have been? Well, I think it depends on the outcome of interest. So in 2020, the focus wasn't a little bit on sarcopenia, but there wasn't that weight loss, weight regain outcome. So I would anticipate seeing very similar outcomes. The 2025, if that approach had been done, I think that would actually change things. And a couple of pieces that you are aware of, too, is that so obviously the dietary guidelines are about food groups, which protein is one of them. But then you also have to wrestle with the DRIs, right? And the DRIs are the nutrient-based recommendations for protein. You have to definitely explain to our audience what are the DRIs. Yeah, so the DRIs are the dietary reference intakes. And so that's really where those nutrient recommendations come in. And so once you establish the nutrient recommendations, then the DGAs, the dietary guidelines for Americans, go along with that because that's the food recommendation that goes along with the nutrients. So we need to meet our nutrients. Where do you get those? You know, where do they come from? They come from foods. And so they play hand in hand. But the DRIs are being reviewed right now. And they're starting with macronutrients. And we don't know yet if those recommendations for protein are going to increase or decrease or stay the same, right? That's just something that we don't have that level of information. And as you know, with protein, we have the RDA, recommended daily allowance for protein. And whether those needs, that amount gets increased or decreased, that may drive future recommendations for the DGAs. But until they come out, we're probably going to stay where we are, except for the fact that now we're thinking about protein. Well, we're not really thinking about protein quality, but we are choosing different types of foods. Do you think that the RD for protein is enough for aging, for optimal aging? Oh, absolutely not. And I am not an expert in this field, but I read those that do exceptional work. And I know you've had many on your podcast. And the consensus is that it's grossly under-recommended for aging. And I would say even for a lot of those other populations, those that have obesity, those that have type 2 diabetes, adolescents, there is, you know, I'm sure we've flipped this term around optimal intake. And I don't even think we're there, right? So there's this, what we would consider a minimum amount to prevent deficiencies. But that's that criteria when we, you know, with the RDA, it was really in a healthy individual who was physically active. And we don't have that in the U.S. And so it does raise the question, do we need more protein because of the health condition that we're in? And I would say most of those life stages, that's the case. And then, you know, then it's potentially optimizing that, right? And then it's, well, what outcomes are you referring to? And I would say the most of the evidence would be more about muscle preservation or even muscle gains or I would say weight management. Those are the three that really come to mind that would be driving those recommendations. Yeah. And especially with the use of these incretins and GLP-1s, we're going to accelerate aging and accelerate muscle loss 20 years in, I don't know, 24 weeks. Yeah. People can lose 50% muscle and 50% fat at rates we've never seen. Yeah. And it's, that one's another, I don't know if we want to go down that path. I'm doing a Wachobi study right now in smokers. So a different research question, but fundamentally I'm in that space. And it's a lot like other things that first come out. We don't know yet in terms of the magnitude of the lean mass loss, but because it is rapid weight loss, you know, we will inherently lose fat, which is great, but we're going to lose lean mass. And what does that look like from a functionality standpoint? And then, you know, for, for me as a nutritionist or behavioralist, it's, you know, most of these medications are not sustained over, you know, usually about 50% drop off after the first year. Could be because of insurance. It could be a lot of other symptoms, but then there's no behavioral strategies that are accompanying that. Right. And so there's, there's always a need to have behavioral recommendations that are tied into nutrition and even during GLP one use. You know, now I go and I sit on the planes with my laptop and I have GLP one on there because I've been an ingested behavior person anyways. And a hundred percent of the time there's somebody beside me, one side or the other, like I'm on whatever, is that bound or Wachobi. And we have this conversation and most of them have said that they just feel tired all the time and lightheaded. And then we start talking and we haven't touched on this, but the biggest thing that I took away from the dietary guidelines for my personal benefit was I'm a protein researcher. I'm in that space. And then you start thinking, oh, well, protein rich foods can help with vitamin B12, B6, calcium. And we, we don't always think about all those other nutrients that come along with that. And I bring that up because in the, in the situation with GLP ones, most people are just not eating very much food at all. That's right. And they're being very deficient in nutrients and they're starting to have these symptoms of lethargy and anemia. And so I think it's a bigger push now to think about when you're on these, we do, you still need to be mindful of nutrition and what that looks like in developing behavioral nutrition based behavioral strategies. I couldn't agree with you more. And as individuals, it reminds me of some of the protein sparing fasts. Yeah. That when you are on a GLP one or some of these incretins, it's the calorie intake could be anywhere from 600 to 800, which were some of those old school protein sparing fasts to maintain muscle mass. Yeah. Very fascinating. And the only thing I would say with that is most aren't gravitating or they're eating protein, but it depends on the ones that you're eating. They generally can't finish a certain portion. Right. And so I think it's a bigger case because they are full most of the time. And how do you effectively do that? Yeah. And so, you know, I've ended up having these random numbers on my phone now because I'm like, well, let's keep in touch. And here's some recommendations that I think you should follow. So, but that's so early on. And I think, you know, whether it's food industry or nutrition scientists or dietitians, it's not that we're scared of GLP ones. It's what do you do with them and how do we play a role? And I would say this is great because this emphasizes the need to go back and think about nutrition and nutrition recommendations because it's even more critical in individuals that are in those conditions. Absolutely agree. You know, the unintended consequences. I believe that we're going to exchange one epidemic for another. We're going to exchange obesity for early sarcopenia and frailty. Yeah. Which is our nutrient inadequacies. I mean, all of those disease states that the DRIs were designed to prevent are we're going to end up coming back because individuals just are not eating enough of the healthy foods to prevent that. Do you think it's overcomplicated this idea of the dietary reference intake, you know, the DRIs and then the RDA? It just seems like there's so many various modalities to try to get to a, quote, healthy diet. Well, it's tricky, too, I would say, because they're very isolated. Most people, when we think about the DGAs, kind of ignore the DRIs, right? Right. Because it's... Right. Which is dietary guidelines for those listening. Yeah. Yeah. But then for consumers, most think about them in terms of protein. So they are thinking about macronutrients or nutrients, but then they also are trying to figure out this in the diet. And there's been a number of surveys. I would just go back to the adolescents. When you look at what strategies, because that's most of the research now that I do. Which we're going to talk all about because, again, it changed the game for me. So, yeah. But when you look at the effect of strategies in teens, it's food first and only certain foods, like isolating foods, not an entire diet. And I think when you, again, go back and even do this with adults, it's really hard for somebody to follow a dietary pattern because we don't eat a pattern. We eat, you know, next meal, next snack. And then within those, what are those foods? So I think it goes back to, are there certain foods that give you the biggest nutrient boost? Protein foods, what do they look like? Which ones can be more effective? And then how do you include those throughout the day? Along with whole grains. It's not that we're emitting fats and carbs. I just think the mindset really should be foods for us, knowing that those nutrients accompany with that. And how do you disseminate that to most people? Because I think most will think about it with protein, but then they're getting so many other of those micronutrients that I think at times gets ignored. So it is a challenge in terms of how we wrestle with this. And I just go back to the DRIs or the DGAs, whatever acronym, both of those are not meant for the general population. Right? They're meant for that next step, whether it's policy or dietitians, to then translate it. So to your point, how do we translate the evidence so people can follow these on a day-to-day basis? When you started doing work as a behavioralist, when did that start? Because you started as a physiologist. Yes. And then went to behavior around foods. Where was that transition and why? Yeah. So it actually started. So I still, I labeled myself as a nutrition physiologist now. But I was at Penn State. But my outcomes are physiological, right? We look at glycemic control, body composition, and the gut hormones. But at the end of the day, we do interventions. So that's more behavioral. And my first one was my PhD. We did a diet and exercise study. Energy restriction with diet, energy restriction with exercise, or diet and exercise together, looking at how that can affect body composition and eating behaviors. And so that's really from the get-go, where I think behavior and physiology pair well together. And so then I've just kind of carried that through. And what did you guys find? So it depends on the outcome. And I always say that with research, because it does change. But obviously, a greater energy restriction, it was about 30%, leads to greater weight loss. We weren't manipulating macronutrients at the time. But we did look at ghrelin, the hunger hormone, and some other signals. And we found that when an energy restriction includes exercise, that ghrelin response is blunted. And so in essence, so- You're less hungry. You're less hungry with that. And then when I went into my postdoc, started looking at protein, we know that protein has that effect as well. And so that's kind of how that progression occurred. But I always was looking at behavior. You were. You were always interested in behavior. And do you think that there is a way to utilize food to augment willpower? For example, protein to increase satiation. For sure. I mean, that was all of my postdoc days. At the time, it really wasn't quantified. So some of our first studies, and Don Lehman has some work almost at the same time in Rick Mattis and others, where we were just trying to figure out the benefits of protein. And at the time, that would have been in 2007, increased dietary protein. We can talk about what that looks like in terms of the quantities. But having more protein in the diet, particularly during energy restriction, systematically led to greater weight loss, more preservation of lean mass or muscle, and more fat loss. And so then it was, well, what's going on? What are the mechanisms? And so when I came in, my PhD dissertation was actually looking at the gut hormones and how they, the ones that are secreted in relation to energy restriction. And so it was a really great fit because we started looking at some of those gut hormones and whether protein, now we know, certain amino acids, do they actually lead to an increased secretion of some of those satiety signals? And that's what we found. So our first study emphasized that. And then we pair that with, you know, just those questionnaires, those perceived feelings of fullness, you know, hunger, desire to eat. And then obviously we pair that too with, does that actually affect subsequent food intake? And what were some of the hormones secreted? Yeah. So the two biggest ones, which everybody will know, the buzzword is GLP-1. So GLP-1 is a big satiety signal that's secreted in the gut in response to a number of things, but protein was one of those ones that was higher. PYY is another hormone that's also a satiety signal. We actually have about 28 gut hormones that are, I would say, satiety related gastrointestinal that are secreted in response to different types of foods. But what we find with protein, it does seem to elicit a greater release in GLP-1 and PYY. And those are hormones that generally act through the circulation of the blood that affect regions of the brain that tie into eating behaviors. So you feel fuller, you eat less throughout the day in essence. And there, and again, the studies that you've done are amazing. They have fMRI included in them, really, really well-known studies. Would you say that, you know, you, some of the studies that you've done, you picked a particular dose. So you picked a minimum, I think it was 30 grams. Was there a reason that you chose 30 grams? And it was, from what I understand, at least some of the ones that I'm looking at, it was whey protein. Was it a whey protein or animal-based protein? Yeah. So I think we have about 30 studies now. Just a few. But I'm just trying to know, because you have to, right? You can't just do one study. You have to do 10 with different cohorts and different designs. And so our first studies were meal-first studies. And I still gravitate back towards that. And so- Is this the high-protein, high-carb of 500 calories a day? Yeah. Or 500 calories for six days? Yep. And so a lot of those studies will include animal-sourced protein foods in combination with carbohydrate foods and fats, right? So they look like they're meals. They're not meal-replacable. It's not that there's a problem with that. Have done protein supplement studies. But with these, we were trying to be practical and feasible, comparing, you know, two meals that look the same, have the same calories. One that has about 10 or 15 grams of protein and one that has up to about 50. So, you know, and again, I should say I'm a muscle head by training. So I grew up, I was a basketball player, then turned power lifter. And so it was, you know, go big or go home. So you start with a lot of protein. I love that. Tom was like, definitely talk about weights. She loves weight training. Well, no, it's just you start with that. And then you realize, well, how much do you actually need? So that was a question that hasn't been asked. And so we did a study like that. And it does pair well with a lot of the muscle protein synthesis work because they were looking at thresholds, too. And so we did that with satiety where we had 10, 15, 20, 30, you know, and 50 grams of protein. And what we found is about 30 grams was what was necessary to elicit that satiety response that had individuals feel significantly fuller than when they were having 20, 15 or, you know, zero. And then we also looked at subsequent eating behavior. And so that's really where once we determined generally that amount, then we ran all of our studies around 30 grams of protein. But then, you know, it was nice because it does pair well with the muscle protein synthesis work. When you have 30 grams of protein, you can still get the requirements for carbohydrates and fats because that's also very important that you don't just want to have an isolated protein, that you do want to have it as part of a meal. Tell me why. Why? Nutrient density or just variation fiber? Nutrient density because, yeah, there's things that you just can't get from animal source foods, folate. And the two that come to mind is folate and fiber. And that's, I mean, there's a lot more vitamin A. Like there's a number of them where. We had Stefan Von Vliet on. Yeah. And he was talking a lot about the food matrix in that way. For sure. And so for us, it was just having it as a complete meal. And so that's where we kind of landed with 30 grams. I've done some snacking studies, you know, and it's, there's no stamp. The big take home for me is it's not 30 grams. And if you have 29, nothing's going to happen. Right. There's some data if it's a higher quality, about 24. So we generally say about 24 to 30 grams. We also get asked, is that for everybody? What about somebody that's 300 pounds, like a linebacker? You know, there's some nuances, right? If you're fit, it can be a little bit more. If you're aging, it should be more. But in general, it's about 24 to 30 grams. And that's about two to two and a half servings in an eating occasion. And, you know, I usually have slides. But when you look at it, we should have brought that. We should, I should have brought a meal to show you. Everyone listening, you guys know, you know. It looks normal, though. It doesn't look obnoxious. But obviously, when you look at it, it does have more protein than what most people are consuming. I'm always looking for ways to improve my health, specifically my gut health. Good health starts with your ability to digest and absorb nutrients. Amra colostrum is something that I've been adding to my morning coffee. And from a data perspective, colostrum often referred to as, quote, first milk is the nutrient-rich fluid produced by mammals in the first few days after giving birth. It has antibodies, growth factors, and essential nutrients that help newborns develop. But why do you care about it? Colostrum has also been studied for its potential health benefits in adults, from balancing immunity to improved performance across various domains. What I specifically love about Amra colostrum is it is a bioactive, whole food with 400-plus functional nutrients. It has protective antibodies, prebiotics, strengthening peptides, free amino acids, trace minerals, the list goes on. Amra colostrum, of course, uses technology to preserve colostrum's nutrients in their purest, most bioavailable form. And this ensures a composition that is uniquely optimized for human health. And this is unlike any available bovine colostrum product that I'm aware of. We've worked out a special offer for my audience. Receive 15% off your first order. Go to tryamra.com slash Dr. Lion and enter Dr. Lion to get 15% off your first order. That's T-R-Y-A-R-M-R-A dot com slash Dr. Lion. And we are so grateful for sponsoring this episode of the show. And do you think that that first meal, you know, many of the studies are done with that first meal. Do you think that, well, number one, is there a reason that it's the first meal? And is there benefit from going beyond that 30 grams from a satiety or fullness standpoint? Yeah. So the first part could have been a lot of things. I would say methodology is probably driving a lot of those first breakfast studies where really difficult to control for everything. If you're having somebody come in in the evening, if that's not a primary emphasis area, right, or to come in at lunch, because then you have to start controlling in the morning to keep it balanced. But if you have a breakfast study, then you just say sleep, you know, maybe give them something to eat that's standard the night before, wake up at a certain time and come in. That's a lot more controlled in its short term. And I would say that's where most of those breakfast studies occurred. To be bluntly honest, when I first started our breakfast studies, and most of my work now is looking at breakfast skippers, which is pretty common in adolescence and pretty common in adults as well in terms of what that looks like. A coffee and a donut is not really what I would consider a breakfast. And so nonetheless, so for us, it was okay, well, it's really hard to control, you know, when you're trying to recruit people, what their breakfast looks like, because it's very variable. So for me, my first thought stupidly was, I'll just recruit breakfast skippers because we know they're not eating anything. And then I realized there's a strong correlation between breakfast skipping and poor glucose control, snacking in the evening, obesity. And so it merged into this really cool scientific question and that my intent was more methodology. I'm like, it's easy to control for skippers because we know what they skip. But then we started looking at circadian rhythms and those other pieces in terms of breakfast. But then when you start looking back, there are studies with muscle protein synthesis and satiety where we're comparing whether you have your protein at breakfast, lunch or dinner and seeing whether timing matters. And that's when we're starting to see that there is a systematic benefit with having more protein in the morning, even compared to whenever it's, you know, whether it's spread out throughout the rest of the day, you know, or just having, you know, a bigger meal in the dinner. It's that breakfast meal seems to be best in terms of more. We don't really see a unique benefit with 40 or 50 grams of protein. That 30 seems to be at least, again, I don't mean to keep saying this. I'll say it one more time. I won't say it again. It depends on your outcome, right? And so for me, if you can give somebody that in a study, that doesn't mean they're going to adhere to it when they walk out the door and they're no longer in the study, right? And so what we found even in teens that that's about the amount that they can handle when they're preparing or they're making it on their own. And there may be some benefits with more, but if people aren't going to follow it, then the recommendation just kind of goes to the wayside. And so I'm very practical in nature. I used to be a school teacher. Maybe that's why I started doing behavioral too, because you just see the problems and nobody was eating anything healthy, definitely not at breakfast. And so you start thinking, well, what can they manage? And we've done some breakfast in the classrooms, studies in schools, and that 24-ish grams was what they were willing to consume. And so I think for me, it's okay. It's more about feasibility than it is. I mean, obviously it's health, but then it's feasibility too. And so that's kind of that sweet spot. What will someone do? That makes a lot of sense. There is a lot of discussion out there on these GLP-1s, right? And obviously the injection is different, the magnitude of effect and the length of time that it lasts, than a meal, a robust meal response of protein and increase in GLP-1. And the reason I ask this question is because you'll see supplements out there and all of these things saying, oh, you know, this is better than ozempic or it works like ozempic. And could you clarify for us the magnitude of effect of a meal influence versus a medication? Yeah. And I can conceptualize what that looks like, but I don't know if we have the magnitude of change. I don't think that's actually been quantified. I know the research, so you can visibly see it, but I can't say it's 100-fold or 200-fold. I don't have that information, but I'm happy to go back and actually calculate that. But what I can tell you is a post-meal, postprandial increase in GLP-1, which is what you typically see with either more calories and calories with protein, is nowhere near the level that they're coming in with GLP-1. So we can talk about that. I would suspect that food industry will say that their food is satiating and will lead to a rise in GLP-1, and the consumers will hear that. And it's not to say that that's not true, but that's not the same level of when they're on a GLP-1. It also is important to know with GLP-1s, they're time-released, so you don't get these pre- and postprandial responses throughout the day, but that magnitude is much, much higher. It's a pharmaceutical, and most of the studies, because when I did my post-doc, I was doing ingested behavior, and that's when we started looking at a lot of the pharmaceutical studies where they were injecting ghrelin, P-U-I-Y, and GLP-1. And you could see that they all had a significant impact on eating behavior, but they were, you know, oh, like 100 times higher than what it would be normally. So I think people just need to be aware of that. That's not to say, though, that we're not sensitive to GLP-1 from a meal, but it's just not the same level. And I would say that next piece, I don't know if you're going to talk about food noise, but that seems to be right now where it's like the secret sauce with GLP-1s, that you'll hear people saying that they just don't have that preoccupation with food. The environment is gone. And even the folks on the airplane, that's what they kept saying. Like, I just don't really, I'm not unhappy. I'm not unmotivated. When I eat, it's not that it's not rewarding, but I just don't even think about it later on. And I don't know if we have that with higher protein diets. Nobody's actually asked that. You don't really do those anecdotical comments. We do hunger fullness in those pieces. And I do brain imaging. So that goes along with that. The brain imaging that we do is looking at food reward, which is tied into that food noise piece. And so I think there's just a lot that we don't know. So that seems to be where most of the benefit is occurring with the GLP-1 medications is that noise is gone, that it just removes it. It makes sense. It's the regions of the brain that are tied into, you know, food reward and other rewarding properties. But for me, it goes back to, okay, well, are we doing anything with food noise when we're doing these behavioral interventions? We never assessed it, right? So that's that first, that's the next step for me just thinking moving forward. Yeah, you will be right on the cutting edge when you do that. I'm really happy to hear you say that. I was hoping that you would clear that up about GLP-1s as a meal-to-meal response, not even close to the magnitude of medication. Don't be fooled, friends. But the other thing is as food intake goes down, quality of that nutrient density has to go up. When you looked at breakfast skipping, what were some of the outcomes that you saw regarding weight? Did you measure weight in the adolescence? What did you see? So we, of course, just look at changes in body weight, but then we do body compositions. Even better. Geno with dexam. Looking at body fat, lean mass. And then, you know, not that this is an outcome related to weight. Well, it's an outcome related to weight, but, you know, glycemic control using CGMs, that's another one that goes hand in hand, which is what we look at. And then some other mechanisms, right? We do these food challenges because that's tied into, you know, if you're losing weight and it's a differential, you know, whether you're eating a higher protein breakfast versus you're not eating any breakfast. Why? Like, I always want to know why. Is it the gut hormones? Is it that that's also contributing to changes in food intake? And so we do all of those measures that allow us to assess, you know, what is the effect of an intervention? Um, I would say on health and wellbeing. And did the majority of people that then had breakfast lose weight or was it too short of a time or? Yeah. So in adults, I would say you consistently see that, um, over the longer term. Um, again, there's studies out there that are not optimal and I would say we need to be mindful and you would agree, you know, 12 weeks is really the minimum in my mind to see meaningful changes in weight, changes in body composition. So when you look at those 12 weeks and plus studies, um, there's some benefits that you see in terms of weight loss, fat loss, um, and then lean mass preservation, even with just breakfast in adults. In our adolescence, uh, we didn't see a significant change in weight, uh, in actual just weight loss. What we did see is it prevented, uh, body fat gain. And so these are smaller changes, right? And what do you mean body fat gain? So did you have some of them have breakfast, some of them not, and those that didn't have breakfast gained body fat? Yeah. And so we take breakfast skippers that are all, and then we randomize them that either continue to skip breakfast or eat a normal protein breakfast or high protein breakfast. Um, and again, those meals are about 350 calories in terms of the protein. It's 10 versus 30 grams of protein. And so we found that uniquely only those that were eating a higher protein breakfast, um, had less body fat gain. Now these are teens and you might be saying, well, they're in their growth spurt. Um, but these were individuals that were overweight or the head overweight or obesity where we really wouldn't be recommending more body fat gain. And so eating a higher protein version prevented that. Um, whereas you saw that breakfast skippers actually continued to gain, um, if you independently look at the groups, breakfast skippers continue to gain weight, gain fat. Um, those that were eating the normal protein kind of was in the middle, didn't do a whole lot, but it was the higher protein versions that actually prevented that. And then lean mass actually is either preserved or, um, it increases. And we just completed, I mean, this is not published data, um, yet, but we just completed our six year trial and 150 kids for six months. So big study. So when you mentioned earlier today about coming back, yeah, or talking about a study, these are the studies that tell me, so you do these pilot studies, right? And so then we got funding, um, from NIH to do this large cohort or not cohort, um, 150 breakfast skippers for six months. Six months. And we did full feed for breakfast for six months, did the comparisons. You've got great students then. Yeah. Very excited to fight it again. This is preliminary and, uh, but they didn't lose weight. It's not overly surprising. That's not typically what you see, but we did see an increase in lean mass. Um, do you have concerns that it was a DEXA over MRI? Uh, it's a limit. I don't know if it's a limitation. It's just a different way of assessing. And again, you're not really getting at lean mass when you use DEXA. It's an estimation. Of course, um, MRIs are, you know, used to be DEXA is the gold standard over underwater weighing. Right. So as we continue to advance, um, but you know, it's an appropriate measure, I think, for what we have. But obviously if you have MRI, it would be fantastic. What about D3 creatine? Have you heard of that? Are you? I don't know, um, enough to make a educated discussion, to have an educated discussion about that. So you found that, uh, well, D3 creatine is this, uh, William Evans seems to really be talking a lot about it. It, it, it's allowing individuals to use a tagged creatine and then take a urinary measure. Right. Uh, three days later as an assessment. But again, it needs time and there's probably user error. Who knows? But what did you find? And so six months you controlled all their food, which is a lot. Yeah. No, no. Just breakfast. We just controlled breakfast. Just breakfast. And so again, preliminary evidence, none of this is, uh, published yet, but, um, did not see a change in weight. Um, but we did see an increase in lean mass and body fat trended to be lower in those that were eating the higher protein versus normal versus skipping. Um, a big caveat is, is we started recruiting right in the middle of the pandemic and our first activity. Did activity go down? No, it stayed the same surprisingly, but then we were dealing with sedentary. Not that we recruited sedentary individuals, but, um, there's a lot of adolescents who just are not very active, um, these days. And so, no, it was more that when the pandemic hit, we had our 40, our first 40 participants that weren't able to have any of the measures. So no DEXs, no, none of the outcomes. We lost 40 participants just because we weren't able to have them come in and be tested. So that's a little bit tricky, um, with that. But then it's interesting because you look at satiety and food intake and glycemic control. All of those were beneficial. All of those were changes that made sense based on our preliminary data with higher protein breakfast. So it's, that goes along with it. Why that doesn't actually elicit these bigger changes in weight management. We're still trying to figure that out. When you looked at fMRI data for those that had the 30 grams of protein or the shake, did the brain pathways all look the same? Yeah. So, um, did not do this in our six month trial, but the other, the, the other studies that we've done that are published with fMRI. So how we view this is there's the gut hormones that look at more homeostatic markers, right? And then we think about the brain is more hedonic. So it's reward driven. And so the pathways that we look at with fMRI are not related to cognition. It's more related to corticolimbic. So reward, uh, regions where we're showing them highly appealing food pictures. We overlay that with, um, highly appealing animal pictures that are not appetizing. So no cows, chickens, or pigs. I grew up on a farm. So, but you have to contrast that, right? Because just an image will elicit a response. So is it like a cat or a mouse or something? Yeah. Birds. Cockroach. Maybe not doves. You get my point. Yeah. But we overlay that, um, to look at food reward. And we've done those where they eat breakfast or they skip breakfast and we either do it at lunch or at dinner. And I think right before dinner is the most impactful because most of the time, even in teens and adults, we will start snacking and overeating later in the day. And so that's when we did the, the fMRI and consistently we found that that higher protein breakfast. So that both breakfasts improve, um, or actually decrease our drive to eat. So, uh, decreases food reward, um, in the amygdala, the insula, uh, prefrontal cortex. And it seemed to be the same across individuals. There wasn't, you know, cause you wonder, some people are more affected by food. Maybe it's less salient for others. So a lot of these are, at least those studies were cross-sectional. So you're compared to yourself. And so that's kind of hard to figure that one out. Um, but we did see that that higher protein version, um, had greater reductions in those neural activations that are tied into thoughts and, and, uh, um, food motivation. So again, another strength, I would say with protein, we think about protein and satiety, but the fact that it can actually, um, help with food reward, um, and motivational drive to eat, I think is really cool. And we paired those with questionnaires and we looked at, you know, they, there's a decrease in cravings for fatty foods, savory foods, uh, highly. Appealing sweet foods. So it does, the physiology does pair well with the behavior. Do you think this is a question I have never seen anything done? Do you think that a incomplete source of protein like collagen would have that same effect? Do you think it's an amino acid effect? Do you think it has to do with the same amino acids that trigger muscle protein synthesis, coincide with whatever happens with the blood brain barrier, if at all? Yeah. So I would say the rodent studies are very clear on that. There's a number of amino acids that have been tied into, um, reward driven eating or homeostatic eating and leucine is the, is one of those. Um, we've done similar studies, um, looking at satiety and that's where we have the supplements. So we do a lot of, whether it's whey, casein, P combinations. Um, and we look at satiety and subsequent food intake. Um, and so we've seen mixed results. Some, I think a lot of it depends on the, on the form. If you're drinking, your protein is very different than if you're actually eating it in a meal setting, like with, with other foods. Um, because obviously beverages, they don't elicit the same satiety response in general. So you're kind of going up against, you know, it's not very satiating. So it's really hard to pick up some of those differences. Um, but in the meal studies that we've done, we just published a study. Morgan Braden was a doctoral student with my, of mine last year. And we just published it in nutrients, um, in 2024, where we did some mediation analyses, trying to look at amino acids. So this was a beef centric meal, um, at breakfast that we actually gave them at breakfast, lunch, and dinner to look at whether, um, certain amino acids are driving satiety and very similar to what you see with muscle protein synthesis work. Leucine was the only amino acid that was a mediator that when you look at it in the model, that leucine actually predicted the PYY response, the postprande response that then led into this heightened feeling of satiety. And so that getting into your point, that's where we're starting to see that certain amino acids may be driving these responses. As a mom of two very little kids, I've always had major concerns with what we cook on and how we store food. I felt a ton of relief when I started using Our Place. When I became aware of the risks associated with what we cook our food in, I immediately looked for options. And that's actually how I found Our Place. And I'm grateful that they agreed to sponsor this podcast. These cookware and these items are amazing. They make cookware, appliances, and all are made without Forever Chemicals. Their products are made without PFAS and Teflon. In comparison, most of today's nonstick pans contain PFAS, also known as these Forever Chemicals. The EU plans to prohibit PFAS by 2025. Most cookware brands continue to use these chemicals due to their low cost. And that's why Our Place came out with non-toxic appliances that are game-changing. They are an upgrade and it allows us to keep our family safe. Go to fromourplace.com and enter my code DRLYON at checkout to receive 10% off storewide. That's fromourplace.com and use the code DRLYON. Our Place offers a 100-day trial with free shipping and returns. I have to say, friends, this is one of the most important things that you can implement into your family's protocol. Was this the study that's a diet containing animal source protein as fresh lean beef is more well-liked and promotes healthier eating behavior compared with plant-based alternatives in women? So that is the study. That's the study. And then there's a separate paper where we were looking at amino acid signals. But to your point with that one, it is the study comparing diets that are void of animal source foods versus those that contain, in this case, it was beef. Because again, feasibly, you know, we talk about the dietary guidelines and even the 2025 is pushing to limit animal source foods. Why are they doing that? A lot of the cohort studies, I would say the majority of that data that that recommendation is driven by are cohort studies. So when you look at the randomized control trials that are there, they don't necessarily, they don't support that at all. But when you look at the cohort studies, and there's a lot of cohorts, you do see this relationship with some animal source foods and increased mortality, cardiovascular disease risk, and so forth. Can you explain to the listener cohort versus randomized control trial? Yeah, perfect. So cohort is a group of individuals that are just observed. Sometimes it's over time. Sometimes it's a snapshot in time. And, you know, then you start looking at correlations. So within that, they're looking at health outcomes and whatever they're eating. In a randomized control trial, you are manipulating something. So whether, you know, in this case, it's having a diet that's tightly controlled where one has more animal source proteins than the other. It's a randomized control trial, right? So you're controlling for everything, and then you're looking at an outcome. So in my opinion, a randomized control trial, well, not my opinion, in others, that is the gold standard study that we have. And that mindset is even being shifted in terms of, is that really, it is the gold standard. I mean, because you are controlling for everything, really trying to look at that outcome. And there's a number of systematic reviews. Wayne Campbell has them, Lauren O'Connor's group with red meat in these trials that really show that having red meat as part of a diet is not unhealthy for all of those outcomes. So it's an interesting thing that I would love to see the 2020-2025 report to see why those systematic reviews weren't actually included, because they're very clearly showing that either they're not harmful or they actually have benefits. But nonetheless, to go back to your point with the cohort studies, that you see these associations or correlations. The problem is, is you have to control for everything else in the diet. And we do know that most people that have a high intake of animal-sourced foods typically are their processed meats. And that's not what we're recommending to begin with. Not that there's anything wrong with that in moderation, but most have processed. Most also have a lot of fried food, French fries, ultra-processed foods, sugar-sweetened beverages, alcohol, cigarettes, sedentary. So when you start overlaying... Probably watch TV too. Yeah. So when you look at all of those outcomes, it's really hard to then say, well, you know, and that's just what we have with cohorts. And so you can see that correlation, whether that's practically there. I think that's when you have to have those randomized control trials that we clearly show that whether it's part of a healthy dietary pattern or even a typical pattern, you don't see that lean, fresh animal-sourced foods have a negative impact on those health outcomes. And it's fair to say that a cohort study, epidemiology, is low-quality data. It's used to ask a question and then followed up by randomized control trials. So I would say it's not low-quality data. It's just data that gives you a certain outcome, right? So randomized control trials are the gold standard. And I... Because that's where my camp is. So I could say... But it's not so much that it's low-quality. Low-quality is whenever they're underpowered, right? Maybe it's a cohort that has 10. Low-quality evidence. Low-quality evidence. It is evidence that allows us to look at correlations. So I would say it's initial evidence that I find very challenging to make a recommendation based on. But I think it's great, whether it's preliminary evidence or foundational evidence or, you know, pilot data to have us think, okay, here's the relationship. Let's start asking questions that we can test. So I actually don't view those as low-quality or even low-quality evidence because they're designed to do a certain thing and they're very different, right? That design is to test a question about a relationship. And that's fine. It's great. That's really where you need to start, right? Because we don't want to spend millions and millions of dollars on a randomized control trial when we don't really know what we're... Like, we're asking questions, but we need some of that data to support that. So I actually view it as it's great to have correlational or cohort data so you can get a sense of what exists. Same thing with like breakfast skipping and obesity. There's hundreds and hundreds of studies that show that relationship. So these were great because it's like, okay, well then what happens when we start including breakfast into that group? So for me, it was a great body of evidence to pull from so that I can develop my randomized control trials and it made me more well-suited properly. Like the rationale was there to test that. My problem is, is just for me, you're the dead of one with the dietary guidelines is like they're basing their most of the dietary patterns on cohort data without the randomized control trials. So that's what I was getting at. Oh, no, I totally get it. I just want to be clear because I don't want people to walk away thinking they're... Because I have students that I teach a 2000 student class and that's what they think. They walk away like, well, why do you even do them? They're bad. They're not bad. We have to understand what they're for and what they're designed to and how they can help us push recommendations. My problem is, is I have issues with making recommendations on cohorts when you really need to do it with the randomized control trials. And it's fascinating. And really one of the biggest questions that we get as providers and just as people trying to communicate science is that you hear every four weeks there's a new study that says red meat is bad for you, go more plant-based. And it's the same handful or the same kind of data. It'll be cohort studies. It'll be epidemiology. And it will come up with some correlation that people will then make recommendations to their friends, take for themselves. When in fact, we have years and years of randomized control trials, high quality evidence from multiple groups saying, you know what? Fresh red meat can be neutral if not beneficial. A quote, high protein diet above the RDA shows these cardiometabolic outcomes. Just a whole host of, again, high quality randomized control trials that were put into place to actually ask the question that these cohort studies have put forth. And it's just fascinating and confusing to me as we navigate this landscape as to why things like the dietary guidelines are still falling back. It just doesn't make sense. So I don't know if. And I think a lot of us that do intervention work ask the same thing. And not that it's a giant, that it's like a fine-tuned machine. And I fundamentally get that when you look at mortality. And I jokingly tell my students too, if you knew that you were doing a randomized control trial and the end point was mortality or death, would you do the study? Probably not, right? You're not going to sign up for a study that may lead to death, right? And the IRB wouldn't approve it. So, I mean, I know that's like a trite example, but at the end of the day, cohorts are very helpful with that because they're just tracking individuals over the long term and then making those relationships where you can't, there's certain things that you just can't do in a randomized control trial that you can do in a cohort. But in my mind, it's just getting us started to try to figure out a question that we can adequately test in a randomized control trial. When you then, based on this really, I know that the paper hasn't been published yet, this six-month study. What were some of the biggest takeaways? Because I think fasting and skipping meals is kind of this new thing. Yeah. Are there recommendations that you feel that you can make based on what you've seen over the years? Over the years, yes. For this new one, I would just say stay tuned. Because that's why I said over the years. I'm on to you. That's why I said over the years. So the funny part is, is in 2015, I believe, or 2010, the Dietary Guidelines came out and actually recommended breakfast. And then after that, we started thinking about, well, how do you define breakfast? And there's no gold standard. There's some consensus that it is the first eating occasion of the day before 10 a.m. after an overnight fast. Like we put qualifiers on there, but we really don't know. And if somebody is a shift worker, does that change what breakfast is and what it isn't? And so I think that's the tricky part. What I would say, the reason I'm bringing that up is so it was in the Dietary Guidelines, but there really wasn't any evidence to support that. And then in 2020, that was the subcommittee that I was on, the eating frequency one. The problem is, is eating frequency is not the same as timing of eating, right? So you can explain. Okay, so eating frequency, you eat multiple times throughout the day. It may be in the morning. It may not be. Timing is timing, right? And it may be breakfast or afternoon or evening. So unfortunately, in the 2020, we didn't actually ask timing. So none of the breakfast studies that are published were included in that analysis. So it was a great example for me to say I'm on the guidelines, but none of my research is there. So I'm not like, I didn't, but it's funny. And so that was one of the charges that we had in terms of we need to do more work on timing because the frequency data is limited to begin with. So there's just not enough. Ours was no evidence exists or limited evidence to make a recommendation for frequency. Meaning how often you eat. Because a lot of people are, do you spread it out? You have one big meal, two, three, whatever. And so the 2025 to my knowledge. Well, I would say Doug Patton Jones, a very good friend of yours and colleague, and Don Lehman did that meal distribution. They started the whole meal distribution of 30 grams three times a day. And they were really the first people to begin to ask the question. And then there was another Arnell group. Arnell et al looked at multiple meals and protein and how much protein various meals. And it's funny because so we did the same thing a couple of years earlier, not with those outcomes. They were, it was satiety that we gave three meals versus six. That's, you know, back in the day when you generally think of. When you were a bodybuilder, six meals a day. Yeah, see. Yeah. So there's smart people in this world that I don't really consider myself one of them. I'm practical. And when you're being told in the gym that you should eat six times a day, my question was, I don't think there's any science to support that. So we did actually two different studies. And we showed that actually eating three meals a day that were larger were better for satiety. Simply because you get these big fluctuations and you need to feel that. You need to have reduced hunger and increased satiety versus where you're just hanging out in some middle ground where you're not really feeling full. You're not really hungry. And so it, and then, you know, Doug's work and Don's came out with muscle protein synthesis, you know, a bit later. But then we always had this focus on breakfast. And so I bring that up with the guidelines that even the 2025, I think focused on frequency and not timing. And there is a increasing body of evidence with breakfast and how breakfast can actually elicit these beneficial effects. And so that's the challenging part. We still don't really have breakfast recommendations. I would say in probably the 10 or 15 studies that I've had, I can consistently say that. And so when you look at all the body of evidence, I would say just making a recommendation to eat breakfast is not helpful. It's not beneficial for weight management, glycemic control. So maybe cognitive function, like just eating breakfast is not, that's just not what the research shows. What we know from our studies and then some others is that it has to be one that's nutrient dense that also has more protein. And when you get into that space where you're eating a higher protein, nutritious breakfast, that's when you start seeing improvements in satiety, weight management, glycemic control, along with cognitive function. Does that make sense? So I think the recommendation of having breakfast kind of goes to the wayside because it has to be a higher quality version. But then also when you look at dietary patterns, there are examples of meals and inherently everybody has breakfast in there. That's the first, I mean, you have to have breakfast because it's the first time you eat. It's just called breaking the fast, right? For a reason. But we're starting to see, you know, one that is a higher quality version can be really effective. If you were to think about a meal, what would a meal, again, from a practical standpoint, whether it's for you or a loved one or friend or family, what would you say? Would you say have steak and eggs? Would you say what would a silver bullet meal look like? So again, there's always nuances, right? And I would say first is preferences. So I like egg whites. I don't like whole eggs. So I would say this to everybody. I would have like an egg white-ish type person too. I would have four egg whites. I'd have peppers. And I just had this today. So it's not hard. I had a pepper jack cheese with it, with some pistachio nuts. And I had a side of Greek yogurt. Sounds amazing. And a whole wheat English muffin. And so that generally is what I look at. What we also tell, whether it's adults with or with kids or not, it's like having leftovers is fantastic in the sense that having breakfast casseroles, where it grab and go. And a lot of our studies in teens are burritos, quesadillas, those things where, and you know, it's funny because I, and I should have said that. I put some roast beef in mine this morning. So I shouldn't have, there we go. I had about two ounces of roast beef. But, you know, having more of those animal-based foods in the morning, why do I keep saying that? Because they're very protein dense as well, as you know. But what about when the population or when people say, well, you know what? Didn't you read the evidence that dietary protein is going to increase your risk of heart disease and colon cancer? What do you say? Yeah, I go back to the evidence. I go back to the systematic reviews. And I say, this is the evidence that we have. And I walk them through that. And they're not on the dietary guidelines. Like, they're not recommended. And here's potentially why. A lot of them is, you know, red meat gets classified as all red meat altogether. And that's very different. Pork is very different than beef. It's also very different whether it's processed, right? And so we have to know that. And the dietary guidelines didn't really section that out. So I always tell people, I do, I start with the evidence. And then, you know, I talk about the kind of the meal matrix, if you will, that there's a lot of nutrients that you can get with animal source foods that you cannot get with other foods. And then I talk about how you do need to have whole grains and fruits and vegetables. It's not one or the other. But I think that in the landscape that we're hearing about is, I think we're up against quite a few things. I think we're up against the unintended consequences of this constant message to go plant-based, which is not based on high, I won't say high quality evidence on randomized control trials, on things that are replicatable in various domains. And what I really worry about is I worry about both our children. Because again, with the processed foods, not that all processed foods are bad. I mean, it's fine. You know, whey proteins processed, Greek yogurt, all these things are processed. But we are up against a narrative that I think is pushing people further away from high quality animal dense foods. I mean, even if you look at the dietary guidelines, if a dietary guideline says no food can be considered healthy if it has over 10% saturated fat, and an egg has 18% saturated fat with a total saturated fat of 1.6, a single egg would never be considered healthy. Right. Well, so that one's tricky, only because I know what the schools, so the schools allow that. That's an exemption that the USDA has with eggs. But that makes no sense. So you guys decide one way, stick to it, and stop confusing everybody, for God's sakes. Yep. Right? Yep. No, I get it. And then we have other aspects, and I just want to make note of something else, that there are other scientists that are, it's interesting, it's not just follow the evidence. There was this protein paper that came out in 2014, and I'll just mention it because a handful, you included, of world, you, Stu, Don Lehman, Doug Pantos, world-class protein researcher, said you're publishing this data, and when you go back and examine it, it's not actually what it says. Do you know what I'm talking about? Yeah, for sure. Okay. So can I... Yeah, we have a response to that. We have an editorial... You do, and I was actually looking for it. I can't find it, but I am going to read what the title of this paper is, because this individual continues to promote this, and it overshadows what good quality evidence says. And so the title of this paper is, low protein intake is associated with a major reduction, IGF-1, in cancer. This is bold. And overall mortality in the 65 and younger, but not older population. And then these statements include high protein intake is linked to increased cancer, diabetes, and overall mortality. I'm already disgusted. I'm not as good as you. I get emotional about this stuff. As a trained geriatrician, I mean, you walk to the bedside of someone who has broken a hip, and you know they're never getting out of there. You got to be kidding me. How about this? High IGF-1 levels increase the relationship between mortality and high protein. High protein consumption may be protective for older adults, actually protective for everybody. But even better, plant-derived proteins are associated with a lower mortality than animal-derived proteins. This paper has caused so much damage. And you guys wrote an editorial, which never got published, by the way, because this, from what I understand, my opinion is because this individual is on the board. Right. Possible. Possible. Do you remember what your, the group of you, your statements were? This episode is brought to you by AG Juan. And I have to say, I'm so grateful to them for filling in my own nutritional gaps. We all have intentions on eating a diet full of variety. But the reality is, is that humans are creatures of habit. And I am no different. I don't know about you, but I continue to eat the same five foods over and over again. This means that I am certainly missing nutrients. And AG Juan has solved that for me. When I'm traveling, when my own nutrition isn't ideal, AG Juan provides me with high quality, comprehensive, and effective foundational nutrition. It's a supplement that has been rigorously tested and formulated to support my nutrition needs. And of course, gut health. All in one easy scoop. These nutrients are combined with a range of phytonutrients, which are listed on the label in specific blends. These are supported by research to contribute to a series of benefits, including nutrient density, diversity, gut health, supports antioxidant, and prebiotics. Making this uniquely a whole food matrix approach to wellness. Even more amazing, AG Juan has committed the last 14 years to continuously researching, innovating, and testing to improve their product through the lens of uncompromising quality with the goal of raising the standard in the supplement industry. And AG Juan is offering new subscribers a free $76 gift when you sign up. You'll get a welcome kit, a bottle of D3K2, and a five free travel pack in your first box. So make sure you check out drinkag1.com slash drlion. That's drinkag1.com slash drlion. Well, there were many, but I would say the biggest one is it's just misrepresentation of the evidence that the data is very clear from systematic reviews from randomized control trials, that none of those associations, whether or not associations, their causality when you're dealing with randomized control trials, they don't exist. And even the cohorts that were cited, there were fatal flaws in their determination. So, you know, I would say from a press release standpoint or for something like this, it's much easier to push a negative tone, right? To have a negative tone. People will pick that up. They hear it all the time. Nobody wants to hear what they should be eating necessarily versus, you know, you should avoid this. This is bad, right? And so we, I would say most researchers, we just don't, that's just not the language that we propose. This is what the research shows. And even press releases come out that, you know, including this as part of, not as cool, I would say, right? When we're saying this versus something like that. And it's a challenge. And so, you know, I think for us as researchers, it's, we just need to continue to do unbiased work, high quality evidence, and we need to continue to publish. And, you know, we've had a conversation earlier about, well, that's great, but we need to translate that and get the word out. And I think that is missing. I think most researchers will stop with the publication or maybe a press release from the university, but that's not really hitting, you know, your neighbors next door or, you know, people at the grocery store that are making purchases. They'll hear those buzzwords. And I can tell you straight up. So I told you about the fundamentals of nutrition course that I have. And we have a, I have a debate that's part of that class on, is there any value with having meat in the diet? And we asked on the front end and the back end, everybody's like, no, you don't need it. And so I show them the evidence. I have another person that's doing the other side of the evidence. And so we're very careful that we show the evidence. And at the end, I would say 80% that have actually said that that's negative will switch. Because the evidence doesn't lie, but they know how to interpret it now because they've been in our course for, you know, I don't know, two, three months. That's not what you see in mainstream media, right? The people that are making those food purchases, they hear that, whether they don't want it for their kids or for themselves, like that, it's a challenge. And how do you begin to educate? I know that you speak to a lot of physicians and universities. How do you think the best way to go ahead and educate physicians? Because the physicians, you know, many of our patients will go to their primary care doctor and they'll say, my doctor said, cut out dietary cholesterol. Yeah. And you're like, bruh. That was taking out the guidelines in, I don't know, 2015. Yeah. How do you educate physicians on that? So for me, at least because I've gone to physician or physician assistant or nurse practitioner meetings, the ones that listen the most would be, I'm not trying to, but it's the residents. It's those that are younger that are looking at nutrition. And so I would say making sure that the younger generation understands how nutrition plays a role in health and disease. I also know the physicians, that's their, at least in our culture, based on obesity and type two diabetes, that's what they're dealing with every day. It's about recommending a change in a dietary habit. And if they're not well-trained, I used to teach the med students at Mizzou and they had one lecture on nutrition. And, you know, I, now there's culture, you know, there, there are courses now that are tied into that. But I think educationally, you know, medical students need to know more about nutrition because they're going to deal with it on a day-to-day basis. We need to have a better intersect with dieticians and nutrition scientists. That has to happen. And then it's having presentations where you're, you know, on the ground, having conversations with them. The residents, I, or the nurse practitioners, I don't really get any kickback. It's like preach. It's like, yeah, no, I get it. Like, how do you, can I have these sources? Can I, you have publications that I can share? So that is just getting the word out. I would say those that are physicians that have been doing this for a while, most look at me and say, they're not going to make a behavior change. And so they tap. Wow. And so it's just a difference of opinion. It's a difference of perspective in terms of, you know, what they know. And I, so that's kind of how I, you know, I think about it. Same thing with schools. Like when we first went into the school to pitch our egg-cellent breakfast in the classroom. What's the egg-cellent? I get a sense of what it is, but tell us about the egg-cellent breakfast. Yeah, we just added eggs. They didn't, their protein intake was zero generally in the schools because it wasn't, at that point, it wasn't a reimbursable option. And so we just went in and said, you know, can we redo your school breakfast and have, you know, I think it was one to two servings of eggs every day, remove those added sugars. And they looked at me and it was interesting that the principal's like, yeah, I eat that. And they got on board, the superintendent got on board and they're like, I think this will actually help with disciplinary problems. And like, maybe they'll actually really enjoy, you know, maybe they'll start eating breakfast again. And so it's, it's tapping into folks that want to hear and understand what the evidence shows. Um, it is just unfortunate at times that not all this gets translated to the dietary guidelines. And I started thinking the dietary guidelines can be for a very different reason that they can be, they, you know, but we do have to wrestle with that, right? Because when there's differences with what they're saying and versus what we're saying, we have to figure that out. But I think our message can continue to be strong as long as that research continues to be published. How do you respond to, so these 2025 dietary guidelines are going to come out. Are you aware of some of the things that are going to be changed or on the table? Yeah, it's limiting, it's limiting more, um, red meat, meats, eggs, uh, animal source foods. So how should, um, many of us, I understand this is just wanting to get your opinion. Yeah. That's going to happen. And that's going to happen. What? January? January? Well, the dietary guidelines, so for those that are not as familiar, so the dietary guidelines advisory committee submitted their report and that's what I'm referring to. And then USDA and HHS reviews that. And then the dietary guidelines for Americans will come out. I doubt it will come out in January just because that got released pretty late. Um, but when it does. When it does, we know it's coming. What, what do we do? What, what do we do those in this space that are trying to educate on muscle, muscle health sarcopenia with the use of these GLP ones, um, frailty is going to be rampant. It just is. We already know that an average woman is eating 68 grams of protein. You put her on a GLP one, you better cut that number in half. Yep. Right. And then we also have micronutrients of concern. According to NHANES data, we're looking at vitamin D, magnesium, I don't know, uh, vitamin A, vitamin E. All of them. And we already know that out of 70% of the food that we're getting is plant in nature, whether it's oils or whatever, 30% is going to be animal products where, I don't know, 70% of the nutrients come from. So what are we going to do? Yeah. It's coming. It's coming. So a couple of things that come to mind, and this might be not, uh, anyways, there's studies now, and we just reported one that you have when you're talking about preference. I would suspect that there's a point in time where Americans say, great, I'm not following it. And we did some studies like that, where we had a plant-based diet and we had a plant-based diet with beef. And that's the most recent publication that showed- Is that the one that I- That's the one you referred to. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. And I bring that up and I, it's, you know, it's a small study in the sense that it was a, you know, six day study. But what we found consistently is that a diet that has animal source protein, and this one happened to be from beef, was more well-liked, higher palatability. People would follow that. They, they, they said, even though it was a healthier version, that they would follow it more than they would one that's void of, of meat, or in this case, beef. Um, the texture was better. The, the, um, the sensory properties were better. They felt fuller on it. They actually made better food choices when they were, we did a food challenge. And so- Did you put, what'd you put? Cupcakes and all kinds of various foods? Yeah. So they, we have, you know, they have to eat their, their protein on the front end at breakfast, lunch, and dinner. And then we did challenges. So it was, you know, in breakfast, it was like banana bread, Nutella, and they could have as much- That sounds delicious. They could have as much or as little as they wanted. I think at lunch, we did like a sloppy Joe, which is like a ground beef with, and they had, um, sandwiches. And then, uh, I think a pasta. I should know this. I'm drawing a blank on what that was. And then M&Ms. And then for dinner, they had like a Thai food, but it was unlimited noodles. And then they had brownies, right? So it's those types of things that we do these challenges to see, um, you know, if you eat your protein, does that actually affect your eating behaviors later on? And we do, we, we see that those, those rewarding foods, the desserts and sweets are, are generally reduced with that. Um, my point- Significantly? Significantly. Yeah. Yeah. Anytime I say it's, uh, generally peels us in 0.05. Um, but I bring that up because it does raise the question. The recommendations are geared towards moving to a plant-based diet. I don't suspect Americans following it because inherently we like the taste, the mouthfeel, how it works with our dishes. I mean, culturally that may be different in other places, but in the U S it still is protein on the plate. And then we work around with sides, um, that may change with recommendations, but the recommendations in 2020 didn't really change a lot of the eating behaviors that we have. And that was the first one to really start thinking about limiting, um, not to refute that because we do have to think about how can we tackle this as scientists? Well, but I would say practically people actually really enjoy eating those foods. And it goes back to me as it's not about limiting meat. It's not about, it's about limiting those foods that are high in, um, saturated fat and sugar, right? Those are the ones that desserts it's about limiting those. And we can have another whole podcast about ultra processed foods. Cause I think they're very different and should be redefined. Um, to what? Cause there, there's certain processed foods that are very helpful from a nutrient standpoint, particularly in teens cereals. If you can have cereals that are lower in added sugars, but still provide a lot of the fortified nutrients. I think there's a lot of value in that, particularly in individuals that have food insecurity. Um, so I've actually, I've never thought about that. Yeah. I mean, and I, again, I'm, I, I preach protein and burritos and I think there's certain ways of having ultra processed foods that can be very helpful. You have to look at what's in them and then make that determination. Right. So I would say, you know, some lower sugar cereal is very beneficial compared to a brownie. They're not really the same. They're both ultra processed, but they have very different functions. Um, and so I think we just need to be mindful of that. Cause then you start, people start hearing that. Like, Oh, I got to cut that out. Well, you know, and then when you switch a plant-based diet, that's really what you're going to do in the U S they're going to switch to an ultra process, um, food option, because most people just don't have the time or the capacity to make their foods. Right. And if, if they switch that way. So I would say first people really do like animal source foods. And so I think it's just making sure that we're mindful of that, but then getting, it's just getting the word out, continuing to do research. And I would say to fundamentally to your point, where do you think we can, you know, what, what inlays can we make? And I would say thinking about protein quality, I think is really important. Whether that's from an amino acid standpoint, that animal source foods are, do have more essential amino acids than plant sources, or whether you start looking at the nutrients that accompany with those animal source foods. I think it's together. You know, I, you had said, you know, the food matrix, but I think that's really where that difference have to occur. And you also know with the guidelines, they have ounce equivalents, right? And, and Bob Wolf has refuted this many others. And I think we have to hit that home that these ounce equivalents of saying, and I, I apologize. I'm blanking. It's like two tablespoons of peanut butter equals a serving of red meat. Definitely not. We need to have that. And there's, you know, Jess Gwynn has a paper. There's many of us that have papers that show that, but I think it has to, we have to figure out which conversations we need to have with whoever to revisit the ounce equivalents. Scientists know that those ounce equivalents are not appropriate scientifically, primarily from an amino acid standpoint or total protein or even nutrient adequacy, right? I mean, there's so many other nutrients that go along with that. And I would say that's really where we need to start, along with the fact that people actually like the taste of animal source foods. And I think it validates a lot of them to say, okay, well, red meat isn't bad for you. You know, the, the nutrient density is a really important conversation because there will be data when it comes to muscle protein synthesis that as long as you're getting, I don't know, 1.6 grams per kg. People don't care if it comes from plants or animals. And that's great from a protein perspective. But what about these nutrients of concern? Because we do not solely exist on macronutrients. We have micronutrient needs. Think about red meat. It's anemia, iron. The quality of iron from a animal-based source is on magnitude of order, more bioavailable. Yep. And I think it goes back to, I mean, you're right with, you know, the recommendations are a high end of 1.6. I just go back to most Americans are consuming about one, right? I mean, generally. Looking at that, if you're switching that to a plant-based diet, where, what are the other micronutrients that you're going to be deficient in? Yes, folate and fiber may be fine. But what about the other ones? And then you're tapping into, and again, I'm not, I think, you know, legumes and all those pieces are very important, but they also carry a lot of calories and a lot of fat, which is- And a lot of carbohydrates. And a lot of carbohydrates. And so, again, I think they're part of, we always say that it's part of a healthy dietary pattern. They can be part of protein, but they can't, it's not a one-to-one. It's, you know, I think we really need to have to just revisit that. So I think that quality piece, along with the micronutrients, is really where scientists need to push to see if that has any inlay with the future. And so that's why we continue to have symposiums, you know, international symposiums to have this discussion. What about the unintended consequences for groups that receive federal funding, like schools, nursing homes, military? So I don't know that much about, well, I mean, Jess probably talked a lot about the military nursing homes. I don't know as much about, but from a school perspective, so two things have happened. One, that now they have meat and meat alternatives. That's a reimbursable meal. So I would say that's favorable as long as we're getting the word out that that meat and meat alternative, eggs or meat, can be part of it. It can be reimbursable. So I think if we're going to make a switch, that's helpful because now you can replace, and again, we're not saying to replace whole grains. Like that's not the take home to remove whole grains. But they're saying that some of the grains in the diet can be replaced with meat and meat alternatives. So I think that's a really great start. But then what are they going to replace it with? Right. And with the 2020, so that was just the 2020, which I thought was a great first step. The 2025 is now saying, you know, well, we got to limit all these. So maybe it's going to be all plant. Well, then it goes down to food waste. So I think having a conversation with schools and schools, school food waste is a high priority because it's insanely, it's bad. It's a significant problem. And what we know is that kids like animal source foods. And so when you start replacing them with plant alternatives, I don't think food waste is going to go down. And food waste being a concern because number one, obviously wasteful, it's expensive, but also contributes to greenhouse gas. Yeah. That and then they're not getting the nutrients that they need. When it comes to protein timing and meal composition, so not necessarily frequency, do you think there is, you know, people will talk about the 24 hour protein intake, right? There's a lot of discussion about that as long as protein is high enough, but I can't help but notice that if that were true, then all of the studies with the first meal effect, there's something there. Would you agree with that? It depends on the outcome. Sorry, I said, I wouldn't say that again. That's okay. But I'm trying to think if there's any differences when you say about 24 hour, I mean, even, you know, Stu Phillips and a number of others, um, and even those short-term trials, they all start with breakfast. So it's just really hard to say 24 hour is what the focus is when at the end of the day it is 24 hour, but it's, I, most of that research is driven by that morning meal. Um, so I'm just not seeing a way that you can parse that out. Um, and we didn't really get into circadian rhythms yet, but we do know that a lot of those like glucose metabolism, sleep, overall wellbeing, satiety, all is driven around these cyclical changes throughout the day. And, you know, a lot of the, the skipping work, um, really shows that that gets disrupted if you're not eating breakfast. And so I just go back to having that first meal. Um, that's a higher quality, higher protein version does seem to set all of those processes up, uh, better than if you don't have it. But maybe, you know, I don't know of any studies that actually remove breakfast. So I don't either. That's why I was asking, because again, I think that you look at these position statements and the discussion in the athletic realm is really this 24 hour, um, food consumption. And while it quote makes sense, I think based on the data, if, if that were true, then why is it that all the data that we have is that first meal? Yeah. Thank you to One Skin for sponsoring this episode of the show. Now, let me tell you, I only bring sponsors on of products that I love and use on my own. How did I first become obsessed with One Skin? Well, because of social media. One of my good girlfriends, her skin looked amazing. And I swear she had wrinkles one day and a couple of months later, it just completely transformed her. And I, I said, okay, what's the secret? What are you doing? What laser, what treatment, what was it? And she told me it was One Skin. And I personally have tried a million different products, tried One Skin. It has personally helped transform my own skin. I've always struggled with under my eyes and just on my face. The texture hasn't been what I'd like it to be. And I started using One Skin and I have to say, I think that it has done a tremendous job. One Skin is clinically backed and it helps with DNA repair. It has a particular peptide in it that I just think has done wonders for my own skin. And it's almost like a topical supplement. I use their topical body supplement. I use their sunscreen. And of course, under my eyes. Go to oneskin.co. You'll get 15% off by using the code Dr. Lion. That's oneskin.co with the code Dr. Lion for 15% off. I mean, we've done it with satiety. We've just given a high protein breakfast or one that's at lunch or at dinner. And then we make the other ones normal. So we move it around. And we do see consistently that it's only that breakfast meal or not only, but the breakfast meal is it's a much greater feeling of satiety right away and even into the evening. So that whole peak that's elevated stays high even into the evening when it's breakfast versus when it's lunch or dinner. Now that's with satiety. I mean, I would imagine there's muscle protein synthesis work out there, but I'm just, I don't know it to look at the differences. Yeah, I know the muscle protein synthesis work as it relates to protein ingestion is also it's at a first meal, first meal effect. In terms of food environment and eating behavior, have you thought much about what would be considered a highly salient environment? So for example, if someone is listening to this and going, you know what? Everyone is on GLP-1s or incretins. I don't want to do that. I've increased my protein. How else can I augment my environment or my behavior to be successful? It depends on what they, when they've augmented their protein, what does that look like? Right? So if it is a protein through a protein shake, and that's generally when I'm talking to individuals, they say that that's what they've started to do to increase their protein or protein bar. I go back to those are the ones that even though there's the protein is there from maybe a muscle standpoint, you're not going to get that from satiety. So it, you know, ideally having food that you're eating, um, is, is more ideal. Yeah. Hands down when you compare that versus like, like a bar that I know you're eating, but it's very condensed, it's energy dense, um, versus a beverage. Um, you just get more satiety with, um, a meal. And so I would say starting with that can be really helpful. And then you have to pair. I mean, that is the goal that there is a lot of value with the dietary guidelines. So, you know, we've been, I've been negatively like, this is all the things that we need to be concerned about. At the end of the day, like having fruits and vegetables, you know, and whole grains with your protein, that's what we preach. Like there isn't a protein researcher in this world that actually tries to remove well, maybe some with keto. That's another time, another place, but fundamentally you need those types of foods. That's why they're recommended. They do, they are correlated with cohort studies on health, but then you see randomized control trials, right? Hands down. They're the foods you should be consuming. And so I would say, um, you know, fruits in moderation, right? Because this is the sugar content. Um, but I would say, you know, pairing, um, protein with higher fiber foods, I think is a really important, um, next step. So to your point, when, when I talk about that is just asking people what they eat. Um, I am a fan of whey protein, but again, it depends, you know, if you're talking about athletes, it's great. If you're talking about cancer patients where they don't have, um, they are just not hungry grade older individuals where they just can't eat as much as they need. Yeah. That's great. But for somebody that is having problems managing their weight, we always say, try to make your food and here's how, like make, make, you know, making things in advance, having casseroles, having things that you can reheat, um, and then making sure that animal source foods are there because, you know, if you are trying to lose weight, you're generally energy restriction. And when you energy restrict, you're going to be void of a lot of nutrients. And so making sure that you're having those high quality versions. And then, um, what about the environment? Do you, have you thought about not having the foods in the home? Are there things like that? I mean, potentially that's very obvious, but I think even when we are walking around and we see them, it's almost subconscious cues. Yeah. So, and, and again, I should have added some comments to that, the last piece, um, because I think it's important. And a lot of our work and others really do suggest that when you're eating a higher quality breakfast or even a meal, a lot of those other things go away, like the food cravings and the snacking. And so I didn't want to, I just negated it and didn't talk about it. But I think when you have that, you have a less of a drive for those foods. So I think that's one way to, um, to actually help to your point in terms of the food environment. Um, I'm not a psychologist. Um, I do look at eating behaviors, um, and then just talking to our study participants and what I, you know, and even our students. And what I think is this, there's like different, um, profiles of, of people. Some actually need to have a bite of something that they really like, and some can't have it in the house. And so it's, it's really hard, right. To make that determination. If you don't know the person to say, well, just remove it from the house. Um, for me, I grew up, you know, when I, I, I like pretzels and York peppermint patties for whatever reason. And I'm like, I'm never going to be able to cut them out. And I cut them out and now I, I still, but I still like pretzels, right? So we all have our vices. And I would say for us, we always talk about it, even in my class, everything in moderation, but there are people that when you have it, um, it's harder to then resist it. Right. And so I think you just have to know who you are and that's where personalized nutrition or personalized behavioral strategies come in. There's things that are universal, like breakfast, like more protein, like more animal source foods, you know, trying to snack less, but maybe breakfast can take, take that into consideration, but also knowing if it's here, I'm going to eat it. Like if my mom's apple pie is here, I will have a piece of every eating occasion. Cause I really like that. Right. So then I'm just going to tell her not to make it right. So there, we have to know ourselves and know what we think is better to, to maintain our goals. And that's where it gets tricky, where you just can't have these universal rules in general. Yes. I would say probably don't have it in the house. Don't have it in your pantry unless you are the mind. So then you think about sustainability, right? So for me, and it goes back to GLP ones, it's great. Like fundamentally, there's some really good health benefits. If somebody has diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and has obesity, losing weight can be really health promoting. Right. Um, but the problem is, is then what happens is if you're done taking that medicine and you, you haven't made these behavior changes, right? You're going to regain the weight and you're going to be, it's going to be regained fast and you're going to re re gain more than what you normally do. I mean, that's, there's not a lot of studies out there. I'll digress because a lot of the trials, they weren't able to assess, you know, post weight, um, gain, but those that did pretty rapid, right? And so you're not going to help the cause if you're, you know, if you're not helping on the front end. And so to the point that we were just talking about in terms of having things in the house or not, you know, most people will lose weight on a diet if they follow it. And then as soon as they're done, that's what the foods that they eat, right. And then they returned to it and they regained weight. And so what can we do, you know, in the interim to help that? And so maybe just having smaller portions around the house, um, can be helpful. I would say that, you know, the food industry right now, I think is trying to switch to some grab and goes. That's kind of what you see, what I've seen are like some that are advertising as GLP one, uh, diets and I chuckle with it, but okay, they're smaller portions. So it's possible that maybe having these smaller portions around the house could be helpful because then they have less. And we usually, right. There's a lot of other things that go involved, just portion size. If you have a bigger bag of something, you eat more of it, even though it says sharing. Never eat out of the bag. Yeah. Never eat out of the bag. Um, but if it's a smaller portion, most people will self-regulate and say, okay, well, that's one portion. I'm going to have one portion. So it's those things that tie into eating behavior that I think sometimes we overlook, uh, could be because of cost, right? It's much more, it's more efficient to have a family bag than to have a smaller bag. But if that's where your vice is to say, okay, I can self-regulate knowing that I'm going to have just one of these, then that could be another strategy too. And the future of your research, what are you most excited about? I know that you're working very hard on many things. Yeah. What, what is coming up? What are you really looking forward to doing? Uh, three things that are somewhat different and then interrelated, uh, the protein quality piece I think is still, I mean, we've been doing this for five, probably five years, just looking at, are there fundamentally differences in protein quality with weight management and satiety? And I don't think that really has been explored yet in the confines of also looking at nutrient density. Um, and meaning, meaning what? So looking at foods that have a more complete, um, you know, the food matrix, I don't think there's a lot of studies out there. Um, also looking at the quality of the protein, um, on health outcomes. So I think that's one area that we still need to explore because there's just not a lot of diet studies, um, that, that, um, that explore that piece for me. Uh, I think breakfast is still ongoing. Um, you know, most of our studies, we show high compliance and even our six month trial, I think we had somewhere between 85 and 90% compliance. That's incredible. Which is great. And then sad in the sense that, okay, so if you make that and you give it to them, they'll eat it, but they don't have it at home. Um, so most of the trials that we see, we have about 80% return to breakfast skipping behavior. We ask them why and it's like, well, it's not there anymore. So I don't really want to eat whatever I have. So I just don't eat. Um, so our next step, and we've done some, like I said, the breakfast in the classroom, but they were smaller studies, like a single, uh, you know, a single, um, school having multiple schools to really push this, um, research question. Um, I think family-based breakfast meals are also important and there's no studies out there that look at a family-based structure and actually giving breakfast meal, like having them sit down and create or make breakfast meals, whether that's feasible, whether that actually improves social dynamic, family dynamic, um, and health outcomes for me is really important because the science can't stay in the, on a paper, can't stay in a box. And so how do you make it translatable? So looking at it from a school perspective and a family perspective, I think is really important. Um, and then the other one that I'm just interested in is this idea of GLP ones. And I think having a conversation about adding more protein or, or that behavioral change during GLP ones, or if nothing else, after, um, individuals are done, uh, taking the GLP ones, um, they need to have some behavioral strategy that's going to prevent that weight regain. And just the research out there is pretty clear about protein, um, whether it is for, you know, maintaining lean mass or gaining lean mass, um, or satiety, I think that's really where we need to be. And to my mind, there's zero studies out there that are looking at B that are looking at behavioral strategies during or, um, after GLP one use. So those are kind of the three areas that I'm interested in. Well, I'm really excited for all of it. And I'm particularly interested in the, uh, protein and GLP ones. Cause I think you're absolutely right. It's, it's here to stay. It's just going to have a magnitude of effect that is beyond what we can imagine. And we're in a new landscape right now for the first time ever, we are able to restrict food intake like we have never before. And, um, Dr. Heather Leidy, your work is tremendous. I would say everyone should go follow you, but, um, you can follow her on Twitter or at least follow her researcher, her research. Um, thank you so much for taking time out of your tremendously busy schedule. Uh, again, I'm a huge fan and I think that the work, the work you're doing is incredible. Well, thanks. No, I first appreciate you, um, inviting me to be a part of this. Cause again, it's not that we don't want to get the word out. And so I appreciate your persistence. Um, this is great. I mean, everybody that's been on your podcast are, they're experts in the field. And so I'm humbled to be a part of it. It's, um, for us, that's that next step. Right. So I'm going to get my Insta going and right for us, it's getting the word out. There's a lot of research that I think the public aren't aware of. And if we continue to get that out and then continue to make a, you know, a push into the dietary guidelines, that's when we're going to make a change. Well, you are definitely doing it, you and your colleagues. So thank you so much. Oh, thank you. Thank you.