 From an HIV diagnosis in the 1980s, to becoming one of the world's leading voices in hormone optimization, today's guest has spent his life defying the odds and changing the conversation about health. Nelson Virgil was once told he wouldn't live past 30. Now in his 60s, he's thriving thanks in part to testosterone and anabolic therapies that have helped him and countless others regain strength, energy, and quality of life. Today, we uncover how the misunderstood world of testosterone, steroids, and hormone optimization. How can these therapies help people beyond bodybuilding? Or are they truly dangerous? Or just stigmatized? Let's find out. I just wanted to jump on here with an exciting announcement. I am hosting the second ever Forever Strong Summit, April 26th, 27th, in Houston, Texas, in Houston, Texas, There's going to be two days, the VIP Day on April 26th. You will learn from former Navy SEALs, from former Secret Service, from individuals that you do not want to miss. Myself, my inner tribe will be there to support you to learn everything from muscle health, to science, to nutrition. You don't have to be an expert. You don't even have to have a background. All you have to have is a will to win and stay strong. I will put a link in the show notes below. Please go to my website, drgabriallion.com. We sold out last year, and I would hate for you to miss this opportunity. So if you're waiting for a sign, if you're thinking you need to change something up, and you need community, friends, we've got you covered. Nelson Virgil, welcome to the show. Thank you for having me. I'm excited. You are a very unique guest, and I want to share a little bit about your background and one of your perspectives, which you have many in terms of anabolic steroids, wasting syndrome, the future of medicine. When we think about body composition, you are uniquely positioned to have an opinion on this. And I want to hear it from you, but in the mid-80s, you learned you were HIV positive. Yeah. At the time, can you share what that landscape was like? Oh, it was horrible. Even remembering those days, I tried to block them, but I'm going to talk about it today. Yeah, I got here to the States from Venezuela in 84. I met somebody that I wanted to move in with and came to the master's degree. And a year later, less than a year later, he tested behind my back, because back then the test use had come out that year, 85, 84. The HIV test. HIV test. Yeah, we didn't have a test before. People were speculating that gay men were getting it through drug use and other stuff. They didn't really think it was a virus until 84, 85, where the test actually was discovered. And back then, nobody in my community wanted to get tested because there were no treatments. So why, you know, why be told that you're going to die and have nothing to do about it, you know? So I didn't want to get tested, but my partner behind my back did get tested, so he told me he was positive. And I was sure I was positive. So here in Houston, we only had a little place called the Montrose Clinic. There was a little trailer that they had set up for HIV and went there to get tested. And obviously, I was tested and positive. And that was within a year that I had come to this country, you know, to make, to try to get the American dream, too, you know? And you're training as a chemical engineer. I was a chemical engineer already. I just came here for the MBA and, you know, for more studies. Actually moving here because I lived in Venezuela. I went to school in Canada and Montreal, but went to work for the oil business in Venezuela. But I knew it wasn't for me. So anyway, so that kind of felt like I was, you know, hitting the face with all my dreams, you know? How old were you? 24 years of age, you know? So it was very hard. But I cried for like four days, I remember. But something told me, it's like, don't give up, just research. And there was nothing. There was no newsletters, no internet, no internet, no fax machines. So that was the hardest part, trying to find information. And I saw a notice at the clinic I got tested at Montrose Clinic. Now there's a big clinic now. But anyways, that the CDC was looking for volunteers to be trained as counselors, people that actually gave results. So that's how the first training I got from the CDC. So that's how I know, oh, there are trainings out there that I can get information from. At the time, when an individual in the 80s, when they were diagnosed with HIV, was there a projection for how long someone was going to live and what would they die of? Most people would drop within a year. I've been told that they're HIV positive. And most people would die of wasting syndrome. You'll see basically, and you'll see them in the grocery stores, in Montrose especially. People are really skinny, like the concentration camp victims. Something else that was obvious is people would get spots on their face, KS, which is another virus. Carposis sarcoma. Carposis sarcoma, which is another virus that attacks you when your immune system is depleted. So, yeah, all my friends started to drop like that. You know, we were going to memorial services every weekend. The whole Montrose was well-known back then for being like a gay community, gay neighborhood. It's no longer the case. But memorial services, every weekend, when somebody would not call you back, you would assume they were dying. And it was horrible. Hospitals didn't want to treat us. The ones that did, they had to put, you know, masks and suits. People were being kicked out of their families. It was a horrible nightmare. And after, what, 50 years, 45 years, people are forgetting about the whole life. People are forgetting about it now. Yeah, yeah. I want to paint the picture for the listener or the viewer that in the mid-80s, HIV AIDS was devastating to a community of people, to the individual, to the family. The treatment was unknown. People were dying of wasting syndrome, skeletal muscle, and systemic wasting. The individuals are also getting lesions on their face, carpoidosisarcoma. Fast forward to now. How many people, or how deadly is HIV now? Not deadly at all. It's almost like having diabetes. You can control it very well. There are over 18 treatments. I'm one of, I'm a survivor, 42, 43 years. But it took a lot of work. We were without treatment for, since 1996. I found out in 1985. Wow. So that time, we were without treatment. You went from, so that's what, 10, almost 10 years? Yeah. 1995? All of us, all of us were in the closet at work. So we were afraid to be showing the symptoms of wasting or facial wasting, weight loss, or KS. So I was horrified. I was obsessed. RKS? What is that? KS. Oh, KS. Carpoidosisarcoma. Carpoidosisarcoma, yeah. So I had, you know, engineering jobs, Shell, different oil companies that actually finally worked, found a job. And I couldn't disclose. I couldn't disclose I was gay or HIV positive. But I was horrified every day, looking at myself in the mirror, if I was going to show symptoms or wasting. I started losing weight. And that's when I realized, oh, my God, I'm next. It's intense. Intense. I was saved. My life was saved when I was transferred by Shell to L.A., where bodybuilding is a culture. And that's where I found out in support groups. There were two guys that came in. We were all skinny. Losing weight. I had lost already 12 pounds. And these two guys were pumped and looked great. Did they have HIV? They have HIV. They had in the, we had support groups. One was run by Marion Williamson. Anyways, and I went to talk to them. Marion Williamson. Marion Williamson. Yeah, it's no small name. Yes, yes. Marion Williamson was our, she was our guy, our coach. Interesting. She were teaching us not to feel sorry for ourselves, that we were not victims. We can die with dignity. That's how I learned from her. Yeah. Yeah. Marion Williamson. And she's from Houston, too. She is. I did not know that. Anyway, so I went to talk to them. I said, listen, we're all, you guys are doing something. I really want to know what you're doing. And they taught me about Nandrolone and Oxanolone and testosterone. And even went with me to Mexico to get some. And that's how I, that's how I reversed. 35 pounds. This is exactly why I want, well, number one, you and I are friends. We have a common friend in common, Sean Norian, who is the founder and owner of the largest compounding pharmacy in the world. Shout out to Empower Pharmacy. But what you are saying is heavy and it is deep and it is complex. In the way that you were given a diagnosis that we knew was going to cause severe wasting and death. You've lost a ton of people. The medical community was not able to support the treatment. It was largely unknown. People didn't even know it was happening. You go to LA. All of a sudden you, and I'm paraphrasing, you see large buff bodybuilders, the era probably of Arnold Schwarzenegger-esque in Venice. And these are individuals that were utilizing not FDA approved treatments for HIV to build muscle and actually survive. Yes. Yes. I embrace that. Bodybuilding saved my life. Bodybuilders saved my life. So if it wasn't for them, and they died eventually of other things because some of us were able to gain enough lean body mass. And I want to talk about lean body mass and the difference. But anyways, we also had a really good researcher that found out that once we lost a third of our lean body mass, you would die. No matter what. Cancer, cachexia. Cancer, HIV, anything. A lot of us have lost our parents or grandparents. And that's usually what happens at the end of that stage. So that's when we realized in the whole community, realized that having muscle meant survival, or at least buying time. Obviously, it was not a cure, you know, but I wanted to buy time because I knew, you know, research was started. ACT was already being studied, which ended up being a toxic drug anyways, that killed us faster. So I knew time was an essence to at least buy some time. So I did. I gained 35 pounds. I was like, woken up. People at work would say, wow, my God, you're working out. You look so great. They were already asking me. I remember I was terrified. You don't, you looked tired before. Are you sleeping well? You know, so that's when, and then they switched to, oh my God, I want to know what you're doing. And that really gave me the will to live, like I really did. And I wanted to preach. I just wanted everybody. We had nothing to lose. You're going to die. I wanted everybody to know it better. All the doctors, even though obviously there is stigma. Not only HIV has a stigma, being gay has a stigma, and symbolic steroids have a stigma. So I had to deal with three stigmas to get over that. But I was successful, even without the internet, even without, yeah, without any ways to actually spread the information nationwide. What saved me was the invention of a fax machine. When the fax machine came, I was unstoppable, because I faxed every doctor that I could in the United States about my program. I actually did a summary. And is it still, so this is, so is this the non-for-profit, the program for wellness restoration? Yeah, it was called the power program. Power program. And doctors jumped on it, because doctors were horrified how fast their patients were dying. And they, yeah, they embraced it. And this was the strategies for reversing wasting with the use of FDA-approved anabolic steroids for men and women. Yeah. There is a huge stigma. And I just want to say that I believe we are going to look back at obesity and say obesity is similar to how HIV has been able to be treated. That maybe there is a way in which we can manage it, especially with the use of GLP-1s. Mm-hmm. It potentially, obesity, might look very similar to how we have largely stopped talking about HIV. I hope so. And there is hope for that. There is hope with the use of GLP-1s and this anabolic steroid use that is FDA-approved. Now, the question is, and what I'd love to hear from you is, if you could paint the picture of what it was like in terms of anabolic use, where were the stigmas? Where do you think that they were born? Why was it that up until a certain point, a person, a patient could go to the doctor and say, you know what? I want to have stronger muscles, probably be able to be prescribed an anabolic versus then sports happen, Congress, all these other things, and then shut it down and really has now what I believe changed the trajectory of aging for everybody because of this heavy stigma. And I'm talking about beyond hormone replacement. Yeah, that's a good question. You know, most of these molecules, most of these products were developed 50 years ago. So they're all, we have good data on androlone and people don't know. People say FDA-approved. Yeah, we have four FDA-approved anabolic agents. I like to call them androgens because really, that's what they are. I think that's a much better term. It also reduces our lexicon of speaking about it. It also reduces the stigma. Of course. So, you know, they were prescribed for anemia for different conditions, even for frailty related to aging back in the 70s, 80s, you know, until the Anabolic Steroid Act was enacted, mostly to combat the use of anabolics in sports, in baseball, as we know, and all the other stuff. And that really kind of shut the door to all the research. There is a lot of, and we can talk about it. In the 80s, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Completely. Unless in HIV, we continue with the research. I was able to belong to, to join committees at the NIH, the National Institute of Health, part of the FDA. That's a long story. And I was able to advocate with a bunch of my activist friends. I became an activist for federally funded studies on nandrolone, oxandrolone, testosterone, exercise in HIV positive men and women. Nandrolone, oxandrolone, testosterone. Oxymethalon is another one, but that's, that's one we only studied once because it does have some liver toxicity issues. Is that an oral agent? Oral agent. There are two orals, three orals, oxymethalon, oxandrolone, stenosynol. Those are orals, the three of them, sorry. And nandrolone is injectable. And testosterone. Testosterone is anabolic steroid. Also, obviously, less stigma about testosterone nowadays definitely changed. But yeah, that really changed everything, the Anabolic Steroid Control Act, which was just based on not having people cheat in sports. I always say the definition of cheating, although there is a new movement of having Olympics and a different, separate. Oh, the Enhance Games. The Enhance Games. You heard about that. I've heard about it. But anyways, that really was, but we continue in HIV. Obviously, we had the risk to benefit ratio was different for people with HIV. Because they were going to die as opposed to an anemic patient. Because it was used, if you look at some of the studies, neanderlone was used for postmenopausal women and osteoporosis. Yeah. And breast cancer. You know, like metastasized advanced breast cancer. Did the, you know, you said that you'd become an activist. What does an activist do and what is the, you know, what's the role of an activist in terms of what they're hoping for and what the outcome would be? Yeah. Activists, at least in HIV, and now we have HIV cure activists in part of that world too, because now we're proceeding to a cure. But anyways, activists, we really get together, strategize about strategy on how we're going to get a treatment approved or access approved. And we really show up to FDA meetings. I've been using Element for years and has really changed the game of electrolytes. It has sodium, magnesium, and potassium, all minerals the body requires. Sometimes we don't need more caffeine for energy, but what we need are water and electrolytes. I use Element daily, often in iced tea or just straight water between workouts or sip on it throughout the day to get more fluids. Pretty sure we could all drink more. Not that kind of drink. Element is a zero sugar electrolyte drink mix and sparkling electrolyte water made from a growing body of research. Each stick packs a meaningful dose of electrolytes free of sugar, artificial colors, and other weird ingredients. Element is formulated for anyone on a mission to restore health through hydration, and it is perfectly suited for athletes, those who are fasting, maybe you're on a protein forward diet. If you are, we are friends. Low carb, keto, whole food, you name it. Get your free Element sample pack with any purchase. Go to drinklmnt.com slash drlion and also try the new Element sparkling, a bold 16 ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water. Cherry lime is my favorite. That's drinklmnt.com slash drlion. Is anyone able to go to an FDA meeting? Yeah. Almost every product has a comment section or a comment period where the public is, but most people don't know about it. The public's invited to either send emails. Well, now we have the internet. Back then we had to show up. Or faxes. Or faxes. We have to show up now. But yeah, that's what we did. We show up to all the meetings and some people were afraid of us because ACT UP used to shut down traffic in New York. ACT UP was a main activist group in HIV. ACT UP, they actually changed themselves to Wall Street to decrease the price of ACT. I mean, the New Yorkers and the San Francisco activists were the most active. I was in Houston, Texas doing all this work with the medical use of anabolics for men and women. And people also have this stigma that only men use it. And for clinical use of steroids. I also did some work with oncologists here in Houston that were more open-minded to treating wasting in cancer cassation as do so. And, you know, wasting itself is a disease. And again, a disease state or a highly catabolic state. And then sarcopenia, which is the decrease in muscle mass and function, finally got an ICD-10 code in, do you know when? 2016. Yeah. Finally got a diagnosis. But no indication, though. No product being indicated yet. Why is that? Don't know why. Tell me. But it seems as if we have treatment for low muscle mass. Yeah. Oxanolone and nandrolone are perfectly, especially oxanolone because it can be used really in women, men, and children has been studied in pediatrics too, safely. And we, again, this is a very complicated topic that we are discussing, not just from a medical perspective, right? This is deep stigma about this idea of anabolic agents, when they should be used, when they shouldn't, who should be able to use it and who shouldn't. And where we're at is we are entering a new epidemic. And that epidemic is going to be trading obesity for an epidemic of sarcopenia and osteoporosis from what I believe like we've never seen before. I agree. I agree. The loss of lean body mass happens more so with GLP-1s, you know, and even though they're great, I mean, they're a miracle. They are amazing. Yes. Um, they should be like adjunct therapies. And androgens could be adjunct therapies to GLP-1s. Perfectly. I agree with you. And I, I think one of the things that I've found so fascinating about you is that if we were to take a step back and we look at the, um, Houston Buyers Club, so there's the Dallas Buyers Club that everyone knows about, but there's also a Houston's Buyers Club. And one of the things that is just spectacular, and I do think that you should write a book on your story is that you informed physicians from a group of individuals that had nothing to lose because they were going to die to survive and started working with doctors and educating doctors on anabolic agents, which now fast forward to urologists and andrology, really the only specialty that I think is doing it right and well and forward thinking. So tell me when you began that. Mm hmm. But think about it. I mean, there's this epidemic that kills you. You are in your 20s. Most of us were very young. Yeah. Most activists were. We're in our 20s. We had energy. We knew we were going to die. We had nothing to lose. The perfect combination for an activist movement, you know, that we probably haven't had since then. So we organized and we had no Internet and we organized and some of us became specialized. I mean, my specialty was wasting a metabolics, metabolic syndromes like we had metabolic issues too. Some other people would, you know, specialize on on other mostly women's issues, health issues. So we became we were lay people. I was an engineer. Some of us, you know, had medical clinical backgrounds, but most people weren't. So we had to educate ourselves. I had to go to a library and read everything about anabolic steroids and androgens because there was a lot of research. There's a lot of research that was done in the 40s, 50s, 60s. And then I had to translate that and make sure that I would tell the doctors. Doctors were desperate. Doctors treating HIV were desperate. They were there. Patients were dying. They were losing their people. So they they were they had completely right away took on. Did they did you have resistance for from physicians? So a physician would say, OK, well, you're a OK, you're a chemical engineer. But this is lay public. How are you going to tell us? No, no, no. There was no resistance because a this were FDA approved products. And can you explain? Can you mention? Yeah. They're schedule three. OK, so they yeah. You have to have a DEA number when a doctor prescribes it. They have to write a DEA number. It's like testosterone. Testosterone is a schedule three by the DEA. So anabolics like nanolone is like testosterone. It's really all these molecules are very closely related to testosterone. They were modified by researchers to slow down the liver metabolism so they could stay longer in the body. Right. So they're very I mean, you look at the molecules are very close. So they're schedule three. They're prescribable. You're not breaking the law by prescribing them. You can prescribe them off label. And there are many. We can talk about the off label uses. And and in HIV, obviously doctors didn't care because they knew something, anything that worked. And it worked and it worked quickly. These things work. And within a month, people are gaining weight, strength, energy, mood. I mean, this is not just about muscle. And we know that increasing muscle mass increases longevity and survival. So it was the perfect storm. It really was. I I've never had a pushback. I never had a problem with the government. It actually was welcoming because there was a bit. It was a number two cause of AIDS death. You know, the first one was BCP pneumonia. It's a pneumonia fungus that would take over our lungs. But this was a number two. So this was a solution to that problem. And then obviously in 96, 97, we had the protease inhibitors came in. Better drugs came in. They had horrible side effects. But at least our viral load, our HIV was able to be undetected, undetectable. And that really made a big difference. So we bought, most of us bought at least five to six years. And many of my friends died before 94. So I was, I'm just lucky. I was in the right place. I was curious. I was fearless. So it's not like, I don't know if I would do this again. Because the circumstances was a perfect storm. Doctors were, you know, they were welcoming this information. I was sending faxes. They would call me. The NIH was welcoming. Yes, they wanted us to take Megase, which was a progesting product. For hunger. For hunger. But Megase only increases fat mass, not lean body mass. They wanted us to take Merinole. We had basically THC. Oh, yeah. Yeah, Merinole. THC approved. To try to eat. But none of that did anything for muscle. No. When you discovered this change that these bodybuilders were using anabolics to save lives, how was it accessible? So what is this idea of the Houston Buyers Club? Oh, the Houston Buyers Club was, we were looking for treatments for HIV. There was nothing, obviously. ACT actually was found to be killing us faster. There were ACT studies. I was in the study. Thank God. I found out when they opened the label, you know, when they opened the label that I was on placebo. Oh, my gosh. Because I would be dead. I was depressed. Oh, my God. I'm on placebo. And what was the ACT? ACT is a nucleoside reverse truncidase. It's an inhibitor that was using cancer back in the 50s. And it has HIV activity. It's just that the toxicities to the mitochondria. Do they use that anymore at all? No, no. It's banned from HIV. It was banned in 2002 or something like that. But the mitochondria would destroy our mitochondria. Imagine that. But, you know, HIV would actually go down. So, anyways, I was on placebo. So, I survived also because I was in that study. My partner was in the treatment arm. He died faster. So, I had three boyfriends die. So, you have to bury all those people, too. So, it's a lot of sometimes, you know, I think it was luck. But sometimes being in the right place, right time. Sometimes it's, I think, being curious and not giving up. Even without internet, you know, sometimes the power of community really saves everything. I mean, I don't think we're going to have. I hope. I pray. We never have another thing like this in this world, you know. Even, you know, obviously COVID kind of woke us up. I was like, oh, no, not another one, right? We got, you know, we have PTSD, most of us. I'm sure. Then monkeypox. Oh, my God. Not again. So, every time something comes up, all of us are triggered. The ones are still alive. And the reason that the Buyer's Club happened was that, from what I understand, physicians were not providing anabolics. And they had to. Is that true? That they just had to go somewhere? No, the anabolics. Well, a lot of people went to Mexico and get it there. Because in Mexico, you can get it without a prescription, most of them. But the Buyer's Club was mostly related to finding treatments for HIV. So, not anabolics. No, because anabolics are FDA-approved. Anabolics are available by prescription. So, all HIV doctors and people, really, there were some doctors, non-infectious disease, some family doctors. They specialized on HIV, believe it or not. Their fear actually decreased in the early 90s. My doctor, I've been with them for years, too. And he embraced this. They became experts. They're experts on androgens. HIV doctors are. Especially. Really? Oh, yeah. Now? Now? Yeah. The ones that are still in practice? Yeah. They're experts. Learned 30 years of actually giving these compounds to men and women. So, the Buyer's Club, basically, we were importing stuff from Israel, from Mexico, from South America, from Germany. Products that had some data on being immune boosters. You know? Herbal products from Asia. And, yeah, we had support groups where we would do enemas with Chinese herbal tea that was supposed to increase your immune system. So, that's where the Buyer's Club came in, as a main source of finding alternatives or treatments for a virus that we didn't have treatments for. And the Dallas Buyer's Club, which they made a movie of. But the Houston Buyer's Club was first. And people don't know that. People don't know. I mean, before I moved here, I didn't know that there was a Houston Buyer's Club. When we think about lean body mass, I would love for you to share, again, also for people listening, you are not a physician, but what you have in spades is experience. And you have a group of 40, how many thousand? 42,000 on Excelmail.com. But Facebook, I have groups also. And you have been following these groups that are using, I don't want even to say anabolics, but the whole spectrum of body composition for how many years? 35, 40. I mean, that's unbelievable. That's like a very large longitudinal study. Yes. I would think open label. Yeah. Yeah. I wish I had a PhD student gathering my data. Wow, they're listening. Because I have a lot of data. But yeah, there's a women's group on Facebook that I have over 28,000 women from all over the world talking about hormones and body composition quality. Facebook group, the testosterone replacement discussion group has over 32,000 men all over the world. Excelmail also international, 45,000. And we'll link everything so people can find it. Yeah. Yeah. And I learn every day. I do. I learn by just reading what people are posting. Which is so interesting. We just have to pause and understand that there is this idea that every, and I believe as a physician, as our mutual friend, Dr. Lipscholtz and Mohit Kera, we believe in evidence-based practices. Of course. And there is a moment where, you know, evidence-based practices end and experience begins. And this is what we're hearing from patients and people. And that really can then serve to inform what is potentially optimal, which is kind of counterintuitive to the landscape of medicine. Of course. I think every physician should have an assistant that is present online and is gathering field information online because it's so easy now. It's so easy to gather. Because it's one thing where you read on the label of a product by the FDA, you know, or the pharmaceutical person or a rep that comes into your office. They just give you that packaged info that they label and they cannot even speak off label. And it's challenging. An off label is... Off label is, you know, obviously. So the only way to learn off label uses is gathering information from the field, from patients. And who has time for that? Doctors don't have time, obviously. Right. So I really believe one day in the near future, we will have specialists that only gather information of offline uses online because it's so easy now. And that would be fascinating. Can you give me some of the biggest myths that you've seen over the three decades of use of anabolics that people have that would potentially create a roadblock for... Yeah. You have a 45-year-old woman at home saying, I have low muscle mass. I've tried everything. Whatever it is, I am interested in anabolics, anabolic use or whatever it is, or even hormones. But I'm afraid. So first, a stigmatized thing that is not true is that hormones will make you aggressive. Hormones will kill your liver. Hormones will make you moody. Hormones will, in men, will increase your prostate cancer risk. Hormones in women will increase your breast cancer risk. Mostly the aggressiveness, that's how they sold the Anabolic Steroids Control Act. Really? Yeah. Tell me more about that. Yeah. When you say anabolic steroids, back then... Everybody still freaks out. And everybody says, well, he's a cheater and he's probably abusing his wife or his girlfriend or his partner. They do. It's associated with behavioral issues, with anger, which is most people in testosterone or any of these products actually feel better. Their mood is better. The quality of life is better. They relate to people better. So that's a stigma and a barrier to access. As a mom of two kids, I've always had major concerns with what we cook on and how we store our food. I felt a ton of relief when I started using Our Place. When I became aware of the risks associated with what we cook our food in, I immediately looked for options. And that is how I found one of the sponsors of this show, which is Our Place. And I'm so grateful to them. Most cookware and appliances are made with Forever Chemicals. Their products are made without, that's Our Place, are made without PFAS and Teflon. In comparison, most of today's non-stick pans contain PFAS, this forever chemical which the EU plans to prohibit by this year. Most cookware brands continue to use these chemicals due to their low cost. Well, I'm not paying for it with my kids. And that's why Our Place came out with non-toxic appliances that are changing the game. Upgrade to Our Place today and say goodbye to forever chemicals in your kitchen. Go to fromourplace.com and enter my code DRLYON at checkout to receive 10% off. That's fromourplace.com, code DRLYON. And Our Place offers a 100-day trial with free shipping and returns. I will tell you what, this is, as much as I love every product that I talk about, from a fundamental health perspective, this is one that I strongly and deeply encourage you to invest in because it is what we feed our children with. It is what we are eating with daily. And these chemicals that are these forever chemicals, I have huge concerns. So check out Our Place. I think you'll be incredibly happy and relieved. We have to, I would like to re-brand them, rename them, because it's really, you cannot fight against a term that has been stigmatized for so long. I know. So androgens really is the word that it really should summarize. So we'll call them androgens instead of anabolic steroids. That's what I like to call them androgens. Yeah. Okay. Anabolic agents, you know, but androgens. And yeah, there is use in women. There's oxanilone, for instance. Yeah. Let's talk about, let's break down the anabolic agents. Yeah. The myths are basically, if I were to ask you, in appropriate doses, are anabolic agents dangerous? Inappropriate doses. Doses. And we can discuss what that means also. Because, you know, bodybuilders, and thank God for bodybuilders, they saved my life. So I'm not criticizing. Bodybuilders tend to use very high doses. And they tend to stack a few compounds together because, you know, there's some synergy. There's more of some. Yeah. Yeah. But there are side effects like, you know, high hematocrit, which increases viscosity in the blood and cardiovascular issues come around. There is other issues, high blood pressure, renal issues that happen at high doses. But physiologic doses, lower doses. So normal doses. Yeah. Increased lean body mass, improved mood. They do not increase red blood cells as much. Anabolics and testosterone, which is testosterone is anabolic. They have one main side effect is they're hemopoietic agents, meaning they increase the production of red blood cells in the bone marrow. And that's a good thing for people with anemia, right? Because they need more. It's FDA approved. Yeah. For anemia. But if you, depending on the dose, you go up too high on the red blood cells. And that makes the blood thicker and thicker. And the viscosity goes up. And the heart is a pump. And pump, you know, they don't like viscous, thick liquids. So there is a concern about cardiovascular. But if you, disease or risk. So you keep the dose, like Nandrolone, for instance, 100 milligrams a week. They're always used with testosterone. These molecules are so closely related to testosterone. And we should talk about Nandrolone in more detail because I've only mentioned it on the show. I was actually waiting to have you on. And we've had Dr. Mohakera on. We've had Abe Morgenthaler on as well. And I wanted to save the anabolic agent discussion for you. Okay. We'll be here for a while. Tell me about Nandrolone. Yeah. Nandrolone is a beautiful molecule. It's an injectable. It has no effect on liver enzymes. Nandrolone doesn't really. A small decrease on HDL at 100 milligrams or so a week for men. Women can use 25 milligrams a week with no viralization. Viralization of women can show up if you do higher doses of anabolics, like peach fuzz, growth hair here, deepening of the voice. The worst side effect will be clitoral enlargement, amenorrhea, issues with menstruation. But at lower doses, you don't see those issues. And before you continue, I just want to put this in perspective for people. Typically, Nandrolone is given at 50% the dose of testosterone or less. Yeah, and I was going to get to that. Anabolics basically are so closely related to testosterone that the body doesn't know the difference. And they tend to shut down your own testosterone production. Men and women. Women produce testosterone too. And that's not a good thing long term because sex drive decreases. Erectile dysfunction can recur. So they should always use as an adjunct therapy with testosterone. So testosterone, a ratio of, you know, one to one. Some people use a two to one testosterone to Nandrolone. Or Oxandrolone. Oxandrolone is an oral. Let's not jump Oxandrolone yet. We're not jumping now. Sorry, sorry. I'm a little too eager to talk about all the products. Well, definitely, yes. For sure, Nandrolone. Because people need to know that it is not some crazy compound. It's FDA approved. It can be used off-label. It can be used off-label safely. And I would love for you to talk about the safety profile. And again, how we think about dosing for men and women and potential indications. Right now, let's talk about what is used right now. The landscape of the use of Nandrolone. The canoid. It used to be called Decaduravulin. The brand name. That's not longer the case. Decca. Which the bro's called Decca. Yeah. Now that's gone. The pharmaceutical brand is no longer available. Only compounded Nandrolone made by compounding pharmacies. Empower Pharmacy is one of the largest and is here in Houston. Very lucky to be in Houston. The best urologist and the best of urine here. So, we're lucky city here when it comes to androgens. But anyways, Nandrolone shuts down, like Oxandrolone and all the others, your own testosterone production. So, it's good to bring testosterone in at the same time. And that's a mistake that some bodybuilders have done in the past. And they experience, obviously, sexual dysfunction because of that. Right now, it's being used mostly by urologists, some andrologists. They have, all anabolics have this function that they decrease sex hormone binding globulin. It's this hormone that actually attaches to hormones and deactivates them. Basically, doesn't allow them to do the biological. Why? Because it's a body, it's a way for a body to protect itself from large amounts of hormones. You know? So, sex hormone binding globulin is a good thing. People think it's a bad. The body doesn't produce anything that is a need. But anabolics decrease sex hormone binding globulin and free up more hormones. So, when you use Nandrolone and testosterone, you have higher free testosterone, which is really being correlated to all the good things about testosterone. Free testosterone, not total. Some people may have good total testosterone, but very low free testosterone. And they have symptoms of low testosterone. Low mood, low sex drive, erectile dysfunction, just not coping very well with stress. That's what I tell people. That's the number one symptom of having low testosterone. And anabolics can actually improve free testosterone. So, I mean, I'm seeing it more used for that purpose, to free up testosterone. What about estrogens and other hormones? I'm one of the few people online that have read all the papers on estrogen in men. Let's talk about estrogen in men and the importance of men and estrogen. Testosterone converts into estrogen or estradiol only 0.4%, a tiny amount, because the body needs it to balance the effects of testosterone. Estradiol, estrogen, is an enhancer of the effects of testosterone. So many doctors are blocking estrogen in men. Yes, with anastrozole. With anastrozole, which is an old breast cancer drug. And that's actually counterproductive. And I'm probably one of the few people, there are a few of us on the internet now talking about it. And there are many papers that show that actually men with higher estrogen have better sex pot, sexual libido and sexual function. So most doctors are making that mistake about estrogen. Estrogen in women, we know. I mean, it's great for everything. Benefits of mood, sex drive, bone density, you name it. And obviously menopause, that's when things change a little. So testosterone can and is a source of estradiol, estrogen, aromatization in fat cells, in the liver. A lot of these conversions happen in the liver. Testosterone and anabolics also can convert into DHT, dehydrotestosterone, which is a very good, strong androgen. That also improves sexual function. But it can be associated with hair loss or acne and maybe in prostatic. For men and women. For men and women. And obviously the prostatic effects. Not for men. But not for women. Yeah, that would be unusual. But blocking DHT and some men are doing that. They're taking finasteride for hair loss. We do not recommend finasteride at all. It can actually kill your sex drive, decrease your mood, have long-lasting effects. I call it finasteride syndrome. Yes. So blocking DHT, blocking estradiol, is really counterproductive. These are metabolites of testosterone. They're friends of testosterone. They're helping testosterone. And they're not enemies. I mean, that's the thing about, I don't know why. Some people think that there's some bad hormones and some good hormones. In fact, these hormones were made by evolution for a good reason, right? To balance each other. And also, testosterone is not just a male hormone. No. And estrogen is not only a female hormone. Exactly. So that's another one of those misconceptions. And some doctors are not educating themselves. And they're blocking either one of those two metabolites. Yeah. I don't know how I got digressing to this. I'm sorry. We're talking about Nandrolone. No, no, no. So basically, we're talking about why someone would use an anabolic agent. And an anabolic agent, specifically, for example, Nandrolone. And one of the things that all anabolic agents do will also lower sex hormone binding globulin. And that's how you got on the topic of the rest. And I will say, from a clinical perspective, we like to see estrogen, depending on the lab, between 30 and 50 in men. We like to see robust estrogen levels in women. Women that have been on birth control will have high sex hormone binding globulins, along with copper. And this tends to be the sex hormone binding globulin that increases tends to be irreversible. But we do see with use of low-dose anabolics or other various agents that you can lower sex hormone binding globulin, thus making hormones available to the body. Great point. Great point. What I was going to say also about uses of Nandrolone, right, off-level uses, urology especially. There are posters and emerging data on joint pain reduction. Here in Houston, actually, the Baylor group, Lipschelts and all, they actually have some good data, observational and self-reported, on the decrease in pain in men with joint pain. And is it fair to say it would also affect women, lower joint pain in women? There's no reason to believe that it's not, right? This episode is brought to you by Timeline. Remember, we set standards, not goals. And one of the core standards that we should all set is having healthy muscle. And that starts with robust mitochondria. There are various ways to get healthy muscle. That includes an amazing resistance training program. It includes dietary protein. And if I were to pick one supplement for muscle health and mitochondria, that would be MitoPure. It's a precise dose of a postbiotic urolithin A. And it works by promoting essential cellular cleanup. And this process clears out old, dysfunctional mitochondria. I would make a mother-in-law joke, but I'm not going to. And Timeline has done an incredible job at leading the way from a science perspective to bring you the only clinically backed urolithin A on the market. And I will tell you what, I've been using urolithin A for years. My husband uses it. My friends use it. And here's why. We have better energy. We recover faster. I feel like I have more endurance. And it really helps me meet my physical standards. And I know that it will help you too. And by the way, there is more and more research coming out on urolithin A. So go to timeline.com slash drlion and you will get 10% off your order. That's timeline.com slash drlion. 10% off your order. I think that this is an extraordinary product. And I think that wherever you are on your training muscle journey, that it's going to benefit you. Obviously, the data is being derived from men, unfortunately. That's because the Lipschulz group primarily sees men, but the other providers that are also do see women. But the large database, I think, is men. Yeah. And there's good results. I mean, guys on Excel, male, I've used it for joint pain. I work out. You know, anytime you work out and you get into either knee pain or shoulder pain, and that's when we freak out. And I don't know, it actually improves. And we don't know the mechanism. I was going to ask you, do we know them? And do we also know the dose? Because it would be used off-label. Off-label means it doesn't mean that it hasn't been proven safe. Off-label means that when FDA approval goes through for an indication, for example, this is FDA approved to treat anemia, that once the FDA is approved, like the FDA approval, you can use it then off-label to treat various other indications. It doesn't mean that it is shady or unsafe. I do believe that that's important. Yeah, that's very important. And I'm glad you, because we haven't really described what off-label is. We're talking about off-label. Yeah, off-label is actually clinical use. I mean, and many posters and abstracts are written and published on off-label uses. Okay, Nandrolone has a few off-label uses. There's some data on multiple sclerosis, COPD. How do we know? Is it a muscular effect? A muscular effect. COPD, you know, people, COPD is severe. They tend to lose muscle mass also. You know, they're expending all this extra energy with their, you know, their lung disease and all these problems. So it's good data on that. As I said, good data on Nandrolone use in advanced breast cancer. For wasting? For wasting? Is that what? And no, compared to tamoxifen, actually. There's comparable data. Tell me. That's fascinating. I was really shocked. I discovered this paper on like six months ago. And it was really a paper that was generated in the late 80s. Yeah. Comparing tamoxifen with Nandrolone, they have the same kind of survival rates, the same longevity. Obviously, tamoxifen or Nandrolone, you have to, you know, modulate the masculinizing effects. So you have to be careful with the dose. But it had a really, and the quality of life was better than on tamoxifen. So that's shocking because I do have some family members and friends that have gone through pretty bad cases of breast cancer. So, yeah. COPD. Multiple sclerosis. There's some good pilot data on Nandrolone. Go on and on. I mean, a joint disease, HIV, obviously. Casetia, they have done some studies on cancer. Oncologists are afraid. Yes. Afraid of androgens. They're really afraid. And so there's some androgen-dependent cancers that you would try to avoid the use of anabolics. But there's many are not. So where do you think the, do you think there'll be a reemergence of the anabolic agent use with the increase in GLP-1s? Nobody's doing the study. That's why I'm surprised. Nobody's doing this. I mean, I would love to see a study of Nandrolone use with GLPs. You know, they're both injectables. Or Oxenolone and GLP-1s. And do DEXA scannings, you know, to measure body composition and baseline. Are we sure no one's doing those studies? I haven't seen any of those. I've checked. I went to clinicaltrials.gov. And not everything is posted there. But most of it. No, nobody. And it's time. Because we know that GLP-1s, you know, semaglutide, decreases limb body mass. You know, fat mass decreases too. But limb body mass decreases substantially. So how can we preserve limb body mass while fat mass goes down? That's a trick that we should actually, you know, be doing right now. So, no, we have nobody. And hopefully somebody that listens to the podcast can pick that up. But that would be a beautiful study to do in men and women. Low-dose Nandrolone with testosterone, obviously. You have to do it with that. What would be considered too high a dose of Nandrolone from, again, you've seen? Anything above 150 milligrams a week. Yeah. Yeah. On Androlone. And women, anything above maybe 80 milligrams, 50 to 80. Yeah. And that would be really high. Yeah. Really high. You can do 25. That would be it. With testosterone for women, you know, low-dose to N men, 100 milligrams of testosterone with 50 milligrams on Androlone. That would be safe, low-dose. And GLP once, obviously, once a week. I think that would make a lot of sense. I don't know any other androgens or anabolic, any other medical approaches to increasing lean mass in people taking semaglutide or tersepatide. I just do not know. I'm thinking very strongly about it. I haven't seen it yet. And those products are already FDA approved. We know how to modulate side effects. It makes sense. And I would encourage people who are listening to this. Again, we're not giving medical advice. The goal is to educate. I would suggest individuals dive into the literature and look for themselves about Nandrolone use, their randomized controlled trials for osteoporosis, for anemia. There's variation in dosing, whether it's, you know, 25 or less, that people just, and also the providers listening to come and think about it. And I have an extensive section on Excelmail.com. Excelmail.com is a forum. It's not like Reddit, but it's more organized than Reddit. But we have folders in that forum. And one of the folders is called clinical use of anabolic steroids, clinical use. So we have sub-folders. And one of them is all about Nandrolone. It's actually called all about Nandrolone. So the clinical data on Nandrolone, off-label uses in the table, as summarized like perfectly. Clinicians love this. There are doctors on my site actually learning from this site. Which is, again, a very interesting space because it's, in some way, it's very niche, but it shouldn't be. And I believe that the reason it's niche is because of the immense stigma. And it's done a huge disservice to medicine in general, to muscle mass and medicine in general. Because, hey, listen, it is much easier to lose body fat than it is to build muscle. Oh, yeah. And we have to come up with strategies. I mean, we have exercise and diet, and that's great. And we have things like high FEM technology and blood flow restriction. We have various ways. But I've yet to see anything as impactful as anabolic agents, for example, in the face of a wasting syndrome. Can diet and exercise all you want. It's still tough. Or you can eat ice cream and mayo. That's what they used to tell us. It's very difficult. Oh, go ahead. It's very difficult. Yeah. No calories. I mean, lean mass requires an extreme intervention. And I want to point out something else is that there's testosterone. There's an androgenic to anabolic ratio. And testosterone, while it's amazing, seems to be much more androgenic. Meaning you'll see side effects in women, depending on the dose, whether it's acne, hair growth, all of the things. Whereas something like nandrolone is more anabolic and will target skeletal muscle mass more robustly. Is that fair to say? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's anabolic to androgenic ratio for every product, every androgen, every anabolic steroid measured in a very strange way. But back in the 50s, they actually were able to measure that in rats. And yeah, the molecules were changed for two reasons. They were changed from testosterone to decreased metabolism in the liver. So that stays this ester will stay longer in the body. And the second reason is to increase the anabolic to androgenic ratio to make it more anabolic and less androgenic. Androgenic is the masculinizing effects that androgens can have in women. So that nandrolone has a high ratio. Axanolone has a high ratio. All of them. Some of them, obviously, the orals may have some more liver issues. And that's why also I think they got a lot of bad reputations because a lot of this data came from something called oxymethalon, which really has damaging effects on liver. We did a study here in Houston at my clinic. I had a clinic called Body Positive. I funded a study that we had to stop because the liver enzymes went up fast with that product. So that product is FDA approved, but we don't use it. What was it FDA approved for? Anemia, mostly. But it's too strong of a – it increases – yeah, it's all metabolized by the liver. Unlike oxanolone, which is metabolized in the renal tissue and liver, that's why it's less impactful on liver function. So there's some. And oxymethalon was the one that gave that bad reputation. And what's the other name for oxymethalon? Anadrol. Anadrol. Anadrol. Yeah. Anadrol also makes you moody. And so all this – And is that considered illegal? Is anadrol illegal? Anadrol is FDA approved. It's just that very few people, very few prescribers prescribe it because we know it has more side effects. We did a study. We had to stop it. We had money to do a study, and we stopped it halfway because of safety issues. And people are probably thinking, okay, well, there's the normal sex hormones, bioidentical hormones. This is not that, right? These are compounds that are not made within the human body. No. But are close to testosterone. Yeah. And close. These are various compounds that are very close but not the same because people are probably thinking, okay, well, is anadrolone made in the human body? It's not. No, no, no. They're modified molecules. Modified molecules. For decreasing metabolism in the liver and for improving anabolic effects. Those are the only two reasons. And testosterone, obviously, can't – testosterone is an anabolic agent for men and women. Mm-hmm. It's just that it has more androgenic side effects. It has more side effects. Yeah. What would the next major anabolic agent be? We can move to Oxandrolone now. Oh, okay. Have you – do you feel – it's not a quiz. Oxandrolone. Do you feel that we've covered Nandrolone? Yeah. And people can read a lot more. I have easily 60 pages on Nandrolone on Excelmail.com. And by the way, I call it Excelmail, but women can also find information there. There's 28,000 women on there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. I should change the name, but it's a catchy name that I came up with. Anyways, yeah, we have a lot. People can find out more. They can Google my name, Nilsson Virgil Nandrolone. Yeah. And I have a bunch of articles. And not to worry, we have friends. We will put all of this so you don't have to rush, and we will make sure we get that to everybody. But I do like Oxandrolone a lot. Because it's oral, the anabolic to androgenic ratio is better than – even better than Nandrolone. And the name is Anavar. Anavar, which is a bodybuilder. Which many physicians will not prescribe nowadays. And you can discuss because – I can discuss that, yeah. Again, some of our physician friends will and some will not. I'm more than happy to discuss it because I really believe somebody has to clarify the whole thing. But anyways, it was approved. It was actually created by several pharmaceuticals back in the 50s, in the 60s. And it was not used. Basically sat on the shelves. Nobody really used it. It's an oral. In the 50s? No one used it in the 50s? No. No. It wasn't really. It was kind of – several actually abandoned it. And this company that got really smart called BTG Pharmaceuticals. I was a consultant back in the 90s. After seeing our first data on Nandrolone and wasting – Oxandrolone or Nandrolone? They saw the data for Nandrolone. Nandrolone. And they knew that there was this other compound that had been approved before. And the thing about Oxandrolone, it was approved beautifully for an indication of treatment of unintentional weight loss due to illness, blah, blah, blah, et cetera, et cetera. So it really was an indication related to increasing weight in people with unintentional weight loss. It couldn't be better. That's an indication. It really is. So they picked it up, increased the price, did a study on HIV, got it approved, got it orphan drug status. What is orphan drug status? Orphan drug status is – and I can talk about it because I've worked on this a lot for HIV also – is drugs that are investigated for less than 200,000 people in the United States, people with complex diseases, genetic diseases, small populations under 200,000. An orphan drug gives you the exclusive rights, extended patent protection. You can actually charge a lot more money because it's a smaller population. And it gives you more protections, and it gives you tax incentives as a pharmaceutical company. The FDA actually has a host department that supports companies that are doing orphan drug research with orphan drug status. So it's a faster way to get approved. It is a smaller population. And is it for – it's for a specific indication? For a specific population. Oh, population, not indication. An indication, yeah, because every – you can move from indication to indication. Population may be different. As long as it's under 200,000. 200,000 people with HIV, 200,000 in multiple sclerosis, 200,000 or less of COPD, as long as 200,000 or less. So BTG Pharmaceuticals did that, and they got – it was called Oxandrin, you know, the brand name. And it got popular in HIV. Why? Because it was oral, no injections. And then you can inject once a week. This is an oral every day. Women, the data on women look beautiful. I was part of a study where we had women take 10 milligrams and – 5 and 10 milligrams of Oxandrin alone with great results. For how long? For 12 weeks. We cycle Oxandrin alone for 12 weeks. Is there a reason? You know, there were some concerns since we didn't know any better about long-term liver issues. Although every anabolic, every androgen, including higher doses of testosterone, they decrease HDL, the high-density lipoprotein, which is, you know, supposed to be the better cholesterol. What most doctors don't know is that androgens, in general, also decrease lipoprotein A, which is one of – I actually did not know that. Yeah, most people don't know that. I should write more about it. We did a whole episode with Christy Ballantyne. Androgens decrease dramatically. Lp little a? Yeah, dramatically. And that's something that I think I should do a better job in bringing that out. And for the listener, Lp little a is a – it's a lipoprotein that is a risk factor. It's considered a genetic risk factor. The majority of the time it doesn't change it. I think it does change in women depending on hormone status. But I did this episode with Christy Ballantyne, the former president of the Lipid Association. And we did not talk about androgens. And from my knowledge, I didn't think that there was any medication that could change that. I'm going to post a few things. I'm going to send you the – yes. Let's see. And we have actually – obviously, I'm going to say something else here. We're going to make sure we have it that far. These scannery labs, I own a company that actually provides affordable lab testing to people around the United States. We provide the doctor's prescription so people don't have to see a doctor. But anyways, I've actually run L-hypoprotein A on myself and friends that are using testosterone or anandrolone. And it's dramatic. Baseline compared to week 4th or 6th, dramatic changes. So people say, oh, you know, testosterone and anabolics are bad for lipids because there's a decrease in HDL. But there's also a huge decrease in triglycerides. Is there a way to bring up HDL and is that necessarily meaningful? Yeah. Good question. Good question. I was hoping you didn't ask me that question because it's very complex. But very hard to bring HDL up. Niacin maybe. No, that doesn't work. That doesn't work. And studies are kind of conflicting. But is it meaningful that it would be low? Well, we have only one or two studies where they use agents to increase HDL. And they did. But actually, mortality did not change. So their jury is still up. I would not put down, I would not go into that side of the conspiracy or whatever it is to say HDL is useless. But we only have data on products that increase HDL and no benefit in mortality or longevity. So the fact that anabolics decrease HDL by maybe sometimes 20%, is that significant? I don't know. Thank you to OneSkin for sponsoring this episode. I bring sponsors of products that I personally love and use. I first became obsessed with OneSkin because of one of my girlfriends. Her skin completely transformed, especially under her eyes, which I definitely have issues with. And I wanted to know what she was doing. And it was OneSkin. I've always had issues with texture on my own face. And I've tried a million and a half different products. I landed on OneSkin. It's really helped me personally transform my skin. I've been using their face broad spectrum sunscreen, their eye cream, their topical body supplement. I actually need more of that. It has a unique clinically studied peptide that helps with DNA repair. You can get 15% off your OneSkin with the code OneSkin.com and the code is DrLion. That's 15% off OneSkin with the code DrLion. All I know is that they decrease triglycerides dramatically. They decrease lipoprotein A. LDL depends on the dose. So on the lipid side, and you can run a whole lipid profile with like a, you know, like cardio IQ. Totally. We do it all the time. You know, and you see it. I don't know if you know this, but we have a full concierge medical practice. Oh, no. I know that. I know that. Yeah, we do all this. You are on top of everything. I mean, you wrote books. No, no. It's my team. No, no, no. I have a great team. No, I know. I know. This is all like, you know, you know all that stuff. I'm just like. No, it's the listener really needs to understand that these are, it's not just one point. So it's not, okay, your testosterone is up. You now we've impacted your HGL, which is down. But it's this spectrum of what is your vascular health? LP little a, LDL cholesterol, ApoB. ApoB. These things all ride hand in hand. And the Anabar or Oxandrolone. So is Anabar the black market name or is that a, because again, you hear in the bodybuilding space. Yeah. I tend to discourage my audience to use either the word DECA or Anabar. Okay. Is it because it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, those are bodybuilding terms. If we want to move this field forward, we need to let go of all that, all that branding. Besides they're generic. We shouldn't be calling them by brand name. It would be the equivalent of calling a bandaid. Wait, what is the name for a bandaid? It's a bandage. See? See? Bandage. See? See? You shouldn't call everything a bandaid. Or a copier. A C-Rox. You know, a copier. There you go. We shouldn't be associating those brand names anymore. Anyways. But let's say Oxandrolone. Okay. Is Oxandrolone available? Is it legal? Is it. Why would someone use it? It's an oral agent. You said between five and 10 milligrams. For women. For women a day for 12 weeks. And that would do what for them? Increased lean body mass. Skeletal muscle or all lean mass? Lean mass. So that would be liver and. Yes. But yeah. Whatever. All the data we have on DEXA is obviously lean mass. And why are we saying this? We are saying this because we're not really great at measuring skeletal muscle mass directly. Lean mass includes everything except for. And I believe everybody that has access or can buy a DEXA. Totally. Should get a DEXA. Yeah, yeah. And their company is now providing cheap DEXAs. I just got a DEXA for $70 here in Houston. Amazing. DEXA scan. Which is the only way to really find out how much lean mass, fat mass, and bone density you have in every part of your body. And you can Google DEXA, whatever city you're in. DEXA Fit. There are a few companies that are doing that without a prescription. Thank God. Anyways. Because that's really the only way to find out what your body composition is. We used to do BIA. Oh my God. Yeah. But BIA is water dependent. Yes. So anyways. I still like BIA depending. Well, it's easy and you can do it in your office. 3% to 5% error rate. Yes, I can. You don't need a $400,000 machine. So we used to do most of our data on wasting was BCM, body cell mass from BIA. Oh, fascinating. Because we indexed back then. Yeah. Fascinating. Yeah. But anyways, I'm getting digressed. I'm so sorry. We are regressing to, we are forward-gressing to Oxandolone. Yeah. Okay. So it was approved. It obviously was used till whatever, till a few years ago. The pharmaceutical company, the last one, because it's changed hands three times, dropped it. Nandolone was dropped by Organon two years ago. Pharma said, no, not enough money on this or whatever it is. Maybe their own stigma. And then compounding pharmacies. That's how compounding pharmacies came into my life. Because they took over and said, we'll make it for you. Because people in HIV were actually freaking out that Nandolone had been dropped. And why did they drop it? They had no reason. There's no safety issues, nothing. They just decided. It's a market-prolit decision. So obviously compounding Nandolone. Oxandolone, the same thing. Three years ago, two years ago. The company dropped it. Completely just dropped it. They did issue something January 2023. Was it 2023? Where they said- But the FDA said it was a safety issue. And they referred to a 1984 meeting. Okay. Let's clear this up right now. And that 1984 meeting was really established to come up with an Abolic Steroid Control Act. That's the beginning of all this nightmare. Okay. So this is a little conspiracy theorist. And we're going to talk about it. Not really. It's not. It's not conspiracy. It's not conspiracy. I know, I know. We have- But basically, many providers will not write for Oxandrolone because of safety issues, alleged safety issues. So if you were to go to UpToDate, it'll say June 2023, maybe 24, 2023. 23. We are issuing a warning against Oxandrolone for liver toxicity. Yes. And many of the providers were like, well, that sucks because this was helping treat postmenopausal women for sarcopenia. This was treating bone density. This was helpful in injury. This is helpful in adjunct treatment for obesity. And what you're saying is they determined that statement. An 1880 study? 1984. 1984. Yes. They have no data. No data. We have a lot of data. Actually, I sent a letter to the FDA summarizing all the safety data because they're all public on all the studies done on Oxandrolone. And even in pediatrics, they didn't see substantial. It was, in some cases, liver enzymes like AST and ALT will go up temporarily. AST and ALT. Yeah. Temporarily. And then we'll resolve to baseline after stopping because these things are not used continuously. That's something else that most people don't understand. We cycle Oxandrolone for 12 weeks, gain all the benefits that we can, work out, eat well, all this stuff. And then we move on. This is not a constant, long-term use in pediatrics, in women, in men. Nobody does that. Well, some people may do it, but, you know. So, to actually say, and only to have that reference, 1984, which was a discussion, a meeting, not even a study. None of the studies have said that Oxandrolone is liver toxic. None of them. They also say minimal liver enzyme or LFT elevations that were resolved with treatment cessation. So, there's nothing like that. This is basically one person in the FDA, not going to say the name, although it is on the notice. Don't say the name. That actually had the stigma. The pharmaceutical company dropped it, and she actually added that statement. And the only reference she has is 1984. The drug has been used in many studies since then. All kinds. Kids, women, men, HIV, non-HIV, COPD. So, now what do people do? Well, compound is not removed from the compound, do not compound, or compound list. So, it can be compounded. Once again, Nandrolone is compounded because Organon left it. It is compounded. Empower Pharmacy makes it. It's legal. It's not removed. It's still on the list that it can be compounded, at least now. If they remove it from that list, the activist in me will wake up again and activate all my HIV patients that actually will be behind this. Because, you know, we have good data. We use the HIV a lot. And we have liver. We're taking liver toxic HIV meds with this. It's wild. It's wild. So, how many times a year could someone utilize an oral agent like that? Just two cycles of 12 weeks each. And what would they expect? If you were on a very low dose, let's say for women. So, you have tens of thousands of women on, you know, in your forums. If there's a five milligram or 10 milligram dose. I would assume those women are exercising. Yeah. Both. Let's just make it up. Presence exercise and cardio. They do. Otherwise, you're wasting your time. Yes. And eating more of a high protein. Never heard of that, but sure. But let's assume. Yes. Because otherwise, really, why even take anything without doing it the way you should, you know, comprehensively? Yeah. That would probably become more lean. Do we have an idea of how many pounds of muscle? It's not linear, right? In the data I've seen, it's 3.5 kilos. You know, everything in clinical is kilos. How many is that? 2.2. Multiply that by? That's like 8 pounds or 7 pounds of muscle. You know how hard it is to get 7 pounds of muscle. I do. As a matter of fact, I've been trying for... Oh, no. You're lean and you're in the perfect shape, obviously. We all have to have... I paid him to say that, guys. Slipped him a 10. You're the muscle expert, so... I... The... So they took it off. They didn't take it off the market, but they issued this warning. And then, really, all physicians, for the most part, stopped... Would you say that most physicians stopped prescribing it because of that statement? Most physicians stopped prescribing it because they don't know it's available in compounding. They don't know it's available. From compounding. Because, yeah. Yeah. And that I am trying to get the compounding pharmacists to be more... And, you know, you can Google compound oxandrolone, oxandrolone, empower pharmacies. They're on their... But they shouldn't take... And if someone is listening to this, they should not be experimenting with any of these things. Well, first of all, I believe in body autonomy. I believe people should be able to do... ...what they want... Me too. ...with their body. Me too. Also, I do believe that you should be under the guidance and the protection as much as possible of a physician that you trust... Yes. ...and have a relationship with. Yes. It is not a new doctor. Every time you go to the clinic, you know, that is one thing that we have set up very strict in our clinic is you have a provider. You see your provider because they get to know you. And the history. They have to know your history. They remember your history. Of course. They need to know your favorite color. Yeah. What kind of dog food your dog likes. Whatever it is. But... So if you are listening to this and you're thinking, you know what? I have been struggling with perimenopause, menopause. I cannot put on muscle to save my life. I want to try an anabolic agent. Please do not go online and try to purchase something on your own without the guidance of a physician. I think that's a terrible idea. Yeah. Unless you are desperate. Well... But even then... Yeah. Right? We do not live in the same... We don't live in the same world that... Yeah. ...that you actually... Yeah. ...survived in your 20s. And the hardest thing, and I have to add, the hardest thing right now is access because people don't know where to go. And that really is the biggest barrier. And I see it online on my forums. People... The main question they ask is, hey, guys or ladies, I'm having this issue. I can't find a doctor or the ones that I have found. Dismiss me or tell me it's all in my head or whatever. I don't want to prescribe. Where should I go? Or... That's the number one reason why people come to groups online. Reddit, everywhere. And that's when people say, hey, I'm getting it from this doctor, that doctor. So doctors are out there. It's just... It's very difficult. Very difficult, I say. Unless you know how to access... How to... Let me just have one more thing I have to do. Yes, of course. Google has changed. Google in the past five years has changed dramatically. When you Google anything, the first page is full of ads. And you don't get... Like, my forums used to be on the first page. Now they're on the third page. They have moved all sites that are not paying for ads to the second and third page. Things that were in the first page five, six years ago. Believe me, I've been on the internet since 94. And I paid... Right when it started. And I paid Google for ads for discounted apps. So people are not finding those groups right away. And they... Obviously, nobody clicks into the second or third page of a Google search. I do. Well, you do because you're a researcher. But most people want to find their results here. I say to people, always search inside Facebook because their groups got lower. I belong... No, I run four. They're discussing daily. Always... Reddit is... I know people think Reddit is crazy. Google just bought Reddit, by the way. But Reddit is a good source. Google there or Reddit search there. Women and men. Excel mail, obviously. Because if you go through Google just to find a doctor that prescribes oxanolone or whatever, you're not going to find it unless that doctor is paying for ads. Yeah. And also, I will say, if you guys need referrals, always contact our clinic. We have doctors that we trust that we can refer you to. Also, isn't there other search engines that are not VPN? You know, I was just talking... I was just on the Sean Ryan show. And he... If you look at his YouTubes, you will see all kinds of ways around any kind of blocked access. So, he's probably a good resource. Maybe DuckDuckGo. Like DuckDuck. Yeah, that's what my husband uses. I use Perplexity. I do... I want to plug Perplex here. I'm not getting paid. Perplexity is an app. We're not plugging it. Not plugging it. I have to use it first. Don't try it. Perplexity, if you listen, maybe I could ship like... Perplexity is better than ChatGPT. You can download the Perplexity app. And you can ask... Perplexity goes into detail. You can search... Well, I can't comment on the quality of that yet. Well, yeah, you will. But even... I shop on Perplexity. I don't... I don't use Google. Sign me up. I'm ready. I don't use Google searches. Anyways, we're digressing again. No, no. So, what else are we... I want to know if there was a difference between... We talked about Nandrolone. We've talked about Nandrolone in men and women. Primary component of that will be it is more anabolic Nandrolone. We'll start with Nandrolone. Nandrolone is injectable. From your perspective, anything above 150. I think there are various numbers in the data. It should be... It's typically 50% of a male testosterone dose for a man. And for women, again, typically for women, it's one, you know, tenth of a... So, for testosterone is, say, 100, then maybe it would be 10 milligrams of Nandrolone. Again, it depends if you're a provider listening. Obviously, we're not giving medical advice, but I think the exploration is to always start low for individuals. An individual could stay on Nandrolone as opposed to cycle something like Oxandrolone, from my understanding. At low dose. At low dose. Oxandrolone is taken orally. Had a little issue in 2023. Still available. The clinical indications are FDA approved for anything related to muscle loss, right? Is that what it is? Weight loss. Unintentional weight loss. Unintentional weight loss. Due to illness. And there are like five commas after that. Fascinating. Yeah. Fascinating. Which would have a bigger impact on body composition? Which would make you leaner? No. Oxandrolone. Oxandrolone. Yes. The oral agent. Oxandrolone. What about the dose for men? For oxandrolone? For men, yeah. We studied 20 milligrams a day in HIV heavily, and it was good enough. 20 milligrams. And for the perspective, HIV is a highly catabolic state. High catabolic state. I mean, you're talking about... Back then, we had viral load. We were... Holy cow. We did not have a control of the virus. The virus eats up lean body mass, muscle mass. It really... The immune system, when it activates fighting a virus, it needs nutrients. And where do the nutrients come from? They come from muscle. Muscle. So that's why the more muscle you have, the more chances for longevity. And we see that with cancer, actually. You have something like 260% greater risk of death if you go into cancer with sarcopenia. And aging, like, you know, sarcopenia due to aging. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. But anyways, yeah, on oxandrolone... 20... So you were saying 20 milligrams, which is low. Yeah? Yeah. 20 milligrams is what we studied. You can... You know, compounders are making up to 50 milligrams, you know, on one pill. So... But the higher the dose, the two consequences. It says, HDL, the reductions are bigger. And some liver enzymes. Let's talk about liver enzymes real quick. I'd love to. There's good data on the effect of exercise, resistance exercise on increasing ASDL of D. And some doctors don't know that. And they freak out a little bit. And they don't know it's due to the resistance exercise program that this patient is going through. So... Because I sell blood tests. So I've seen for 10 years what's happening in that world. Something else that doctors don't know, nandrolone and testosterone, for instance, that if you use the wrong testosterone test, nandrolone will be picked up as testosterone. Tell me more. Tell me more about that. There are two types of testosterone tests. Immuno assays, which are cheaper, faster, than ones that have been used for many years. They're still used because of that. Cheaper and faster. But they get interferences. That immuno assay, anything that's androgen-like, that is like testosterone, will pick it up as testosterone. So, nandrolone, you know... In a blood test versus a urine test. Right? So this is... Yeah. You do urine, huh? We don't. We... So our clinic, we do free total. We do... Yeah. We don't do that. But if you do liquid chromatography... Yes. ...slash mass spectrometry, which is the only thing... You know, I sell that test for $40. Then you pick up what testosterone, testosterone, testosterone. So the nandrolone, sometimes I see that where doctors are using the immuno assay and obviously getting a 2,000 nanograms of testosterone result. And freaking out, hey, your dose is too high. When in fact is, you're picking up, you know... Like for instance, biotin, which is a supplement that men and women use for... There's conflicting data. For hair growth or hair loss. Also affects immunoassays. It's picked up. And either decreases or increases depending on the thyroid or testosterone. So there are supplements that can affect the test results. Can someone test for nandrolone directly in the blood? No. That's only used in sports. That's non-clinical but research-based. Yeah. Yeah. But they do use it in the Olympics and... Yeah. But one would also expect to see a decrease in FSH or LH in women... Yes. ...for suppression. So if you are... We haven't talked about that. Yeah. All anabolics or androgen testosterone basically shut down your hypothalamic, pituitary, gonadal, which is ovaries or axis. So you basically stop producing testosterone, stop producing LH and FSH, sperm production decreases dramatically, ovulation is affected. For women. So if you are wanting to get pregnant, this will not be the thing to do. That's one of the things that... Yeah. That's one of the side effects that have to be managed the best, especially in younger people that want to have kids. And that's when we can talk about HCG and clomiphene. But yeah. Yes. I don't know if you want to go into it. Not today. But I'm more than happy to. So... We'll have you back on to talk about that. Yeah. But the... Fertility is definitely impacted. Fertility is impacted. And also if a woman is in perimenopause, menopause, if you shut down her FSH, LH, you're not really going to be able to see. Because estrogen, you know, can be all over the place. It just... Again, if you're trying to identify where you are, just keep in mind that if you're using these agents, even testosterone will decrease FSH and LH. Nelson, you said something really interesting about liver enzymes. And AST, ALT, we do see occasionally go up during intensive exercise. And oftentimes people that don't treat athletes or people that are very active, they might get concerned. Physicians might get concerned. And also, to be fair, we're not talking about two and a half times baseline liver enzymes. We're talking, I don't know, might bump up into the 50s or so. And I'm sure you see that a lot. Yeah. Yeah. And that's the concern I have sometimes when, like you said, doctors are not really familiar with, you know, the athletics and people using other compounds like this, like anabolics. It's the fact that exercise can be, you know, an influence on AFDs, liver enzymes, liver. But, you know, there's also another test that I also sell on Discount Labs because it's a good test. It's a test that really tells you precisely if you have liver toxicity. Besides bilirubin, which is another one, it's a GGT. And most doctors don't even use that. When they see an increase, let's say 20%, 30% beyond baseline, they just discontinue the treatment. The medication. The medication. Yeah, yeah. And the fact is you should go a little deeper before you do so, especially with androgens and do a GGT. The same thing with kidney function. Most of the athletes I know, including myself, I take it daily. They're taking creatine, creatine monohydrate, which has been shown to all kinds of benefits. And creatine can increase eGFR, which is a measure of kidney function. And doctors freak out, too, without really running another test like Cystatin C to see whether or not it's influenced by supplements. So there's a few studies I've seen where physicians or the researchers have decided to stop a treatment based on just, you know, AST or LFT or EGFRs. And that's where I'm glad that you're bringing this up because from there is this idea of indications for disease. Physicians are trained to look at patterns of blood work because typical disease patterns will show up in a particular way in blood work. And then there's this interesting aspect of those that are in the athletic population or people that are moving their body a ton or have higher muscle mass. You will see those individuals have higher blood level creatinine. And what I hear often is patients will come in and say, oh, my gosh, I'm nervous. My creatinine is high. Well, your muscle mass is high. Your creatinine should be high. And the way that you get a really good picture is you run something called a Cystatin C and then you'll get a corrected GFR. So if you are out there and you are looking at your own blood work and you are worried about your creatinine and your kidney function, please take a deeper dive. And also, if you are looking at your standard liver enzymes like AST or ALT, one could also do something called a GGT or a bilirubin test. And I think that those are a little pearls. You know, in medicine, we have the medical pearls for individuals that are highly active or really optimizing their muscle mass. Well, Nelson Virgil, I have learned so much from you. You really, again, you occupy a very unique place in society and place in this industry in the way that you have been there. You know that saying, been there, done that. Thank you. You have been there, done that. And it really was life or death for you. And because of that, you have advocated and saved countless lives. Thank you. And I also believe that your work is not done. No. And the next iteration of your work, just going to throw you to the fire, I think has to be to bring anabolics to the public. I agree. I agree. And I see it coming. I also see more infringement of the FDA and other regulatory agencies on access, compounding access of compounded products. HRT may be affected in the future for women. I see more than 11 hormones in general. There are 11 hormones on the list that may actually be stopped from being compounded. Yes. And obviously, that's another topic we can talk about in another podcast. But I'm preparing my activist efforts to activate all the groups I have, the thousands of people that are following on my groups, in case that happens. Because access to hormones are, I would say, more than 60%, 70% of patients that are accessing hormone treatments are accessing it through compounded products. And not just pharmaceutical grade products because they're usually more expensive. They require more. So that's something I'm really preparing myself for because I see it coming. Hopefully, who knows with this administration, but the access to hormonal treatments, affordable hormone treatments may be affected by decisions from legislators that really have stigma in their heads or also have the interest of pharmaceutical companies funding them. So I'm sorry that I just dropped this at the end. But it is the future. It is the future that I think it's for me, at least for my work. I will say I love that you're right on many things. And I hope this is not one of them. And I hope that hormone replacement therapy and hormones in general remain accessible to the public through compounding pharmacies, which are much lower costs and just as high quality. So again, Nelson Virgil, thank you so much for coming on. And we will link everywhere where to find you and all of your books and your forums. And again, thank you so much. Thank you for having me. If you're listening and found this episode valuable, don't forget to subscribe. Share this with someone who needs to hear it. And leave us a comment. We love hearing from you.