 typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically typically If you're perimenopause, if you're menopause, you're searching to lose weight in a way that is creating a huge distraction from being able to focus on life and the things that matter because of the amount of mental suffering from body weight or health problems. And I think that you've done a really great job and I do want you to explain how we can think about it. You've been doing this for a very long time. You're a PhD in exercise physiology and I think your nutrition is part of that. I've taught as a professor of nutrition before. So real underachiever, but realistically, yeah, we need to hear it and the women need to hear it. So real quick to your point, there's kind of a bit of an interesting kind of sinusoidal function, like a wave between many social forces trying to say, you got a gender is not like a thing or whatever. Everyone's kind of similar deep down. And then that goes sometimes quite well. And then it comes around and it goes into the extreme territory of like, everyone's completely different. Like women do not lose fat. Like men, the fucking laws of physics are different, but there's some nuance between those two points. But I think a lot of times to your point, women are like, they look at how men lose weight. They're like, that's not going to work for me. Well, if you just scale the calories, actually, actually it will. Like my husband eats everything and he doesn't ever gain weight. Like, but he also works construction. He weighs 215 pounds. You weigh 135 and you sit at home. And that means you can't physically eat as much food as him, but relative to what you normally eat, if you eat a few hundred calories less for a few months, you will almost certainly lose weight and improve your health and improve your parents on. So, so calories are King. And what I would say is typically cutting somewhere between 250 and maybe 500 at the extreme calories daily from your typical intake is a really good situation to have. And this is just a reduction of food. And that's the core thing. That core thing being the thing that sort of powers fat loss is also going to explain that mega crazy observation that we see so many different diets working for people. You'll have carnivores and vegans in comment sections yelling at each other. It's amazing. I always wanted it to be a terrarium, like a, like a combat to the death. You could probably find that up in my kid's room. Yeah. It's available there. Kids are quite brutal. And, uh, so they're like, no, veganism works. No carnival works. And they'll both have great blood work after and all this other stuff. And the thing is that the calorie deficits really that thing doing most of the work. And so one thing we try to promote and kind of evidence-based fitness is, you know, if you're taking care of your calories, getting that little deficit going and a few other things, a little quality control type of stuff that there's many ways to get there and you don't have to be super dogmatic about like, no, it's only this one because there's pump. And how do people, um, determine the amount of calories? So there's Harris Benedict. There's so many different equations, online equations. Uh, we know that they're not totally accurate, but is there one primarily that you like? I don't like equations mostly because I'm too stupid to understand them. I never know what the equal sign means. Can I move things around? You guys know who's lying. Um, uh, no, but not a serious note. Um, not a big fan of equations because there are a bunch of factors they can't account for. And people tend to view equations as a very precise thing. So once they get their number, they're like, well, if you need 1900 calories, but I'm not losing weight. What's wrong? And they're like, so why is it, would you get 1900? And they're like the Harris Benedict equation or whatever. And I call this nice. That's actually an estimate that varies in accuracy by 700 calories person up and down. So no big deal. Fuck. Right. So you could be in a surplus deficit. Who knows? Right. So I'd say probably the best way to do it is get a feel for your overall diet. Do a diet log. Just get, go my fitness pal and type in for a week, everything you eat. And then it's just going to tell you how many calories you're eating and macros, proteins, carbs, fats. And you're like, ah, okay. And you just take like 350 away from that number. And voila, you're well on your way because the actual calories you're eating, assuming your body weight's relatively stable last week, the last few, whatever that is, uh, what we would call a completely integrated measurement. It integrates every single aspect, hormones, diet, lifestyle, food choices, digestion, meat, uh, non-exercise activity, thermogenesis, the whole thing. It's the resultant one integrator that says, this is, this is actually the calories you're eating. And this is keeping your weight stable. If it makes zero assumption, which is awesome. It's like, um, it's like seeing, um, you know, you could have a, an airplane that the average speed is like says at 700 miles an hour. Do you know if the speedometer works? You just take off time and landing time. You get an average speed. It cannot be wrong. As long as a plane flew in a straight line, you started here and you got here. It's real evidence-based for the individual. So once you have an amount you're eating, that tells you what you're eating. And if you're stable at weight at that amount, you can't be that far off. That's roughly your maintenance. Now that you know roughly your maintenance calories, you got to take a little chunk out of there and kick the diet to into gear. What about, um, the macronutrient distribution? How do you think about that? Because obviously you want them to lose fat and is there, have you found, you've been doing this, uh, just since last year. Um, so very recent. And this is also my first podcast. Yeah, I know. I know. I'm so grateful. How long do you think, or let me ask it in a different way. Can someone just lose body fat or do you think, um, there must be some lean mass lost? Is there a way to do it? Under some conditions, you can actually gain lean mass while you lose fat, but the condition has to be, you're pretty new to training. Um, or you're not new to training, but you're new to significant quantities of anabolic steroids. Um, there are a few other conditions, but generally speaking, when already lean people lose weight, they use some combination of fat and muscle. When people who aren't exercised, who they haven't really trained and they haven't lifted weights much and their diet is like just whatever they feel like when they start getting a healthy diet, higher in protein, and they start lifting weights, which we covered on your, on my last appearance here on the show, then they can actually gain muscle and lose fat at the same time for months and months and months and months and months, if not years. But for people that are already pretty lean or people who already lift weights, um, yeah, there's going to be some combination of muscle and fat. Now, how would you define pretty lean? So let's say someone was, um, a overweight female who is now tractor calories for two weeks. She has determined what her maintenance calorie is. Let's say it's 1800 and she decides to decrease her calories by 350, 500. So she's eating. What is that? Um, 1300 calories. Okay. Um, do you account for activity or that's the number? The activity question is a little bit of a different question. Well, then I shouldn't go there yet. Sure. We can, we can definitely handle it whenever you like. Um, so how do we determine who's fat or not fat? Who's lean? I'd say the easiest test in the real world is like someone's wearing clothes and you just come up to someone else. You're like, is she fat or not? It's really straightforward. If you at least look like an up and down shape, you're good. If there's stuff coming off the sides and the front and the back and the whole thing, you're fat. Now it's ruthlessly unscientific and quite discourteous to say to someone, you would never tell someone something like that. But it's one of those things you look at documentaries in the 1950s. How many people were fat? None. How do you know? I mean, they're just in clothes, right? That's what I mean by generally lean. Like no one would, no one would look at you and be like, that's definitely a fat person. Right? So if we'd like take a little walk, no offense, Houston, Texas, the fatometer is going to be at the grocery store. Like fat, fat, fat, fat, fat. I mean, are you sure? You don't, you don't think that 600 pound ladies mostly lean body mass? No. Yes. I would, I would not say that. So people who are generally like a close enough within 15 pounds of their insurance table adjusted body weight, you can consider them fairly lean and without some rigorous weight training and very perfectionist diet, they're going to typically experience significant amount of muscle loss. People who are significantly more over fat may lose less muscle, but also a lot of that is because they start being more physically active as they lose the weight. So that's a big deal as well. If both groups of people start weight training, when they start losing weight, then they just build muscle and lose fat at the same time. And that's a really, really big deal. As a matter of fact, on that note of weight loss, if you don't lift weights and you start losing weight, you do lose significant amounts of muscle. And it doesn't actually matter where your protein is. We think, I mean, yes, protein has a protein sparing effect, but without activity, without muscular specific training to get more jacked, it's actually protein doesn't have a terribly protein sparing effect. That's right. You can't like eat 300 grams of protein up to like getting jacked if you don't lift weights. It actually just gets burned and excreted and all that whole thing. So you're totally correct about that. So the lifting weights thing does matter. But a little while back, one of the new anorectic drugs was Empic got a little bit of hot water because people were like, oh, like it's causing people lots of muscle mass loss. It was true, but it was no more muscle mass loss than you would expect with people who lost like 50 fucking pounds in a year. It's just going to be a lot of muscle loss. It's not especially a thing that GLP ones even do. And there's actually a new review that came out that was like, it was exactly what we'd expect if you just lost a lot of weight. The thing is those people never lost that much muscle because they never lost that much weight because the, and I've got all great sorts of great things to say about the anorectic drugs whenever they do have a big role to play in all this. I agree. I agree.