 Testized, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow, ricasinn, arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow arrow the surprising truths about sexual health, and what every person needs to know to protect their health and their relationship. From how to spot early hormone imbalances to cutting-edge advances in hormone therapy, this episode is packed with insights that could help you live longer. So are we looking at testosterone and hormones all wrong? Let's jump in because these answers could completely change how you think about your health. I just wanted to jump on here with an exciting announcement. I am hosting the second ever Forever Strong Summit, April 26th, 27th in Houston, Texas, 2025. There's going to be two days, the VIP day on April 26th. You will learn from former Navy SEALs, from former Secret Service, from individuals that you do not want to miss. Myself, my inner tribe will be there to support you to learn everything from muscle health to science to nutrition. You don't have to be an expert. You don't even have to have a background. All you have to have is a will to win and stay strong. I will put a link in the show notes below. Please go to my website, drgabrielleline.com. We sold out last year, and I would hate for you to miss this opportunity. So if you're waiting for a sign, if you're thinking you need to change something up and you need community, friends, we've got you covered. Dr. Abe Morgenthaler, welcome to the show. Oh, it's great to be here with you. Thank you. You are really, I don't even want to say the godfather of testosterone replacement therapy, but you are responsible for bringing testosterone replacement therapy to the modern world. Thank you. You know, it's hard for me to accept something like that, but practically speaking, I think that that's right. And, you know, I started doing this at a time when everybody thought testosterone was going to absolutely give people prostate cancer, like pow, right away. Just a little whiff for a week or two, prostate cancer. That's the fear that we had. And I got interested in it, and I'd love to tell you how I got started. But my work has really been about using testosterone and showing that it didn't really cause prostate cancer. I didn't know that before I started, but that's what happened. And as the barrier to testosterone dropped, because people weren't so worried about prostate cancer, then all sorts of things opened up. And here we are 35 years later. You know, it's really tremendous. And number one, you went to Harvard, graduated from Harvard College, then went to Harvard Medical School. And then you completed your residency at the Harvard program in urology. Just, just tremendous. You are recognized as an international authority on men's health and a pioneer in testosterone replacement therapy, which, you know, we were all having dinner, you, your colleague, our colleague, Dr. Mo Cara, my husband, Shane Cronstadt, who is also a urologist, go figure. And there aren't that many giants left. There is not a ton of innovation happening from the individual level. But you were brave enough to do that at a time when testosterone therapy, and I want to talk about the history, was really deemed dangerous. And that people were 100% sure that testosterone replacement therapy was going to give people prostate cancer. And you challenged that notion. I would love to hear that backstory. And how many tomatoes were thrown at your face, and how that you probably had three friends, and one of those included a sibling and maybe a parent. Oh my God. So, well, listen, thank you for that. And yeah, it's kind of amazing sometimes. I sit here and think back, like, on all the changes that have happened and how we went through things. And truthfully, it did require a certain amount of courage because I knew I was doing something that was considered dangerous. But I always felt like what I was doing was in the patient's best, my patient's best interest, and with open communication and discussion of what the potential risks were. So the story originally begins, if I may, when I was 19 years old, and I was an undergraduate at Harvard. And I was supposed to be a hockey player. Like, in my head, I was going to be like a professional hockey player. And it turned out I could play at a decent level. I played freshman at Harvard, which is a good school for to play at freshman level. There's no way I was going to play varsity. And in my second year, I didn't know what I was doing. And I ran into a biology professor, from whom I'd taken a class, in Harvard Square. And I was completely lost. I was just a lost sophomore, not sure what I was doing. And he said, how are you doing? And I told him, actually, I'm not doing that well. I don't know if I should, you know, just stop college, you know, just drop out. And he said, why don't you come work in my lab? You might like it. His name was David Cruz. And he changed my life and put me on a track from age 19 to here I am, 50 years later. It's unbelievable. And so he had a reptile lab. And he was interested in sex, hormones, and the brain. And so the first project, I worked on these little American chameleons. They're all over Florida. If you've been there, you see them everywhere on the walls, on the sidewalks, inside your hotel room sometimes. Terrifying. And, and you put a male in the cage with the female and they have this bright colored flap of skin that comes out. It's called a dewlap. And the male sees the female, the dewlap comes out and their head bobs really quickly. It's almost like the male's going, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like he's interested. The female does a little stately pushup that says, okay, buddy, what you got? And then the male comes closer and repeats the behavior and then they meet. So if you castrate the male, which means removing the testicles, which was the first procedure I ever did in a lizard, in anything, not knowing I was going to go to medical school, let alone become a urologist. But if you castrate the male, you put them in a cage for the female, they don't do anything. They have no interest. The female will sometimes do her pushup and say, hey, buddy, I'm over here. But their testosterone is gone. And then my project was we'd mapped out where in the brain, the itty bitty brain of these itty bitty lizards, where testosterone was taken up and what was likely to be the sexual centers. And my project that took three years to do was to put tiny implants of testosterone powder into those little sections of the brain. And when I was successful in doing it and putting it in the right place, these males that had no detectable testosterone, just testosterone in their brain would see the female, the dewlap would come out, head would bob up and down. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And they would mate. It was the most amazing thing. And so my first publication on testosterone is in 1978. And, um, and that was the start. And then when I became, I went to medical school, I learned almost nothing about testosterone. It was important for puberty. That was about it. It was important for men to sort of be functional, but we didn't learn about testosterone deficiency or anything like that. And then I go into practice and I start dealing with men with sexual problems. And some of these guys were desperate. How did you choose urology? Well, it wasn't obvious. I didn't know anything about urology. Really, I was in general surgery and I loved operating. And I thought surgeons had, if you'll forgive the expression, the biggest balls in the hospital. And I said, I want to do that. But I didn't like being up at night. And a lot of the emergency operations were at night. Appendectomies, gallbladders were dealt with perforated ulcers. And so I looked for a field where they did good surgery and they were nice and they had very few nighttime emergencies. And the urologist that I encountered had told the best jokes in the OR and they were some of them superb surgeons. I said, I'll do that. But I really didn't know much about it. And then it turned out to be perfect because especially with my lizard experience and then human sexuality, that was a fit made in heaven. So these guys come to see me and they'd say, Doc, I'm desperate. This was 10 years before Viagra. This is 1988. And I said, don't you have something? My wife, my girlfriend, she's going to leave me. I'm desperate. I'll try anything. And I thought to myself, could testosterone work in men? Could men be like lizards? How far into practice were you? Just starting. Just starting. Just starting. I'd come out of residency. In six years of residency, two years general surgery, four years of urology, never once did we ever give testosterone. All we heard every week, like on weekly rounds, grand rounds, testosterone causes prostate cancer. You give testosterone, you have prostate cancer. And of course we were treating, get this, we were treating men with advanced prostate cancer by removing men's testicles, not lizard testicles, men's testicles. And this is part of why there's a misunderstanding, so much misunderstanding about testosterone and prostate cancer. Which is, and I'll just tell you, like some of this was obvious and impressive. There's a relationship, clearly. So back then, PSA was just beginning to be introduced. We didn't have a blood test to screen for prostate cancer. And so almost everyone diagnosed with prostate cancer back then was diagnosed when it was already metastatic and they'd come into the emergency room with terrible pain, pain in their bones. Prostate cancer goes to the bones preferentially. And sometimes we would operate on them to remove their testicles. And the same night after surgery, their pain was gone. And so the story made sense that lowering testosterone helped these guys. And if lowering testosterone is effective for guys with advanced prostate cancer, then raising it has to be dangerous. Like that story kind of made sense. Until it didn't. Until it didn't. Until it didn't. Did anyone think to challenge that? Because one doesn't necessarily equal the other. You remove the testicles, you drop their testosterone. Yeah. To what? Zero? Gabriella, it's an amazing story. I mean, it's really, and it tells us not only about testosterone prostate cancer, but how medicine works and how medicine can often fail us also. How you get these crazy bad ideas. I remember when I was like 10 or 12 or something, I'm at the beach with my parents and I had lunch. And then my dad says to me, my dad was a physician. He says, so you can't go swimming for two hours. Because you ate lunch? Yeah. Because I ate lunch. I said, why? He says, well, your digestive system needs the blood supply now that you've eaten. And it made no sense to me. But that was taught to doctors at the time who then told everybody else. It's just nonsense. Like don't eat eggs, right? Yeah. Yeah. The cholesterol thing turned out to be wrong. But for a generation often, these things are wrong. The testosterone story is wrong for 80 years. For 80 years now, it starts with 1941, a guy named Charles Huggins, together with his co-author, Clarence Hodges, took, based on experiments in dogs, they thought there was no treatment for metastatic prostate cancer. So guys would come into the hospital regularly through the emergency room in pain, like I mentioned. And is that how they would find prostate cancer? That's how they found it. Yeah. And so it shows up on x-rays, plain x-rays, as denser than bone, which is unusual for cancer. So you could make a diagnosis almost exclusively on that. And they used a blood test. They started to use a blood test called acid phosphatase, which we don't use anymore. But that was big for Huggins. And what he did is he castrated these men. And he showed that this blood test, acid phosphatase, came down when he castrated them. He also claimed that raising testosterone made the cancers grow more quickly. And because of that work, 1941, people stopped using testosterone. It was first synthesized in 1935, became available soon afterwards. And there was this golden period of about four years, where people wrote these amazing articles about the benefits of testosterone. Amazing articles. They were using it for men and women who had angina, chest pain from exertion, right? Where you don't have enough blood flow to the heart. With remarkable detailed case histories. I think the largest series was 99 individuals. That's pretty big series for the late 1930s, right? And very convincing and compelling. In 1941 comes the story about testosterone more or less causes prostate cancer, makes it very dangerous. And everything stops like cold. So that by the 1980s, when I was a resident, we never, ever, ever gave testosterone. For 40 years, men were castrated, not given testosterone, because of a few innovators. I have a question for you. Yeah. That seems extreme. So my question is, you know, just fast forwarding, thinking about, you know, I've been in practice since, I've been a physician since 2006. Yeah. That would be very extreme for an individual, no matter what their specialty is, to make a significant change, like castrate an individual, where there has to be some kind of reasoning where we know without a shadow of a doubt, perhaps that what you're going to do is absolutely going to benefit the patient, because there's no reversing that. Right. So that's true. But what made it compelling, the castration part? And they also used the estrogen treatment also, which they didn't know it lowered testosterone. They thought it just antagonized how testosterone worked. Meaning they gave estrogen or blocked it? Yeah. No, they gave testosterone. They gave, I'm sorry, estrogen as a form of blocking the testosterone effect. They both worked. But what was compelling about it was, just like I told you, that I saw in my own, with my own eyes, just talking to the patients who came in when I was a resident and we would remove their testicles and their pain would get better. This was the first treatment for these guys. Otherwise they just got pain meds. There was nothing else. And Huggins rightly won the Nobel prize awarded to him 25 years later. He didn't just work on, he was really the first or one of the first to ever show that any cancer could be sensitive to hormonal manipulation. And so other doctors would, did what he did. And they saw with their own eyes that this worked. So that became the thing. And it wasn't just, and where the things went awry is the idea, not just that lowering testosterone to severely low levels was beneficial, but it got thrown in with this idea that testosterone must be dangerous. And, and that's where things are off. How did you figure that out? Yeah. I mean, because you were the only one I'm assuming that was willing to challenge that or to think outside the box in a way that perhaps this wasn't right. Yeah. So here's, here's how that happened. And just to lay the, the background a little bit, the reason nobody challenged it is because there was testosterone had just started. There was no, we didn't think about it the way we think about it now. Right. So there's a lot of physicians now who are very pro testosterone. Let's find these guys who are doing poorly in one way or another. Let's make them feel better and their health better. Right. But that wasn't true back then. It was this new chemical that was available. And there was no doctor who had a huge number of patients in his practice that could say, now, hold on a second. I've treated 200 guys. This doesn't happen. They don't get prostate cancer. Those things didn't happen because it was a self-perpetuating concept. Like if you really believe it, you're not going to use testosterone. Why would you put your patient at risk? Totally. So nobody did it. And the only reason I did it was because of my experience with lizards and the desperation of some of these men. So I lined up when I started, I wasn't trying to change the world and I had no idea if testosterone would be good for him. No idea. But they were willing to try. And I told them this could cause prostate cancer for you. They said, doc, I'll sign anything. I don't care. I'm in trouble right now and I'll do whatever it takes. And so we tried a few things. And right away, what these guys said to me is, yeah, not only was sex better, sex drive, erections were firmer, but they said things to me I had never expected to hear. And I didn't really know what to do with it. They said, my wife likes me again. They said, I have four small children. I've never had so much patience with them before. One guy says, I wake up in the morning, I swing my legs over the side of the bed and I'm optimistic about my day. I haven't felt that way in 15, 20 years. And I wondered, maybe this is, you know, in medical school, you learn a lot about placebo effect. These guys were getting the male hormone. 30% should improve. And maybe this is a placebo effect, the non-sexual part. But what convinced me that it wasn't was that when I had to find out how do you treat men with testosterone? So I say nobody gave testosterone. There were exceptions, but they were rare. And they were treated by endocrinologists for these young men generally who didn't get through puberty, even though they were in their 20s, because of genetic issues like Kalman syndrome, Klinefelter syndrome, or they had pituitary tumors, or maybe they had lost their testicles, both of their testicles to trauma or cancer. So there were, in every city, there would be a handful of men with these rare conditions. And the endocrinologist learned how to treat those guys. But the idea that you could treat a regular guy without a pituitary tumor with two testicles wasn't known. So, but I went to the endocrinologist, the senior person. I said, how do you treat with testosterone? At Harvard or somewhere else? Yeah, at my hospital, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. And she said, oh, it's easy. You give 200 milligrams of testosterone, sepionate every four weeks. So that's what I did. And the patients came back. And what I told you, all the good stories they had to say were true. But every one of these first guys I lined up said, but doctor, I got to tell you, for a week or two before my next injection, all my symptoms comes back. What's up with that? And I joke that it's like a bad version of a double blind experiment, because the patient didn't know and I didn't know. I didn't know what was going on. So they feel so much better, and then they don't until I started checking blood tests on these men. And it turned out by two weeks, everybody's blood level of testosterone had returned to their baseline low value. And so what I learned from that, from the first three patients was that, because there's no way the guys knew what their blood levels were. I didn't know, right? I said, guys can tell when their levels are good. And they can tell when their levels are low. It changes almost on a daily basis. They can tell the moment that they drop. So I said, this is real. This is no placebo effect. And so that gave me, and they didn't get prostate cancer. Were you worried? You must have been. Oh, I was terrified. I was terrified. I spent most of my career terrified. I've been using Element for years and has really changed the game of electrolytes. It has sodium, magnesium, and potassium, all minerals the body requires. Sometimes we don't need more caffeine for energy, but what we need are water and electrolytes. I use Element daily, often in iced tea or just straight water between workouts or sip on it throughout the day to get more fluids. Pretty sure we could all drink more. Not that kind of drink. Element is a zero sugar electrolyte drink mix and sparkling electrolyte water made from a growing body of research. Each stick packs a meaningful dose of electrolytes free of sugar, artificial colors, and other weird ingredients. Element is formulated for anyone on a mission to restore health through hydration, and it is perfectly suited for athletes, those who are fasting, maybe you're on a protein-forward diet. If you are, we are friends. Low carb, keto, whole food, you name it. Get your free Element sample pack with any purchase. Go to drinklmnt.com slash drlion, and also try the new Element sparkling, a bold 16-ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water. Cherry lime is my favorite. That's drinklmnt.com slash drlion. And the reason I say that is not with every patient, but... Until it was proven otherwise. So, well, I'll tell you. So I pushed the envelope in a lot of different ways. So the first hurdle was just, can you give testosterone without making it so these guys get prostate cancer? Where it went next was that there were men who had like pre-cancers, we called them. Technical term is prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia pin, which we used to think meant if somebody had a biopsy and they had pin, we said, oh, there's got to be a cancer hiding in there somewhere, and we would re-biopsy them, like within weeks. And I gave testosterone to these guys with these pre-cancers. Nothing happened, published that data. And then gave it to men after they'd been probably cured of their cancer by surgery. We never, there's about a 15% recurrence rate after surgery. So you never know. And then eventually, near the end of my career, even gave it to men who had metastatic cancer or their cancers had come back. And at every point, I was still, I was still worried that maybe something's going to bad's going to happen to her. And? It never happened. Never once. So this metastatic cancer thing is amazing. So today, the controversy is, so I think everybody is clear out in the medical community, pretty much, that giving testosterone does not increase the rate of cancer compared to a placebo. The biggest study that we've had is called Traverse came out about a year and a half ago. In 2023, numbers of cancers in the testosterone group were 12. Number in placebo was 11. This is over 5,000 men, three years of follow-up roughly. It's the same. It's the same. And so that part is kind of clear. Giving testosterone to men who have prostate cancer, that's still controversial. But I've treated many hundreds and hundreds of men like that. Never seen anything bad happen. Do you think that, and this is a global statement, and partially I'm setting it up because I think I know your answer. Do you think that there is any, in any chronic disease state or for any reason that someone who has low testosterone from a safety perspective should not be given testosterone? I don't know. I can't think of any condition where that's a problem. You know where it comes up is there's still some debate about venothrombotic events, DVTs, pulmonary emboli, things like that. I think the data are clear. I've been involved in a couple of studies around this, and the Traverse Trial 2 showed nothing with that. But I'll tell you how people think and what they do. There was a guy, there's a doctor who has published on testosterone and this venous thrombosis risk. He's published a lot on it. And he believes testosterone increases that risk. So there's a epidemiology type guy who invited me to participate in research that he was doing, looking at this problem. And he invited that other doctor who thinks that it's a problem to be an author on the paper. The study comes out, or the data comes out, and we're all just discussing it. It's written up and it doesn't show any increased risk, none. And this guy's a very, his name's Jacques Bayargin, he's a very accomplished sort of public health researcher. And the fellow who thinks that it's a problem looks at the data and says, well, you didn't look at this and that. I think if you do, we're going to find more of these events. So Jacques goes back and he re-looks at the data the way this guy wanted him to, and nothing. At which point there's an interesting conversation with the other author and says, listen, you know, if you don't want to be an author on this, I'll understand it, but these are the data we have. And to that fellow's credit, he said, well, listen, you did the analysis. And if that's what it is, I'm happy to be a part of it, which is really the way medicine and science should work. So a credit to him. But where his original work came from is he took people who already were at risk for having DVTs and PEs. Like you can have clotting problems, right? Meaning did they have genetic disorders that make them hypercoagulable or a cancer or something else? Exactly. So some have the slide in five factor that predisposes to it. And so some people say, well, maybe you shouldn't give testosterone to those people. But this is not clear thinking. So people who are at risk for something are at risk for something. If you then add in something like testosterone, which has not been shown to anything, yes, they can get clots again, but it's not because of testosterone. It's because they're at risk for it, right? You might as well say... You just take a margarine. Let's see if that happens. Exactly. Exactly right. Yeah. So the answer is, listen, the big ticket items that we've worried about, prostate cancer, cardiovascular risk, those are now clean as far as I'm concerned. Like there's just no data to show that there's a problem. I think this is a really important conversation because I have one dear friend that I can think of right now that he would really benefit from testosterone replacement. Very active individual. He's on the lower end and we should talk about what low is and the numbers. And if you're 310 in the US versus 310 somewhere else, is it still low? But he is concerned about two things. He's number one, concerned about safety. And number two, he's concerned what other people would think that he is using it because they're worried about safety. And that just makes me think about the beginning of the conversation. When you went back to examine the data from, is it Hutchinson? Huggins. Huggins. Well, Hutchinson's not. Charles Huggins. Huggins. You went back and you looked at the original data that everyone had spent 40 years building upon. Yeah. Can you share what that is? Because I know at the time we were talking last night at dinner, at the time we didn't have the internet. So you actually had to go to the basement of Harvard to get the study. And I am just curious, as is the listener, what did it show? Yeah. It's an amazing story. So I started publishing data showing that this old relationship we thought existed between testosterone and prostate cancer wasn't true. And even published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Not without recourse, though. It wasn't easy to get that published. No. No, no. But we published New England Journal of Medicine, together with my former fellow, or Nanny Roden, that this in 2004, that we just could not find a single piece of evidence that supported this idea that testosterone was dangerous for prostate cancer. We couldn't find it. We didn't say it didn't exist. We said we can't find it. And the editors of the New England Journal, they didn't want to publish that. That was a crazy idea. Everybody was taught this around the world in medical school. It was a foundational concept in oncology that testosterone makes prostate cancer grow. It's bad. You can't use it. And they sent it out over the course of a year to three sets of reviewers. First, urologists. They couldn't find anything wrong with it. Then three endocrinologists. They couldn't find anything. Finally, to three oncologists. And listen, when we did it, I was relatively young. I thought maybe we missed it. I mean, I believed it until that, until actually I pulled all those papers, I believed that high testosterone must still be a problem in some way, even though I couldn't define it. But that's what I'd been taught. And then nobody could find any fault in what we'd written. So it was published, 2004. It took a year. And so I'm kind of on the lecture circuit within medicine and urology. And I'm talking about how we couldn't find the evidence, blah, blah, blah. And there's a great prostate cancer specialist named Paul Lang. And he was on the same faculty at this thing. I think it was at Vail. And we're talking afterwards. And he says, listen, Abe, this is really interesting stuff you got. You better be careful. Because it could be different in metastatic cancer. Huggins said so. So I'd heard, of course, of Huggins. Huggins is probably the most important, biggest character in all of urology. Prostate cancer is our biggest topic. He's the prostate cancer guy, Nobel Prize winner, the only urologist to ever win the Nobel Prize. So everybody knows Huggins. But we didn't have access at that time to articles online the way we do today. You can pull up Huggins' article now in 20 seconds. I'll give you a couple of keywords, but not then. Where articles, especially old literature existed, was in bound volumes of published journals. And in a department of urology or any department, surgery, gastroenterology, whatever, people would have their bound volumes behind their desk. But it's stuff that they had collected. And maybe it went back there in practice 15 years. They had 15 years worth of bound journals. I was very proud when I started getting my own journals bound. But nobody had articles that went back 40 years. To do that, you had to go to this crazy building that housed old stuff. It's called the library. People don't even know. Never been to the people. Yeah. And down in the basement of the Harvard. And so I went because this guy, Paul Lang, said to me, Huggins said so. Excuse me. And everybody believed it. And everybody practiced based on it. Yeah. 40 years. Well, we knew about it, but I'd never read his article. I knew what people said about his article. I knew what my former teachers taught me about his article. So at some point I said, I got to see what he wrote. I was nervous about it. And... Armpits were sweating is the whole thing, right? Well, to be honest, I had a good thing going around this testosterone. My patients were happy and I didn't want to mess it up. And in the end, I said, I got to do it. So I go down to the basement of the library. There are all these old dusty volumes. You take it out, you have to blow the dust off the top. And there it is, 1941, cancer research. And there's the article by Huggins and Hodges. And I read through it. And I had two small children at the time. And I'm thinking, I read through it in the last sentence. The last sentence of the article says, testosterone injections activate prostate cancer. And I was sick to my stomach. I was awful. My hands were sweaty. And I had visions of the Harvard police coming and arresting me then and there. And it being a big Boston Globe front page store that my kids would see, you know, the Harvard doctor arrested for ethical malpractice by giving testosterone. And so I forced myself to reread the article and just wrote down a few basic questions. How many men did he treat? For how long? And it turned out that the number of men he had treated, most of this was about the guys he'd castrated. The number of men he treated was only three. And of the three he had treated, he only actually gave any information about two of them. One of those men had already been castrated, which today we know is a special case. So this whole idea that testosterone causes, the general concept, makes prostate cancer grow, or as Huggins said, activated, was based on one guy who received testosterone for only 18 days. And his curve is uninterpretable. Goes up and down, up and down, before and after testosterone. It was amazing. We have to pause there. Why we have to pause is the gravity of what you're saying. People have to understand. Yeah. They were castrating men based on a belief from this individual who, again, is probably a phenomenal scientist. There were two viable patients in the study, maybe one viable because one was castrated. Only one. One viable patient. Yeah. Based on a way you guys were looking at this acid. Asphosphatase. Acid phosphatase, which now isn't even used, treated for 18 days with testosterone and changed the lives of millions. Yeah. Millions. Yeah. Of brothers, of fathers, of husbands. Yeah. What can we learn from that? Yeah. Yeah. I'm so glad that you're underscoring this point because, you know, I've done research for 50 years since I was 19. Since yesterday. Yeah. And all different kinds, right? Like randomized trials, pharmacokinetic studies, animal studies, basic science studies. My greatest discovery was actually figuring out, finding out that Huggins based this whole thing on one patient. And he was wrong about it. There was a misinterpretation of that information. And that's the basis why people around the world have learned for 80 years, have been told that testosterone activates prostate cancer. And later it switched. Huggins never said this, but people started to believe that testosterone actually caused prostate cancer, which it doesn't do either. There's no evidence for that. None. Zero. Nor does it make the cancer any worse. Unless, here's the thing, unless you're already castrated, which only happens if you've already been treated for advanced prostate cancer. And that's where people have messed up. Do you think that this is a bigger conversation about blind spots and critical thinking? Yeah, it absolutely is. You know, so the field has moved. I'm proud to have been involved in some of that. But man, it's hard. I've been railing at this point for so long. You know, I've been debating on stage at the national urology meetings, prostate cancer stuff for so long. And that's probably not a comfortable place to be. Well, I have to tell you, there's a part of me that enjoys that. I do. And especially because all the arguments are on my side. Like, it's an amazing thing. And to try and get people to open their minds. But these ideas die hard. I would say that the myth about testosterone and prostate cancer is the most persistent myth in medicine. It's been pervasive. And just the other day, I had somebody that I know who's in his mid-70s. He's got an uncertain spot by MRI of his prostate. So we went to see this prostate cancer specialist. He says, listen, we're going to biopsy it. I don't know that we're going to treat it necessarily, you know, given your age. And it may just be, you know, a low-risk thing. But if we find anything at all, you're going to have to stop your testosterone, which he's been taking for about 10 years with great success. Now, this is an academic center in a major city. There's no reason. It makes no sense that academic people are still saying this garbage to people. It's based on nothing. Why is that still happening? It's the same thing where someone says, don't eat eggs because they are... Raise your cholesterol. Raise your cholesterol. Yeah. Which they don't. But that's a whole other topic. So you know who said it best is... So old ideas die hard. And there's this guy, Max Planck, who won the Nobel Prize for physics. Somewhere in the 40s or 50s. And he wrote about new ideas. And I'll try and do the quote credit because I think it's great. He says, new scientific concepts do not triumph because the opponents to it have been convinced. And now they see all of a sudden see the light. It's because they die. It's because they die. And the new generation that's familiar with it grows up with it. And the short version of that is that science proceeds one funeral at a time. And you're not the first scientific expert that has said that. Right. So it's just amazing. People hold on. And what happens is people don't like new information. They don't like new concepts that differ from what they've been taught. I've had people, you know, early days, I had people walk out of my lectures. I gave grand rounds at important places like UCLA and elsewhere. And there was an older chief. And the chief always has the last word after the guest speaks. And I remember at UCLA, Gene DeKernian, who was a famous and very important, brilliant man. So some of the stuff I'm talking to you about today was not nearly as, it didn't have as many supporters as it did then. And he said, well, this is all very well and good. But, you know, I remember back in the day we had experiences that were completely different with that. So I'm not going to take it too seriously right now. Thank you to OneSkin for sponsoring this episode. I bring sponsors of products that I personally love and use. I first became obsessed with OneSkin because of one of my girlfriends. Her skin completely transformed, especially under her eyes, which I definitely have issues with. And I wanted to know what she was doing. And it was OneSkin. I've always had issues with texture on my own face. And I've tried a million and a half different products. I landed on OneSkin. It's really helped me personally transform my skin. I've been using their face broad spectrum sunscreen, their eye cream, their topical body supplement. I actually need more of that. It has a unique clinically studied peptide that helps with DNA repair. You can get 15% off your OneSkin with the code OneSkin.com. And the code is DrLion. That's 15% off OneSkin with the code DrLion. And that was it. He had the final word. The students are there. The residents are there. The other faculty are there. And it's just hard. Some of the old ideas have to just... The people who hold them don't want to change their minds. There's a lot of evidence that people confronted with evidence that contradicts what their beliefs are actually double down and they hold their beliefs even more strongly. It's just so fascinating. And I think especially... You know, we all have bias. Right. Right? I believe that there's a certain way to stimulate muscle. And I believe that muscle is so important and how we're going to feed it and nutritional aspects of it. And it is a struggle to remain open-minded about other input. But I'm well aware that there's multiple ways to get something done. And if you show me well-done, randomized control trials, great evidence, then I have to be willing to change my mind. Right. You know, it brings me to testosterone, testosterone replacement. And there's a few things. There's incredible stigma now still. Would you agree with that? Which stigma? Just take out testosterone and prostate cancer. Yeah. Take out testosterone and cardiovascular disease. If one were to just look at testosterone replacement in a man or a woman, people still feel like it's edgy. It's controversial. Yeah. It's an anabolic, which it is. Yeah. Why do you think that that is? And then, of course, I want to get into if someone has low testosterone, how do these numbers make sense? Yeah. And how are they different here versus other places? Yeah. So part of the challenge is that testosterone is still considered by many to be fringe medicine. Right? And the reason for that, in my opinion, is that it's not taught in the medical schools still. So people, you know, we have remarkable amounts of information, wonderful scientific data about testosterone. What's amazing about it is that it's a natural chemical in the body. And it's also true in all these different animals. All the vertebrates have testosterone or something very close to it, including fish. And so we have natural models to even look at testosterone. The wealth of research into testosterone is phenomenal. Right? And yet, people, and we have studies in the top medical journals in the world. Right? New England Journal has really liked all the RCTs about testosterone. JAMA has published it. We have stuff in Lancet. All the top journals have data on this. And sort of the regular physician who wants to keep up with the literature, you know, they trust those journals. But it hasn't impacted what they do. And part of the reason, and so what we have is, we have a medical condition, testosterone deficiency, used to be called hypogonadism, where people have too little of it, men or women. Men get most of the publicity around this. And it's better studied in men. But it's true for both. And do you know that testosterone deficiency is either predicts the development of or is associated with many of the most important medical conditions we deal with in healthcare? So obesity, diabetes, the metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease, mortality, dementia, osteoporosis. These things are all associated with the deficient amount of testosterone in the body. And beyond that, these men, let's focus on men for a moment. These men have symptoms that often make them, I say that testosterone deficiency is a reduced state of the human condition. There are data, I told you there was a golden period of testosterone research from the late 1930s to about 1940. 1940, this guy, Dr. Joseph Obb, AUB, writes an article in New England Journal of Medicine that says this is one of the most potent medications that we have in our armamentarium. And they describe men who were basically, they called them broken men back then. Broken men, that was the term. There were these men who just, they lacked confidence. They were quiet. They were introverted. And they got testosterone and they became better. Now, I suspect that we didn't have blood tests back then, not until the 1970s. I suspect that many of these men who underwent these trials had extremely low levels. And the lower your level, the more of a benefit you're going to see, right? And the more the low level is going to impact who you are and how you carry yourself. But men, this makes a huge difference in how people live their lives. And so the fact that it's not yet accepted by what, you know, I'm a mainstream doctor, but I'm going to call this not accepted by mainstream medicine is our number one problem. And what gets compounded then is that because there's a tremendous need, people now know that testosterone deficiency exists. They know somebody, they heard of somebody who got treated. They say, maybe I can get some too. If the regular primary care doctors aren't treating it, they go elsewhere. And so some of the docs that are doing this are docs that the sort of, I'm an academic guy, you know, it's like science-based, but the academic docs see that those groups of physicians and they say, I don't want to get involved with that. I don't think that well of those practices. Do you think it came from sport? Do you think it, because maybe potentially it got demonized from sport and anabolic use? Part of testosterone's problem is it has a bad rap. Yeah. It has a bad rap. Yeah. Because what drug, we'll call it a drug, or naturally occurring hormone that one could give could affect bone, brain, heart. Blood vessels. Blood vessels. Everything. Nearly every organ system, yet it is not routine. You don't go into the hospital and it's not as if 50% of the hypogonadal or testosterone deficiency in men, it's being treated. Right. No, we're treating a tiny fraction of the men who have it. And it's funny because in some ways, testosterone is, the men who really need it don't get treated, not enough of them. And a lot of the men who don't need testosterone are getting it, right? Through whatever, gyms or, you know, there's a trend to give it to people who aren't even deficient. You know, I have some. Can we talk about that? Yeah, I have feelings about that. I would love to chat with you about that. Let's define testosterone deficiency. Good. In terms of numbers and when one could consider treatment. Yeah, good. So I think there's broad agreement, and I certainly agree with it, that people should be treated if they have low levels of testosterone, they have either symptoms or what we call signs. Symptoms are things that people experience, like my sex drive is down, signs are something you can measure, like their hematocrit, their red blood cell count is reduced, or their bone density is down. It's something you can measure. So traditionally, all the guidelines say you should have both. The challenge is, what's a low level of testosterone? So, and critics of testosterone therapy say, the experts can't even agree on what a low level is, and that's true. And that's true. And part of it is that some of the decisions about what a low level is has been arbitrary. So, you know, the FDA uses a number of below 300 nanograms per deciliter. And if you look at any of their writing, they have no citations for that. There's no reference that says where they got that number from. So, the urban myth that I think is true is, based on talking to people, is that when there was a first new testosterone product brought to the FDA in the late 1998, I think it was a patch. The FDA said, well, you have a drug that's supposed to normalize testosterone. Please tell us what a low level is. Fair. I mean, that's totally fair. And so, they had a very senior expert. And he said, well, people disagree on the number. But some people think it should be 400. Some say 350. Some say 250. And free testosterone was not discussed. Nobody's talked about. We have to talk about free testosterone. But nobody's – that has been part of the conversation forever. And so, this guy said, apparently, to the FDA, I think 300 is a fair number. Not defined on age. So, Matt, my producer, could have 300. And my dad, Nate, could have 300. And let's say it's 310 for both of them. Right. Could we treat them? Well, of course you can if they have symptoms, in my opinion. The idea that there's a – first of all, the idea that there's a single number that separates everybody is just – it's anti-scientific. Right? Like, we're not like – we don't work like that. Our bodies are not – we're not clones of each other. Right? You do research in animals like rats. They're all the same genetic strain. They're all basically identical twins. That's not true for humans. And we all have different set points for a lot of different things. People can tolerate cold, heat, pain. Like, we're all different with all these things. And true also for when people become symptomatic in terms of having low levels of testosterone. But it's worse than that. It's worse than that because what a low number is, is defined by specialty and by geography. So, the endocrine – And geography. Geography. Because you have to say that because you've got to pause on that. Yeah. So, get this. So, in the United States, the endocrinologists, their guidelines say you have to be below 264. Urologists say 300. FDA says 300. Guess what happens in Europe? In Europe, they use 350. I ran an expert panel on testosterone some years ago, which we published. And we had a couple of European guys. And there's one guy from Europe who says if they have symptoms and they're under 400, I'll treat them. But that's not the guideline. No, it's not guidelines. So, geography. So, if you have a guy like 310 in the United States, you go to a primary care doctor. He says, it's normal. I'm not going to treat you. If you go to Europe, they say, oh, yeah, you're low. We'll treat you. Well, that doesn't make any sense. If you go see an endocrinologist, they say, you could have a testosterone at 275. The endocrinologist said, according to the guidelines, you're normal. I shouldn't treat you. But the same endocrinologists that write that have also performed many of the most important studies we have where they use values under 300. Or in some cases, they had one they said, we wanted unequivocally low levels, 275. But that's not even what their numbers are now. Now it's even lower. So, what is – and also, age doesn't matter, right? It doesn't – Right. Well, according to guidelines. According to the guidelines. Yeah. And as physicians, we are taught to treat according to guidelines. Yeah. What does that mean for the well-being of the patient? Yeah. So, you know, listen, I'll give you my take on guidelines. Guidelines is an important – has been an important step forward in the last – it's really only in this century, you know, the last 20 years or so. And it's really – they provide guidance. But they're not the rule of law, right? And in the end, it's a group of individuals. You could have 10 people sitting in a guideline panel. And they all might practice differently. 10 different ways. But they have to come up with basically a consensus document. So, they might say, okay, let's say 300 is the number. So, they put that out. And maybe they have other requirements too. How many times do you check? Does it have to be morning? Does it have to be afternoon? And at the end, after putting that out, they all go home to their practices. And they can still practice differently than the guidelines. 10 different ways. But people think, oh, it's guidelines. There's a clear way, right way to do things and wrong thing. And you can't deviate. No, not at all. I think guidelines are helpful for the novice, in my opinion, that gives you a general sense of what's probably safe to do and in almost all circumstances conservative. But I think once a physician or a healthcare provider gains a certain amount of clinical experience, clinical experience can, in my opinion, often outweighs what the guidelines say. Is there a saturation point? So, what I mean by that is, would there be any benefit from going, if someone was taking 200 milligrams of testosterone, up to 400? And we're not saying that we recommend that. But would it affect all tissues equally? And how do we think about is more better if we know testosterone is great is just in terms of a safety profile, if at all? Right. So, let me use that question to get back to solving the mystery of testosterone and prostate cancer. Like, how is it that lowering it is helpful, but raising it doesn't seem to be dangerous, right? And the answer is the term that you used, which is saturation, that I came up with in about 2007. And then together with my dear colleague, Abdul Tresh, we really put the finishing touches on it. And what saturation means is that if you started out either prostate cancer cells or prostate cells or animals or humans with essentially zero testosterone, you give them more testosterone, prostate tissue does need androgens, testosterone-like substances, in order to grow. True. It's a requirement for them. But it turns out that the maximum ability to grow maxes out at a relatively low concentration of testosterone, which looks like it's around 250 nanograms per deciliter. So, there are studies, and I'm a part of one, Mokira, that you mentioned, published another one, where if you have men who have levels below 250 and they get testosterone, the PSA, which is a marker of prostate activity, goes up. If they start with a testosterone above 250 and you give them more testosterone, nothing happens. So, that's saturation. Imagine a sponge with water, you can put it on a scale, has a certain weight. You add a little water, it absorbs it, the weight goes up. You add more and more water, at some point it's saturated, it can only hold so much water. Adding any more water doesn't do anything, right? So, it's maxed out. And different prostate, it looks like the saturation point, is around 250. Different tissues are different. So, you know, men who are castrated or undergo treatment, so medical equivalent of castration, get hot flashes just like women in menopause. It turns out, and we call that vasomotor instability, like the blood vessels and whatever is sensing it centrally in the brain goes crazy, right? But it turns out that if you let a guy's testosterone get back to about 100, which is an extremely low number, it's gone. No more vasomotor instability. So, whatever that is, that saturation point is probably around 100. Prostate's around 250. But a lot of guys at 250 still have symptoms from testosterone deficiency, like low libido. And some of that probably gets satisfied at numbers around 500, maybe 600, depending on who the guy is. That's saturation for that symptom in the brain. So, that's what saturation is. It's a brain. Some of this is brain symptoms. Yeah. Listen, my lizard stuff. Testosterone is a brain hormone. Yes, it also works on muscle and fat and all these other organs. But it's a brain hormone. Absolutely. So, one thing that's interesting is that it's far... So, the question comes up, if somebody who doesn't have low testosterone takes testosterone, what's going to happen to them? Great question. Yeah. So, this... Sorry, I didn't mean to take your job. Wonderful. No, no, you're doing great. But it's related. Yeah. Forgive me, forgive me. Please. Yeah. But this is part of... Because we have all kinds of people that listen to the show. And let's say a woman is listening for her husband and she's concerned that her husband is on testosterone. Right. Or that he doesn't need it. Right. We have to be able to rethink about these conversations. And because the ultimate outcome that we want is health and longevity. Right. And muscle. Yeah. Which is all part of the same, right? Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. So, what if someone isn't low and if we were to define... But let's say they are on the lower end, 350. Sure. If you increase someone's testosterone, I mean, you had mentioned that there might be brain effect at 400 or 500. Is there a number? Well, what happens if someone is not low? Or how would you define not low? And if you give them testosterone, what would happen? So, what I mean by not low, in some ways, the easiest way to define is it's certainly well within the normal range. And that individual has no symptoms. Right? They just say, I think I might be better in some way with testosterone. So, if you have a guy with... Let's look at sex drive, for example. A guy who's upper end of normal, we often define as around 1,000. Okay? So, if you have a guy who's 900 compared to another guy who's 700, which they're both well within the normal range, they're going to have, on average, the same amount of libido. As a matter of fact, you can take the same guy. Let's say you could manipulate his hormones at 700 to 900. Nothing changes for him. Not erection, nothing. Because his testosterone is normal. The one area that does not seem to max out is muscle. Is muscle. And that's why the bodybuilders, the athletes who are taking anabolic steroids, that are all versions of testosterone-like compounds, versions of testosterone, why they can have muscles on top of muscles on top of muscles. Right? So, anybody that's on normal amounts of testosterone therapy, just trying to get them maybe to the upper, into the normal range or the upper end, or even if they might slip a little bit above it here and there, it's not a problem. I've treated thousands and thousands of men. There's nobody who walked into my office looking like just regular muscular, who walked out like super built. This episode is brought to you by Timeline. Remember, we set standards, not goals. And one of the core standards that we should all set is having healthy muscle. And that starts with robust mitochondria. There are various ways to get healthy muscle. That includes an amazing resistance training program. It includes dietary protein. And if I were to pick one supplement for muscle health and mitochondria, that would be MitoPure. It's a precise dose of a postbiotic urolithin A. And it works by promoting essential cellular cleanup. And this process clears out old dysfunctional mitochondria. I would make a mother-in-law joke, but I'm not going to. And Timeline has done an incredible job at leading the way from a science perspective to bring you the only clinically backed urolithin A on the market. And I will tell you what, I've been using urolithin A for years. My husband uses it. My friends use it. And here's why. We have better energy. We recover faster. I feel like I have more endurance. And it really helps me meet my physical standards. And I know that it will help you too. And by the way, there is more and more research coming out on urolithin A. So go to timeline.com slash Dr. Lion, and you will get 10% off your order. That's timeline.com slash Dr. Lion, 10% off your order. I think that this is an extraordinary product. And I think that wherever you are on your training muscle journey, that it's going to benefit you. You need to get levels that are 10 to 50 times higher in terms of testosterone equivalents to start doing this. So what would that look like? Would that be a total testosterone of 5,000? So here's the thing. Most of these people don't actually use testosterone or maybe part of their regimen. So they stack. They use multiple agents that do this. And some of these agents have never been really tested in humans. They've been used in cattle and horses, for example, like Winstraw. And they seem to be more potent for the muscle effects rather than sort of the libido effects and things like that. But in terms of testosterone equivalency, in terms of muscle potency, some of them are more potent. And the reason that testosterone works differently in muscle is muscle has an extra receptor for testosterone. So for almost everything testosterone does in the body, there's one receptor, which is a chemical that binds it. It's called the androgen receptor. In muscle, there is a second receptor that's bound to the cell membrane. It's called the G-protein coupled receptor. And it's hard to see. I'm not sure that there's an upper limit to how much you can get with testosterone through that second mechanism. That's fascinating. And I'm sure that there is a muscular potential for an individual. And maybe one could only get so big. Or maybe if they use anabolics, then it would overcome that muscular potential. It would be really fascinating. In terms of free testosterone, that's what is that? I won't put words in your mouth. Is that what you care about more? Yeah, I'm so glad you asked. So, you know, the everyday scenario that I hear about is that somebody goes to the doctor. And they have symptoms of low testosterone. And their testosterone comes back in what is called low normal range, right? So, let's say it's 310 or 320 or 350. And the doctor says, well, you're normal. Almost all of those men will have low levels of free testosterone. And the short bullet is that free testosterone is the most reliable indicator of a man's testosterone status. So, I hope I don't get too sort of nerdy with this. But your viewers can handle it, I'm sure. Yeah. So, listen, so when you measure total testosterone, what they do is they take a certain amount of your blood. And they measure how much testosterone in total is there per little unit of blood. So, it's measured in nanograms per deciliter, a tenth of a liter. But testosterone circulates in three forms. More than half is bound to this carrier molecule called SHBG, sex hormone binding globulin. And what's important about that binding is it's so tight that testosterone can't come off it. So, if the testosterone attached to SHBG is just floating past a cell that's saying, hey, give me some testosterone. I'm hungry for testosterone. Testosterone can't get in there. That portion is not biologically available. Most of the rest is attached to these other proteins in the blood like albumin. But it's weakly bound. So, it goes on and comes off, goes on and comes off. And so, when that cell is saying, hey, I need some, there's enough of it coming off of that that it can get in there. And 1% or 2% is free, which means not that the test doesn't cost you anything, but that it's unbound. Unbound. Unbound. And what gets through that cell membrane is the free testosterone only. So, testosterone is lipophilic. It likes lipids. The cell, all cell membranes are lipid bilayers. It's like like, likes like. And it can just go right through it. It doesn't need any carrier proteins. It doesn't need sodium channels, calcium channels. It just gets into the cell that needs it. And so, the free only makes up 1 or 2% of the total. So, as we get older, our SHBG rises and it tends to bind more of our testosterone. And so, most of that isn't available to the cells. The total can look normal, but actually the free may be low. How would, you know, this makes me think about women who go on birth control and increase SHBG irreversibly. Yeah. How would, and perhaps it's different for men and women, how would they increase free testosterone? Right. So, SHBG is, the beauty of free testosterone is it's unrelated to whatever SHBG is doing. So, SHBG is binding up a lot of the testosterone that gets measured in that blood test. But the free testosterone is just hanging out doing its thing. So, it is whatever it is. It's either low or it's normal or potentially it could be high if you're on treatment. And so, it's unrelated. But what it means is that women who have been on birth control pills, and women in general tend to have higher SHBGs than men do, it means that their total testosterone is even less reliable in women than it is in men. And so, in order to properly interpret what a man's status is, you either need to get a free testosterone test or we always measure SHBG. And you can actually, there are these online calculators. You just put in the SHBG value, the testosterone value, and it'll spit out a number for you for the free testosterone. And when I asked about how to increase the free testosterone, would that be one would have to increase the dose? So, if for some reason someone is on 150 milligrams a week of testosterone, and the free testosterone is still in the lower range, you would have to increase to 200 or even potentially beyond? Yeah. I mean, so, what happens is that the total testosterone number, when SHBG is generous or high, is unreliable. It's going to look like it's fine when the person is really deficient, right? But if you give testosterone, the free will go up and the total also goes up. And so, when I have somebody where there's a discrepancy, so most of the time when there is a man who has a lot of symptoms, we say, oh, man, his blood tests are for sure going to show low levels of testosterone, and his total comes back within the normal range, it's almost always explained by having low levels of free testosterone, which usually goes along with generous levels of SHBG. The treatment is the same. The treatment is the same, and the goal of treatment is not to get the total testosterone into the normal range. The goal is to improve the symptoms that the man is having and hopefully resolve them, and they will resolve if it's hormone-related. But because these guys with elevated or generous SHBG levels already may have good total levels, I always tell the patient, and I put it in the record because other doctors will see these notes, that the total testosterone is likely to be very high with treatment because we're treating a free testosterone. Because oftentimes, providers and the patient will become concerned. Yeah. That their free testosterone is outside, or their total testosterone is outside of normal range, but their free testosterone is barely there. We're, you know, barely over the minimum. Yeah. I have a very prominent patient who has a lot of doctors, and he's just like that. His total testosterone is fine. His doctors didn't think he needed anything. His free testosterone was low. And his total testosterone was mid-range normal. I don't remember the exact number. It's many years ago since we've started treating him. Let's say it was 500. Yeah? And most people say, oh, that's robust. Right? And, but he had all the symptoms. He had low free testosterone. So we treated him, and all his symptoms got better. It's interesting. This is a man who was on top, who should, you and I would think that everything he's done, he should be on top of the world. But he wasn't. He's a guy like everybody. And when testosterone is low, he wasn't who I thought he should, he would be. He was really struggling. Yeah. And, you know, life is hard. Like it just is. Right? We have challenges every day, whether you have small children, elderly parents, difficult relationships, work. Like life is hard. And what I see testosterone doing for a lot of people, even if they're not like out and out miserable, is they lose what I call the critical 5%. There's a certain way that you, for example, are successful because you've got drive and passion and skill. But if you lost a little, 5% of you, you could get through your day. You could do podcasts. You could write. But it would be a chore for you. And you would lose some of what it is that makes you, you. And that's what I would see with a lot of these men. They'll lose their sense of humor. Right? They lose their sense of play. They lose their reserves. They lose their learn.