 gulibund, What is coming out of your lab, What is coming out of your lab, What is coming out of your lab and why? Yeah. So we're still doing blood flow restriction. Right now we're finishing up a dissertation looking at submaximal exercise in combination with blood flow restriction. But we're also looking at some of the cross-education effect, trying to better understand what may or may not be driving that with blood flow restriction. Cross-education being if I train my right arm but I don't train my left arm, under certain circumstances, my left arm can still get stronger. So that's one of the things that we're kind of looking at with submaximal exercise. And then we're getting ready to do some kind of work on blood flow restriction and the cardiovascular response to see if we can really tease out if there are people who are responding much greater than other people to the same type of exercise. It's a little bit harder to do that methodologically than I think most people kind of realize. But that's one of the things that we're starting. So yeah, still doing blood flow restriction. And do you think you'll always do blood flow restriction? I think so. We generally always have something going on with blood flow restriction. For a couple of years there, we kind of got interested in cross-education, even with just traditional exercise. So with the blood flow restriction, that early work, that's what led us into start questioning kind of the relationship between changes in muscle size and changes in muscle strength. So we kind of have that as another avenue that we have been trying to investigate for the past probably five, six years now. Yeah. I mean, you have a wonderful paper, which will link because I am very curious. I have my own thoughts. And I think that you might even change my mind about muscle mass and strength. I'm fully open to that. Highlight for us what blood flow restriction is. And by the way, I did blood flow restriction. I have a tendinopathy, a hamstring tendinopathy. And I was one of those people that wrapped my leg in a band, assuming that this was blood flow restriction. Just a band. Yeah. Total bro. Shout out to Don Saladino at Drive in New York. And I decided we had been sending patients for a blood flow restriction under the guidance of a PT. A lot of our military operators do it for recovery. I did it and it is very painful when you are doing it appropriately, when you are doing appropriate levels of occlusion. Yeah. Tell me what is blood flow restriction? Yeah. So essentially it's applying a cuff or a wrap at the proximal portion of the muscle that you're looking to affect. So really the only two places we really put them is at the top of the legs or the top of the arm. So basically right here on the bicep. So the very, very top kind of overlapping this way. And what you're essentially doing is you're inflating it to a pressure that is affecting how much blood flow is going in and occluding a lot of the blood flow that's leaving. So what it does is it creates kind of a cell volumization effect. So the arm swells. And that might be useful. I think we're not sure. But that's essentially what it's doing. What it does is it makes the muscle work a lot harder than it normally would. So when you're doing submaximal exercise, so training at 20 or 30%, you know, away from failure. So using 20 or 30% of the most weight that you can use, staying away from the most amount of repetitions that you can do. It makes that muscle work a lot harder than it would if it didn't have the restriction on it. And when you do that repeatedly, two of the common things that we commonly focus on is the muscle gets bigger and it gets stronger. And does it get bigger in a statistically significant way? It does. And stronger? It does. The strength will kind of depend upon what load that you're using. If you're using around 20 or 30%, you'll get stronger. If you get down to 15% or body weight, sometimes that might not elicit strength. You know, there's a specificity component there. Um, muscle growth, um, that will change to levels that you will see with normal exercise. So the growth that you see from training with low loads in combination of blood flow restriction is similar to high load exercise. Strength, a little bit different, a little bit less. Uh, but growth is very much the same. Isn't that, that's, um, one would not anticipate that in my mind. You would think, and yes, a lot of the literature says that strength and mass are not the same, right? One could be stronger without getting any kind of hypertrophy effect for blood flow restriction. For the listener, this could be, I don't know, 15 pounds. If you can squat or leg press a lot, it could, you could easily get a significant pump or where you're going to get a pump no matter what, because you're including blood flow 15 pounds. Right. Um, most people may not know their one rep max, but just from a perspective standpoint, it's a very low weight. Right. Right. Yeah. Could someone is just, we kind of lay the foundation. Are there variations to how much someone would restrict or occlude blood flow? 80%, 50%, 30%. Is there a diminishing return? Yeah. Yeah. So, um, what you're describing is typically how we apply blood flow restriction, like a research lab or a clinic. So as a percentage of arterial occlusion pressure. So what that means is you can think about it similar to blood pressure. Um, whatever cuff you're going to use, we apply it to the limb that you're getting ready to exercise. And then we basically slowly inflate that cuff until we get to the lowest pressure of which there is no blood flow. So that would be a hundred percent arterial occlusion. Right. And then we take a percentage of that. So the question is, is, is there a pressure that's better? Um, I don't know that we know that. Um, I think for muscle, it, I think it's probably fair to say that there's a wide range that you can use and still see a lot of benefits of 40% to 90%. Uh, we've seen very similar changes in muscle size between those two pressures. So have other labs, um, which is important. Yeah. Right. It's, uh, replicatable. Yeah. Now there could be, there's other adaptations that exist outside of muscle size and string. So sometimes like changes in the vasculature, like resting in blood flow, um, that might require higher pressure. Um, so that might require more 80% arterial occlusion. Now, a couple of things, um, the percentage is just the percentage of arterial occlusion. So if you apply 80%, that just means it's 80% of the pressure required to cut off blood flow at rest. It doesn't mean there's an 80% reduction in blood flow. So it's not a linear response. Uh, those are different. Yeah. That sounds important. Also, if someone had, um, an unhealthy vascular system, they probably would get greater. I'm just speculating a greater occlusion at a lower pressure. Would that potentially be right? Um, I don't know. I guess I could see it maybe going either way. I mean, I guess the, what a lot of the people who are using it in the clinics would say is that if you'd measure it, you'll know what their arterial occlusion is. Um, now a lot of the clinical work is applying a higher pressure. Um, now is that needed? Um, I don't know. Um, I think it would be pretty ridiculous for me to approach clinicians and go, the pressure is too high. You can use a lower pressure and get similar adaptations because we've seen that in my lab. And that's true. We have, but, uh, we're also doing a lot of exercise. We know what the one RM is. We know how many repetitions they can do. Um, when you're in a clinic, you're usually not one RM testing someone. Right. So you're usually the best guess. So maybe a higher pressure might make sense. It's not going to be worse. Um, but as you noted, the higher the pressure gets, the more discomforting is. So that's a, there's a trade-off. Why would someone use blood flow restriction? And again, people, there's always another hack or hype. And, you know, we've all seen, what is it? The shake wake and all these other crazy tools. You don't use that? Um, no, Lane does. Lane definitely does. That's what I saw. I'm using it. I know. I know. Um, is this that another hyped up tool? Um, is it a hyped up tool? Probably. Yeah. Um, but. No, I don't think it's not a fad. Um, you know, blood flow restriction as we use it has actually been around for almost 25 years. Um, I'm not good at math, but the first published paper was 1998, how we use blood flow restriction. So it's been around for a while. Um, and there's a lot of research behind it. Um, do you know where it originated from? Japan. That's where a lot of it came from. Um, so a lot of the early work was coming out of there. Yeah. Why would someone use it? Yeah. So I think, um, this is a great question and probably when you get asked all the time. Yeah. And, and, you know, people who are able body, they go, why would I use that? It's the same benefit as high load exercise. And my response is then don't use it. I don't care. Um, but you know, it could be a way for someone who cannot lift heavy weights to get the benefits of lifting heavier weights, right? So you're getting the muscle to get bigger than it normally would. It's getting stronger than it normally would at the same load, right? Uh, we're at a very, very low load. So I think that's one benefit. Um, there's also some suggestion that if you can't even contract the muscle voluntarily, that if you apply blood flow restriction, um, inflate and deflate it, that maybe it can slow down the loss of muscle. Now that's interesting that that literature is not as solid as the resistance exercise. So, um, I don't have a lot of confidence in that. There's some studies going both ways. A lot of the ones that show a lot of benefit are from a long time ago, right? Um, but there's a lot of literature behind low loads and combination with resistance exercise. So if you, if you, um, don't have an injury, some people might go, well, why would I use it? Um, as I said, you don't have to, but you know, anybody who's training for long periods of time might, it might be used to just useful just to, you know, um, shift things up a little bit, keep you a little bit motivated, trying something new. Um, or if you go into the gym and you have a, just a nagging injury that you just don't want to test it out with a high load, then use blood flow restriction until you can get back to lifting heavier weights. I'll see you then. Thank you.