 which I think, which I feel like we need to touch on, and I was in preparation for this, I read a statistic that said, and we're just talking about opioid addiction, um, as you had mentioned, there are multiple avenues for addiction, that opioid addiction, and we should define what opioids are, killed last year, 70,000 people, you said maybe 80,000 more people that then that were killed in, Vietnam, Afghanistan, and Iraq wars. That's absolutely correct. And by the time this interview is over, about eight to 10 more people will have died. It is a horrific epidemic. And it all started with Purdue Pharmaceuticals and OxyContin in the early 90s. So the 90s, this is not opium type of, you know, you hear these stories about the opium dens and all of that. Can you define what opioids are? And, you know, we're talking about opioids, but again, I suppose the first question is, do you think that that's the biggest problem? Well, certainly other addictions, like for example, alcohol addiction is an incredibly serious and dangerous situation as well. The difference with opioids are, and especially now with fentanyl, which I'm sure we'll discuss, is that there are so incredibly deadly that people often don't even have a chance to get help. They die before there's even a chance to get to the first treatment episode. And so that- Why is that? Because they take a dose and that's life ending? Or because 20% of people, maybe 20% of people ever get treated? It's because of just how deadly it is. And especially now with fentanyl, which is the most powerful opioid that we've ever seen. It's changed the landscape because even a granule, a speck of fentanyl, and by the way, they're mixed into everything. They're mixed into what look to be Adderall pills, into Xanax pills, mixed into cocaine. So even if you- The reason this has changed the landscape completely is because before, you know, it was sort of understood. Okay, well, you have an addiction and that's very dangerous. And if you keep doing it, you know, death is part of that condition. But a lot of people said, but it's not my family. We don't have addiction, that kind of a thing. But now, I mean, to not worry that your adolescent child is going to experiment or try one thing one time at a party. And you are now at a very high risk of sudden death from experimenting with anything. And I mean, and that's why it's just utterly changed the landscape. That's terrifying, first of all. What I'm hearing you say is that we went, you know, when we were in high school, you know, I mean, I actually am pretty straight-laced as a human. That's, that may be, you might argue that, but there are lots of parties that kids go to. I mean, I went to lots of parties. I'm sure you went to lots of parties. Matt, no one likes him. My producer definitely didn't go to parties. But people are experimenting. And that's probably a natural part of, there's, I don't know if there's any way to protect our children from that. And now what you're saying is, it is a totally different ballgame. It is. And it's petrified. You know, as a parent right now, you know, I would imagine that if you have, if you have a child that's, you know, 12, 13, 14, 15, that age range, it is, it is frightening. It is frightening. And it has to change. The country has to come together. And, and really there have to be some specific changes to stop fentanyl from, there's flooded into every town in America right now. And can you define what, what drugs fall into the category of opiates? Sure. So opiates are a group of pain medicines, a class of pain drugs that bind specifically to our, we all have these natural opioid receptors in our brain and throughout our body. And when these drugs bind to those receptors, they release a lot of dopamine into the brain. And so one of the effects is that we feel less pain, but along with that can come a dramatic change in how we feel emotionally as well. It, a lot of people feel euphoric, reduced anxiety, increased mood. So it becomes a very, a drug that many people can wind up liking more than just for what it does for them to help reduce their pain. And it works specifically on the dopamine reward system. It does. Okay. That's right. What are the names if someone is thinking, okay, well, is Vicodin opiate? Is it Percocet? What are the drug names that one would think of when they think about legally available opioids? Sure. So hydrocodone is Vicodin and oxycodone is Percocet. Percocet has Tylenol in it, but essentially oxycodone is, is, is what's in Percocet. We have Dilaudid, which is hydromorphone. Fentanyl is, of course, we've all heard of that. That is- Fentanyl come on the market. So fentanyl has been around as a prescription drug for a long time. I don't know the exact year it was approved, but, but fentanyl in prescription is typically given in a patch form where you wear a patch and the medicines slowly released over say 72 hours. Okay. The fentanyl that we're dealing with now is very different. Now that fentanyl in the patch form is extraordinarily powerful and, and was part of the, what the opioids that, that caused tremendous addiction, um, even before the illicit fentanyl came. So, you know, the prescriptions were being abused constantly as well. But the fentanyl you see on TV right now, that's, that is being smuggled into the, uh, into the United States through the Southern border. Hmm. And to be clear, these are all still given in the hospital, right? Um, Dilaudid is given the hospital. Patients are still prescribed Percocet, Vicodin. You don't have to be in the hospital. I mean, I mean, listen, because the, the headwinds have changed and, and doctors are very frightened. A lot of, uh, physicians went to prison for the very first time, uh, you know, relating to anything about prescription medicines. Uh, so they're very scared, um, as they should be. And so it's gotten extremely hard actually to get these drugs. Now that the pendulum has swung in the complete other direction. Um, and so, you know, but, but not that long ago, they would prescribe them very easily. And that's ultimately how we got here. Yeah. Tell me a little bit about the history. So the, you know, I, I think that addiction definitely affects everybody. And so everyone knows someone who is, uh, struggled with alcohol or drugs at some point, um, or know someone that lost someone, but opioids particularly seem to be top of mind for you. Um, uh, a little bit about the history and why, how, how did we get here? So essentially the worst villain is, uh, Purdue pharmaceuticals. They made OxyContin in the mid nineties and OxyContin is a powerful opioid drug. Now at that time, opioids were only prescribed for very serious situations for end of life, hospice care, metastatic cancer. Um, maybe for a few days after a major surgery, but that was it. But Purdue figured out that, Hey, if we can convince doctors to write these drugs, these opioid pen killers for everyday aches and pains, like arthritis or headaches, then there's no limit to the amount of money we can make. And so they hired a massive sales force, uh, to basically go out and deceive doctors, um, in which they, they basically told doctors that because it's a long acting formulation, that the medicine was an extended release type of drug, that it's not addictive. There were no studies to show that. Of course, they just said it as if there was, and look, a lot of doctors knew better. Um, and they got kickbacks from the company. Um, they, they were, you know, for speaking for speaker presentations, they never did. They got a lot of money for that. Some doctors realized that they were addicting people, but you know what? Their practices were, they were building all these huge practices, just basically getting people hooked to the drug. But then there were some well-meaning doctors too, you know, doctors over-prescribed them. Like we over-prescribed antibiotics. They wanted to help their patients and, and they really were deceived about how the risks of these drugs. And so, um, with- How does that even happen? It seems like the FDA is pretty tight on various things, like say female Viagra, but somehow they were able to get a nation addicted. Yeah, it is, um, pretty wild. Uh, well, what happened was actually, um, by, within like five, 10 years of this happening, um, the amount of, of addiction, overdose deaths to opiates had skyrocketed to such a degree that it, you could not ignore what was happening. And so they were getting hundreds of lawsuits by, mostly by parents who lost their children to addiction. And in basically about five years ago, I think 2019, they started getting sued by actual states in the country and they piled up. And now every, every state in the country has sued them basically for the amount of money the states have to now have to, to cover the destruction, the death, all the problems they had because of the opiate crisis. And, um, the Purdue, Purdue has to now basically pay back around $8 billion. They went into bankruptcy. Uh, it's still going on. Um, but it was, it was just horrific. And, um, and ultimately, even though they got the Purdue, um, the Purdue, uh, it, it lives on now through fentanyl and other drugs. Thank you.