 Are sweeteners, quietly damaging your DNA? Are sweeteners quietly damaging your DNA? Are sweeteners quietly damaging your DNA? Are sweeteners quietly damaging your DNA? Is ozempic slowly killing your parents? And why are millions of people suddenly terrified of seed oils, food dyes, and even carrots? These aren't fringe theories anymore. These are the viral headlines shaping how we eat, how we think about health, and how we live. And yet, very few people are asking, what does the science actually say? I'll let you in on a little secret. Nutrition is dangerously oversimplified. In this episode, I'm joined by Dr. Nick Beringer, Army Ranger, performance nutrition expert, and one of the most respected minds in overall health, to break down controversial high-stakes questions dominating today's nutrition landscape. In a paper in 2023, the Journal of Toxicology looked at sucralose, and they found it converts to sucralose-6 acetate, which is genotoxic. It can damage DNA cells. It's probably not great for you. We're not here to follow the hype. We're here to challenge assumptions. Unpack the evidence and figure out what's really at risk when it comes to your health and longevity. This episode can be your filter. Dr. Nick Beringer, nutritional physiologist, which I love that term. You are a great friend, and I'm going to read a little bit about you, which I think that everyone's going to be quite impressed. I know that I am. You previously served as the director of the U.S. Military Baylor University Graduate Program in Nutrition. You also served as an assistant professor at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Really slumming it. You were the first active-duty dietician to graduate from the U.S. Army Ranger School. Wow. And you served with the 75th Ranger Regiment. Well done. One more thing, not trying to embarrass you at all, but you got your degree in dietetics from the University of Georgia and your doctorate in kinesiology from Texas A&M. You are an incredible speaker and a wealth of knowledge. And what I love about you is not only do you research and publish, but you have very practical experience. So welcome to the show. Thank you so much. That's a great introduction. I'm hoping I can live up to it. Oh, you will. You already have. You are, I would say you are the only elite military dietician that exists. Is that fair to say? Maybe there's been three others in their entirety. I mean, there's definitely now. There has been others. And there's others out there. And there's great dieticians working at special operations. Actually, you know, that's right. The SOCOM has their own team of dieticians. So actually, shout out to you guys. Yes. Christy Logan. Yes. I know Christy Logan. Christy Logan. Yes. Christy, we got to get you back on. Oh, you haven't been on, but you should be. She should be. No, brilliant. So yeah, a lot of great dieticians working in special operations. And I tip my hat to them. Yes. I suppose I should thank you for your service. And I'll do that now. And everyone else should as well. So thank you. Why did I want you on the show? Well, there's a lot of trending information right now. You and I were sitting down before laughing about how we love our Celsius. I remember when I would visit Shane on post and it was like, um, Rippets. Yes. Rippets. Yes. Celsius. What else do they have? They have the definitely Uncrustables. Yeah. They have a whole host of, uh, uh, items in, uh, the military. Like the little shop ads. Oh yes. The shop ads. Yes. But where I really wanted to, to start with sucralose, also known as Splenda. And, uh, I was looking at this paper. This is an open access paper in nature and it's the title of the paper is the dietary sweetener. Sucralose is a negative modulator of T cell mediated responses. And I have to say, I love sucralose and our doctor, Dr. Lisa Hunt, who's also my doctor is probably cringing at this because it is an artificial sweetener and it is calorie free, sugar free, tastes amazing. And I'm pretty sure that it's damaging my DNA. Yes. Sadly, that is the case. Cause I'm with you. I love sucralose. I was telling a story about a friend of mine who, you know, was, was down on it 10 years ago. And I was like, no, no, there's, there's no worries. There's no concerns. What did he say? It was, it was ant poison. Um, shout out to Martin Rooney. Uh, so now in a paper in 2023, um, the journal of toxicology looked at sucralose and they found it converts to sucralose six acetate, which is genotoxic. It can damage DNA cells. And it, you know, at a very small, uh, dose can, can do that. And so that is a concern. So, you know, one concern is as the products get processed, could some of that be getting converted naturally in the manufacturing process, but there's also a paper using animal models that have shown in the gut, some bacteria can convert it up to 10% of the sucralose you take in can get converted to that sucralose six acetate, which is no bueno. That's not good. And, um, so sucralose is also Splenda, right? And you can, it's readily available on tables and it's about 600 times sweeter. Yes. Than sucrose. Would you think, or would you consider it safe in very small amounts? I mean, I'm looking here. It says that the consumption, it can be detected with a consumption of 250 milligrams of sucralose. Again, I don't know what the average amount is in a drink of say like Celsius, which by the way, uh, you and I, I've been to your house and I, you have a lot of, you're going to tell me, my wife bought that. She bought that Celsius. Oh, Catherine. Um, but to be clear, what is the data in humans versus animals? Yeah. So in the paper, uh, the toxicology paper in particular, they were talking about the microgram level. I am not being, I can't pull it off the top of my head of like what that specific dose, but it was at the microgram level. So you would exceed that through probably most people consuming their beverages. With that being said, obviously it ended with more research needs to be done. Um, if you're using sucralose to replace sweetened beverages for weight loss at this point, I wouldn't say that's a bad practice, but it's definitely something to consider. And I wouldn't be consuming, you know, diet beverages willy nilly. Do you happen to know what else, what else contains sucralose? Is it a diet Coke situation? Uh, I know Coke zero, right. Uses, uh, sucralose. Um, I know a few of the other, uh, beverages. I don't drink a lot of sodas, thankfully. So, so I would have to look, uh, at the label. Um, but, but that would be something to consider. Although it seems like people are starting to use more like stevia and I am seeing more like monk fruit on labels. You know, I think that monk fruit and stevia are both great choices, but I will say unless it's done well, they seem to have an aftertaste. If you were to prioritize artificial sweeteners, sucralose is out for you. I got to let your wife know. Celsius is gone, but you're okay with monk fruit and stevia. Yes. What about aspartame? Um, aspartame is another one of those that it's, it's probably not great. I think it's, um, for the world health organization classifies it as a possible carcinogen. That's right. That's right. Is it, is it? Yeah. The category like 2B. Um, so again, you know, if you're somebody trying to lose weight, cause I, cause I don't want to throw out the baby with the bathwater, right? Like if, if you have an individual who's drinking a bunch of regular soda and they're really struggling to lose weight and the diet soda is kind of their gateway to, to help them lose that weight. As of right now, I wouldn't say, oh, you know, don't do that. Um, but if you can reduce your, your diet soda intake, I think you should probably do it. Uh, especially when it comes to sadly sucralose and aspartame. Um, and I am looking at fda.gov and this is the FDA's response to an external safety review of aspartame. And there is something called the, it's the IARC and it's the international agency for research on cancer. And I will say, um, we have to be really careful about how we view some of these big committees and these international agencies because the IARC also classified red meat as a carcinogen. And if you were to look at David Klerfeld's response to that, who was actually on the committee, they threw out randomized controlled trials, they use epidemiology, and there were things that were really concerning to, um, almost prove a bias, which is unfortunate. And, uh, you know, I don't know if anyone has biases towards aspartame, probably not. And, but it's just interesting if we're looking at two sides of the story. So it says that the FDA disagrees with the IARC's conclusion that these studies support classifying aspartame as a partial, as a possible carcinogen to humans. And again, I think that there's a lot that we know and a lot that we don't know, but certainly whole foods is best, but, uh, you know, I am someone who does have some aspartame, I'm sure gum. Yes. Yeah. Or xylitol is probably more of what I get from my, so you make better choices than I do. No, I'm not saying, I'm not saying. You should. And you probably, it's probably good for the oral microbiome. Yeah. When you were looking at the artificial sweeteners like sucralose, did you find something that was actually more surprising? For example, what am I getting at? Something that you weren't expecting. Perhaps it's influence on the gut microbiome. Perhaps it's influence on immunity. Was there anything that kind of stuck out to you as people are just trying to make decisions? Well, the gut microbiome, I kind of knew that I'd seen that research, the DNA damage and the leaky gut. I was, that, that's what's concerning. And that was what was more recent in the 2023 paper. So, so again, it, it does give me pause. It makes me, okay, let's reconsider it and look at it. Uh, I don't want to, you know, discourage though people who are using diet sodas as a way to lose weight, right? It is a way to control their, their, you know, caloric intake. Cause I still think that seems to be a net positive. Um, but as of right now, yeah, we, we should definitely investigate the artificial sweeteners. You know, more, more research needs to be done to look at it, to be like, Hey, is it, you know, really good for us long-term? And then to your point of, you know, what's that dose look like? You know, is it, is it one Celsius a day, half a Celsius a day, or, you know, or, you know, or, or what is that? Right. What about food dyes? Like red dye, number 40, yellow, number five. Are these harmful or overhyped? That's another one that they're probably not the best, particularly when you look at the research, like with children and like hyperactivity and ADHD. Um, you know, I've, I taught my daughter to read the labels and she'll, she'll find, I did. Yeah. So she'll see it. She'll be like, daddy, this has red 40 in it, you know, and, and the dyes, I think are, an easier stance to take on because you don't really need them. That's a great point. You don't. Yeah. It's, it's not like I'm craving a soda. And so now I need, you know, I want, I want to get to scratch that itch, but I want to get it calorie free kind of like with the artificial sweeteners. I feel like you don't need the dyes in your life. Uh, so if you can get, you know, a, a beat based dye product, why, why not go that route? And so that's, that's how we do it in the Barringer household. So I love that. That's just practical advice. And I will say that red dye number 40, it looks like it's made from petroleum. And, um, is again, it's a synthetic color additive used in foods and beverages to give it a cherry red color. Um, the, it looks like the, it is the food and drug cosmetic act prohibits the FDA from approving a color additive that is ingested. If it causes cancer in animals or humans when ingested, you know, and then you look at some of the further data and the dye again, this is also depending on the dose. It seems to cause cancer in rats. Uh, I guess this was from 30 years ago, but they, the FDA did make a decision to revoke the authorization of use. Um, and this was from a petition in 2022. I suppose the question is why does it take so long to remove from our food system? Science. I mean, you, you've done studies, you know how long they take forever and there's no guarantee that it comes out. Yeah. I mean the, the IRB process alone. Right. And then, you know, to recruit participants and then get it and then, okay, now you've, uh, published, you know, your findings. Now somebody else needs to repeat the study, et cetera. So it just, it takes time, you know. Do we know why? Have you looked at the data in terms of hyperactivity in the dyes? I have not dug deep on that one. Um, yeah, I'm curious. Like what, what it's doing to like a, a child neurologically, whether it's interfering with some of that signaling that, that I can't, uh, speak to intelligently. It looks like, um, from what I'm reading in this, this is on, um, yellow dye number five. And there are certain children that might be more sensitive to these dyes than others, which would make sense. I'm sure with, um, sucralose that individuals that have a very robust microbiome, they probably can tolerate it without any, uh, issues. But for those that are sensitive, it looks like, uh, from the data it can cause irritability, maybe restlessness or sleep disturbances. And, um, you know, I, I really like what you said that if you don't have to use food dyes right now, we don't have to, why would we? Yeah, exactly. Are you ready for another major bomb? I am ready. I don't know. Are seed oils like canola and soybean oil toxic? And how do you, as someone who is a nutritional physiologist who has worked, um, with some of the highest performing individuals begin to pick away at what is data and what is hype? I have yet to find, and we, you know, we've talked about this, right? Like that smoking gun study that they are just terrible, horrible thing. Um, with that being said, there are some papers that show, you know, especially when they get oxidized at high heat, that that can be, uh, problematic. Um, and you know, we get so much omega-6 in our diet already that, you know, an excess of it could also might not be optimal. Uh, there are papers, you know, a lot of times that link omega-6 to inflammation, but there was one study that looked at it and they didn't see any, you know, movement and, um, uh, C-reactive protein or anything like that when you, when you took in more omega-6s. So, so kind of still, uh, you know, to be determined, but I would say a practical application here would be, you know, there's, there's probably some better options out there. I love avocado oil, you know, use that as pretty heat stable. Um, if I'm going to put something on my salads rather than a canola or soybean oil, I'm going to use olive oil. Um, but you know, if, if that's what you have, then that is, but I would just say there's some better options. Even, you know, coconut oil is, is more, even though it's higher in saturated fat, um, there are papers that show even elevated coconut oil intake doesn't affect your, your LDL like other saturated fats. So, you know, I would say there's other options that I would utilize over seed oils. But I want to say, you know, that they're inherently poisonous. I think it's a really important point. I, you know, we had Kevin Mackey on who is the former president of the Lipid Association. Oh, he's got to ask. I mean, he's got to ask. And I asked him and really looking at the data and he's published a handful of really great articles on this, that the data wasn't there to support that the seed oils and canola oil and soybean oils, these polyunsaturated, um, oils were inherently bad, which I think is surprising. Again, they are unnatural. They're processed. I absolutely agree with what you're saying in terms of this high heat processing. Our consumption of them have increased exponentially over the last 30 years or so. Is it really this ratio of omega-3 to omega-6, um, fatty acids in our diet that's driving inflammation? And also, what about the foods that these seed oils are in? Possibly baked goods, all these other processed type foods. Yeah, you're definitely getting a lot of it in there. And so, so any way that you could reduce the consumption of omega-6 and then obviously increase the consumption of omega-3, I'd say is going to, you know, point your, your health in the right direction. I'm always looking for easy, meaningful ways to support my health, especially gut health. Since, of course, that's where good health starts. Well, that and muscle. That's why I've added Amra Colostrum to my iced coffee. It's a whole food supplement packed with over 400 bioactive nutrients like protective antibodies, prebiotics, and peptides that help strengthen immunity, support digestion, and optimize performance. Amra uses a unique technology to preserve these nutrients in their purest, most bioavailable form, which is why it stands out from anything else I've seen on the market. I also love that they are third-party tested. So you can trust everything that's listed is actually in the product. Go to tryarmra.com slash Dr. Lion or use the code Dr. Lion at checkout. But again, I would never say that, you know, seed oils are poisonous or, you know, kind of like you, you might see on the internet. I would also really agree with you on that. And I think that the data just doesn't support that. In the Behringer household, do you guys happen to have canola oil or any of those other high heat cooking oils? We have, well, you've seen our oils. Oh, yeah, just put me on the spot. We have avocado is what I use. I use mostly avocado. I use butter. Butter is delicious. You know, it does pretty well in heat. And then, you know, putting on the salads, a lot of olive oil. So if someone was going to use these seed oils, how would you say, what are some other foods that would be great for increasing the intake of omega-3? In terms of omega-3s? Just food. Oh, food? Yeah. I mean, obviously fish. To say they're balanced. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, any sort of fish you can get in the diet. I love sardines. And, you know, I do a lot of, like, nutrition talks. And I always tell people this. I'm like, look, sardines are great. They're small, non-predatory fish. So very, very low in mercury, right? You don't have to worry about the heavy metals with them. High dose of omega-3s. They travel well. You can throw them in your bag in those little cans. And trust me, everybody listening to me right now, try this. Get on an airplane. Open up a can of sardines. You always make a friend. Every time. First of all, you should not be allowed to fly if you are opening up the can of sardines. Nobody wants to sit next to you. But, uh... You always make a friend. Quote me on that. Questionable. Not a nice friend. They probably are really... They're done with it. But I love what you're saying. You're making a practical statement. And we do travel with sardines. I can't say that I eat them. My kids love them. You've never opened it up on a plane. Of course. No. No. Just one time. No. Just one time. I'm still allowed to fly. But I think it's a great source of protein. And also, you can get calcium, omegas. And again, you don't worry about heavy metals. Which, you know, there is a lot of discussion about heavy metals and protein powders. Yes. Should we worry about that? I think so. A hundred percent. Like, you know, especially... What was it? It was the plant proteins that were the highest. And some of them that were classified as organic. So you should know where everything you put in your body comes from. So if you're going to take whey protein or you're going to take a plant protein, you should be aware of what that company's practices are. Is it, you know, NSF certified safer sport? I like to use that with myself and my athletes. So make sure that it's tested and it's heavy metal free. Why do you think there were more heavy metals found in plant-based proteins? Because the soil. Wherever you're sourcing those plants from, whatever the practices are in that country, you're going to get more heavy metals. There was, at one point when I was at the U.S. Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine, we were looking at honey. Like using local honey where soldiers were to possibly, you know, reduce the effect of some allergies. And that was the other thing we found is like, same thing with honey. In those, you know, certain countries that maybe don't have the strictest codes in terms of what happens to those metals from plant processing, the honey had a lot higher content of heavy metals. You know, that's not surprising. I don't know if you know this about me, but I use honey all the time. So I use something called Manicora honey. Oh, yes. Have you had it? Yes. It's amazing. So they test it. They test it for contaminants, which would make a lot of sense because you're eating something that's highly concentrated. You know, I do worry about plant proteins. They haven't been around in, you know, for human consumption for a long period of time. You're consolidating a ton of bioactive ingredients from the pea protein, not just the protein, but there are other, again, bioactive ingredients, just like with whey. Right. Whey protein has lactoalbumin, lactoferrin. These are other compounds that are positive for the immune system and various other processes in the body. I don't know. And again, is whey processed? It is. Yes. But it comes off of a practice that we've been utilizing, which is cheese forever. But these plant-based protein powders are really manufactured and we're concentrating a form of protein that we would not find in nature at all. I had never thought about that. But no, that's a great point. And, you know, for me too, again, because I have no issues consuming animal products, but just the flavor profile I find in the plant protein. Because I've tried them, it's just, you know, it's always chalky. I can't get away from that. When your clients or when you're working with a military operator or a CEO or someone like that, and they can't tolerate whey protein, whether it's isolate or a concentrate, and they don't like the flavor of a plant-based protein, is there something else that you suggest for them to do? I have not had that situation, thankfully. With that, I mean, then it would be, you know, some sort of, maybe we would go with a protein snack in terms of, there are a lot of different, for lack of better description, like, you know, meat sticks. I know a couple of those. Yeah, right? Shout out to my husband. No, I'm just kidding. Yeah, a lot of, poor Shane. You know, a lot of, you know, dehydrated, like, meat products. I know there's even, like, a salmon jerky that a company makes. And so I find a lot of those simple solutions and stuff they can kind of keep at their desk. But luckily, I haven't had an issue where anybody, you know, couldn't consume whey protein. Well, for our patients that cannot consume whey protein, we typically use some kind of animal blend. There's egg white protein. Oh, yeah. There's animal-based. So they'll have a beef isolate, which is obviously collagen is not a complete protein. But there's, you know, egg white protein. There's other animal-sourced protein powders that are, they don't taste weird because it sounds gross. Yeah. But they're amazing. And they're really just easy to consume. So if you are listening and you're thinking, I can't use a whey protein. I don't like a rice pea blend or a pea or a hemp. There are animal-based protein powders out there. Yep. That can be totally usable. Speaking of eggs and diet, what are your thoughts on the best diet for, let's just say, for building and maintaining muscle, someone who is 40 years plus? I know someone, 40. Yes. I look at that person in the mirror every day. I see that individual. And you go, gosh, I am so good looking. No, I mean, you know, this isn't going to be probably anything earth-shattering, right? It's, I try to eat, you know, lean mostly sources of protein. Which would be what? So I'm getting, you know, I love, I love bison. Me too. I love elk. It's one of the great things about living in Texas. I think, you know, you go to the grocery store, we can get venison, we can get elk, we can get bison pretty easily. So I have those. I might even made that one time on the grill. I don't know if it was a... No, what you made was pizza. Pizza. Okay, I did. I made pizza. You made pizza. I made pizza. So by the way, listeners, watchers, Nick Beringer, again, military family, very, very good friend of ours. And our kids are close to the same age. We just all have a blast, which makes things even more fun. Yeah, yeah. So I guess I made pizza that time. But normally when I... Burnt pizza, by the way. It was burnt. It was a little overdone. Oh, yeah. Yeah, that was. Okay. That wasn't the best representation. I was learning a new grill. But otherwise, yeah, you know, bison, venison. I like that. You know, grass-fed beef, steak, eggs. And then fish. A lot of salmon. And then, you know, vegetables. That's it. What about carbs? Oh, yeah. Some fruit, rice, sourdough bread. I like sourdough bread. You guys eat a lot of fermented stuff at your household. We do. We do. That's another one. I like my sauerkraut. My wife's half Korean. So we have kimchi. I like, you know, the fermented, like, pickles and olives. So, you know, I do get a lot of that in. And then yogurts as well. When you are thinking about designing a diet for someone, again, just picking someone about building or maintaining muscle over the age of 40, just arbitrarily pick that number. How do you think about how much protein they should have? How do you balance the carbohydrates to support muscle health? What are some of the thoughts and practices that you tell people to follow? Well, for, you know, for the protein, I think we're on the same sheet of music, like the whole, you know, gram per about pound of ideal body weight. Like, I'm going around there. You know, protein is the focus I build around. Also fiber, trying to get people, you know, to get 35 grams of fiber, 40 grams of fiber. Do you know what the average American intake is? Probably less than 20. I mean, I'm sure. I know that we're supposed to have 25 grams per 2,000 calorie diet, but I think fiber intake is very suboptimal. Oh, yes. Yeah. In the American diet. Probably, you know, more suboptimal than protein. Right. You know what? That's absolutely right. I was looking at the, have you ever seen the healthy eating index? Yes. You have. The healthy eating index is, I believe it's part of the dietary guidelines or it's in, you know, it's kind of under the umbrella. And the healthy eating index defines what we should have and where we're at. And I was recently looking at the data because I was giving a talk and it was something like 95% of Americans are not eating enough fruits and vegetables. Oh, yeah. Period. And to answer your protein question, 45% of individuals were below the healthy eating index recommendation for dietary protein. And I'm going to point something else out. The healthy eating index, the protein is higher than the RDA. It's not 0.8 grams per kg. Oh, wow. Yeah. And there's this constant flurry of people saying that we're eating too much protein. The data doesn't support that. 45% were below that recommendation for the healthy eating index. No, I can see that. And so, I mean, that's why like I build, you know, kind of my meal plan for people like around like protein and then fiber as well. And then with carbohydrates, again, I think we have a similar stance in that I'm like. More is better. Yeah. Not more is better. Especially, again, is that individual over the age of 40? I have to earn my carbohydrates now more than ever. Whereas, you know, Nick at 20, 25, I didn't really think about that as much. But, you know, as you get older, I think you do. You have to respect carbohydrates. Otherwise, you're going to end up with type 2 diabetes. Right? Yes. And right now, what I'm hearing you say is your protein is close to 1 gram per pound target body weight. It's interesting. I always use the term ideal body weight. And as I'm thinking about it, there is a formula for ideal body weight. But you and I are not talking about that. We're talking about your personal ideal body weight. You could swap that out for target body weight. Yes. It is where you feel your best. It's simply, it's as simple as that. And when you are working with someone and thinking about how to optimize their body composition, because let's face it, over the age of 40, people seem to gain weight. It's not a good look. It's not a good look. And if we care about health and we have to take action and we really have to design a mindful nutrition plan that shouldn't be overcomplicated. One gram per pound target body weight. The RDA sets our carbohydrates at 130 grams per day, which, have you looked at the data? The obligatory carbohydrate use in the body for glucose is 80 grams a day. Wow. And the RDA is set at 130 to make up for the standard deviation of, you know, to cover everybody. But the dietary guidelines, now this is going to get a little word salad-y and kind of number heavy, but I want you guys who are listening to really think about this. Because the recommendations that we're hearing and what it's set as, if the body requires 80 grams of carbs, say for brain, red blood cells, number one, carbohydrates are not essential. Your body can make it through gluconeogenesis, through protein that you eat. Also, carbohydrate disposal. Let's talk about this for one second because I've done all the numbers with myself and my colleague, Dr. Donald Lehman. And for a sedentary muscle, the glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent over a two-hour period for a sedentary individual is not above 40 grams of carbohydrates. Wow. Meaning, if you are not training and you haven't worked out, you are committing carbicide. Your body cannot dispose of more than 40 grams in a two-hour period. Anything above that begins to distort metabolism and you store it as fat. But the dietary guidelines, their percentage of carbohydrate ingestion for a 2,000 calorie person is set at 45 to 55. Yeah. So 45 to 65 grams of carbs. So on the low end, it's 225 grams of carbs a day. That's an additional, what, three hours of exercise over the 130 grams? You're a pretty fit person. Are you doing that kind of exercise? No, not always. Well, you know, chasing a two-year-old is surprisingly, but yeah, no, I mean. Axel is not that fast, my friend. You haven't seen him lately. He's great. But no, I mean, wow. Well, that's, there lies the problem, right? About every snack, you know, I'm trying to think of like what snack bar or, you know, or general, you know, a bag of chips, right? You're going to probably exceed over 40 grams. Exactly. Yeah, yeah. Pretty easily, right? And it just, you know, again, I think that you and I have the same mission, which is how do we help people get to their healthiest version? And with all the information out there and you've got the RDA, which is recommended dietary allowance, and then you have the dietary guidelines, we're all trying to make sense of what individuals should have, especially as we get older. When you're young, you're very anabolic. You have lots of hormones. Your son Axel could probably look at a little piece of chicken and he's already, he's anabolic. He's growing. But for us, we have to, I look great for 25. For us, we have to, go ahead and you can laugh at that. It's hilarious. But no, frankly, we have to learn to adjust our nutrition and kind of tune out the noise. Because if we go back to the fundamentals and we just look at the science, the minimum, you know, the RDA is 130 grams. That's above what we need, especially if we are inactive. And then the dietary guidelines, we are fighting an obesity epidemic, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, but the carbohydrate recommendations and what we're willing to tolerate is absolutely astronomical. And from a metabolic standpoint, we are not balancing our food with our muscle needs. And I think that that's where the real problem is. And our guidelines are at 45 to 65% of our calories should be coming from carbohydrates. Well, and I think part of that is when you look at those guidelines, you're saying like carbohydrates. It's kind of like if you just say red meat. Are we talking about 70-30 hamburgers? Are we talking about elk? When we talk about carbohydrates, are we talking about a bag of chips? Are we talking about an apple and a banana? Great point. Right. So I also think that's in there to be considered as well, you know, because fiber is going to slow that rate of glucose into the bloodstream. But yeah, no, I mean, either way, yeah, we're probably overdoing it. A lot of people are overdoing it on carbohydrates just based on that. Just based on that alone. And we already know that 50% of the population isn't moving. And there's no such thing as a healthy, sedentary individual because that's a disease state in and of itself. So when you think about carbohydrate dosing, do you think about carbohydrate dosing for your CEOs or people that you're working with? Again, the austere environment of a military operator. I think the biggest challenge that we're dealing with, and I had Jess Gwen on. Yes. She's amazing. Shout out to her. We did an episode. We should link to that up here. You guys can check that out. And the challenge with the military operator, right, in these austere environments as tactical individuals, you can't even get them to consume enough because they are moving so much. So it's at one extreme to another. But from a carbohydrate standpoint, do you think if someone is not training and they are sitting at their desk, how do you dose carbohydrates throughout the day? So you start with one gram per pound of target body weight, which anyone can calculate that. The carbohydrate, how do you begin to teach people that? I usually, and it's simple, kind of look at it like a plate. I use kind of, you know, put a plate in front of them. And if they're not that active, half their plate is, you know, a non-really, you know, heavy carbohydrate, like, vegetable. Like, I take peas, potatoes, corn. I put those in kind of the carbohydrate category. I put, you know, a quarter is a carbohydrate and a quarter is a protein. And then we go from there and structure and kind of like, okay, so, you know, you can put half your plate, your broccoli, your carrots, your cauliflower, your kale, you know, your other leafy greens. You can put your starch, your potatoes, your rice, you know, here and then here. This is where we're going to put our sirloin, our chicken, our turkey, what have you. And it's like, if you kind of eat like that, you're going to be doing better than most of the population. And then if they train a little more, I open up the carbohydrates, you know, by a third. By a third, meaning you increase the carbohydrate? Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So if it's, you know, if you have like one of those CEOs or executive athletes or, you know, I've worked with people who like, they do intelligence, right? So they look at screens and, you know, they take in information. But some of them like to run. Some of them like to ruck. And so, you know, if you're doing like 10 miles, then obviously you can have more carbohydrates, right? Nick and I talk all about carbohydrates in this episode. And one of those carbohydrates that we talk about is honey. And I will tell you what, I actually have been using honey for about a year, but not just any honey. And this episode is brought to you by the honey that I use, which is Manicora. When I've had a long or taxing day, which feels like every day, and I need some extra fuel, I turn to Manicora. I think of Manuka honey as a functional carbohydrate. It's not just sugar. It's packed with prebiotics and antioxidants that support digestive health and your immune system. So it's serving a dual purpose, not just adding empty carbs. And one of my favorite ways to enjoy it is with apples, with my family, and of course, peanut butter. We use this incredible honey in teas, especially when someone has a sore throat because of its powerful medicinal properties. Honestly, we use it anytime we need a natural sweetener. You can check out their website to learn more. Head to manicora.com slash Dr. Lion to get $25 off the starter kit, which comes with an MGO, 850 plus, Manuka honey jar, five honey travel sticks, a wooden spoon, and a guidebook. You guys will absolutely love this incredible honey. But those days that you're just sitting in front of the computer screen and you just do a quick weightlifting session, 30 minutes at the end of the workday, it's going to be a little less. And so that's kind of how I play it and then see how they respond. Because I find, and if there's any dietician out there who has this code cracked, please share it. You've got to experiment with the individual a little bit. It's like, okay, Gabrielle, we're going to do this, do this. Eat this way for a week. Tell me how you feel. Feeling low energy? Feeling high energy? All right, let's up this a little bit. Come back on this. How's your weight going? If your goal is to lose weight, how much weight are you losing? If you're losing weight too fast, that's a problem as well. Why is that a problem? Because you're probably losing muscle mass. Terrible. Yes. So with this ozempic craze, which by the way, I think ozempic and these GLP-1s are tremendous drugs. Yes. But the rate of weight loss is so fast that 50% could be lean tissue. And lean tissue could be bone, it could be organ, and it could be muscle. Yes. Not good. Right. And then as these individuals age or if they already are older, now increased risk for falls, all those other issues. So I definitely think the medications are to be respected. I mean, you're a practicing physician, so you're the more appropriate person to speak on this than I am. But yeah, I think it's a tremendous tool. And I listened to your podcast with Mike Izzatel. Yeah. Did you say that name right? Man, that was a great podcast. You guys talking about kind of the future of what's coming down the pipeline. So I think that it's exciting and it's a tool for individuals who previously really struggled to lose weight. But it's definitely something to be respected and it should be paired with exercise and protein and good nutrition. For the carbs, I agree with you a million percent. Is there a baseline recommendation that you don't go below? I'll give you an example. So Ted Naiman is a friend and he is really one of the OGs in this space. And he doesn't go below 100 grams of carbs a day. Do you have a threshold for where you're going to operate? Yeah. I mean, I think that would make sense for most people is not to go above 100. And then, or below or above? Or pardon me, below. Below. Yes. Thank you for having me. Below, yeah. I mean, I think usually I would say like 150, but 100, I'm okay with that. I wouldn't. You would not go below that. No. And I was looking at some of this other data and basically you'll burn from what I read. And I'm curious as to how you do it because you did, you co-authored and it was the ISSN, which is the International Society for Sports Nutrition Position Stand on the Tactical Athlete Nutrition. This came out in 2022. And the ISSN, they're amazing. They come out with these guidelines that really help put together an evidence-based view. Would you say, from what I understand, from 40 to 70 grams of carbohydrates, typically you have to be above 120 beats per minute and you can dispose of depending on how intense that activity is. Do you dose carbohydrates based on their level of activity in that way? Do you calculate? Do you think, okay, this person is going to be doing this kind of run training because they're going to be training for two hours. If they're going at a slow pace, they're going to be going through 40 grams of carbs per hour. How do you think about that for someone who's listening who wants to put into practical application? Yeah. Usually I think the general rule is 30 to 60 grams of carbohydrate per hour. Now, it depends on that individual, right? If you've got a marathoner like your husband who's trying to go as fast as possible, then it might go beyond that. And that's mostly, I think the lead person you'd want to kind of look at in that would be Dr. Asker Yukindroot, right? Because, you know, he's done some things with his athletes. I think they've went up to like 90 grams per hour. Runners. I know there was a paper with, I think it was mountain bikers that went above 100, which would be hard on the gut. But again, we're talking about if you're trying to go as fast as possible, which the average, you know, generalist is not. And so I would say 30 to 60 would be where I would stay. 30 to 60. So for example, if someone is starting at 100 grams, if they're maybe a small person like myself versus maybe someone like you, you do you have about 150 grams a day? You probably don't have to count at this stage. You just have to be mindful. Try to be mindful. I don't. Yeah, I don't. I don't track my macros. I just kind of eat and I'm like, all right, I'm, you know, I want some green on my plate. I want, you know, I use the plate like, okay, what should my plate look like? And that's how I eat every day. And then when I'm snacking, I do, I'm, I do think about getting all my macros in like a snack where I rarely, unless I'm like trying to just get some fuel for a quick workout, rarely do I just eat like pure carbs, right? You know, maybe I have a banana or I have something like that, but usually it's, you know, something with a cheese or something with nuts or something. I'm always like trying to get protein and fat in there as well. And is that to slow down the absorption to blunt an insulin response? Yeah, yeah. It's that and then satiety, right? Because, you know, like you said, it's like my metabolism at 45 is a lot different than 25. It's so, you know, before it's like I could eat as much as I wanted. You never, you know, try to gain weight and you couldn't gain weight where now I can like look at a pizza and I feel like I gained weight. So, so I got to be more mindful of that. And for carbohydrate intake, do you care about when people have it? Does it need to be before exercise? Does it have to be after? What does the data say in terms of peak output for performance? You definitely want to have enough on board when you start, but I would say the most important timing, especially if we're looking at like long endurance events is like during and then for recovery post. And there was a paper that just came out and I forgot the author, but it was, you know, talking about that nutrient timing and then looking, you know, getting those carbohydrates in and then it looked at performance, I think over two days. And, you know, if you didn't get those carbohydrates within like, I think it was four hours, it affected your performance negatively over the, you know, the next two days. So there is something to that. Yeah. There is something to that, you know, that post, you know, window post exercise window to kind of replenish that muscle glycogen that, you know, the who was that Dr. John Ivey, you know, work. Uh, so, so, so yes, especially if you're dealing with athletes. I think that that's interesting because the data for protein, it doesn't matter. Right. The protein is within that day. There may be some reason to get protein in closer to after your workout. And the, there are few and far between this would be an individual who potentially is on a low protein diet is a older individual on a lower protein diet or perhaps exhausted. Positive exercise. But other than that, for the most part, as long as that protein, as long as you're getting it in within that day, it doesn't matter. But do you think, and again, we can pull up this data. Maybe I would love to do a full episode on glycogen. It'd be so cool. Do you think that it's the rate of glycogen repletion that, I mean, why would it have to be? Yeah. Why do you think it matters? I don't have an answer. Maybe we get back to that. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think we have to get back to it. I have to look. Does hydration affect recovery? Yes. Yes. Hydration affects recovery. And so that's why, you know, the, the, the cheapest tool you got to look at hydration is, is that scale, right? Weighing yourself before and after, especially if you're, you know, listening to this and you're in Texas right now, the weather's manageable, right? But give it a month, give it to, you know, two months and it's going to be pretty, uh, pretty miserable and you're going to lose a lot of fluids. You know, actually that's how I heard about you for the first time. Do you know that? I was helping a guy get through buds and I called Andy Gelpin and I said, Andy, how do you think about hydration? Very specific hydration protocols for these guys that are going to go in, you know, in through health week. And he said, you know what he said? And I hope you're listening, Andy. I don't know. You need to talk to Nick Berender. And then, and then he connected me with you and this was many years ago. Um, from a hydration standpoint, how much water and is it just water? Do we need electrolytes? Because I use electrolytes. Yeah. I mean, I, number one, I can't drink all that water. I just, I'm out. But you give me some electrolytes like element with some salt, magnesium, and I feel like I'm less likely to cramp. I feel as if I can actually sweat more. Um, I don't know if there is a correlation between hydration and, and sweating more, meaning if you're not hydrated, you might sweat less. I don't know. But what do you recommend for hydration? Yes. You know, you know, half the body weight, the baseline is like half your body weight, um, in ounces, right? In ounces. Okay. Yeah. Um, so that's, that's kind of baseline. Then, you know, I tell them also track it. I like using the scale pre and post because, you know, hydration is one of those, it is going to vary. Are we talking about somebody who works out in a gym in Houston for 45 or 60 minutes during the summer or somebody, you know, like Shane who might go out for what, like a four hour run. I have gray hair by the time he's back. Yeah. I'm going out for a run. It's like five years later he comes back. But, but so the, the fluid loss that he's, you know, experiencing in this, in this heat in Texas. And then the same with the electrolytes, like he would be somebody that, yeah, I mean, he has to have electrolytes. Like if he's doing a four hour run and you know, here. So, so I think it depends on the individual. And then the, the last piece that, you know, you hit on is what do they like? Could you hydrate with just water? It'd be very difficult, right? Yeah. Most people can. Yes. I would say most people, you can certainly hydrate with just water because you're getting electrolytes from the food you eat. But again, you know, the extreme, if you're out and it's 90 degrees and you're running for four hours, you're probably going to lose more than you got in your food, right? Unless you, you know, chow down on some like salty pretzels right before. Or because, you know, he could be losing what, like a gram of sodium an hour. And it's not just sodium you're replacing, right? Right. Magnesium, potassium. Yeah. I think you were talking about that there's a way to test. So your sweat composition is going to be different than mine. Yes. Tell me about that. So, so there's different companies that have looked at that. I used a Gatorade sweat patch one time. I was tracking it when I was running in San Antonio. That's really cool. Can you tell us what that is? Yeah, it's just, it was just a patch you put on your arm. And then as your, your sweat drips into it, as you, as you run, you know, you scanned it with your phone and then you looked at it and it would give you, you know, your sodium content. But there's, there's different companies like I know, Nix, Biosensors, there's others out there. I'm not, you know, connected to any brand, but, but I know they're, they're looking at this and, you know, it is kind of nice because yeah, athletes, you know, where your diet's going to affect your sweat rate too, or, you know, what that composition looks like. Thank you to One Skin for sponsoring this episode. I only bring on sponsors whose products I genuinely use and love. And One Skin is one that I'm truly excited about. I first discovered it after seeing one of my girlfriend's skin completely transform. I asked her what she was using and it was One Skin. I said, hook a sister up. I have struggled with texture and dryness on my face and body. And since using One Skin, I have seen real improvements in skin texture. What makes One Skin stand out is their use of novel, clean, science-backed ingredients, especially their clinically studied peptide that supports DNA repair and targets the root cause of skin aging. And right now I'm loving their broad spectrum face sunscreen. I also use her eye cream and their topical body supplement. It's a rare to find skincare that delivers real results for both face and body. And this has become a go-to in my routine. You all can get 15% off with the code Dr. Lion. Go to oneskin.com and get 15% off the code with Dr. Lion. And here's what I will tell you. I have tried just about everything. I have landed on One Skin. I think that their product is amazing, especially as it relates to summer because summer is coming up. And in this episode, we talk all about sucralose and DNA damage. Well, I'll tell you what. I think that DNA damage also not just affects internally, but affects us externally. And I don't want any of that. So if you want to have great looking skin, head over to oneskin.com and use the code Dr. Lion. Wait, I did not know that. Yes. Diet affects the composition of your sweat. What I always perceived or what I thought was that each individual has a unique sweat composition. But that's not true. Is that true? Or is it really? I mean, there could be, there's definitely gonna be some individual variants. But again, going back to, you know, if you go out to eat, right? And eat a bunch of salty food and we test, we get you out in the heat and we test your sweat. It's gonna be higher sodium than it normally would be. Right? So, so there is that. But a lot of it with, you know, with the electrolyte beverages, I just find it like what people like in terms of, you know, what do you want to reach for and what are you going to drink? Except Gatorade with Red Dye number 40. Except that. Yeah. Except Gatorade. And sucralose and a little bit of Yellow Dye number five. Yeah. Yeah. So do they still use Red Dye number 40? I have no idea. Okay. We'll have to see. No. It just, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so, so again, you know, if you like, there's a lot of different brands out there, you know. How would they get it from their food if they are eating not enough fruits and vegetables? Would they get enough magnesium and potassium? I feel like those are nutrients of concern. At least magnesium. Yes. You know, certainly. That, that would be a challenge. You get, you know, potassium, you know, again from celery, from other things. But yeah, if they're not eating fruits and vegetables at all. When was the last time you had celery? I'll have celery on occasion. That's a good question. I've had celery since 1980. Really? Yeah, man. I like celery. But I was, I was looking up what foods actually have potassium because everyone thinks about a banana. Yeah. I think I landed on potato. Yes. Potato is having it. As a very high potassium food. Have you ever used the, is it sodium chloride or potassium chloride? It's new salt. Have you ever used that? I haven't used it in a really long time. But, you know, what are the other foods that would have, again, I can look that up, potassium or magnesium is we're thinking about if someone doesn't want to take a whole bunch of stuff, what? Yeah. I mean, for potassium, celery was one. I think it was like four stalks equals one banana. You know, for magnesium, nuts. I know, I know nuts are. We didn't talk about fat, which we definitely. Spinach, orange, avocado. Yeah. There you go. Beetroot, potatoes. Okay. Those are all potassium rich foods. It looks like WebMD has a whole list. Has a breakdown. Yep. And you can go to the USDA website. They typically do it. What about fat? We did not finish your, we talked about carbs. We talked about protein. How do you dose fat, if at all? It fills in everything. I, you know, most, I don't know if I've ever had anybody really have to track fat outside of somebody with high like LDL, like watch their, you know, saturated fat. I, you know, definitely I'm not scared of fat. You need fat. I mean, it's been really overhyped. Right, right. And so I just try to. You don't add any, any extra fat basically. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not one to, to add any extra fat to anything. Like I don't put butter in my coffee or anything like that. You and I are, I'm surprised. I actually didn't realize how close our dietary recommendations are. How we believe that, you know, and how we do it in clinic is we start with protein. We identify the needs of muscle. We identify if they are aging, if they are sedentary. Sedentary people actually need more protein, which is surprising. And then there's an increased need as they become more of an elite athlete. Yes. And then we go to carbohydrate for exactly the reasons that you talked about. Increased fiber. And then we don't actually care about fat. It's personal choice. Right. It falls where it falls. Well, you know where I learned that from? And maybe you read the same book. Forever Strong. If you read it. I've never read that book. Really good. It's a really good book. I never read that book. Very, very user friendly. It's even got some great recipes in it. Just saying. That is so funny. Yes, I've never read that book. So you, I actually really love that conceptual way of putting together a diet because you don't have to overthink it. It shouldn't be that complicated. It shouldn't. Right. And that's what, when I talk to, when I give like group classes for nutrition, I say, you know, all my 20 years of being a dietitian, I find that it's very rare that it's a lack of information. It's more a lack of implementation. Right. So it's more about teaching people those small little habits that they can do daily to make that change versus being like broccoli is good. You should probably have less ice cream. Like most people intuitively know what they should be doing. So, and, um, I don't know anymore though. I think we've got the carnivore diet. We have the vegan diet, paleo. There's just this, I think people are really deeply confused and I think that they're afraid to make the wrong choice. Yeah. Well, part of it, I think with all the different diets is again, that the practical evidence based approach isn't probably going to sell as many books is, is if you can, if you can say something extreme, you know, obviously that's what catches people's attention. Um, I don't understand why the carnivore diet would be that confusing. Wouldn't we have all this data on fruits and vegetables? You know, if anybody has any paper out there that has shown people get sick more often if they eat broccoli, please share it with me. He wants it because he doesn't want to eat any more broccoli. No, I love, I know I love broccoli. And then, you know, but, but even like the, the, the carnivore diet, what does that meat consist of? Right. There was, there was just an, and you might've seen this. Um, there was a case study of an individual doing a carnivore diet, had yellow nodules on the skin, come to find out it was cholesterol. I think his cholesterol was over a thousand, but his carnivore diet was just straight like hamburgers, like fatty hamburgers, which would be a lot different than, you know, experienced than if somebody was just eating like elk and deer. And, and so again, with all these things is it's like, you know, okay, what are we putting our body? Kind of like with the carbohydrates, your carbohydrates coming from fruits and vegetables, or is it coming from, you know, chips and, uh, other snack foods? Um, so, so what is the composition of that diet? And that makes a lot of sense. And I will say from a carnivore diet standpoint, where I have actually seen it effective is in a way of elimination. And I have seen it be extremely effective for individuals with small intestinal bacteria overgrowth. I have seen it be effective for individuals that have really impaired gut microbiome or a infection. Um, a lot of pathogens because it seems that the bacteria, I don't know, it, the extra fiber seems to really dysregulate them. And you put them on a carnivore diet for four to six weeks, find out what the, what pathology is happening, test them for parasites, treat the parasites, begin to then add back in fruits and vegetables. And they seem to do a lot better. I think that there is a genetic variation between what works for individuals. And it's probably based on that gut microbiome. Oh yeah. And you know, that's how I think about it. No. And what you described is very reasonable. And I'm, I'm with you a hundred percent in terms of like, you know, you said, you're like, all right, it's an elimination diet. We're taking everything back to try to figure things out, resetting, but then we're going to add back the fruits and vegetables. Cause you know, I do think that food diversity is important fiber. You know, I'm looking at this list of magnesium. What would we ingest? Um, so it says approximately 30 to 40% of the dietary magnesium is that is consumed is absorbed by the body, which is, seems like that's great absorption. And then I'm looking at the list of what contains magnesium. And I can't say I really eat any of them. Pumpkin seeds. You don't eat pumpkin seeds? No. 156 milligrams. No, I don't eat it. Almonds. Don't eat those either. Cashews. Pumpkin seeds far and away seem to be really high. And then a bunch of nuts, fortified cereal. Um, yeah, not a ton of great magnesium type sources. Raisins. I love raisins. Only 23 milligrams. Perhaps magnesium would be, and I think a large portion of the population is deficient in magnesium. It says that green leafy vegetables, such as spinach. I can't even tell you the last time I ate spinach. I better, you guys better invite me over. Yeah. We're going to make spinach next time. But that's interesting that, um, I can see based on this list why people would be deficient in some of these, um, nutrients for that reason. Yeah. And I think magnesium is a reasonable thing, especially like you talk about sleep. You had, uh, Dr. Allison Brager on. I listened to that episode. She's so amazing. Um. So do you need four hours of sleep? Are you one of those people that have that snip that she was talking about? What did you say? Do I look like it? No. I don't know. Yeah. It would be awesome because, you know, I have a two year old if I could run off for four hours of sleep, but a hundred percent, I need like seven to eight. Like I'm, I, I need my seven to eight. So Allison Brager is, um, a neuroscientist, active duty. She's amazing. She is a sleep specialist and she did some of her dissertation was in clock genes and skeletal muscle. Anyway, I, she worked on a study where it looked at the snips of rangers and they seem to have this genetic mutation that allowed them to function well without increasing inflammatory markers on something like four hours of sleep. No, there's definitely those mutants and I've worked with them. I was, I was not one of them, but I, I'm willing to bet. I always wanted to do this study and Allison, you could probably do this study. I think if you looked at general officers, the ones that like rise to the rank, like the general crystals who have those, those unbelievable. You read their routines and you're just like, how does he do it? I bet those are your genetic mutants because to rise to that, to that level and can just function and, and be able to, you know, carry on an intelligent conversation. And you would see that individual and be like, I know you probably didn't, you know, only got four hours of sleep and yet you just crushed five miles and you're like ready to go. Like you're, you're a superhero. Like what's, what's going on? So, so that's been always my theory is like the senior ranking people are probably those genetic mutants. I've never thought about that. I think that that's probably right on and even the senior ranking surgeons that are able to perform and produce over and over and over again. Really? We hate you guys. I know. Don't you like, yes. What do you think is the number one supplement that people should take? Oh, should take. That's easy. Creatine monohydrate. I mean, I feel like that's such a layup, right? Like, like why would you say anything different in terms of if you look at. I don't know if I would have picked that. I might have, I might have picked. Yeah, brother. I might have picked vitamin D or I might have picked omega-3 fatty acids. I don't want you to rethink your answer. No, no, no. But I want to know. I came out of Dr. Richard Kreider's lab. If I say anything else besides creatine monohydrate, I feel like. You're fired. Yeah. I'll get, I'll get like excommunicated. And you know that like, you know, that, that mafia of his students are, you know, we, we roll deep. Like, uh, so, so no, but I mean, I, I think for all the benefits, but to your point, the vitamin D, uh, is definitely up there. Don't go to my point. I want to know about, I want to know about creatine. I want to know why creatine, cause you said that really fast. I did say that really fast. And I want to know the dosing and I want to know why. So the muscular health, like we said, okay, so I'm, I'm, you know, again, I'm, I'm aging. I'm trying to maintain my muscle. I'm trying to maintain my, my power output. Another thing that drops off as we age. Uh, so, so creatine for that. Right. Uh, but then also cognitively, there's been a lot of nice papers and research on sleep deprivation. And so even for this podcast, I'll admit. So Axel maybe kept up a little bit last night, you know, he got a vote. Uh, so I took about 30 grams four hours ago before I came over here. Cause I knew I had to be, to be sharp. And that was based off again. I can't think of the paper. So Darren can do a lot of work on that. Yeah. Yeah. But it, but the dose was, um, it was, uh, what was it? 0.3 Migs per kilogram of body weight. And I'm like 85 Kigs. So, so anyway, it's a higher dose than the, you know, three to five grams per day. You're, you're getting more into the 20 grams and above for most people for cognitive. And then it peaks at that like four hour mark for, you know, is there any issue with taking it at once, the 30 grams at once for people? I don't. Some people have gastrointestinal, uh, you know, issues with it. Uh, the, the fighter, uh, I work with UFC, Jim Miller. I know sometimes like with his dosing, he likes to split it up. Um, but I don't have that problem. So, so again, it's, it's the individual in terms of that. Does one need to do a loading dose anymore? How would you recommend people take creatine? For, for most just the simple three to five grams a day, because you're going to reach tissue saturation, you know, at the end of 30 days. Now, if you had an event that was coming up for whatever reason, you're like, oh, I forgot I had a power lifting meet two weeks from now and I want to, you know, max, then, then I would be like, all right, let's load you up. Would it be something like 30 grams a day or 20 grams for, for most, uh, people probably, you know, 20 grams a day. And again, it depends on the size, you know, are we talking about somebody like, uh, who did you have on here? That guy is so massive. He was a ranger. Justin Leinhard. Is that his name? Yeah. Judd. He's a massive human. Yes. We love Judd. Yeah. So, so like somebody like him, he's a hundred. Right. Right. That's what I'm saying. Like he's, you know, I know I, you know, fellow ranger, I, I don't know if we ever overlapped, but I, I wanted to like hate him listening to your podcast because I don't like it when guys are big, muscular, intelligent, and athletic that, that shouldn't be allowed. Right. Like you should, you should have a hole somewhere in your game. I feel like if you're like you're dumb or something, right. Like, but he, he checked all the boxes, but no, it was, it was a great episode. But yeah. So if you have somebody like that, it could be higher. Okay. Fine. Then what's your number one supplement that people waste their money on? Probably. Although not as, I don't see it as much. And maybe just cause I'm not in the GNCs and other places, but like fat burners. Oh, no. Are those still a thing? Right. Like, I don't know, but that's what I thought of. Like, okay. If there had to be one. What about testosterone boosting supplements? Okay. There you go. That's a, you guys could definitely waste your money on that. Oh yeah. Yeah. Well, you could waste your money and hurt yourself on those. It is. I would say the, the most dangerous thing. And I have seen that. Did I, did I tell you about that? No. I want to hear about it. Uh, so, you know, when I was deployed, uh, to Iraq, uh, you know, uh, with the Rangers, like there was a case, we had some cases of individuals with, uh, you know, gynecomastia and stuff. And it was a dietary supplement. Are you sure it was a dietary supplement? It was a dietary supplement. It was a dietary supplement at the time it was called super draw. It was a cool name. Right. And it was a 17 alpha alkylated. So, so you read the label. What was interesting, guys were, were taking different stuff. So not everybody was taking super draw. They were taking all these different things. But then when I looked at the label, you know, I was kind of, it was, it was, it was a great project because I got to work with a battalion surgeon and like, you know, go like, you know, as a dietician, like what else job could I do? Like, so we were looking and they all, I remember all the dietary supplements had the same chemical structure. Um, and, uh, so it was like a, a weak, uh, oral anabolic steroid that was being sold as a dietary supplement. But these individuals didn't know. They just, they heard, Hey, if I take this, I get, I get strong. And then. Was it converting to estrogen or what was the. Yes, it was. It was also hard on the liver, um, in terms of, you know, when you're deployed, you can't drink alcohol, but there were some cases where individuals would come by. Is that true? I did not know that you cannot drink alcohol when you're deployed. What does Shane tell you? Whatever you're not supposed to, maybe I should say you're definitely not supposed to, uh, uh, now on the way out there, like, you know, if you're like in, in Kuwait or Qatar, they might, you might have like a limit of like, like one or two beers a day. I forgot what it was, but like in theater in Iraq, Afghanistan, you're not, not supposed to. Uh, that sounds like a really good waste of money on supplements and then potential, uh, leads you into gynecomastia. Um, what do you think? Okay, fine. So what are your thoughts on vitamin D supplementation? Cause it seems as if, you know, uh, one of my very dear friends, Dr. Alexis Cowan, she's a light biologist and she's absolutely against vitamin D supplementation. And I'm like, Alexis, why? Cause the data from say a geriatric lab, you know, when I was at Wash U, we tested everyone's vitamin D. We always supplement vitamin D. And I think that there may be some potential controversy. Curious as to what your thoughts are. I mean, my thoughts is always like, I look at like risk to reward and pretty sure you're on a paper here with vitamin D. So, yes, that's what I'm saying. And so, you know, that, that was with, uh, uh, you know, uh, Kelly Shad, uh, she was, uh, one of my students, but a brilliant dietician. And we, we pulled medical records and looked at individuals diagnosed with depression and vitamin D, um, levels. Right. And, and I think it was, you know, uh, when we controlled for all factors, if you're vitamin D deficient, you were 22% more likely to be depressed. Right. And this is the paper, the relationship between vitamin D status and depression in a tactical athlete population. Yeah. And what was cool about that paper, we started with clinics in Texas, you know, right down the road at, uh, you know, now Fort Cavazos used to be Fort Hood all the way up to Alaska. And, and so, you know, and you could see that relationship get stronger as you went further north, right. With less sunlight. We know we have vitamin D receptors in the muscles. We got them in the brain. Like, like to me, and, and, and again, I, for my dissertation, I did vitamin D draws, um, at Fort Cavazos, clean Texas. So central Texas, plenty of sunshine and like 40% were insufficient or deficient. So, so again, how do you define that for the listener in terms of levels? Uh, so what is that? So, so deficiency is, is, uh, 20, right? Yeah. Uh, 20, um, insufficiency. Is that less than 30? I think I'll talk about that. Um, I can look that up while you're talking. I'll get back to that. But, but, but, but so, you know, we, we use the basic, uh, classifications. Now what I can answer is like, Hey, what am I looking for optimal? I'm, I'm like 60 to 80 is, is kind of where I'm shooting for. Um, so the bottom line is folks weren't optimal. And so vitamin D is relatively cheap. It's an easy lab to get. And so I don't really see, you know, why you wouldn't supplement with D3. So you don't have any issue with it. And I, you know, I have to say, I don't either. I, again, the data from what I've seen is reasonable that one would take it. And we know that there are issues when people have low vitamin D. I mean, rickets that's caused by a vitamin D deficiency or calcium. And, um, in terms of effectiveness, is it effective orally? Yes. And do they have to get vitamin D3 versus D2? Yeah. Vitamin D, vitamin D3 is, is, you know, what you want. That's, that's the active version, which brings up a whole nother conversation. If you're listening to this and you're military is a lot of the DOD formularies for some reason carry D2. I know. Is that? Why is that? Was it cheaper? Was it by mistake? Do you think they haven't updated it or what? I wish I had a better answer. We, we've investigated it and, you know, we're trying to, to change it and it just, I don't, I don't know if I was the wrong rank, but it was just, you know, you kind of run into the, the, the bureaucracy of the system. I think that's a bit of it, but yeah, a lot of military formulas, uh, formularies have the D2 version. Um, but D3 is, is what you want. Dr. Nick and I have talked all about magnesium and the foods that you need to eat to get it. But let's talk about it as one of the most overlooked nutrients that has a massive impact on your health. Magnesium. And by the way, most of us are not getting nearly enough. In fact, 75% of American adults are deficient, which means there's a three out of four chance you are too. Magnesium plays a critical role in hundreds of functions throughout the body from energy production and brain function to stress regulation and sleep. That's why I'm a huge fan of mellow magnesium. It is a powerful super blend that helps fill the gaps. Mellow combines highly absorbable forms of magnesium with GABA and L-theanine, two amino acids known for their calming stress reducing effects. It also, which is amazing, has over 70 trace minerals to support whole body health. If you're looking for something to help you unwind without relying on melatonin, this is a great alternative. It can help you reduce stress, improve sleep, strengthen immunity, boost your mood, all in one scoop a day. Be the best version of yourself. And of course, get 15% off with the code Dr. Lion. Go to helloned.com slash Dr. Lion. That's H-E-L-L-O-N-E-D dot com slash Dr. Lion to get 15% off. So it might be worth investing in that. But again, I look at the risk to reward. And I mean, if you're taking, you know, 2,000, 5,000 IUs a day, you're not going to build up to like a toxic level. Right. Right. So I don't see why you wouldn't just take that as an insurance policy for most people. Now, if you have your vitamin D levels drawn and, you know, you're great, you're sitting at 80, then yeah, you don't need to supplement. Whatever you're doing, you know, you're doing it right. Yeah. And it's fascinating that there's still controversy around it. And this is from a Mayo Clinic Proceedings. And basically, did you hear about this? So this was vitamin D supplementation to D or not to D. And there was a trial. So it was the vital study. And it looked at, it was a large randomized control trial of daily supplemental vitamin D. So it said they conducted this vital study because large randomized control trial of daily supplemental vitamin D were lacking. And they were randomized to vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids. And the primary endpoint of the study was first incident. It looks like nonvertebral hip fracture. And what they found, the study found no benefit for fracture risk reduction with vitamin D supplementation. And I will tell you, when this came out, I called the geriatricians, obviously, and they said, we still recommend vitamin D. Yeah. It's like, yeah. Well, there's other things, but just fracking, you know, it does more than just rickets, right? And then there was a paper, maybe is it using that vital that I can remember. Didn't they look at, there was a paper with omega-3s and I think they use vitamin D as well. Looked at like telomere length. I did not see it. I don't know. But by the way, I think it was the omega-3s that were effective in slowing the shortening of telomeres, which whether that's your biological age or not, still kind of. We did. I did have a patient that wanted to get her telomeres tested. Yeah. And she was really happy. She had telomeres that were 10 years younger than her actual age. If it was real, I'm just signing out. That's awesome. I'm afraid to do the test. So what about in terms of how could an individual who doesn't want to take vitamin D, how are they going to get vitamin D? Through, you know, the same sources as omega-3, you know, possibly through fish, you know, cod liver oil. That would be the main way. Mushrooms, but it's, I think mushrooms are mostly kind of a D2. It's not as bioavailable. And then, you know, sunlight, right? Like that's the other, which again, and I know there's a whole debate on that, like with, you know, skin cancer and how much sun you should get. I have a family history of skin cancer. So I supplement vitamin D. Like, you know, I still get out in the sun a lot, but I'm going to respect it. And then by orders of my wife, I am always slathered in sunscreen. She makes sure of it, you know, same with my kids. So there is that, right? And basically it says that the recommendation, according to this, I'm looking at this from UCLA, eight to 10 minutes of sun exposure at noon produces the recommended amount of vitamin D. Whether that's true or not, it says in the winter, only 10% of the body is exposed. Listen, if you live in, I grew up in Chicago, I will tell you there is 0% of my body exposed in winter. And this says 10% of the body exposed and nearly two hours of sun exposure at noon is needed to produce a sufficient amount of vitamin D. Yeah. Good luck with that. If you live in Chicago, Boston, New York, even Washington, DC. I mean, any of those. You can use a vitamin D sun lamp. I have one of those upstairs. I don't need it now that I live in Houston. But a vitamin D sun lamp. Yes, please. And thank you. I'm curious as to see what is going to come out. If, again, you supplement vitamin D, you can measure in the blood. Is it as effective, less effective as sunlight? I don't know. I don't know if it produces a variation in the form of vitamin D or not. I don't know if you know that or not. I have, you know, throughout kind of knowing my blood labs from my military career, I tested low one time. I started supplementing. I haven't tested low since. Right. And I just did the, you know, our friend Dan Garner's blood test, that full panel and all like that. And like my vitamin D was beautiful. And I supplement every day. Amazing. What about organ meats? Love them. If I can, this might be a, you know, conversation. Where in Houston local can we find good organ meats? Because I don't want to know. But, but yeah, if chicken liver is on the menu or liver is on the menu, I'm ordering it. Whole Foods has chicken liver. Oh, okay. I think it's called Bell Farm. But is there a restaurant that makes it? Because I'm, I'm lazy sometimes. Is it? We'll have to find a place around there. I mean, I think chicken liver is amazing. Tons of vitamin D, tons of iron. It was my kid's first food. And how do you make it? Stir fry it. You just stir fry it. Okay. I will say that my calf liver or anything beyond chicken liver is inedible. It's not edible. I, it's just, it tastes terrible when I do it. Yeah. You just got to work on the recipe. Um, yep. I just have to work on the recipe, but chicken livers with a little bit of bison. So basically we grind chicken livers and bison and we make chicken liver bison burgers. Oh, I'm going to try that. You don't even need a multivitamin. That's yeah. Yeah. No, I mean, I mean the dose. Well, you put out a great, um, was it like infographic I saw with the, the liver and the dose of micronutrients compared to other, um, substances. And I mean, yeah, I mean, there you go. That was, I cannot take credit for that. That was my team's idea. Shout out to, to Sonny and Julia. My team, they were like, okay, we're going to knock this out. I said, please don't make me cook that. That was great. And, uh, you know, we can get a lot of these nutrients from whole foods, but there are nutrients of concern, vitamin D, magnesium. What about berberine? Have you heard about berberine? And have you heard that berberine is called the nature's ozempic? I mean, that's awesome, right? Anytime you do that. Yeah, definitely. Definitely. Uh, I wouldn't say that. Uh, I definitely would not say that. Right? Like that's absolutely ridiculous. Yeah. If that's your expectation. Berberine is not the nature's ozempic. But there was, I think there was one clinical trial where it, it, it did as well as like, or close to as well as metformin. I mean, I mean, it's, it's, it's exciting. Uh, and so that's one, you know, I would consider, I would definitely, um, look at. Berberine does have some good literature on it and it's a yellow. So, um, so according to this, it is a yellow plant. Dye? That can't be right. It is found in barberry. Did you know that? No. Yeah. Oregon grape. I don't even know what that is. Gold thread. Please, friends, if you're listening to this, correct us because this is what I am reading and here's what they found. Um, there have been, uh, definitely studies on berberine and what I've seen is that it does have an impact on blood sugar control, lipid metabolism. It does have some anti-inflammatory effects. Doesn't seem to have many side effects. I have not seen any head to head studies with metformin, but I wouldn't be surprised that there is some benefit. Again, I actually believe it's probably, there's a genetic potentiation. If you have the right enzymes or genes to be able to utilize that early on in my career, I was really interested in these genetic snips and it seemed that certain people had a propensity to respond better to various supplements. Again, it's such a complicated field, but, uh, to this day, I definitely believe that there are certain responders and non-responders. Oh yeah. No. I mean, even if you look at some of like the creatine studies, right? Like some people take creatine and it's, well, well then even, you know, there's a genetic component, but then, you know, what's, what's your diet look like as well? Are you, you consuming a lot of meat and stuff? Well, you might not have a bigger response to creatine as people who consume less or, you know, and, and berberine might be, be the same. I think that that's absolutely right. And here I've got it. It's derived from the berry of the barberry shrub, in case you were wondering. And, um, Indian, right? It's Indian. This is, yes, it is. And this is in American Family Physician, which is a, this is a great journal that came out in 2023. And basically it seemed as if there, the data is lacking, um, in terms of it being as effective or nearly effective when it comes to ozempic. It, it also says that there has never been at this time, a large scale randomized trial or multi-center clinical trial. And I think that that's interesting. I do think that, listen, Metformin came from a plant. Yeah. That there is probably really good potential for some of these dietary supplements. Of course, uh, talk to your physician. I know what they got to say. Um, well, and then the source of the supplements as well, right? Like that, that's what, um, especially, you know, with those, uh, plant-based, like, like we talked about, like, where are they grown? Where are you getting it from? Is it, is it being tested when it comes, uh, to the States to make sure, you know, a cheaper product, uh, isn't being used? I remember, this was some years back. I don't know if it was chokeberry. It was, it was one of the berries and it was basically the, the, uh, importer was using a dye to, to make the anthocyanin numbers look much higher, uh, than the berries were providing. Right. And then there was some testing and they figured out, you know, that was, that was what was going on. Kind of like with the protein and nitrogen, I think it was in China, the melanin, you know, or, you know, putting in this, this toxic product cause it caused the nitrogen spike. And so it's like, oh, we, we have more protein, but it's like, no, no, no. Fake news. So what Nick is talking about is in infant formulas, they have to account for the protein number because infants need a certain amount of protein. And what they were doing in China in the formulation is they were adding nitrogen to the formula to show a higher protein number when in fact it was just nitrogen and it wasn't a dietary protein, wasn't these amino acids. And, uh, similarly, what, um, Dr. Beringer is talking about is the anthocyanins. They are phytochemicals, phytoactive ingredients. That's what makes things very rich colors, whether it's blueberries, the purple anthocyanins or purple carrots, you name it. Those colors are compounds that are thought to be helpful for the human body. And the amount is typically in relation to the vibrancy. Yeah. And they were putting dye in there. That is super lame. Um, and berberine is supposed to be a very rich color. And I, I have it here. It's this yellow alkaloid and, uh, it's found in a whole bunch of roots and stems of things. And there has been some research. If I'm looking at this, it says most clinical trials found that daily treatment with 500 to 1500 milligrams of berberine over multiple doses may have some impact when it comes to blood sugar regulation. And, you know, we always have to ask what's the mechanism of action. And this appears to regulate AMPK. Yeah. Which AMPK would be part of energy homeostasis, the opposite of mTOR. We always talk about mTOR or I don't, but maybe we do at home. But mTOR is obviously activated in a fed state for muscle protein synthesis and AMP kinase would, unless I'm misunderstanding it, is what is activated in fasting. Is that true? Yeah. Um, so there you have it. Always have to have a mechanism of action. Fascinating. Yeah. It's exciting. And again, it's another one of those where, you know, from what I've read about it, I mean, risk versus reward. If you had a patient who was having a hard time, you know, controlling their blood glucose or want to lower their blood glucose, it might be worth a spin. Put them on a higher protein diet. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Control all that. Throw in a little glucose monitor. But I will say, I do think that this brings us to the conversation of, are there multiple ways to get to an end result and does it always have to be pharmacological? And I think that pharmaceuticals are great. Again, I'm a clinician. I am not paid by any pharmaceutical company. I think they have their place. And I also think that there is room for natural protocols. We've been using natural protocols in my clinic in our practice for years. That's awesome. And what you do is you implement the protocol and then you retest the individual. So, for example, H. pylori. H. pylori is a bacteria that can cause an ulcer, can cause gastric cancer. Someone comes back positive. They really don't want to take antibiotics. There's some evidence for mastic gum and all sorts of natural, more natural treatment options. And they want a choice. You try it. You retest it. And, you know, for many of our patients, there are a lot of individuals where a more natural approach can work. That's awesome. Isn't that crazy? Well, it's awesome that you're willing to try it. Because, I mean, as you know, like so many physicians, it's, you know, write the script and you're out the door. No, no, no. But again, our practice is unique. We have a concierge practice. And, you know, we've spent a lot of time looking at protocols and in the literature and talking to experts as to how to get around some of these other things. I will say that there is no replacement for something like an ozempic, the way that the ozempic works and these GLP-1s work. Berberine, nothing. Metformin, nothing is going to come close to the way that these medications work at all. Do you test blood sugar? Is that something that you like to monitor, have monitored? I mean, yeah. I mean, from the practical standpoint of like an A1c telling the stories, I've used a continuous glucose monitor. Sometimes in my talks, I'll mention it to the audience and be like, hey, it's a tool. I don't recommend, you know, everybody get one. But for me, I wore one for a little bit. And, you know, there were some insights in terms of like the order in which you eat your food. And then... What did you learn? I think that's great. I have a feeling I know what you're going to say. Yeah, yeah. You know, eating the fibrous plant and protein before you go to your carbohydrate, right? Crazy, right? You get a more steady release, which again, if you'd have told me, man, you know, 10 years ago, you're like, hey, Nick, the order in which you eat your food is going to affect your blood glucose. I'm like, really? But no. And, you know, there's been research on that. But then for me also, and I don't know if I told you this, stress, how I handle stress. I had some stressful situations like, you know, with kids. I'm sure nobody has that. Nobody. For sure not. You know, kids are fighting. And my blood glucose monitor went off. And I'm like, oh, that's strange. And it went up, right? Yeah, it went up. Same. Yeah, yeah. Same. Yeah. And so then I got stuck in, I remember in San Antonio, I got stuck in traffic. I was going to be late to a meeting. And I wasn't yelling. I wasn't cursing. I was just sitting in the car and my monitor starts going off. I had high blood sugar. And so I was like, wow, I need to, you know, my stress levels affected my physiology. So I started doing box breathing. I started, you know, I started doing stuff. What he's talking about is tactical breath. Yeah, yeah. Anytime I have a problem and I ask Shane, he tells me two things. Number one, never break rule number one. If you guys want to know what that is, please message me. I will tell you off the record. And number two, oh, honey, you should do some tactical breathing. I like it. Which is a four count in. Yeah. A hold for four counts. Out for four counts. And you do it for a series of cycles. Andrew Huberman talks a lot about managing breath. And it allows you to control your physiology. It's wild. It's your nervous system back on track. It is. I, you know, I thought it was woo-woo. No way. You guys were doing it before you jumped in an airplane. No, I never did that. I don't know anybody. Maybe. The SEAL guys, too. The SEAL guys, yeah. Rangers, yeah. If there's any Rangers out there, you know, please come up on the net and tell me if you ever tactical breath. I was just like, God, I hope my chute opens. You know, like, get out the aircraft. Like, I'm like, yeah, it was a problem. Yeah. Yeah. So, I don't, yeah, I ever remember doing tactical breathing. But, yeah, so, but it does. I mean, it works. And from, you know, talking to some other folks, like, it's not even like, you know, it has to be four count. It could be two. It could be, but it's just focusing on your breath can, like, help. So, I've been doing a lot of that now with three kids. A lot of tactical breathing. I mean, you got it down. By the way, Nick showed up at the park with eight kids. At Leo's birthday party. You showed up at eight kids. I had eight kids. And my husband looked over and he goes, oh, my God. Nick is an American hero. That is unbelievable. You know, to be fair, so, so I love being a dad. But you know what I love about as much? It's like being an uncle. Like, being an uncle is awesome. Because, you know, you get the experience of, like, you know, the kids, which I love. But then I don't have to worry about, like, I don't worry about, like, discipline my nieces or anything like that. I just, like, let them be. Just, like, let them have fun. Like, oh, you want ice cream? Let's go, you know. Speaking of ice cream. I do. This is a real conversation. Ice cream. Yes. I want to know, and where I'm going with this, I have two more questions for you. Okay. And then I promise to let you go. I want to talk about detox diets and water fasts. Should we be doing them? Yeah. And when I think about ice cream, I'm thinking about your ninja. Because I really want to know if the ninja works. Because that would allow me to make whey protein ice cream. And that leads me into the biggest myths that you seem to always hear about nutrition. Okay. So kick it off with detoxes. Should we be doing it? Should we not? What is it? No. So detoxes, for those that don't know, if you have a liver and you have a functioning kidneys, that's what they're doing, right? That's their job. Now, I do want to say if you've been exposed to heavy metals and you're doing chelation therapy, like, a whole different thing, right? And then you're talking about a medical detox. Medical detox. Yes. Yeah. Putting that to the side. But for most people, if you're listening to this and, you know, you need, you feel like you need a juice cleanse to, you know, flush out the toxins, your issue is probably not toxins. It's TikTok or wherever you like, wherever you saw it, right? You have the disease called TikTok. You have the disease called TikTok and you should probably turn it off and, you know, listen to this podcast. No. No. So, so yeah, I have yet to find anybody. And then the, the, the water only fast, you know, we talked about electrolytes, electrolyte imbalance, hyponatremia. That's very, you know, that can be very serious. That can be dangerous. So I don't recommend it, uh, with anybody. We don't do any detoxes. We don't do, um, you know, any, any water fast, anything like that. Which then leads me to the biggest nutrition myths and does the ninja actually work? So the biggest nutrition myths. That you hear from people. Should you dry scoop your protein? Oh, should you dry? No. Or is bone broth a great source of, I mean, are there a handful of things that you always seem to hear? I mean, yeah, the dry scoop, that that's horrible. You, you might choke, right? Like you don't absorb it any faster. You don't do that. I mean, yeah. Bone broth is delicious. Whether it like heals your gut. Yeah. I haven't, I haven't seen, um, any, any, any papers on that. Um, I'm trying to think of any, any other ones that I mean, we hit seed oils. That's the one that's probably the biggest one. Yeah. That, that, that's the biggest one that comes out. Um, I mean, let me think for one second. And if you don't have one, I really want to know about the, people don't know what we're talking about. The ninja. Oh yeah. So if you don't have any other myths, I want to just highlight something that I think is really awesome. Do you have any myths? I don't have any other myths. Okay. Uh, the biggest myth that I always hear is you will get bulky if you lift weights. Or you do. Oh yeah. That's true. Yeah. I just, uh, stepped in, saved your life right now. And now we can, you are so welcome. The ninja. When kids, listen, kids are difficult. They go to school and I'm, I, you can protect them. You can eat really healthy at home and they go to school and my daughter comes home. Mom, mom, the teacher gave me a sugar cookie. It was so good. And I got two marshmallows. And you don't want to be like, Hey girl, well, you should have said no because the entire class gets it. Right. And one of the things I love about what you guys do in your household is you're always looking for ways to improve the food composition of say ice cream. And so you went and you got this ninja, this ice cream maker ninja, which by the way, as soon as I saw that, I, you know, I've just been on like the Costco website. Do I pull the trigger? Should I really get it? It's not cheap. But then again, I'm not so sure that a, you've been successful at making ice cream. And two, I do think that, um, if we were to round it out with, there are healthy options. If we can just redefine what we believe is healthy and how we understand and navigate within our environment that we can really make good choices. So how are you, do you have any tips for parents at home? And did that ninja ice cream maker actually work? It works. It does work. Um, it tips for parents. And part of it is, is the, the reason why I got the ice cream maker is it's not just about controlling what's in the ice cream, which I do. I really do like because we, we did make, um, although I don't know if you were there, we didn't use it, but you know, we made a simple chocolate ice cream, uh, using Fair Life. Your daughter seemed to love that one. Yeah. And she loved it and like, and consumed it. And so, so think about that. You know, if you're a parent, we didn't go to Baskin Robbins. We didn't go to, I took Fair Life chocolate milk and blueberries and my nieces and my daughter, like they, they crushed it and they loved it. But that's just one piece of it. The other piece that I find with like getting kids to eat and try things is you get them involved. So it's a great idea. I never thought about that. The, the, the, you know, the, the ninja, you should get like ninja on it. Um, but it's, it's an experience. So when I get it out, my kids get excited. The nieces get excited. We hook it up. They're looking at it. You know, what do we put in it? And so it's kind of like a form of entertainment and it's not cheap, but when you cost out, you know, take eight kids to Baskin Robbins. I have, it's expensive, right? And so now I control a little less sugar. You do that a few times. It pays for itself, but also the experience that you get. And that's why I like, I love the cook. That's why I was trying with like the, the pizza oven. My daughter loved it. She was like, can we go to, can we go to Nick's house? They make their pizza. Yeah. So it doesn't always, it doesn't always turn out right. Um, but, but that's like with, with Sawyer. So my daughter, you know, she's had octopus, she's had cow tongue. She's had all these things that ate that a lot of kids probably wouldn't eat, but why she had them and she found out whether she liked them or not was she was involved in the process and then same with Wolf and get them in there. And so that's what I think like to parents, cause I get, get this question with people I work with a lot is cause a lot of them have kids. I'm just like, you gotta get them involved in the kitchen, which by the way, it's gonna be like twice or three times the mess. Four times. Four, four times. Okay. Yeah. I don't know if you saw how much flour I had all in my kitchen. I was like, what are you doing? What are you doing? There was like flour everywhere. Yes, I did. So, so, but. I thought Frosty the Snowman had a baby appearance or something. But again, at the end of the day, like, like it's part of like experience with the kids and the parents. And then you find that, you know, they're, they're willing to try more things versus if you just have them sit there and you make it for them and you put them in front of it and they're like, I don't like that. Can I have this? You know, sort of thing. So Dr. Nick Berenger, I, I love everything that you said. And I would say that I might even love that the most. What a great piece of advice. And we're going to start doing that. Come over. I got it. I got it. You can, you can. Don't worry. You guys are going to clean. You guys are clean on that side. Dr. Nick Berenger, I'm so grateful that you came and shared your knowledge with us. You know what I would love to do? I would love as controversies come up for us to do a regular scheduled cadence where we're on here. We're talking about some of the data. I think it would be really valuable. That would be awesome. Cause I, you know, I'll just walk over. That's right. That's right. And is your website up and running yet? Oh, it should be. All right. Dr. Nick Berenger.com. Amazing. I'm really excited to have you in the neighborhood and we'll chat again soon. Awesome. Thank you so much. My pleasure being here. Big thanks to Dr. Nick Berenger for breaking down the military's approach to peak performance. His insights are game changers for anyone looking to optimize strength, endurance, and recovery. Now I want to hear from you. What's one nutrition strategy from today's episode you're going to try? Drop a comment below and let's discuss. And if you found value in this conversation, hit the like button, subscribe, and turn on notifications. We're bringing you more cutting edge insights from the world's top experts every week. Check the description for resources and links to Dr. Berenger's research. And I'll see you in the next episode.