 sarkosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolosolos about how you got interested in this compound called urolithin A and the origin story for how it even became of interest. Sure. So the story is 15 years plus. So we started with a very simple idea that we're going to disrupt how science is done in the nutrition area. So a lot of companies were blending probiotics, prebiotics, multivitamins, and just starting to sell products in the market. So we said, let's bring the biotech approach to nutrition. And we started with this idea that we're going to find new natural compounds that had previously not been attributed any health benefit to. So we started with thousands of compounds. We looked at what was the superfoods at that time. Palm granite was one of them. Berries was another one. So we started looking into it. Palm granite, and you won't believe it. We went around the world. We went to Israel. We went to Spain. We sourced palm granites from around the world just to see what was in the different palm granites. So let's say the first four or five years of that journey was just deconstructing the palm granite. And we found like hundreds of compounds in the palm granite. And then we started studying which were the key actives that would have these immense health benefits. Because I don't know if you know the palm granite field, there was a lot of literature around that time that drinking pure palm granite juice was going to help cognition with, you know, delay some of the, you know, aging related attributes to cognitive decline with aging. So we zeroed in on urolithin A at that time, which was taught to be a waste product. Why urolithin A? So this is an interesting story. We were based out of the Swiss Institute of Technology, which is one of the top universities in Europe, actually top 20. And it would be the Harvard or MIT? It is actually the MIT Echolint. And so we had given in the aging field. So we were very, always very focused on the aging field. We gave these hundreds of compounds to this professor who was very famous in the mitochondrial field called Professor Albrecht. And he came running, he did not know we had blinded him. And he came and said, what is this one compound that you gave me? Because it's extending the lifespan of worms, because that's where all the aging research starts by like 45%. Wow. And nothing else matches that except caloric restriction. So things like NAD boosting modulation does boost the lifespan by 20%. Respiratrol, for example, does a similar 15 to 20%. Metformin comes the closest to caloric restriction, 40%. So he was so excited that he said 45% and caloric restriction does it by like 50, 55%. So that's how we got into it. Because before we had not paid attention to this molecule called Eurotin A, because it was taught as a waste product. And then he said, well, it's this molecule. And so that started 15 years of research. Wow. That was pretty exciting, wasn't it? It's that, you know, when you start from a notion that you would do this for the next 10 years, but you're never sure what you're going to land up with. And then you have after seven, eight years, the Eureka moment. And then it was clear to us that we needed to get to humans, do multiple randomized trials. And that's what we have been doing until about a few years back, we got convinced to launch the product. Wow. And the Eurotin A compound, you had mentioned that it was, was it originally discovered from pigs eating acorns? Yeah. So it was, that's a funny story. So Iberian ham, right? And it tastes so good. Which I've never had. So it's, it was known, acorn is another source. So the origins of Eurotin A is that it's a postbiotic molecule. So what does that mean? That means that your gut microbiome would metabolize the dietary precursors that are present in these superfoods like pomegranates and berries. So these have what we call polyphenols. And there's a class of polyphenols called elegetanins. So these become metabolized by the gut microbiome to release this molecule, which by the gut, which is called a postbiotic Eurotin A. Trick is not, you can be drinking a glass of juice or a bowl of berries, but a lot of people, about two thirds of the population doesn't have the right gut microbiome. And so that started the other side of the story that if two thirds of the world healthy population is not able to make this molecule naturally, like, you know, we need to supplement them. And so that's, that's the whole. And how did you guys come to that conclusion? You were saying that certain populations have the capacity based on their gut microbiome to take these elegetanins and make this postbiotic Eurotin A. So we run randomized clinical trials the world over. We've gone and looked into the French population, the Italians, Canadians, many trials in the U.S. And I'm running one in Asia and India, actually, my origin country. And it's fascinating because in Europe, we see about 30 to 40 percent people have this molecule at different levels. Now, are those levels enough to give you what I call a therapeutic benefit? Probably not. But from dietary exposure, that means these people have the right gut microbiome to convert and make Eurotin A. In the U.S., it's even lower. It's like 10 to 12 percent. So we did a study in Chicago, downtown area, and it was about 10 to 12 percent people had it. If you give them a glass of... So 90 percent of individuals will be unable to leverage this... 90 percent of individuals were not getting it from real world diet. Now, if you give them the healthy diet, which not everybody is eating... Yeah, and in Chicago, they just eat a lot of pizza. Yeah. Then you can boost that number up to, let's say, 30 percent. In India, what I'm figuring out is that it's actually very low. I'm not a producer. I can drink six glasses, and I have actually had six glasses of juice in one go, and my body refuses to make it. And I think it's because your gut microbiome is seeded in the first thousand days of your life. And a lot of practice in these, let's say, countries in Asia and Africa is to give a lot of antibiotics. And I... I... My parents told me I had pneumonia, all kinds of stuff at that time, and I took a lot of antibiotics. And that, I think, messed my gut microbiome forever. Hmm. That's an unusual thought because I think a lot of people are thinking, well, there's nothing I can do about that. We do know that you can modify the gut microbiome. You can, yeah. But maybe not in the capacity to then generate particular compounds. Do you believe that's true? I believe that's 80% true. I think in, let's say, the devil of the world in Europe and US, you can certainly train your gut microbiome to a certain extent. Because if you're not eating the right foods, if you're, you know, if you're supplementing with probiotics and prebiotics, maybe there's a chance if you have the right flora. And we know actually now what's the right gut microbiome that you need to produce your Luton A. I think in countries where, like from India, there's absolutely no chance because, yeah, your gut microbiome is late in the first thousand days of life. And then you think you can eat right and you're eating right, but you're getting. And I think that's the idea. The gut microbiome is, to me, is a polypharmacy. It's really is this source of immense healthy molecules that should be mined for, and we'll talk about your Luton A for sure. Yeah, of course. It is. It's very fascinating. And the, how would someone know if they're a producer? And by the way, I have a test in my kitchen. I do. I have not taken it. How would someone off the street or is it something that people can test for? So it's a test I developed. You know. You developed it? I developed it. I bled many of my colleagues. You are really an underachiever. I mean, you must just look at yourself in the mirror and go, gosh. I bled myself. I could contribute more. All my 10 fingers. I took all my colleagues, even this, you know, all the founders. And I, you know, kind of gave them a glass of juice and tried to see. So we have now developed a minimally invasive test. It requires a dry blood spot test. It requires a little finger prick spotting a few drops of blood and you send it to a lab in the U.S. And in a few days, we know if you're a producer or not, because this molecule is easily detectable in the circulation in the blood. Is it an all or none? Actually, no. Actually, what we see is about 60% people don't make it at all, even if they are exposed to a healthy diet. Then there are about 20, 30% who have the right microbiome, but just need to be eating right. And when you provide that, they can make certain low levels of urolithin A, which may not be enough to give you these immense, powerful mitochondrial and longevity benefits. 10%, which I'm fascinated by, absolutely, because these are what I call the blessed ones. They are born, I don't know, with the right microbiome. They eat right. And these are what I call super producers. And I have in mind a study where I want to follow these super producers and really see if their muscle health actually, you know, and we can talk about it, is already so powerful that they don't need any supplementation.