 People tend to struggle less with exercise than they do with diet. Exercise is something you do in a finite period of time, and then you can move on with your day, whereas nutrition is you have opportunities all day long. Eating behavior is so complicated. For me, it was about the control of the food to then look a certain way, to then be accepted in a certain way and proceed a certain way. Another big reason why people struggle with binge eating, a lot of it is poor stress coping mechanisms. When you have poor emotion regulation skills, every time you're stressed, you're bored, you're something, you turn to food. A big reason why a lot of people will take GLP ones is that it eliminates food noise. I cannot tell you how freeing it is to be able to eat a meal, feel actually satisfied, and move on with your day, and going like four or five hours without having to think about food. It's amazing. It's so free. And a lot of people have never experienced what it's like to not have food noise. What is this psychology of when we restrict something makes us, of course, correct the opposite way? The key to behavior change is not in relying on willpower. I think the smarter way to do it is I'm gonna use willpower to form new habits. The key feature of habits is that they are cognitively not taking, they're automatic. That is fascinating. So, he carpenter, welcome to the show. Fun fact, I've been following you for, you've been a coach, now a PhD, since... Technically, 2012. Okay, you've had also a very interesting journey. Yeah. And I'd love to hear for the audience a little bit about you. You studied human biology? Biology? Yeah, humbio, yeah, very popular major at Stanford. Okay, so no slouchy school. No. And then just finished your PhD, just got your PhD. Couple months ago. And one of the things that I thought was so interesting is I've actually been following you for a really long time. And you were working and also doing your PhD in all of these things in combination, which is unusual. I was in a really fortunate position where I was in a distance program, a virtual program. I don't know if you felt this way, but I first got my bachelor's degree, obviously. I worked for four years, and then a few years later, I was like, I need a bit more. So I went back and got my master's degree in psychology. That was a two-year program. By the end of my master's degree, I was so not really enamored with academics from my personal experience that I was like, I don't think, I think I'm done. And then I found out that Eric Helms, who we know, I call him the industry, was had gotten his PhD from AUT, the Auckland University of Technology, and he was at the time taken on PhD students as an advisor. And there was also at the time, which I believe they don't do anymore, they had a distance program, a virtual program. So I was like, wait, if Eric Helms has taken on students, he's willing to take me on. I've met him before, I get along great with him. We have overlapping areas of interest. And I can do this while staying in California, staying home, because I was working from home. I was like, this is the only way I think I would ever do my PhD. So I was super fortunate that I was able to stay home, keep running my business, which was a personal decision of mine. I like staying busy, I like having more going on. So yeah, I was running a full-time business while also pursuing my PhD at the same time, which was a little bit tricky when it came time for data collection. I won't lie, especially because the, I kind of, it was because of pandemic and other variables. I ended up moving quite far away from my satellite school while the ethics approval process was still happening. So by the time it was approved, I was living 80 miles away from campus. So if you are doing a satellite program for PhD, and you did it in sports science, if we lay out the framework for the audience with a bachelor's in biology, then you did a master's in psychology, which is kind of interesting. And then did a PhD in sports science. Okay, so take me through why psychology? And I do wanna touch on, if you're open to it a little bit of your struggles and how you've helped. That's where it all stemmed from was my own personal struggles with especially eating behavior. So to rewind a bit in my early teens, I struggled with anorexia and bulimia for a little bit. And then I was able to thankfully recover from the anorexia within a year or so, but I struggled with binge eating for years and years, probably into my early 20s. And we've heard this story, which is fascinating. A lot of entrepreneurial, successful women, we hear in their past that it's very common. High prevalence, I think it has to do with a lot of high achieving perfectionist tendencies as well as, at least for me as a teen, I really cared as many people do. I care a lot what other people thought. And as is still the case today, when you enter your teen years, that's when you start hearing more chatter about, oh, she's pretty because she's skinny. And she's popular, da, da, da, da. So that messaging or at least where I grew up, there was a lot of unsolicited commenting about people's body size. And where did you grow up? At the time I was living in Korea, actually. And even though I know in US, diet culture is a big problem, I would say, I don't know about now, back then in Korea it was worse. The standards are much higher. Or different. I was talking to one of our other colleagues with Adidas, Giselle, and she's from Shanghai. And she was talking about her struggles. Yeah, beauty standards are different. She was saying that the beauty standards are different culturally. Yes, and then I would also even argue that a lot of the maybe like the red flaggy diet culture behavior is more normalized there too. At least back when I was living there. Obviously this is now 20 plus years ago. So I don't know how much times have changed since then, but that was my experience growing up there. So there was a heavy emphasis placed on, especially girls, women, being thin, where I would have a friend's mom say, oh, I haven't seen you in a while, you look great. You look even better if you lose 10 pounds. Or like, you know, four kilos or whatever. And I was 14 years old. Wow. 14 years old. And at the time, of course, you're not old enough for your brain. Your brain's not like the level where you're like, oh, you're the problem for saying this to me. You think, oh, you must be right. Maybe, and then the next day you stop eating lunch. Was it like that for you or did it happen? When did you come to the US? How old were you? It was a long story. I moved around so much. So I was born in Korea and then I left when I was two. I lived it. My dad, he was in an international corporate world. Everyone thinks it's military. It's international corporate world. And he was very willing to move from country to country when I was growing up. So I've lived in probably 17 or 18 different places. So I left when I was two. I lived in Indiana for a while. Then I can go through the whole list, but it's long. Bounced around, bounced around, moved to Chicago, moved out back to Asia. So then I moved back to Korea when I was 12 to 15, I think. So I was only there for three years. By then, I was, because I'd grown up internationally and always went to international schools or American schools, I had a very heavy American background by then. So I went to international schools even in Korea. And then when I was 15, I left for boarding school to California. And I've been in the US ever since. OK. And are you an only child? No, I have a brother, older brother. You have an older brother. When you got to the US, that's when your first encounter, and again, we're talking about how you got really interested in the psychology of health and wellness. Yes. So I struggled with, I continue struggling with binge eating, as I said, through all my high school years. And then even into college, it was less of a struggle. But I was not understanding the importance of behavior change and psychology. And so basically, by the time I was 18, I had discovered the world of lifting weights and clean eating, right? That's usually people. Is that when you started? I'm trying to really think back when I first saw you. And it was. Yeah. I didn't start. I didn't have an online any presence until late 2011, is when I started my first free WordPress blog. I was a senior in college. And I basically had gone through my four years of college trying to be a clean eater and sticking to rigid meal plans that my online coaches had provided for me, but struggling to adhere over and over, working out really hard, foregoing my entire social life, isolating myself, which I think a lot of people can relate to, but not understanding why. Why am I trying so hard? Why am I putting in so much effort when I'm high achieving and basically every other area of my life. I graduated top of my class in high school. I went to a prestigious university. I'm doing well in that regard. But why is it my diet that I am continually struggling with? So by the time I got to my senior year, I was like, there has to be something I'm not understanding. Because I was seeing all this messaging about fitness is about hard work and sacrifice and discipline. And I'm like, but I am, I am hardworking. I am disciplined. I know these things. I wake up at 5.30 AM to take the gym before class. I was like, I'm disciplined. So what am I missing? And finally, I was like, maybe let me look into psychology. So that's when I started, this was when I was 21. I started my first introduction into learning more about, okay, I want to understand what it is about psychology. I'm not understanding and how to bridge the gap between the behavior and application that I'm obviously not getting right. So that's kind of where my interest in psychology started from and then of course throughout my college years. And I don't know if you remember back in the late 2000s, early 2010s era, fitness blogging was very big back then before Instagram. And there were the online communities, the threads. There were fitness forums. That's what I like. I was a master lurker in multiple different fitness. I would never comment. I was like, I would obsessively read everything. I loved it. And at this point, I had actually quit the pre-med path. I was pre-med. I was on the sports medicine track because I was like, I'm gonna be an orthopedic surgeon. Turns out I didn't like it very much. And I was like, okay, it's not that. And then I kept coming back to fitness as a hobby. And then yeah, late 2011 was the first time I had realized, oh, maybe I can do something with this interest of mine. You've heard me say before, muscle is the organ of longevity. Now I'm putting the playbook in your hands. My new book, The Forever Strong Playbook is your roadmap to building real strength, not just in your body, but in your health, your energy, your life. This isn't theory. Inside, you'll find the exact workouts, approaching forward recipes, recovery strategies, and mindset tools I use with my patients and live by myself. This book is for anyone and everybody who wants to age powerfully, stay vibrant for their family, and show up strong every single day. When you pre-order, you're not just getting a book, you're joining a movement. The links in the show notes, and I cannot wait for you to dive in. Again, I'm trying to remember when I first saw you, but it was, I mean, it was way before Instagram. It was definitely online, blogging. Was it on Twitter? Or? No, no, it was WordPress. I'm sure it was WordPress. That is a long time ago. That is, yep. You had longer hair, and I think that. I missed my long hair, but yeah. But you were talking about clean eating in macros at the time. Oh my gosh, how funny. I don't remember if you had opened up about having eating a sore. I was pretty forthcoming about that earlier. My first question as I think about it, was there a moment where you were like, you know what, I am gonna share, because you were really ahead of your time. So right now, you and I are seeing social media and Instagram and maybe for the last, I don't know, when did it get big, 2015? Yes, I really, I think it took off. But you were doing. Except before then. Before that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was blogging, I was on Twitter. But there's not, that's not common. No. It's also very exposing, right? Yes, yes. And typically, I mean, I remember the first time I posted something, my armpits were sweating. There was a reason that I did it. Did you, was there a driving reason? Yeah, well, yes. I think for me, again, it was the only thing that I came back to interest-wise. I was in the middle of, I have no idea what I wanna do after I graduate college. I'm bouncing around different career paths. I gave up pre-med. That was a really hard decision. Just because you didn't like it. Yes, and it was that, it was, that was I think maybe towards the end of my junior year. So when I was 20. And I mean, it was a several month long decision because obviously, you know, it's very common. You grow up your whole life and be like, I'm gonna be a doctor, I'm gonna be a doctor. And then you start doing the thing and you're like, I don't know what this is anymore. You're like organic chemistry sucks. You know what it was? It was physical chemistry that did me in. That was the straw, the straw for me. Pekam, I was like, I absolutely hate this class. Really? I was like, I'm gonna fail. I don't understand any, it was so abstract to me. I hired private tutors, I was getting extra health, and but obviously we know it's not one class. It's not like you have to know physical chemistry as a practicing medical doctor. And even my aunt who's a doctor, she's like, you will never, she's like, you don't have to know O-Kam. You don't have to know P-Kam. There are classes sometimes, sometimes they do classes. They kind of like thin the herd. And I was like, well, I didn't make it. But besides that, it really made me think about, okay, am I actually even enjoying this? Or am I following this because I think this is what I'm supposed to do. And a third of my graduating class are all pre-med. Or they're all like, you know, the human biology major is a popular path. And you never had a backup. It was always, you were gonna be a doctor. When I quit that, I was completely lost. I was like, I have nothing else. And I hadn't considered fitness as a career because again, at the time, having an online career or being something other than a full-time personal trainer, which I didn't wanna do, wasn't really a well-known or even well-accepted concept. So even when I would kind of talk about it, I would get pushed back. Not because they didn't understand. They'd be like, wait, you're gonna go to Stanford to become a personal trainer? You know? You're like, you better get a scholarship. There was a lot of like, why are you doing that? Why are you wasting your, you don't need a for your bachelor's degree from a, you know, a well-known college university to do that. Or why don't you become something more prestigious? There's always that kind of pushback. But then I started seeing from all the vloggers that I was following and whatever, I was like, first of all, one, I'm not seeing a lot of females in the space. Well, female voices, mostly men, which is common, very male-dominated industry. The blow's fear, yeah. And two, especially with my budding interest in psychology, I'm like, I'm also not seeing a lot of people talking about the psychology of fitness and the psychology of like eating behavior. And even though I feel obviously very new to the space, I think there's a gap there. Is it safe to say that you went to psychology to solve what you felt was your own problem? I wanted to understand myself better. And I wanted to take what I learned and then translate it back to the general public. One of the things that I think is really interesting is that some people, in order to understand a challenge, they want to, they learn all about it. You know, there's some people that are like, tell me what to do. And then there's other people that are faced with a challenge and then they want to learn everything about it. I want to understand. So that they can overcome it. Yes. When you decided that you weren't going to medical school, and the reason I'm asking this question is because I think there are moments of transitions and transitions in life, they are predictably difficult. You have always been driven and naturally entrepreneurial, whether you knew it or not. And all of a sudden, your path, you know, you're very stoic in terms of the direction. I'm picking this, I'm doing this. Got into Stanford junior year, pulled a plug on medicine. Yeah. At that time, big transition moment, I had meltdowns, I was crying all the time. So this is my question for the listener relating, okay, maybe they're in a transition. Did your eating disorder pick up during that time? I don't know that it did actually. I think I was, I was, I mean, I was in this, I was struggling, but I think it was a consistent struggle for me. I know that for a lot of people, stress levels do exacerbate disorder eating symptoms or behaviors. I don't think that was the case for me necessarily. It was always kind of like the same binge restrict over exercise cycle over and over and over. As these things happened, how did you or how would you recommend, maybe first start with how you began to manage it? Okay, so it was a very gradual process for me. And a lot of it was actually before I went back to get my master's degree. And it was while I was learning more about habits and understanding the psychology of eating behavior, I started understanding, okay, it's actually not about trying harder, like we've been told. So I'm not actually the problem. If anything, I've probably been trying too hard and that's been backfiring on me. And I think a lot of people will relate to trying to be too restrictive with your diet, slashing your calories too much or cutting out too many food groups and then not being able to sustain that and then eventually binge eating. So that was my cycle over and over again. And for so many years, I legitimately believe it's because I'm not being strict enough when I was already so, so strict. So I would keep my target calories really low relative to my body weight and my QB level. So I was like in my body weight wise on my like 124 was, I was like hovering there for a number of years, which I know for a lot of people is like, they're like, oh, that's really low. But it was a reflection of my binge eating behaviors, but I think it was also offset by how much exercise I was doing too. And I was trying to consume like 1300 calories a day. And I thought that was high. And how much? What I should have done. Were you training at the time? Probably like an hour and a half, two hours a day. Looking back and from what I learned since then, I probably could have had closer to like 2000 calories a day or maybe even more and still actually lost body fat. But what was happening was I would try, and again, this is very common, couple of days, 1300 calories, 1300 calories, can't do it, can't do it. I feel terrible. I binge, I binge, I binge. And then my calorie intake from the days I would binge would be so high that it would then blow me up into either maintenance or calorie surplus. And this continued for years. Okay, so let's talk about this because one of the things that you value very much is evidence-based protocols. And we as a collective, as the show, feel that that's very important. Just scientific integrity is important. The things that we know, things that we don't. Fake science versus the not so good science. When you were designing a program, you were eating at, if you just wanna kind of take us through how we can think about designing a program, let's say for, cause I know that you were competing, right? I did for a number of years. I won't do it again, but it was, yeah, I did. How do you think about designing a plan for individuals? For nutrition? Yeah. Or you can maybe start with yourself. How you were thinking about- Oh, back then or now? Cause they're so different. Tell me back then. Okay, so- And then tell me, and then tell me now. So back then, the way that I have learned from other fitness people as well, was there's so many different equations. The simplest way was a body weight multiplier, right? So you take your current body weight times a certain range, depending on your goal. So the numbers that I was given at the time, which in hindsight, I'm like, you know what? There's actually, it could be actually quite a bit higher, was your body weight in pounds times 10 to 12 is your calorie intake. So if you're like 200 pounds to keep it easy, you would consume between like 2000 to 24, is that math right? 2400 calories a day. And I actually learned, it took me a number of years to learn that actually if your activity level was higher, you can actually bump that up by quite a bit and still lose body fat and probably feel better while you're doing it too. So when I had hired coaches, cause I would learn a lot by studying the plans that I was provided from my fitness coaches at the time. And then I'd be like, cause I wanted to understand, right? So every time I'd be like, okay, so that's relative to my body weight. That's like roughly this number. And then over time I can tell that dropping the calories cause I do the calculations and this and that. And then you can see a pattern, right? So that's kind of what I had learned. And so that's kind of what I use for myself. I was like, okay, like 120 something times like 11, cause I want to be a bit more aggressive or something like that. And then you get the number that pops out. But then I'd be like, I can't stick to this. So you were having around 1300 calories. Which is even on my back below. And let's talk about this. When we design diets in our medical practice, we think about, we get an estimate of the resting energy expenditure. For people that are listening, resting energy expenditure is the amount of energy that it takes to just live. It's kind of your floor. We don't believe in going below that. And that is the absolute minimum. What have been my RMR probably. Right, right. And that is, I mean, you should never, no one, at least from our perspective, needs to be that low. This episode is sponsored by R Place. I used to have 14 different pans, half of them scratch, some with these weird coatings flaking off, but none of them stacked properly. And it was chaos. And honestly, I started wondering what I was actually cooking my food in. I spent half my life in the kitchen between meal prepping for the week, feeding the kids and trying to get enough protein in. It's like a full time job. The last thing I need is cookware that doesn't work, or that's making me sick. So I switched to R Place. They're four piece cookware set, two always pans, and two perfect pots, replaced almost everything. Sauteing, searing, steaming, roasting, boiling, done. And it's about having tools that actually perform when you're exhausted and still showing up to cook real food for your family. This is one of those upgrades you feel every single time you use it. Visit from R Place, that's from O-U-R-P-L-A-C-E.com slash Dr. Lyon and use the code Dr. Lyon for 10% off site-wide. They also have a 100 day risk-free trial with free shipping and returns. So there's literally no reason not to try it. The average American based on the data eats between 500 and 1000 more calories than they need a day. So if the resting energy expenditure is the floor let's just say you were- It was basically there. You were there. Yeah, not accounting for my- Activity or anything else that you were doing. You must have been very hungry. Oh yeah, but I was like discipline, you gotta want, you know all the messaging that we were told, I was like okay, okay, yeah. Time to soda, yeah, yeah, yeah. And that because if people are listening and let's say now we have O-Zempic and GLP-1s which did not exist back then for weight loss. Yes. Which can you imagine if they did? The generation that's growing up now will not have to experience- Oh yeah. Have you thought about that? They don't have to experience that. I also, I 100% would have tried to get my hands on that even though I'm actually not a good candidate for GLP-1s. I would have found a way to get it. Definitely is transformative for people in terms of appetite regulation. So for someone listening, if you are under eating calories because that is the first thing that people do, they don't increase their exercise, they reduce their caloric intake. And I did this in college, three, four days and then by the- Weekend or yeah, like Friday, Saturday, Sunday. I was at the University of Illinois, there was not much to do there. Yeah. You're partying or you're so deprived by them that you, or you wanna reward yourself? I was definitely not partying. I was a nerd and I sat in the first row because I needed to get an A in Don Lemon's class. I will also say that some of my counterparts who we know, Lay Norton sat in the back and I definitely did better than him. That is so funny. You know what, did you know I used to work for him? I do not know that. Yeah, I was his, actually this is beginning of my career. Maybe that's how I found you. So in 2013, so basically what had happened was in 2012, I was an intern at a strength and conditioning facility right after, right out of college. And I had been blogging for like six months by then, seven months and I reached out to him via email. This is back when he was replying to every single email on his own. And I was like, hey, I would like to do, I'd like to interview you for a blog post about intermittent fasting and he replied and answered my questions. So he knew me from there. And then a year later, I was living in New York. I reached out to him and I was like, hey, do you need a virtual assistant? And he was like, yeah. And then he hired me right away. So I was running my online business, blogging, personal training and doing his admin work for about two years. Well, let's just bust his chops and he sat in the back and I was definitely a better student than him. And certainly Don Layman's favorite and still am, Lane. Anyway, so by the third or fourth day, people are starving and they're probably trying this now. Resting energy expenditure is at the baseline. You hit the fourth day, you're doing a refeed, a not purposeful refeed. How did you recover? So let me say one more statement. Restrict, binge, feel terrible. Go to the gym on that. So Friday, let's say you're overeating Friday, pizza, you were partying. I wasn't eating pizza and smoothies, whatever, dorking out and they didn't even have Netflix. And then were you at the gym the next day? How cognitively were you managing it then? I mean, there's a lot of cognitive dissonance, of course, because you're like, this is not the behavior that I wanna be engaging in. So you'd be like, oh, this is a refeed. You tell yourself, this is a refeed. Oh, I needed the extra calories. I'm gonna do an extra hour of cardio tomorrow. It's fine, it'll burn all off. You tell yourself whatever you gotta tell yourself. Or this is definitely the last time I'm gonna do this and I'll never do this again. I'll be harder on myself next time. But you tell yourself the same thing every single time. And at some point, at least for me, I was like, you know what, this isn't working. I'm putting so much mental bandwidth into this and I'm going backwards. I'm not seeing the results that I wanna see and I'm frustrated. And so it wasn't until after I graduated college and it was a very gradual process where I was like, I'm starting to understand more about the psychology of eating behavior. I think I'm trying too hard. I'm being too strict, so I'm gonna loosen the reins. And of course, it was scary. I'm gonna be more inclusive with my diet. I'm going to stop. What was your diet like at the time? I was like, I put in heavy clothes. I was a clean eater. It was like, is this chicken grilled or fried? Or what kind of oil did you use? Did you use spray or did you pour the oil on? What kind of rice is it? Oh, these vegetables can't have any oil. It was very restrictive. I can have a protein shake and four almonds. It was like that. Well, I was with you. That's probably how I found you. I was like, well, how is she doing? Yeah. How do you, okay, so you said it's a very gradual process. Very gradual process. So I slowly started, I was like, I'm gonna stop tracking my calories. I'm tired of it. It's not working. It's not working. So I stopped tracking, but I was still eating you know, like protein at every meal, da da da da. But what was so interesting is over, I don't know how many months it was, but like it was less than a year, I stopped trying so hard. I stopped binging eventually. And again, it wasn't from trying so hard. For the listener, they're probably thinking, okay, so we've heard other people on your show that have talked about eating disorder. We had, do you know Michelle McDonald? Joan, Trani Joan? Yeah, I know. She suffered with an eating disorder pretty severely for many years. And she's still very aware of impulses and how to restrain that. But for you, it seems like it's a little bit different. Yes. And I think the thing I do wanna emphasize is that binge eating can have multiple triggers. You know, eating behavior is so complicated. For me, a lot of it, because for a lot of people, it's not actually about the food. For me, it was about the control of the food to then look a certain way, to then be accepted in a certain way and perceived a certain way. The reason why my binge eating persisted for so long, for me, is that it was the extreme level of rigidity with my diet. So as soon as I let myself actually eat more calories on a day-to-day basis, and also feel less deprived with my food choices, one I started liking the way I ate more, right? And then I...  felt, because I felt less deprived, I didn't have the urge to binge one away, for me. And when I did that, of course, my actual day-to-day calorie intake actually dropped, and then over the course of, like, I want to say, eight months or so, I lost like 10 pounds without trying, and this was about 10, maybe 10 plus years ago, and I was so amazed, because I was like, I'm actually trying, I'm putting in less effort, and I'm getting, I'm losing weight when I'm trying less, and I was like, oh my god, I feel like I've understood something that I really didn't get before. And that was a moment? Oh, it was huge, yeah, and it really changed a lot of my messaging, and I've continued to evolve my messaging since then, but it really highlighted to me, okay, it's really not about trying harder. Which is counterintuitive, basically to, I think, a lot of messages out there. This episode is brought to you by FourSigmatic. If coffee is what gets you through the morning, but also what leaves you jittery, unfocused, or crashing by mid-afternoon, you're not alone. A lot of people are using coffee to push through, I might be one of them, but not actually support the brain, and that's why FourSigmatic's focus, organic dark roast, is different. You're getting a premium, organic, Arabica coffee blend with Lion's Mane, and hey, I'm talking Mufasa style, and shaga mushrooms. Lion's Mane supports focus and mental clarity, and because it's adaptogenic, it helps smooth out the spike and crash cycle that caffeine alone can cause. If you're thinking, hmm, gross, does it taste like mushrooms? The answer is no. But it's smooth, full-bodied, dark roast with subtle chocolate notes. It tastes like real coffee, and if flavor wasn't enough, FourSigmatic third-party tests their coffee from mold, mycotoxin, pesticides, and heavy metals. It's also one of the best-selling functional coffees at retailers like Target, Whole Foods, with over 100,000 five-star reviews. And right now, listeners of this podcast can get a free bag of their best-selling dark roast ground coffee, just pay shipping and handling. Go to FourSigmatic.com slash Gabrielle. That's F-O-U-R-S-I-G-M-A-T-I-C dot com slash Gabrielle. When you work with people, you have online coaching and you do this stuff. What is it for most people? Is there a theme that you see? In terms of the nutrition mistakes that they make? Yeah. So if someone's listening to this and they're going, you know what? I have been trying so hard, and I don't want to do a GLP one. I want to do it with nutrition and training and increasing my activity. So back like the old school way, we could call it the old school way. How can they, what would be the first step in beginning to unpack or reposition their mind around dieting to overcome that particular aspect? Yeah. Okay. So this really changed my perspective a lot for me. What clicked for me was understanding. It's not about, because I used to believe that the stricter I was, the more miserable I was, the better the results I was going to get. I now think, and this was about 10 years ago I had this revelation, it's not about making things as strict as possible. It's about removing as many pain barriers as you can and removing as many obstacles while mitigating how much extra effort you have to exert to see the results you want to see. Do you think about food now? Only in like, I'm really excited to eat dinner. Like that sounds great. But not in the obsessive food noise way that I had before. So I can, and a lot of people will relate to this, and a big reason why a lot of people will take GLP ones is that it eliminates food noise. And when I was binge eating, my food noise was constant. I do not have that anymore. I cannot tell how freeing it is to be able to eat a meal, feel actually satisfied, and move on with your day, and going like four or five hours without having to think about food. Isn't that, it's amazing. It's so freeing. And I know, and a lot of people have never experienced what it's like to not have food noise. Is there sustainability in the way in which you are thinking about nutrition? Now? Absolutely. I would describe myself as an intuitive eater now. I wasn't even 10 years ago. I was still heavily macro tracking. I was all about flexible diet. But now let's take a pause. Intuitive eating, and again, you went to Stanford, also have a master's in psychology, also just completed your PhD. Congratulations. I have always believed in evidence based, right? Don has trained me. If I say something wrong, he'll call me like, why did you say it that way? Then comes along intuitive eating, which by the way, think about that just conceptually, it doesn't make scientific sense at all. But there is a level of freedom that comes from being able to trust. And I say this cautiously because... It's a skill, by the way. It's a learned skill. Yeah. And I think the thing with intuitive eating sounds that doesn't work. Sounds like we need some tarot cards. I would be like 50 pounds heavier. Tarot cards and essential oils. Yeah. But the thing is, there is actually a growing body of research in support of intuitive eating. Not for weight loss. The purpose is not for weight loss, which a lot of people say, I'm intuitively eating my way to weight loss. That's not intuitive eating. Well, what is intuitive eating? There's a really... So intuitive eating, I'm going to... In the simplest terms, a huge principle is, of course, honoring your physical hunger and fullness cues. But another... There's multiple principles to it. A lot of... One principle that a lot of people do not know about, actually, is the concept of gentle nutrition, which is one of the last steps. Gentle nutrition? Yes. It's the last step of the intuitive eating process. And that's the part that I think is really important, where you are still actually making choices that honor your health while also honoring your personal preferences. So for example, have you heard of the concept of add, don't, restrict nutrition? No. And I've never heard of gentle eating. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Great. We're talking about it. So the idea of add, don't, restrict, a lot of dietitians love to talk about it. I didn't come up with it, but I love... I'm a huge proponent of it, is the idea that they say, have what you want, add what you need. And you don't have a food restriction mindset. And so, for example, let's say I want a pizza. We know that pizza is not the most nutritious meal, necessarily, but maybe you'll add... If you're making your own pizza, you'll be like, I'm going to add some bell peppers. I'm going to add some mushroom and add some onions. I'm going to have a side salad with it so I can get in some extra veggies. And maybe, you know, it's got like two slices of pepperoni. I'm going to add some more protein on that. So you're adding in the nutrients that you need. And I love this because from my learnings, from food psychology, we want to keep people out of the restriction mindset as much as possible with nutrition. So it's not necessarily about actually... So obviously, we know people have like dietary restrictions. Legitimate dietary restrictions. Basically, what you're saying is pizza is not its own food group. This is not your ideal choice. That's also not a rule either. So I'm like, okay, if you do that a lot of the time and occasionally you have a greasy cheese pizza by itself, that's also fine too. Because again, I don't want to have rigid food rules. But this is my approach, is what we teach our clients. If you have, you know, a wrap and there's one slice of thin deli meat, can you be like, can I get it at some extra protein on that? And this is an add don't restrict. Add don't restrict. Or like, I'm going to add some, like one of them, I love eating ramen for example, but we know it's not like, I would not recommend an all ramen diet. Yes, she does. Any sponsors for ramen? But sometimes they'd be like, I'm going to add an egg. I'm going to add another source of protein, like a handful of chicken. I'm going to add some beans to it for the fiber. Okay, so then what is this psychology of, what is it that when we restrict something makes us course correct the opposite way? More intense. There's a lot of different theories out there. The big one I'm going to go with, and again, it's very complicated. My interests with all of this, I really honed in on the idea of willpower, right? Everyone says, you need more willpower. You need more discipline. The problem is willpower feels fatiguing. Willpower feels fatiguing. And the way, the analogy that a lot of scientists use is that you have one source of willpower, like a battery that gets drained by multiple sources. Do you believe that? Do you believe that? So there's a lot of, there's some controversy now. But basically that's why I, and there's also some research saying the key to behavior change is not in relying on willpower, really nearly, with brute force. It's about being more strategic about when you use willpower. And I think the smarter way to do it is I'm going to use willpower to do, to form new habits, to form the healthy habits that I want to have in my life. Because the key, the key feature of habits is that they are cognitively not fatiguing. They're automatic. So the more healthy habits or the more, you know, pro goal habits you have in your life, the easier it is for you. That is fascinating. How does someone begin to instill a habit that requires a lower cognitive load? Yeah. There's a lot of ways to do this. So the most effective way that you have seen, especially when it comes to body weight and nutrition. Yeah. So I would first, first do a nutrition, I would do an audit, first of all, like, because everyone's going to have a different thing. And what I would do is probably identify a few key behaviors we can modify in your life that I think will make a big difference without like excessive amount of effort. Okay. Give me an example. Someone wants to lose 30 pounds. They've never, they don't know anything about protein. They've never done a proper, like a reasonable diet in their life. They have a history of crash dieting and they go from extreme diet to completely given up, right? That's pretty common. And then you're like, okay, tell me about what you eat. And they're like, okay, from, for breakfast, I have a pizza. I have a pizza and I have a venti, extra large latte with all the sugar and this and this and this. And then for lunch, I have a box of donuts. And then for dinner, I have a lasagna and then a tub of ice cream or something like that. And while it's dead, sound extreme, we do have clients coming up to us where that is their normal diet. And I would say, okay, how about this? We're going to do. And I think it's important to give them a certain level of autonomy as well and be like, okay, here are some, some things that we can do. What do you want to choose? I think how about, would you be willing to, instead of 12 donuts in one sitting, would you be willing to reduce it to, to six and then instead of remove the six donuts and then add in, so you have six donuts, take away the other six, then we're going to add in like a protein shake or a meal replacement shake or, or, or something that's going to, you know, give them a little bit more protein because we know their protein needs work. Their sugar intake is through the roof. Fiber intake is like non-existent, you know, things like that. You're like, okay, there's so much move for improvement that even the most modest changes will actually elicit a lot. How about instead of your extra large latte in the morning, how about a, a small, you don't, okay, you don't want to do a small, how about a medium? I get the picture. Yeah. How long does that phase last? Depends on the person. It can go weeks. It can go months. This episode is sponsored by Cozier. When the holidays wind down, what you usually want is into another planner or productivity hack. You want sleep. I mean, I know I do. And if you're a parent, you want sleep that doesn't feel like a negotiation. For me, a fresh start begins at home. And one of the easiest resets I've made going to the new year is upgrading our bedding with Cozier earth's Baja bedding set. It's a complete matching set, which I'll show you if you look at some of my videos with sheets, duvet cover, quilt inspired by the textures and colors of Baja California. The fabric is incredibly soft, breathable, and has a reversible design. Listen, you just slide in there even when the rest of the house is crazy. And here's the thing. When you sleep better, you recover better. And that doesn't matter whether you're training hard or working long days. We need recovery and we do need rest. So what I appreciate is that Cozier earth stands behind their products. You get a hundred night sleep, free trial, no pressure, tenure, warranty. And if you don't think it's comfortable, you can send it back. So start the new year's right. That is not with partying, but with rest. Go to Cozier earth.com, use my code Dr. lion for 20% off. That's Cozier earth.com. And then you use the code Dr. lion. My thing is I don't want to make drastic changes unless I have to. And if we can see, if we can get you to see the progress that you want to see, if we can get you moving in the right direction while things still feel easy, why would I want to make things harder? That's my take. Yeah. I, you know, oftentimes people will come in and again, as people are learning more and listening and getting more information, a lot of people will come in and say, okay, I want the best diet plan. Give me the best diet plan. Yeah. Or they're like, if it's not extreme, it's not worth doing. And if it's too much, they're like, yeah, I want to do it. But it was just how I used to think too. Yeah. Exactly. Perhaps in order to set people up for success, what you're saying and what it seems like some of the evidence supports is depending on where someone starts, the standard American diet and all of those things that you mentioned are very high in the standard American diet. I think pizza is one of the number one foods eaten. I think that it's the number one source of saturated fat. It's so good. Yeah. I really like pizza. Really? No, I haven't been cooking. I know. Um, but instead of, you know, as I reflect, I think because as we are now, you know, professionals, if you think back to when you started, when I started working with people, I actually started working with people. By the, before I was in, was I in med school? With their fitness? Yeah. And nutrition. Okay. I studied nutritional sciences in my undergrad. Okay. And then when I graduated, I started doing programs for people. Oh, okay. Cool. And instead of doing it that way, I would say, okay, here's your boiled chicken. Here's your chicken breast. Yeah. That was the norm. Yeah. And it probably would have been so much more effective to start where people are. What I think is very eyeopening is that the longer you go in practice, like you and I have been, the more perspective we have for all of the patients or people that we have treated. You look back and you're like, oh, I shift on this, shift on this. Right. And it's this kind of evolving experience. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you don't know what you don't know. That is one way to do it. So this is the adding, not subtracting. Yep. But when it comes to fat loss specifically, the way that you would use the add, don't distract, not subtract or the add, don't restrict, the goal of that would be addition by displacement by addition. Right. So you displace the calories by adding in more, more filling, like protein and veggies. Talk to me through that a little bit. And we're talking about changing habits. So basically when it came down to, so what you're doing is you're integrating the science of nutrition plus the behavior change. Yes. Right. And the habit is not to completely obliterate someone's plan because the reality is it's like, if someone wants to start a workout plan, maybe they shouldn't start CrossFit as their first ever workout. If they're like, I really hate sprinting and you're like, well, too bad, you're doing sprints day one and every day, they're like, they're not going to stick to it for a long time. And the same, the same idea applies to nutrition where the norm is to cut out all their favorite foods because I think they're automatically bad and have to go. And I'm like, no, I want you to keep your favorite foods as much as you can. But can we be a little bit more judicious about a little bit more intentional about our portions? So step one is really repositioning, portioning as well as adding in, for example, protein. And then the other easy thing you can do too is again, when you talk, when you do an audit, you're like, Oh, I see you like to eat this handful of the candy bowl at your desk when you're working. Are you even paying attention to the candy when you're, they're like, no, I'm in a meeting and I'm putting it in my mouth because I'm bored. And you're like, okay, so they're actually mindless calories that you don't even enjoy. If, if you're not going to miss them, if we take it away, why don't we get rid of, why don't we move again from a behavior, behavior change standpoint? Why don't we move the candy bowl to somewhere that is more inconvenient for you to access even simple things like changing it from a clear bowl to an opaque bowl and putting it at the back of the closet where you can't, it's not an arms reach anymore, where you have to stand up, open the closet, grab a steps to, you make it harder for you to get to the easier thing is to not eat it. So why don't you make the default behavior, the thing you actually want to do, and the thing you don't want to do less of, can you, how can you make that behavior more inconvenient for yourself? How can you make that behavior more convenient? Yep. That's, that is a good strategy. Do you have another, another habit, changing tip or a way of thinking about it? So basically what you want to do is this is not my quote, you want to design for laziness. Okay. My husband will love hearing that. Yeah. Yeah. So there's just an example. This is not mine. I think I read it in a book that I was like, oh, that makes complete sense. So there was a, an anecdote of a guy who wanted to practice his guitar more often and he was like, oh, I'm going to do like 20 minutes to date. It's great. He put the guitar in his closet. That was enough for him to completely forget that it was there because visibly there's, there's no, the visual cue is gone. Right. So the way I have it works is you have, um, you have the way habit loop, right? You have the cue or the trigger or the prompt. This is the thing that says do this now. So if you pick up your phone, it might be because someone's ringing you, right? That's your trigger in terms of the guitar playing that she needed the visual cue of like, oh, I see it. He didn't have the cue. He put it away. He forgot it was there. So because the trigger was removed, the behavior doesn't happen. And he was like, okay, this isn't happening. What am I missing? Okay. What I did was, okay. I pulled the guitar out of the guitar, I'm sorry, out of the closet. And I put it in the living room where I would pass it every day. So now I can see it. I became a lot better at remembering to practice because the cue was there. So what can you do to, whatever it is you want to do, for example, if you are in the, you, you want to get in the habit of taking creatine or your deadly medication, but you always forget because it's in the cupboard. What I do with my prenatals right now, cause I'm pregnant. I didn't know if we were going to talk about that. It's fine. I was like, I'm going to use my own example. Okay. Um, I went a period of time where I was so spotty with my prenatal daily intake. And I was like, duh, I can use my own knowledge of behavior change to make this better. I put it on my coffee machine because it was away in the cupboard. You mean you put it on your coffee machine, looking at your coffee machine that you can only have 200 milligrams of caffeine a day. Uh, when you're pregnant, in case you are listening or someone is pregnant, which is the biggest mistake ever. And then from my perspective, and then what I did was, uh, now a very popular term is, is called habit stacking where you pair, uh, new behavior that you want to turn to a habit with an existing daily habit. Right. And what do I do every single day at home is I'm in my kitchen, either making breakfast or making lunch. So as I'm getting ready to make, make my meal and sit down, I see my prenatals. And I'm like, I'm going to take those out and sit down with me and I'll pop it in before I eat. So someone thinking about how they are going to change their diet. Would you have them pretend it's not a supplement, right? What if it's, I mean, you're not going to put a chicken breast on the counter, but how would they start to think if they are someone who is not really interested in eating healthy, but we know that we have to get them there. Okay. So I'm going to tell you about two really cool studies that were kind of, that illustrate this point. Um, so there was one study where they took a hospital cafeteria. Okay. And what they did was all they did was very quietly, they changed the placement of bottle water versus soda and other no calorie-related drinks in the cafeteria. So they moved the water bottles to the front, or they had them in the back where you had to open the fridge and literally go like this, reach a little bit more to access the water. Um, that was enough to significantly change water bottle, water consumption, fluid consumption. There was another study where there was, um, you know, those ice cream freezers where you, there's the sliding door and whatever. Um, leaving it open, people grab more. If you leave it shut and they have to do this, they're like, yeah, we're really simple people. We're simple, not people. We are simple creatures. So this is what I mean when I say design for laziness and it sounds negative. It's really not. How can you use that to your advantage? Okay. How can you, uh, in your fridge, can you make the foods you want to eat more of? Put them at eye level and marketing psychologists know this already, put it at eye level, put it where it's easier to reach, not behind the, the, you know, the fried food and this and that, or the sodas, put them in front. Your protein shakes readily. As soon as you open your fridge, I want to see it right away. So there's the visual cue and it's also easier for me to, to grab it, make it more, make it more likely. If I have my protein powder, you know, on my counter, I'm more likely to meet my protein target versus if it's in the back of my pantry, because I think of it, I'm like, I don't want to do that. If someone has tendencies towards, let's just say binging or they, for example, Friday night comes along and they have done really well all week. And they have movie night with their kids. Yup. It's like popcorn movie night. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Love it. It's not, I know totally. And it's not on their plan. Yeah. And they fall off their plan. Okay. How do you reorient people to get right back on there? Because now we haven't taken them in a very restrictive way, which I, I, I can really appreciate that. And it takes a lot of pressure off of people and then they don't, they're not failing all the time. Right. My, okay. So my very first thought when you were bringing up that example was how can I incorporate the popcorn into your plan? And my, and my next thought was, why can't it be part of your plan? You know, and so there are ways to small things like, okay, you could have your popcorn, but does it have to be a bucket size? Because we know that the more of a certain meal that you eat, the less you enjoy it over time. Okay. Right. That is yes. Can you pause there? Because I want to tell you a little story, which I've never, I've never even told Okay. Oh, I'm interested. I don't even know if I'm going to keep it in the podcast. When I was in college, I, I competed. I competed in fitness. Okay. And after a show, you're, at least for me, I was like off the rails. 100%. I had, um, dieted down so low and I, I wouldn't even say it was this dysmorphic, uh, association with my body. I'd like starved myself. So I went, do you remember insomnia cookies? Yes. I didn't know they were around. Okay. I probably got 12. Yeah. Okay. And sitting in my room in college, totally feeling terrible that I'm eating. I got to three. And then by four, I was like, this doesn't even, I can't even believe this. Number one, it's not even enjoyable anymore. Yep. My stomach hurts. I'm still eating it. It doesn't taste good. There was diminishing returns. Yeah. I, I've fully relate to that. What is that? Tell me. I don't know the answer to that, but I would be curious to know. I wonder if I have to do with dopamine responses or something similar. But it's, it's, I mean, I think we can all really like, Oh, I get that. Because if we know that's going to happen, then that fourth cookie, it's not going to be happy. Yeah. What's the point? I think there's a lot of all or nothing mentality there where you're like, well, one, I've already committed to this. I've already bought all this, whatever. Two, uh, tomorrow I'm never going to, I'm not, I'm going to go right back to my strict diet anyway. So this is my last chance, last chance syndrome, right? This is my last window of opportunity to, to eat as much as I can. So even if I'm not enjoying it, I should eat it because this is my window right now. And I think that's a very, very calm. I had that. I would, I would remember in the middle of a binge, I had this logical thought where I'm like, I'm not even enjoying this. This isn't even young. This is dry. This is stale. But tomorrow I can't eat it. So you better eat it now. I did that too. And I wonder, you know, I'm curious for the people that are listening, I would love to hear if you guys have experienced this because maybe it's an age thing when you're in your twenties. I don't know. Do you have, um, more mature clients that suffer from this now? You do. Okay. Yeah. So it's not necessarily just an age thing and it can be a restriction thing. Yeah. But I do think that in general, I would say a mindless eating is a huge. Problem. And especially if you're, um, there is research when you're distracted, you are more likely to eat a higher calorie intake. Is there any data or have you had any experience or would you have any advice for someone who is in the middle of a binge or a behavior and they just happened, God willing to turn this podcast on or watch it on YouTube. And they're listening to this and they're kind of in an out of control cycle. Do you think is there something that we could tell them to stop them in their track? The thing that's so hard about binge eating is that when you're in the middle of a binge, there's almost no reasoning with you. You're not being logical and you know it. And you, it almost feels like an out of body experience. I would describe it as for me, I felt like I was watching myself from above, like an aerial view and I had no control of what, what my body was doing. Right. And so even, you can see all the logical that's in that you want. No, you're in this mode is hard to snap out of it, but when you're, when you're not binging, uh, no, we're not actively binging, but still struggling with binge eating is easier to be like, okay, let's get to the root of why you're struggling. Um, one, you're not the problem, which can be, um, really validating for people who continually think, why am I so weak? Why am I like this to another, another big reason why people struggle with binge eating actually has something to do with food itself. A lot of it is, um, poor stress coping mechanisms. When you, um, have poor emotion regulation skills or non-existent or motion regulation skills. And every time you're stressed, you're bored, you're something, you turn to food as a self soothing behavior. Right. So we go back to the habit loop. We have the cue or the trigger in this case, the cue is an unpleasant emotion. The behavior is the binge eating. You turn to food as a distraction. The reward is that you're temporarily, uh, you don't experience the negative emotion temporarily, but of course it perpetuates the problem because, and the problem in this case is that the cue is always going to happen. I don't think it's ever realistic to say, never be sad again. Right. Do we become more resilient to the cue? We want to expand our toolbox that we're a better able to handle the emotions. So the goal is not to never feel the emotions again. The goal is to, to have better tools in our toolbox. So if I'm stressed, I'm not immediately turning to cookies. Maybe I'll call a friend, maybe I'll go for a walk. Maybe I'll go, um, do a hard workout, you know, something that's, and then you have multiple options. That way it's not always, every time I'm stressed, I eat two of a thousand extra calories. Do you think there's a way to lower the, the salience of the stress or meaning? Your mom is annoying. Not my mom. Mom, I'm not talking about you. But when you're in college, just say you get a family member annoying call. In your twenties, it could throw you off. It's a huge deal. It's a huge deal. Give a big reaction to it. Huge reaction. Eventually you hope that over time you mature out of that. And that's just one example. How can someone change the interpretation of the cue? Yeah. So the reframes are super important. Right. And basically, uh, okay. So going back to that, it would be like the trigger would be you get an annoying phone call from a family member. Your reaction is huge stress response. And if, how can you reduce the stress response is, is going back to the reframes. And I think one thing too, you can say, okay, you're having all these thoughts in your head. So we have what we call cognitive distortions, right? We have them all the time. There's all different types of cognitive disorders. I never do. That's a joke. That was funny. Okay.  where you have, for example, like, I never get the pronunciation right, catastrophization, right, that's an example of one, I am great at it, right? Tell us what that is, tell us what it is. You know, you know what a catastrophe is, is when you, in your mind, you're like, oh my god, everyone, whatever, this is gonna happen, and this, you blow your perception of something completely out of proportion, or like, you know, if I don't get astray days on my report card, my world is gonna end, life is not worth living anymore, da-da-da-da, big, big, big reactions, right? There's also, there's a lot, but like another example is like monkey-mindedness, or, or, or believing that, like, you, you know exactly what other people are thinking about you, everyone hates me, they're all judging me, they hated my talk, they're this and that, you're like, you don't know that that's true, right? So what you can do is, what are your thoughts in your head? What is the evidence that that's true? And when you do a little bit more digging, all times you find, okay, I'm actually making this up. Where is this coming from? Oh, it's because I'm sensitive to this and that, I really care about what other people think, you think that, you know, you think Dr. Gabrielle hates you, why do you think that? Oh, because of this, okay, but what other evidence is there? There isn't really. Have you ever read Byron Katie's work, the work? I know I'm familiar with her though, no ever. She, I'm probably gonna get this wrong, but I'm gonna just go with it. It goes something like this, you, and there's a, you know, it's a, I think it's a four step process, but it is the statement, okay, Dr. Gabrielle, you know, doesn't like me, and then the, the statement is, do you know it's true? What evidence do you have? Yeah, yeah. How would you respond if it wasn't true? Yeah. And then there's one more thing, there's like a turnaround. Yeah. If people do that, do you think that then that lowers that cognitive load of the queue? I think it can. I think it's easier for some people than others, depending on, you know, how much of a hold that has on them and how willing they are to change. And I think it can be like a several year long process for some people. And another thing too is, you know, taking a step back and having a bit of more of a bird's eye view of, of life in general, like, is this really that big of a deal in the grand scheme of things? Like, for example, for me, a huge, something that used to strike a trigger, a huge stress response is, if I didn't get to do my workout exactly the way that I planned, like for example, if I, something happened in my day and I had 20 minutes less for my workout than I wanted, I would have a meltdown, right? And then that might then maybe turn me to like, I'm not going to do my workout at all. I'm going to turn to food and said, whatever, right? So obviously now you self sabotage. You've had a, you're, you're, you're very upset. You're snappy, you're moody. I was, I would get very moody, you know, and I didn't do any of the things that I wanted to do. So how can I break myself out of that? So then I realized, okay, it took me a long time to learn this, a 40 minute workout is still better than zero minutes, even if it wasn't the full 60 minutes that you wanted. And really learning to understand, accepting that a good enough is still good enough. And you can actually get quite far with good enough consistently done. Yeah. And when you were studying psychology, did you have these breakthroughs or were these things that, because your PhD is, when are you talking about your PhD is in? Resistance training in women. Yeah. It was not psychology. There wasn't a psychology. Yeah, it was, I kind of switched. Yeah. I mean, listen, you probably mastered, do you know, I did psychiatry for two years. Oh, amazing. And then I was very interested in the mind as well. And over a period of time, it either becomes the path, right? So maybe you go become a psychiatrist, or maybe you become a therapist, or you use that in your toolbox to then really help people begin to find their strongest, most resilient self. Was there one thing that you really learned? So it sounds like the habit reframe was huge for you in terms of how a habit is formed. So it's a cue response. What's after that reward reward? And then the cycle and then because then was there something else or anything else in your studies or something that is like, man, I wish I'd known this and I wish everybody knows that. So actually, my master's thesis was on dichotomous thinking towards foods, which is the all or nothing mentality towards food. And again, stem from my personal interests and from my own personal struggles for years and years and years. And I, I've been a survey and my survey, and the conclusion was, and people who have gone through this will not be surprised. The more all or nothing minds that you have towards food, the higher the likelihood of binge eating. We want to be more flexible. We want to sit in the gray, I would say the gray area more. This makes me worry about the diets that we're seeing, the novelty. So there's the carnivore diet. It just makes me think for those that are on the carnivore diet, that is really restrictive. And all of these diets are potentially, if what you're saying is true, going to set people up for a really rough patch. Yeah, it's, there's a lot of things happening that are quite concerning nowadays. But in general, I'm very skeptical of diets that exclude food groups, barring medical restriction, like if you have an allergy or something, that's obviously different. And obviously, if you have a genuine preference to not eat something, that's also different, right? Because there's a difference between not like the vegan diet. Yeah, like there's a genuine preference between like, I difference, there's a difference between genuinely not wanting to eat something like I don't really like, for example, like I'm on a doctor or a person. So if I never eat it again, I'm not going to be sad about it, right? But if I am, if they're like, you could never have lattes ever again, and I'm like, oh my God, then I'm going to feel deprived. Right. So for me, it's about minimizing the feelings of restriction, not about what are you actually excluding from your diet. That to me is really important is how are you doing mentally and also how mentally satisfied do you feel from your food? That is a really good perspective. You know, on the show, we talk a lot about the evidence base, you know, Donna and I talk all the time, we talk about this study, we talk about the anabolic threshold. But we don't talk very often about the psychological infrastructure that is required for people to be successful for the long term. And one of the things that that you've said before is that motivation isn't the secret, but systems are. Can you unpack that a little bit? Yes. And by motivation, I'm specifically referring to there's different types of motivation. I'm referring to extrinsic motivation, right? So when we're like, I don't want to do my workout, but let me let me go pull up this this this YouTube video that's going to get me amped up and whatever, like that's a form of extrinsic motivation. Does it work? Does that work? Short term, it can work short term. Or if I'm like, I really hate the style of workout and I hate this diet, but I have this huge really important gala coming up that I want I want to fit into this dress for this event. And so I'm going to do this thing that I don't enjoy for the sake of this other goal, that's more being as intrinsically motivated or extrinsically or as extremely or I'm going to the gym only because my my friend is forcing me to go and I don't want to be there, right? She's forcing me to do it. Versus we have again different levels of intrinsic motivation where I'm like, I love the way it makes me feel. I genuinely like the exercise by itself. Or I have a deeper why it's more than about like, I want to fit into these changes, maybe like, for example, for me right now, I have even though I've been exercising consistently for over 20 years, my motivation for exercising is even more meaningful now because it's about a healthy pregnancy too, right? We know exercise is so good for pregnancy. And so it's yet another reason for me to keep doing what I'm doing with my resistance training and with my running. And so I'm like, my why is so so deep, right? And I want to just pause on that. It's it's extraordinary how much we're able to do for someone else, not ourselves. Yes, can I tell you something? Yes, please. I had exactly to your point, when I was doing the day collection for my PhD, my training study, right? I was studying resistance training in women, as I said, so I would go to the campus lab and train women. And I had one participant in particular, she said at the end of the study, she said, you know what, I was really struggling with my exercise adherence before when I was by myself. But as soon as I heard about your study, and I volunteered, it was really easy for me to show up because I was doing it for you. She said, I was contributing to your PhD and to your research, and it was so easy to show up for you. I couldn't show up for myself consistently. I thought that was so interesting, even though I had never I didn't know who she was before. She only knew me from online. And she was like, Oh, I'm doing this for the greater good of someone else. I think that that's where community, you know, in medicine and in health and wellness, and maybe just human behavior, a lot, there's a lot of division. But the division, you know, if we really think about what it is that we're doing, we want a better, stronger world, right? It's not about dividing. And I think that it's so much easier when we show up for others and a movement, you know, like what we're doing here for a house of strength. It's not about, I mean, you girls are working really, really hard. And you're pregnant. So you're also working exponentially hard. But it's, it's easier because you're showing up for other people. How do we move to intrinsic motivation like that? I don't think extrinsic motivation is useless. It's still useful. For example, I'll be example, you're in a race, you're in a 5k, whatever, you're getting tired, you're in the last like little 100 meter sprint, whatever. And you're like, I want to give up. And then you see, you see your parents, you see your boy from your hut, whatever, you see people in the crowd screaming your name. And all you get this burst of energy, right? You're like, ah, you have this hero dash to the finish. That's extrinsic motivation. It is helpful. But it's not enough as lasting for lasting behavior change to happen, right? So the intrinsic, it's more about, I think, getting people to be a little bit more introspective. And sometimes they have a deeper why, but they don't know it. About what matters about why they're doing. And for a lot of parents, a huge part of it is I want to be around for my kids. I want to be, I want to be able to keep up with them as they grow up, you know, I want to be able to chase them up and down the stairs, run across the field with them. That's super meaningful. It's not motivation in order to have this desire, this ability to, to take the next right step, the discernment, you have to understand where it's coming from because you'll always be able to fall back on that. Yes. And one, there's one exercise that you can do, which a lot of people like this is really annoying, but I'm like, but it can be really eye-opening is, it's called the five whys. Sometimes I would pull it back to the three whys where you say, you're like, oh, I'll lose 20 pounds. Why? Because I'll look in this dress. Why does that matter to you? Because I will get compliments from others. Why does that matter to you? Why is that important? You need to keep going, you keep going, you keep going. And sometimes they get down to the root of whatever it is. Then my mom will stop, whatever, my mom will stop criticizing me. Or we know who knows what it is. It's always different for people, right? There's always a reason. Do you use it? Yes. And I always kept, I'm like, you might roll your eyes at this, but bear with me. Let's do this together. Because some people are like, this is stupid. Why would I stop asking me this question? But it's uncomfortable because you're forcing them oftentimes to think about their reasoning at a level that they're not used to. They're not used to that level of introspection. And again, what you're talking about is something we haven't really talked about this in, I don't know, we've been podcasting for three years or so. I mean, I've touched on psychology, but not really. This is good. This is really good for people. I mean, there's so many directions I can go in. Another one you can do to instill behavior change without relying on discipline is where you change your perceived identity of yourself. So you say, yeah, like I want to be a runner, right? I want to be a marathon or whatever. As an example, you're like, cool, what does a marathon or do? They do XYZ things. Cool. They will plan their workouts in advance. They'll lay out their clothes tonight before they'll eat in this and that way. They'll plan out their like, these are my running sessions and do da da da da da on these days of the week. Okay, cool. Then you go do that thing. So the next step is, okay, if you say you want to be a marathoner, why don't you now identify now? I'm someone who runs a marathon. I'm someone who transfer marathon. You're that person now, even if you're not there yet. If you already perceive yourself to be that way, you're more likely to act in alignment with that identity. That could be actually very fun. Yeah, it's really effective. If you tell yourself, I'm not a morning person, you're more likely to hit that snooze button. If you say, no, I'm a morning person, I love getting up before the sun is up, you're more likely to do it. You know, I heard a quote a long time ago and it was, if you can talk yourself out of something, you can talk yourself into it. Yes, it is absolutely super effective. We're going to switch to exercise. Cool. Because you've been studying exercise for a really long time. Yeah. And you and I were talking at dinner, which was very fun. And we were talking about women and training and strength training. Yeah, it's so important. It is important because you did your PhD in this. And I want to talk about what is important for women to know about strength training. And that's, I know that that's very wide open, but I do want to touch on it from an evidence piece, an evidence based perspective, because it's so important for women. I mean, arguably it's so important for everyone, but for women. Yeah. Well, we're definitely on the same page with our views on resistance training for women. Everyone should be lifting. The good news is there's no one specific type of lifting you have to do. You don't have to do nonstop circus if that's not your thing. You don't have to train like a bodybuilder if not, that's not your thing. As long as you are doing some form of challenging your muscles on a consistent basis. And I know you had a question the other night about like how often does that mean? Obviously, there's like a lot of variables involved, but I would agree with you that probably like two to three days a week is a really great starting point. And even if one day a week is all you can do, you will still see health benefits from one day a week. So yeah. And do the same mental tools work when you're changing a diet for nutrition? Do they cross over to exercise? Yes. I will say from my personal experience and my practical experience, my observation is that people tend to struggle less with exercise than do with diet. I think part of it is that exercise is something you do in a finite period of time and then you can move on with your day. Whereas nutrition is you have opportunities all day long, isn't turn off. That's my thing. And also a lot of people actually do enjoy exercise, right? And they might feel less resistance to it. No, of course, this isn't applied to everyone. It doesn't apply to everyone. Some people still struggle, but there's a lot less, there's a lot fewer complex feelings with exercise all the time. That's fair. That is really fair to say that, you know, in the nutrition space and in food, it's very emotional for people. I mean, I guess one would say exercise can be emotional. Of course. But it is less complex. If someone, and I'm sure some of the strategies for good habit building work, make it easy, avoid, you know, I guess people talk about putting your shoes out and your... Yeah, those things can help. Yeah. Those things probably help. Yeah. Do you think there's anything else? Whatever your mental resistance is to exercising consistently, reduce, do whatever you can to reduce that barrier. If the barrier is I am afraid of being judged by people at the gym watching me, several solutions. One, can you go? Do you have the flexibility to go when it's less quiet? Can you train at home? You know, can you either set up a home gym situation or carve out a corner of your living room where you can do it without people watching you? Or if you are into people watching you, you could probably set that up too. Yeah, that too. Or if you're like, I'm a woman and I'm intimidated by these loud grunting men, can you join a women's group class? You know, where you feel safer unless judged or whatever. There's so many different ways to tackle it. If time is your barrier, which is a huge one, is I don't have time or the perception of I don't have time. And you're like, tell me more about it. What do you think is enough time? Oh, I think I need to drive 30 minutes to the gym and spend an hour in the doing my workout and then drive 30 minutes back home. Okay, you're like, okay, one is there a closer gym you can go to, two if there's not. Let's can we make something work at home where you can get rid of the entire commute? That way you get a whole hour back, maybe more of your time. Do you find from a behavior perspective, people will stick to that? Yes. But sometimes it takes some trial and error to find the best system that works for the person, which is why I'm a huge fan of individualized one on one coaching on an ongoing basis. It's really important. I have a coach. Yeah. And I've been training for a long time. I mean, since I was 17, so just yesterday. But, um, yeah, because I know my weaknesses. And I like to do things as a team sport. Yeah. I like to have friends. I like to talk to people. I'm very social. Yeah. I don't want to train by myself versus that one's huge too, the accountability. Or so that's my mom. She will train if it's social. She will exercise. She will go golfing with her friends. Right. So she's walking a ton. She'll train if it's with me or my dad, you know, but she will she will not do it on her own. She'll go to Pilates class if she's in a group will not be on her own. So whatever the barrier is or the sticking point is for what they're different for everyone, right? So you have to know your weaknesses and you have to acknowledge it because they will show up. Yes. Okay. Let's address the barrier. Let's reduce the barrier. Yeah. Whatever that is. Lots of myths out there. Oh, by the way, I got to tell you, do you know I created a national holiday? What is that? Are you ready for it? I don't know if you're ready for this. And this is we're announcing it right now. Okay. And this is a real thing. I applied and we have a legitimate national muscle health month. I don't know you could do that. I did it. And it's November. That's incredible. Coming up. So you Adidas, yeah, is going to help bring awareness to muscle health. And it's not listen, you can have November, November, and Mo muscle. There has to be a moment that we recognize the importance of skeletal muscle beyond strength, beyond, which is so important beyond strength, beyond just all the external or, you know, physicality, but really as the pillar of health. Yeah. And hopefully, which I think in the next five years, it is going to be so impactful. We are entering don't you think that we're entering in the era of strength or muscle, muscle health in some ways, absolutely, especially for women. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We know that the percentage of women lifting weights is, has been increasing. What is it now? Depends on the survey depends on the paper, I would say, and it depends on the country, right? And the demographic, but I can tell you the data that I have, but you know, again, yeah, the research usually puts that somewhere between like 20 to 28%. So I had 17%. That's low. Yeah. For the US, five or one and four US for resistance training. Yeah. And then also that also depends on how you're defining consistent adherence. Oftentimes, there's two or more times a week of resistance training. And if you have like spotty adherence, they won't really count you there, right? So anyway, proportion is low. But, you know, 20 years ago, when we were in the gym, you're probably the only one of the only women in the weight room. For sure. Yeah, I was a freshman at Stanford, like, surrounded by a bunch of dudes early in the morning in the weight room, you know, they're like, what, they don't even like, what are you training for? And what are you benching? I'm like, I'm not lifting like that. Like, you know, but for them, it was so novel. It's universal testing. I'm like, I'm lifting for myself. And they're like, you're not training for whatever. I'm like, not necessarily, I don't know. And obviously, I did eventually go on to compete in bikini and whatever, but it was an ongoing thing. But, but now, now you go to the gym, do you see way more women on the gym floor? Can I ask you a couple? I don't want to say true or false, but questions that I think are important. Okay. Number one, do women have to lift heavy? Heavies relative to the individual, right? I would say the way that it is, maybe the way that you're interpreting is different from the way that I'm interpreting it. We actually know that you can see a lot of muscle and strength gains from a variety of different rep ranges. So in terms of heavy, like, do you have to lift a one rep max or a three rep max? No. But even if you are lifting lighter weights for higher reps, you still want to be pushing close to muscular failure. And that is the key. And that's also what my research, my PhD, one of my, the chapter is my manuscript found that as long as you're pushing close to technical failure, you can see muscle and strength gains with a variety of different rep ranges and a variety of technical or muscular failure. I was actually, I was a muscular. Okay. Muscular failure. And I believe, don't quote me on this on the exact number. I want to say it's there's research showing that you can stop like two to three reps shy of failure and one to three reps shy of failure, maybe, and still see significant gains, which is nice because who wants to train to failure at reset? I've seen the same research and I also get concerned. The reason I asked you that question is, and I appreciate you expanding on the nuance is do women have to lift heavy? And the answer is no, but heavy relative to the rep range that you're doing. Yes. And it is not a, I wouldn't want my mom doing three to five rep maxes. No, also there's no reason for her to do that. Yeah. Right. But I think this space, and I'm not sure where it's coming from. The idea that we have to, I have never lifted that heavy. I used to, I didn't, I did too powerlifting weights would just so funny because I'm like, my squat is so average, but like, for example, I don't enjoy pushing my one rep max. I would hate trying to do a three or max back squat. So then that would be a barrier to make me not want to lift if that's what I'm not doing. And that's why I wanted to ask you that question. Because we do hear that. Are you hearing that in social media that women have to lift heavy? Yeah, sometimes. Yeah. I hear a lot and I don't think that that's true. But I'm like, but if you hate it, why would I try to force you to do that? But what I'm worried about is as women are postmenopausal, getting more, you know, I trained in geriatrics, once they're injured, it takes them out. If they have not been someone of a lifelong athlete, and again, I'm not talking about from a data perspective, I have seen thousands of patients. They're, they're done. You mean mentally? Both because they, so let's say they're listening and they feel that they have to lift heavy. They go and they tear their leg room or they tear up their shoulder or bust their knee because they injured from lifting. Yes, because they are hearing that they have to lift heavy. Then there's the fear factor then. And now they don't want to even try anymore. So this is what, so this is what I have seen. Your answer was no, but, but heavy is relative and you're talking about two to three reps in reserve. Yes. Totally agree with that. It doesn't have to be heavy per se, but it should still be challenging. And I think the thing I see and I probably, you'll probably agree is that with a lot of women and even the women that I trained in my study, even though they consider themselves experienced lifters, almost every one of them would say, and I would say, I watch her set and I said, you can lift a lot more than that. You can go heavier again, relative to the right range, and you can go closer to failure. And they would say, Oh, I wasn't sure about my form and I didn't want to get hurt. So I was being conservative. I was being cautious. And so a lot of women or, or they simply don't know how hard there is supposed to push. And so what they do is they end up leaving so much in the tank. So even if they are being consistent, maybe they're not pushing themselves to the level that they should. And that's highlighting an important point because we, it sounds like we both agree that that does happen. And that's where training with a friend or a coach or someone to be able to feel to get to the point where you're like, we're like, that's how it should feel. That's how it should be. That's how your rep should look, you know? Yes. Do you want, do you have a myth that you wanted to spell? I heard growing up, and I would repeat this because I heard it so much that circuit training is not effective for body comp changes. Oh, talk to me. Talk to me, guys. And I, and even a couple years ago, I had a friend say that to me and I was like, I have research. I have to do a day collection and we're not seeing that actually. And so what we found was we compared circuit training with traditional strength training. Can you define it for us? So we specifically actually did, it's called, we called it high intensity or high resistance circuit training, where you would do exercises in a back to back fashion, right? Let's say you have, we have six exercises. You do exercises one, two, three with little rest back to back to back. And you go back to one, two, three, one, two, three, then you rest, right? After you complete all sets of those three exercises can be four, can be five, the exact number doesn't matter. And then you go four, five, six, four, five, six, four, five, six, you rest. That's what our heavy, our circuit training group did. Heavy and high intensity means, as I was mentioning, every set was pushed close to failure. So it wasn't like, I'm casually lifting this and we're having a com, I'm laughing, ha, ha, it wasn't like that, which is what we see a lot. Then we compare it to traditional strength training where it's the same six exercises, but they completed every exercise one set at a time. They would do leg press, one set, push close to failure, rest three minutes. Set number two of leg press, rest three minutes. Set number three of leg press. And then they fully finished that, they move on to the flat dumb on bench press, same thing. One set rest, one set rest, and so on. So one, the obvious thing is there's a huge time difference, right? Duration difference. So the circuit training group, they were done roughly 20, 25 minutes faster, which is significant when we see that time is such a big barrier, perceived barrier to exercise adherence. They were done faster. Two, surprisingly, we did not, we saw similar gains in muscle, muscle and strength. We did a three-writmax testing pre and post and dexa scan pre and post, similar, similar gains in both groups, which I thought was pretty remarkable. And really, to me, it's really good news. That means from a practical application perspective, you don't have to do one modality over the other. I think, okay, a couple of variables, a few variables, one is your personal preference. I'm not a circuit training person. I don't like it. I would much rather, if I want to do, if I want to make my lifting a bit more conditioning style, I'd rather do, I'd rather do a speed run intervals, right? I want to separate it personally. I enjoy the longer rest periods way more. So I would be like, I'm a traditional training person. I don't like it at all. I love circuit training. Really? But the good news is you're like, you're not going to get inferior results. Now we know, as long as you're pushing yourself close to failure. Okay. Two is your work, individual work capacity. Do you have the level of fitness to keep up that level of fast-paced, low-rest circuit training while pushing every set close to failure? Not everyone does. It's very taxing. It's a lot more metabolically demanding, of course, when you have such little rest. Okay. And last thing is, from a logistical standpoint, does your gym setup allow you to even train in a circuit fashion? Because you might be at a busy gym and you're like, I can't take up three pieces of equipment at once. Now, of course, you can get creative with your exercise selection where you're like, all I need is these two pairs of dumbbells in this corner and I can make work. Absolutely, you can do that. But even then, you're still a bit more restricted with exercise selection and whatnot. So take those factors into consideration. You can also, the other option, too, is you can do a combination. You can do your first two or three exercise. It's more traditional style. And then you finish with a short circuit. I've done that for many years. Yeah. So that's also a vital, obviously, we didn't study that, but I think it's not a big jump to then say, that's probably fine, too. One more question and then you're off the hook. Cool. Fasting. You hear women, have you heard this? Women should not train fast. Yeah. I actually addressed it in my talk today was it really is I was like, this is one of the common misconception that I do want to address. I think there's a bit more nuance to that than what is often preached online. So  I don't know. So my take in general is that there are fewer exercise differences between men and women than we have been led to believe. Again, to me, this is good news. We have more similarities than differences. Even our training recommendations are very similar. When it comes to training fasted, I'm not aware of research that shows that training fasted necessarily leads to negative health outcomes. I would not recommend training fasted on a two-hour run. But is it a sex difference? Right. It's not specific to women. I would not recommend that. It's not a smart strategy for anyone for obvious reasons. And also training for any kind of two-hour run is not a good strategy. I'm just kidding. I have a long run tomorrow. I should be coming up. And by the way, you are pregnant and I took a video of you and here you are. I was on my run. Yeah, I'm training for a marathon right now. Well done. I'm still like, what are we at? 16 more days and I need to cross the finish line. I'm so close. It's amazing. So that's the goal. I think it's cool. And I have a lot more to say about that and I won't get into it too much. But I think it's really important to show women that even when you're pregnant, you are very capable. And if you are medically clear, if you don't have medical combinations and you want to do something like a marathon and you have a level of fitness for it, do it. Pretty awesome. I think that's so cool. It is. It's great. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's very cool. Yeah. And you know, there's a myth out there that exercise, even like marathons, are harmful to the baby. That's actually, they're actually quite resilient. And also people think your baby's bouncing around and they're actually not. They're floating in your amniotic fluid. They're not doing this for four hours straight, which is another, I get that comment a lot too. Baby's bouncing around. No. And you probably spent a lot of time researching because you love to apply. Oh, of course. As soon as I found out, I was like, can I swim on the marathon? Let me find out. And there's lots of women who have completed marathons and been fine while pregnant. And I think it's so cool. And again, if you don't want to do it, no one's forcing you to do it. But this is something I really want to do. I think it is amazing. You know, I train throughout both pregnancies. Yeah. Amazing. Yeah. But everyone's like, oh, I don't know. You're squandering a lot. I'm like, nah. Listen. And it's great. It's great. And I think it's inspiring. And I also think on a side note, it's really important for the mom to continue doing things that make her happy. Would you train fast? No, you should not train fasted. If you are doing a hard workout, a very long and or very intense workout session, absolutely not. If you're going for a light jog in the morning, you're fine. You are not going to have negative metabolic consequences as a woman if you're training fast. And I think the thing that people forget is when you wake up fasted, you have food in your system. You have glycogen stores from the day before, you know, and when we talk up, talk about post-workout and recovery nutrition, your pre-workout food impacts your post-workout recovery as well. So I remind people, I'm like, you don't wake up completely empty. You're not an actual car. Well, like people like to use the car, you know, fuel and the tank is analogy. I'm like, they can work in some ways, but it's not like your tank is completely empty every morning. So he carpenter, this has been really fun. And I want to close it out with three things that you want everybody to know. And it could be habit. It could be you pick it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. First thing that came to mind is a 20 minute workout that you can do a few times a week is going to be so much better than the hour long workout, the perfect looking workout, the perfect looking workout on paper that never gets done. I love that. Any incremental change you can make to your diet to, I like to say, nudge yourself in the right direction, because it seems a bit more gentle and less aggressive, whether it be having a next swapping your coke for a glass of water, or adding a serving of protein to one meal or adding a half cup of vegetables to one meal, all of that does add up and makes a difference over time. Last one is health is about more than what you eat and how you exercise. Your relationship with food and your body also is vastly important. Your quality of life matters to your mental health matters to your social support has a huge impact on your health. And so it's important to look at health from a more well rounded holistic view rather than food and diet only. Yes, very well said. This was a blast. And hopefully after you run your marathon, have your baby. You probably won't take much time off. And then maybe we talk about pre pregnancy, post pregnancy nutrition. Yeah. All right, my friend. Thank you so much. Thank you.