 Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony Anthony our knowledge is 11% saturated fat. What, in the 80s, it was 15% saturated fat? Well, once again, if you count trans fat, which you shouldn't, but if you do, then maybe those numbers are right from the early days. So the point I am really making is that the evidence for saturated fat being related to heart disease is actually so messed up and conflated with trans fat that it's impossible to separate. But if you look carefully at foods that are high in saturated fat, you find out that those relationships are just not there. I don't think the 10% makes any sense at all. I don't think it's justified. And when folks talk about this, they gloss over. There's trans fat all over the place in these studies that they're citing. And now this is from the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2020. And I asked open evidence, what is the evidence of saturated fat in heart disease? And it said, reducing saturated fat and replacing it with polyunsaturated fat reduces cardiovascular events by 17% to 30% with effects comparable to statin therapy. Why am I hammering this? One, I'm annoying and I'm sorry. And number two, this is the information that providers, clinicians are being given to then go out and put, quote, best practices in place. This blows my mind. However, the evidence shows a little to no effect on all cause mortality or cardiovascular mortality and the benefit very, very substantially based on baseline cardiovascular risk. What are they like? What? Well, well, you just got, you just said it's related to cardiovascular events, but not to mortality. Is that what I get? Did I get that right? Yeah. Okay. So one of the things folks notice. Comparable to statin therapy. Okay, fine. One of the things that folks notice is that when you talk about mortality, you have a very clean outcome because almost everybody can count bodies. However, when you assign events, you have to do a diagnosis. So is it a heart attack or is it indigestion or really bad case? And so it doesn't make a lot of sense that there are more events than there is death. I'm with you. And that is almost a smoking gun for there being bias. Now, I have another point that's very, very important. And that relates to what we just did on dietary guidelines. We talked about randomized trials as being, being, giving us the chance of, of identifying causal effects as opposed to prospective cohort trials, which ask people what they eat and at one time, and then see how many people get sick later. And that's just a natural kind of observational thing. But a randomized trial is only a truth teller if it is double-blinded or, as I prefer the way the ophthalmologists call it, double-masked. And none of these trials are the least bit blinded from the 20th century. They're not blinded. Everybody knows what group they're in. Everybody knows whether they are consuming the control or they're consuming vegetable oil or whatever it happens to be. You can design trials like that. And I have recently published a trial that's designed in such a way so that people didn't know what they were eating. But it is not easy and it is not cheap. Most of those studies, they left people on their normal diets. They said, okay, you just eat whatever you're normally eating, which happens to be 50 grams of hydrogenated marine oil. And then we have these other people over here and we're going to feed them all kinds of other things. We're going to feed them polyunsaturated fats and then vegetable oils or whatever it happens to be. And then we're going to blame all of the differences on saturated fat, which it sounds like they're all eating milk or something. And that's just not the case. So as this translates to, so the question that you were designated to answer on these guidelines, what was that question? It was about the relationship between saturated fat and cardiovascular mortality and the things that one usually looks at. One of the things that I, well, let's say re-verified for myself is that the studies that are out there often lead with a statement that saturated fat causes more cardiovascular events. But then as you go through the paper, you find out just kind of as a throwaway at the end that there wasn't any difference in total mortality. Okay. Well, if there's no difference in total mortality, isn't that what people care about? Total mortality? Yeah. I think that's what people care about. And so we turned it around and we said, we're going to talk about total mortality first, and then we will talk about the various kinds of mortality, coronary heart disease, coronary cardiovascular disease, mortality, and events, and look at those. And we found with a very high level of confidence that total mortality is not affected. And in the observational trials, which is really what there was. In the other guidelines? Or this one? No, this is this one. Because we did a randomized trial and we did prospective cohort trials. We looked at both. And in the prospective cohort trials, there was stroke as an outcome. And does it surprise people when the saturated fat, what we call saturated fat, is protective against stroke? That's what it looks like. That's what the data say. Protective. So is this whole thing, what do you want to die of? I hope not. If total mortality is not affected, and even if you say heart disease is worse, but if total mortality isn't effective, then that means something else must be most benefit. It's fair to say that we don't know the number or percentage of saturated fat that would be detrimental, right? And then I want to take this one step further by talking about potentially the LDL conversation. So, but if we're, if we're just going to look at total mortality from cardiovascular disease, which is really the outcomes that people care about, there isn't a strong relationship between the two. There's not a strong relationship, but I would even, even ask you, do people really care about total mortality due to cardiovascular disease or they care about total mortality? Care about total mortality. I think they care about total mortality and, and the data say there's no effect on total mortality. Even if you, even if you accept what is called saturated fat, which, which I've just got finished explaining is not all saturated fat. It's, it's challenging because these, there are these guidelines, the dietary guidelines now make this recommendation, which now essentially weaponizes animal-based products because of the 10% number or less. Much of the work that's been done on red meat is not just red meat, it's red and processed meat. Well, is fresh red meat the same as processed meat? And if you throw in everything that's processed is, is a, is a, is a, a nice roast or steak or hamburger, we really think that that's exactly the same as a very processed, and I don't want to pick on anything in general. Right. Specifically. I mean, they may well both be fine, but the red meat part, I, I, fresh red meat, I don't see a problem. Does this lead us to this moment where what we can all agree is that we need more science behind what potentially we're defining saturated fat, what the actual implications are? We have to first have the folks who are saying that saturated fat is bad actually recognize that that is not what they've been talking about all these years. They've been talking about saturated fat plus partially hydrogenated oils. In other words, they've been talking about saturated fat plus trans. Okay. And the trans has been some of the worst trans that there is. Why? Again, is it, like, is the science questionable? As scientists, we have to describe what we've done and we have to describe it with specificity. And when someone is calling something saturated fat and it's not saturated fat, I'm not sure how much further I have to go with that. I agree. I could go back and say, well, you're just trying to raise money or you're selling something or something like that. But I would prefer to just sort of say, look, you have to recognize that people are mischaracterizing what they've, what their data look like. They're mischaracterizing it. We need to look more carefully. And there are data out there that address this. I just mentioned it. I mean, that's really important. And I think that you imagine that that's the next step. I mean, I think a lot of what the new administration is going to do or the current administration is, it seems as if they're going to allocate funding to try to explore that more. So they say. Correct. They do say.