 unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf unf and he is in the Department of Nutritional Sciences. He's also published some of the most well-respected hallmark studies. In this episode, we discuss the true cause of obesity. Both sides, you've heard about calories in, calories out, and you've also heard about the carbohydrate insulin model. Faden, Dr. Faden, breaks it down from two sides of the coin, both perspectives to bring you the commonalities and the differences. Now, join me in this conversation with Dr. Faden Makos. Faden Makos, we go way back. And you laughed at me and I said, Faden, we've been friends for over 10 years. Yeah, that's about right. That is about right. You are a professor in obesity and metabolism at the Department of Nutrition Exercise and Sports at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark, which, by the way, your flat looks amazing. Oh, thank you. Hi. You know, it's really interesting because I met you at WashU. You were a professor at WashU. You, let's see, there's Harvard Medical School here. You have published over 200 papers, you know, with their impact factor of an average of 6.3. Each index is 54. And for those who are not academics, basically, I'm talking to a genius. Thank you. Probably those who are not academics, they believe you. So. But, you know, you said something to me that really struck me. And I don't, I'm sure you don't remember this, but I am, you know, I would normally say this would embarrass you, but it's not going to embarrass you because probably most things don't. But you said to me something that I've taken with me for over 10 years. And you said, when you are average or mediocre, nobody cares about what you do. Do you remember saying that? But when you are great, people have these expectations. So how I took that was basically, if you're functioning at a level and not producing and not providing, you know, it's kind of like, great, whatever. But when you are exceptional, there's a lot of criticism and there's a lot of focus on your work. Do you remember telling me that? Is that a fundamental? I honestly don't, but it sounds about right. And you do not have a Instagram, YouTube channel, or probably not even a Twitter account. I do not. Yeah, I do not. I typically don't disseminate my research in those channels. So this is an exception. Well, I feel very special. And I, you didn't really have a choice, but to say yes, there was, there was no choice. And if someone were to Google your name, they will find a ton of citations. They will find a ton of papers. But I do want to mention that the quality of these papers, these are hallmark papers. They are, they're literature that has moved the field of obesity in ways that is so meaningful. And I don't know if anyone has ever said, thank you. Thank you so much. I mean, I think that you're too kind, but thank you so much for your kind words. I mean, some papers are better than others. I mean, that's the reality, right? Here's how I've been using AG1 with my unsweet Texas tea and half a shot of ketones. I have to tell you, I feel really good about that kind of decision. AG1 covers what I lack in my diet. It comes from whole food sources that are synergistic. It is the difference between eating components of a stew, for example, rather than the entire cook stew itself. AG1 has vitamins, minerals, adaptogens, and bioactive ingredients from whole foods like citrus bioflavonoids. The synergy of the parts amplifies the effectiveness of AG1. It contains prebiotics, probiotics, gut-supporting ingredients. In fact, in a research study, 97% of participants felt digestion improved after 90 days of drinking AG1. In another clinical trial, AG1 was shown to increase healthy bacteria in the gut by 2.9 times. AG1's formula takes a dual approach, supporting the gut microbiome and also overall health and wellness. I know because I feel it myself. What I love about AG1 is that it has a commitment to research and furthering the science around nutrition and gut health. AG1 uses research backed ingredients, and they even take it a step further by conducting multiple research studies on the complete formula. They continuously publish their findings curated across many disciplines and are deep in the research testing validation. Now, it's a great first step to investing in your health, and that's why I'm so excited to be partnering with them. Try AG1 and get a bottle of vitamin D3 K2 free and five free AG1 travel packs when you first subscribe at drinkag1.com slash lion. That's a $48 value for free. If you go to drinkag1.com slash drlion. Check it out. And I was so excited to see this, this paper, this is, I'm sorry, it's not a paper. This is a perspective. It's a perspective piece. And this was published, um, August, 2024 in nature metabolism. And it's on the pathogenesis of obesity, causal models, and missing pieces of the puzzle. You are the first author in this perspective piece. There are really juggernauts got Kevin Hall. We have, uh, you know, Arnie Astroff, the list goes on. And, uh, basically I want to know why you wrote it. I mean, why did you take this beast of a perspective on and what was the perspective? And by the way, I know it, but hearing it from you is way more interesting. I get you. I mean, just to, to, to give a little bit of a background, um, uh, back in 2023, like in the fall of 2023, the Novo Notice Foundation, which is, um, a research foundation that we have here in Denmark, uh, they took the initiative of, um, uh, putting together a two-day workshop in Copenhagen. And they invited, um, uh, people who have very different perspectives on the pathogenesis of obesity from all around the world. Um, and of course there's a lot of different ideas and thoughts and models and hypotheses about how obesity develops. Um, but they kind of chose the two most popular ones or predominant ones. Let's put it this way. Uh, so they invited everybody to Copenhagen. It was about, uh, 15 or 16 people, pretty much as many authors as you see in that paper. And, um, uh, the, during these two days, we had a lot of, uh, interesting discussions. Some of them were more heated than others. There was a lot of agreement, much more disagreement. Um, so at the end of, of that, uh, workshop, uh, we kind of thought that it would be a good idea to summarize, you know, what came out of this. I mean, did we spend those days in a meaningful way? Did we manage to achieve, achieve anything or did we just go to, to a very nice place that noble foundation kind of rented for us and we just, uh, uh, wasted our time pretty much, you know, because generally speaking, um, scientists tend to support their hypothesis quite a lot. So it's, it's, uh, it's always difficult to have people with very different perspectives and ideas to kind of, uh, get together and discuss in a way that is also, uh, uh, very open, easygoing and transparent, right? Because that was not a conference. So nobody really had to defend anything. And, and I have to say, um, to interject, you've played a huge role in the way that I think, I don't know if you know that, but you, I'm sure you do, because I do call you freaking out on numerous occasions and you always say to me, number one, science is a science of uncertainty. Yes, absolutely. Yeah. And you always challenge me. Why muscle? Why this? Yeah. Yeah. You're absolutely correct. When we say in science and now research that something is happening, we always say that with a certain level of, of being uncertain, which means that it might not always happen this way and it might not always happen for everybody in the same way. Right? So going back to the, to the, to the workshop, um, I consider myself relatively, uh, uh, uh, relatively, I mean, nobody can, can really be completely neutral, right? In this debate. Uh, but I, uh, I, I'm one of the people who kind of understand the arguments from both ends. And then I took on the task of putting all these discussions into a paper that everybody would agree on and then, uh, uh, getting it out there for the public to kind of, uh, uh, read. And this. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. I'm sure you're going to tell us the arguments and, and why. Well, I will, I will, I will, I will about to tell you the process. So it took us many, many, uh, months and drafts and back and forth because, you know, everybody needs to be, um, um, to agree on the final version of the paper and all the actual words, not just the meaning, but, but we had back and forth in terms of trying to find the correct words to, to, to, uh, um, portray what these people believe and agree on. So that task was not particularly easy. So it was one of the more difficult papers for me in, in, in, in terms of, uh, uh, getting together all the authors to, to agree on writing a paragraph. And sometimes it took us forever to write the paragraphs. Uh, but thankfully it, um, it all accumulated in a nice paper that, uh, was published well, and, uh, now it's out there. And give us the overarching themes of what people disagree on what people agree on it. And this really was, what is the cause of obesity? Is this a energy balance issue? Is this a carbohydrate insulin issue? And I, I have to say, looking at the authors, when I saw this, I couldn't believe it. As you'd mentioned, you have Kevin hall, you have David Ludwig. There are people that have drastically different views and, um, they're all very well respected. Absolutely. Yes, absolutely. There's no question about this. And, and, and if you look individually at, uh, at, uh, you know, in the literature, there is evidence to support arguments on both ends, right? I mean, that's the reality of human research, but, but going back to, to the, to the, to the two different ideas or two different models, let's say that, that, uh, that these two camps represent. One of them is, I would say the most, uh, the one that we were all pretty much brought up with and the one that we are are more or less familiar with, which is energy balance model. And what this, uh, um, hypothesis states is that obesity generally develops as a result of people eating more food, more calories, than the amount of calories that they burn. Right? And, uh, the main reason why this happens is that the modern food environment, predominantly the modern food environment and the characteristics of the, of the modern food supply, what they do is that they facilitate overeating below the level of your conscious awareness. So you eat more without even realizing it. Right? So that's the general idea. So the excess calories, regardless of whether you eat more carbs or more fat or more protein, uh, when you do not burn them, the body typically, uh, eventually tends to convert them and store them as fat. Right? Yes. So you have an expansion of adipose tissue. So in the energy balance model, overeating or positive energy balance precedes the adipose tissue expansion and the development of obesity. So that's what I would say most textbooks on dietetics and nutrition and obesity, uh, kind of, um, uh, portray as well. And that's what we've all been taught. All right. Correct. Correct. So to try to give you an analogy, right? Imagine that you go, let's say on a Monday morning, you go with your car to the gas station and you put 10 gallons of gas, right? And then you take your car around and as you go around, of course, you burn some of this gas, right? So at the end of the week, by Sunday night, you pretty much are empty. So the next Monday morning, you put again, 10 gallons of gas and that goes on, on and on. But on every Sunday night, you are always at zero. You show you are always empty, right? So you are in an energy balance in this case. But imagine now that, you know, you decide to change gas station, right? And this new pump that they are using, it kind of works a little bit in your favor, meaning that it reads that you are dispensing 10 gallons, but in reality, you are dispensing 11. Okay. So now you go around your daily life and do whatever you do during the course of the week. But now at the end of the week on Sunday night, you are left with one gallon in the tank, right? Now you think, however, that you are left with nothing. So next morning, you put again, another 10 gallons of gas, as you think, but in reality, another 11. So, you know, if this goes on, you accumulate one gallon of gas every week. So this gallon is fat or this gallon, are we talking about fat? Are we talking about calories? Correct. If you do not, if you do not, let's say, strive to do something with physical activity, most of the excess calories are being stored as fat. Nonetheless, as the time goes on and your weight increases, imagine this as a form of passive training. So obesity is also associated with an increase in lean mass and muscle mass because you need the additional muscle to carry the much more weight of your body, right? So most of the weight gain is fat, but part of it is lean mass and muscle. Lean mass and muscle, but that, and I'm just going to mention this and you and I certainly discussed this. It doesn't necessarily reflect the health of that tissue. Absolutely. But I will get back to that. We can get back to that. So this is the energy balance model. And the idea is that because of the food supply has changed and now we have these ultra processed foods, which are calorie dense, and they have a lot of other ingredients in them that, you know, kind of mask or saturate the ability of our brain to understand how much we eat. That's the general idea. So it all starts with eating more than what you need in the energy balance model. And then the end result is an expansion of adipose tissue and obesity. And muscle. Correct. And muscle to some extent. So also energy expenditure goes up along these lines, right? So the total energy expenditure of the body goes up simply because you have a larger body right now. So for any sort of activity you do, you burn more calories, right? Now, the other model that is, let's say, the contender is the carbohydrate insulin model of obesity, right? And that model suggests that the primary defect is not really the brain that does not understand how much you eat, but it's something that happens in your body, the peripheral organs, say in the liver or in the adipose tissue or the skeletal muscle. So the handling of the incoming nutrients and the incoming food is changed and is changed in the way that you cannot utilize all the calories that you ingest for doing all sorts of things that you want to do, right? To put it back in the analogy of the car, let's assume now that the pump is functioning correctly. So you put in 10 gallons, but the tubes that transfer the gas or the fuel from your tank to the engine, they have leaks. So you cannot take advantage of all the fuel that you entered in your car. Right? Does it make sense? So it's almost like the chicken or the egg, what came first? Is it, are we over consuming food and then getting an increase in adipose tissue, right? It would be considered hyperplasia. Would that be considered hyperplasia or? Well, hyperplasia and hypertrophy refer to two characteristics ways by which tissues typically increase and grow. Hyperplasia is that I am making more cells. And if you are talking about adipose tissue hyperplasia, then you would make more adipocytes. So the number of cells increases. Hypertrophy means that the cells themselves grow bigger. Right? And is that what happens when someone- And it both, typically both happen in obesity, although hypertrophy is more pronounced. Got it. So typically you develop larger adipocytes rather than more cells when you develop obesity in your adult life. But going back now to the carbohydrate insulin model. So what this suggests is that if, since your body cannot, let's say, take advantage of all the calories that you just ate, it signals to the brain and it tells your brain that, you know what? I need more food. Right? Even if you have it in your body, but you just can utilize it. So the brain then what it does is that it tells you that you either need to burn less so it will make your energy expenditure lower to match what you have or what you think you have. Or most commonly, it will make you overeat. So in the carbohydrate insulin model, the cause, the causal chain is reversed. Meaning that you start first from depositing more of the ingested calories into fat. And then this leads you to overeat. Right? I see. So in that, in the, in the carbohydrate insulin model, it's a, it's a, it's something that happens in your periphery that then signals the brain to eat more. Whereas in the energy balance model is quite the opposite, right? The first eat more and then you deposit those calories into fat. I see. And as you mentioned, the chicken and the egg, that's something that is extremely difficult to, dissect in humans, right? Because we would have to take people who have normal body weight and then perhaps overfeed them for a prolonged period of time until they become obese and see what comes first. Right? But this is not possible in humans to do. The, the best model that we have so far for weight gain obesity is these overfeeding studies where we experiment and they feed people more than what they need. But this is typically a, a very large extent of overfeeding. So let's say we feed them 1000 or 2000 calories per day, more than what they need for a few weeks. Right? That's not typically how obesity develops. Nobody goes to bed being lean and wakes up the next morning being obese. Typically obesity develops by, at least what that's what we think is by eating a few more calories than what you need on a daily basis for years. So we do not have really a very good model for human obesity in research. We don't. I want to restate that because many of us who are not academics and as you know, well, you might not know because you're not on the social media circuit or sphere, but there's a lot of information out there and the discussion is stated in ways that it seems as if these are absolutes, that this is, we'll review literature and then you'll have influence or influencers or scientific educators then speak to the public. And a fundamental concept is that I think it's important to highlight is we don't actually have a good model of obesity to study. And the foundation of the work is built on the best that we could do. Is that fair to say? Yes. And I would say, you know, all the, so one thing with the, with the social media and the influences and all these, uh, arena is that, you know, but you have to always defend or try to convince people why things are not necessarily as stated in the social media. You know what I mean? And that's a little bit tiring. Tell me, explain to me a little bit more. I, I, I, so, you know, there is a lot of, a lot of the new trends and the fads and the diets that come up from time to time stem, for instance, from studies in animals or from a single study in humans. Then, and their results are very good because they are very good to make a headline, but nobody really digs deeply to understand the limitations of the study. What does one study mean? Nothing really, right? There is no definitive study. Research in humans at least, or, or generally speaking science, you have to consider every study as a little brick and we are trying to build a building. So if you take a brick and you focus on that brick and you tell me, look, the story that brick tells you, look, it's really relevant for the whole building, right? So that's, that's kind of the analogy that I try to, to, to give to my students as well, when it comes to a single study versus understanding what the whole literature shows. And now coming back to obesity in humans, for instance, right? To give you an example, in the overfeeding studies, we are very successful. We take people in the lab, we can overfeed them, we can make them gain five, 10 kilos, right? But remarkably, when we send them home and the study is finished, the majority of them within a few months lose that additional excess weight effortlessly without even doing anything according to their, you know, uh, uh, testimonials. So this is completely different to the model, to the real obesity that we have in real life where people struggle to lose weight, right? Yes. So how good, how good of a model that is? Probably not so good. And of course, you know, there is not even a point in discussing the animal studies because it ends up such a different species, right? Completely different. And whether you're ad libitum feeding them, um, it, it is. So it's very easy to pick up the results, you know, to cherry pick and make a story. That's not a difficult thing to cherry pick different findings and make a story. What is difficult is to say that, okay, if this, if all of these, let's say magical diets or reasons why we get obese and why we lose weight and don't lose weight, if these were true, we would have solved the problem already. We wouldn't have obesity, but we still do have obesity and we are very much, uh, unsuccessful in treating it. Okay. You guys know, I'm always on the lookout for ways to improve my immunity and gut health. And I've been using Armra colostrum in my coffee to further strengthen my gut health. Now, why colostrum? Because it is the first nutrition we receive in life and contains all the essential nutrients our bodies need to grow strong. Now, why Armra? Because it is a live product. It has 400 or so living bioactive nutrients that build the barriers of your body through your digestive health. And it has a research backed health benefits. Armra is a premium bovine colostrum concentrate. And unlike any other product on the market is sustainably sourced from colostrum from grass fed cows based in the U.S. dairy farms. And unlike most colostrums, which use heat pasteurization that depletes nutrient potency, Armra uses cold that purifies and preserves the integrity of hundreds of these bioactive nutrients while removing casein and fat. It's very gentle on the stomach. My children use it. And as a sponsor, we've worked out a very special offer for my audience. Receive 15% off your first order. Go to tryamra.com, Dr. Lion, and get 15% off your first order. That's T-R-Y-A-R-M-R-A.com, slash Dr. Lion. I want to ask you a question, and I want your opinion. Now, notice I said your opinion, or maybe your informed opinion. Why do you think we have obesity? Well, you know, I would say that as neutral as I try to be, I think that the major factor is that, you know, food is nice and eating is really, it's an enjoyable activity, right? For you. For pretty much everybody, I would say. And, and, you know, the, the fact that the modern food supply helps you overreach. So you eat a slice of pizza or a hamburger, and that's 500 calories. If you eat it in vegetables and fruit, that will be a bucket of fruit, right? Or, or vegetables and volume. So energy density is a major factor. But there is a lot of other reasons why we eat food. So eating or eating hummus is not just a homeostatic response, meaning that it's not just when my brain understands that they don't have enough energy and I go and eat. I mean, in Copenhagen, to give you an idea, I'm running in the mornings. And in the mornings, all the bakeries are baking their, you know, croissants and bread and dah, dah, dah, dah. You know, I love carbs. Yeah. I struggle to not stop and just not go in and just eat something. Right? Yes. I know better. But, but what I'm trying to say with this example is that there is a whole lot of, you know, other socio cultural factors that drive eating behavior in humans. And let's say we were to take that out though. And for those of you listening, or I'm really hoping you get to watch this because I've never seen Faden wear a suit ever. I've seen him wear lots of t-shirts and running shorts. He will run for hours and then would go to a, the store of Straubs and get an entire baguette and I would call him and he would be sitting there eating the entire huge loaf of bread. And, and him and I would go back and forth about, do you need carbohydrates? Could someone just eat protein? And, you know, um, one of the other things is, and I don't want to get too off track, but I, I do want to have you be humanized. You are an incredible researcher and even you with all of this knowledge, uh, it's not so cut and dry. And when I think about these two competing ideas, this energy balance or carbohydrate insulin model, I wonder when did these first come, you know, when was there an idea that perhaps there was an emergence of two models? Well, as I said at the beginning, Gabrielle, there is more than two, right? So there is a, there are theories that obesity develops because of, uh, viruses. There are also theories that obesity develops because of environmental contaminants, right? And that's, that may well be relevant. Um, to give you an example, there is evidence that the basal metabolic rate of humans, there is evidence that it has been decreasing over the past a hundred years. One hundred years is much, uh, uh, prior to the emergence of the obesogenic environment, as we call it today, right? And the, and the McDonald's and the fast food chain. So we're talking about back to 1910. So there was no change in activity. This is your respect? I would say, I mean, of course, you know, going back and looking into what happened historically, the quality of the data that we have is not so good, but, but I would say that the majority of evidence would suggest that, uh, up until maybe the 60s, 70s, there has been decreases in activity levels simply because of the nationalization and the, and the, uh, and the changing in the type of jobs that we do. Um, from the 60s, 70s onwards, I don't think that there has been so much change because focus also has been put on having people do more laser time physical activity. And, uh, you have to also remember that it depends on, so if you are bigger, you burn more calories. So maybe the reduction of the level of activity count is counterbalanced to some extent by the increase in our body weight, which bears more calories, right? Uh, but what I want to say by that is that there's evidence that our metabolism has been changing way before the obesogenic transformation of society, where we start blaming the, the, uh, you know, modern food for all the, uh, bads and all the obesity and all the diseases that have been happening. Is it possible then if, if we were to think about and expand a larger view there, carbohydrate, insulin model, energy balance model, these are the ones that are most robustly discussed. You mentioned environmental contaminants. We do see this in my clinical practice. We do see environmental contaminants, you know, to what degree these environmental contaminants play a role. I can speculate there seems to be a disruption and potentially thyroid regulation. We do see these contaminants and to what the mechanism is. I remember that I'll just give you an example is that I had a military family, a commander who was living on a golf course and his dog dramatically gained weight. And it was over. I mean, we are talking about this dog went from a normal lean animal to a very obese dog in a matter of, uh, two months. And it wasn't that he was changing anything. It was that he had actually gotten into some of the pesticides. Okay. So he was not eating more. You mean he was, he was being fed the same amount of food. He was being fed the same amount of food and it turned, it turned out that, um, he had been exposed to, um, all of these chemicals. He also lost vision in the eye. There were other things that happened. Yeah. So one thing that is very, very possible is that all of these factors can operate in tandem, right? Right. We're at the same time, meaning that some individuals may be more prone to the, you know, uh, energy balance type of obesity, meaning that they tend to overeat. Some individuals may be because of genetics or other factors or where they live, as you say, may have problems with their peripheral metabolism and handling of the ingested food. And then, you know, the seem like model, uh, uh, maybe more relevant, it is, it is possible that, you know, more than one factors or model or contributing pathways, um, accounts for, for obesity in different individuals. And would you say that there are other models before we go back to this, you know, this perspective paper that maybe we're going to begin to hear more about? Well, about the fact that you can, even if you identify the cause of obesity, removing that cause doesn't mean that you're going to treat obesity, right? That is a challenging way to think about it though, because if, for example, if excess calories, if that was the cause of obesity and then you remove the excess calories, one should be able to treat it. No? Well, you know, not necessarily, because if let's say the alterations that, uh, or the adaptations that have happened in the body in the obese state are resistant to change, then this does not necessarily mean that you will be able to treat obesity effectively. Meaning that physiology is not linear, right? That's something that happens in, in pretty much all physiological responses. Our body doesn't respond linearly to increases or decreases in the stimulus such as calorie intake. Where do you think the divergent pathways came from? People historically focused on this energy balance model, then somebody must have had an opposing view. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that, you know, evidence or at least focus on the amount of calories that would eat, being responsible for obesity dates back maybe to the early 1900s, 1910 or 1920, there were booklets about, you know, calorie counting. So the focus on calories was there over a hundred years ago, I would say. So, you know, that's where I can identify the roots of the energy balance model. Now the carbohydrate insulin model kind of emerged from the realization that all efforts that we do to try to treat obesity by energy restriction don't really work. In the science, in the randomized control trials? Yes. Yes. So, you know, in randomized control trials, you can, you can have people lose weight for the first, maybe, you know, three, six, nine months, then they reach a plateau and then they just start to regaining weight, even though you're still supposedly trying to, to calorie restrict them. So, you know, the, the body has a, is, is very, very good in defending that obesity. We, we, we are, we don't lose weight so easily. So the, the body perceives that as a threat, I would say. Uh, but, you know, starting from that realization that if energy balance is correct, then by removing the excess calorie, we should lose weight, right? And if this doesn't work, then something else must be happening. And that's something else is what eventually led to the formulation of the carbohydrate insulin model. And I would say that at least some indication that calories may not be the, the culprit dates back to the forties, fifties or something like that. But as a model, the carbohydrate insulin model was formulated relatively recently, maybe the past 20 years or so. You may have seen myself, my family using red lights and infrared heating mats and pads. Okay. So we use products from Bond Charge, which is a holistic wellness brand with a huge range of products to optimize your life in every way. It's founded on science and it's inspired by nature. All Bond Charge products adopt ancestral ways of living in our modern day world, which I love. And I feel that balancing our highly industrialized lifestyle is critical for overall health. It is super easy to add in red light panels to your routine, travel lights, clip on your computer, or the red light lamp. My new favorite product is their blue light blocking clip. Red light can help with sleep and energy recovery. The list goes on. For me right now, I'm using it to balance my indoor time. I use the blue light blocking lamp as soon as it gets dark outside. And of course the larger panels for 10 to 20 minutes each day. Bond Charge has the lowest EMF on the market and its quality is incredible. In fact, I might just be gifting it to all my friends this holiday season. There's a 12 month warranty on all red light therapy devices. Go to bondcharge.com slash Dr. Lyon and use the code Dr. Lyon to save 15% off. That's B-O-N-C-H-A-R-G-E.com slash Dr. Lyon. And that still, you know, it's interesting when you speak to some scientists. So if you look at these two groups that were there, that what these two groups that were curated, I'm assuming it was intentional. It was intentional to bring experts in both perspectives together. Dr. Lyon and use the same thing as a result of the energy balance model. Of course. Yes. Yes, absolutely. And you'll hear many scientists say, well, the carbohydrate insulin model that's been disproven. And what would you say to that? Well, as I said, it's very difficult to prove or disprove something in humans. Right? So how do you prove the energy balance model? Dr. Lyon and use the energy balance model. We should, so we should take people who have normal body weight, put them somewhere in a hotel isolated, right? Then try to have or to mimic the normal food environment where there's all these ultra processed foods and all those things, and then keep them there for years. Right? Yes. Dr. Lyon and use the energy balance model. And then have another control group where they would be in another hotel where the food resembles the minimally perhaps or low, little processed food that we had in the beginning of the previous century. So these studies are impossible to do. And of course, when I say isolated, you know, you have to think, as I mentioned, obesity has a very strong sociocultural component, right? Because, you know, I remember when we were doing studies, you remember at WashU that we had some TVs in these rooms and all people- I was just having flashbacks to the metabolic ward, the unit. Yeah. You know, we should have- Dr. Lyon and use the food network. Dr. Lyon and use the food network. I know. Did you guys do that on purpose? Dr. Lyon and use the food network. I know. Did you guys do that on purpose? Dr. Lyon and use the food network. Yeah. So what I mean is that, you know, the influences, the amount of advertisements, what you see, this is impossible to replicate in a controlled environment and see what is the effect of that on eating, right? So in the same way that they cannot answer you whether the carbohydrate insulin model has been disproven, I can also not answer whether the energy balance model has been proven, right? Because what does disproving mean? I mean, you would- people- people would say that, let's say if you give people a low carb, low GI diet and they don't lose weight, that that kind of disproves the carbohydrate insulin model. But the reality is that all our diet intervention studies are either too short or they have too little intensity, right? And the reason, of course, is feasibility and funding. Just to give you an idea, when you test weight loss drugs, for each person that we recruit in a study, we spend about $40,000, $50,000. In weight loss studies, with diet, exercise, and these lifestyle behaviors, we spend about $2,000. So we just can't do these studies so far, at least in humans, in a way that it will be a definitive answer to whether this works or the other two works. Have there been particular hallmark studies that we can pull information from? I think it was the ABC trial? In humans? Correct. In humans, you mean? Yes. Yes. I think that on the energy balance side, right? The Kevin Hall's group, they have this setup where they actually have some sort of a hotel-like clinical research center where they can actually control the food supply with vending machines and they keep people isolated. in the vending machines that offer only ultra-processed food versus vending machines that offer only minimally processed food or stuff like that. And they have generally seen that under ablibitum conditions, meaning that people were allowed to do and eat whatever they wanted, in the ultra-processed food, they tended to eat a little bit more, right? And then they tended to gain weight. Of course, these are like two-week studies, right? So what can two weeks tell you about obesity that develops over a timeframe or a timescale of decades? It's very difficult to answer this question, unfortunately. So even the very well-publicized studies, they, in reality, they tell us very little. They give us an indication, but they tell us very little in terms of definitive proof. And if you look at this, this paper that you wrote, the key differences between the energy balance model and the carbohydrate-insulin model, energy balance is the energy balance model. The causal direction is positive energy balance results in net fat deposition. And then the carbohydrate-insulin energy balance is altered fuel partitioning results in net fat deposition, and then subsequently positive energy balance. Correct. Because in the latter case, because you actually store more of the ingested nutrients as fat and you don't utilize them, let's say, to fuel your movement, your brain tells you that you need to eat more. I don't have enough energy to do what you want to do in your life. So that's why you overeat in that case. And it's interesting because if I were to think, what are the components that these two models have in common? The primary dietary driver for both for the energy balance model is increased availability, which is clear, and marketing of a wide variety of inexpensive, these are the highly palatable foods that are high in portion size, fat, salt, sugar, low in protein and fiber. And then the carbohydrate-insulin model, it really points to carbohydrate-rich foods with a high glycemic index and fructose-rich beverages. The energy balance model, point of entry into the regulatory system is the brain versus the carbohydrate-insulin model being the periphery. And really the brain's response, which you had mentioned for the energy balance is that there's an impaired, appetite is not the right word, but an impaired response in the brain. And the carbohydrate-insulin model seems to not have anything to do with the brain. Yes. So in the energy balance model, the brain is really tricked, right, to not see how much you eat or to not understand how much food and energy you need. Yeah. So that's why the brain has a central focus in that model, because the characteristics of the food themselves or something else in the food environment or the non-food environment either saturates the ability of your brain to sense how much you eat and how much you need, or it kind of impairs it. Right? On the other hand, the brain, the carbohydrate-insulin model is functioning very well. It's just that the brain, in that case, cannot see all the nutrients that you just ate. So it actually correctly tells you that you need to get something more because I cannot see it. Going back to the analogy with the tank, right? If you have a leak in the tubing that transports the fuel from your tank to your engine, then you will still have that fuel somewhere in your car, but you will not be able to use it. So you will be forced to actually put more gas next time. Right. And you continue to eat. Yeah. I'm so excited to share with you guys a scientific breakthrough to support our long-term health and wellness. C15 is the first essential fatty acid to be discovered in, get this, 90 years. That was omega-3 fatty acids. You've heard of the freshman 15, but let's talk about something positive. Our primary source of C15 has long been whole fat dairy products. Unfortunately, I don't eat those. You might not either. And our C15 levels have gone down because many of us are eating a lot less of them. Additionally, our C15 levels naturally decline as we get older. Now, C15 works in a number of ways. It helps repair damaged cells. It may protect us from future breakdown, could potentially boost mitochondrial energy output, activates pathways in the body to help regulate sleep, mood, and natural repair mechanisms that, of course, support our overall health. Now, it ends up many of us are deficient in this saturated fat, C15, which results in obviously weaker cells, potentially less energy. Fatty 15, when you take it orally, is highly absorbable. And it can actually help with cellular repair. It is made from a patented, pure oxidative, resistant process. It is vegan friendly, no fillers, no allergens, no preservatives. It is 100% pure. Fatty 15 is on a mission to help you replenish your C15 levels and restore your long-term health. You can get an additional, get this, 15% off their 90-day subscription starter kit by going to fatty15.com slash drlion and using the code DRLYON at checkout. And then the final difference, the final area in which this discussion rounds out is that the predicted changes in energy expenditure. For the energy balance model, it's increased at the whole body level, unaltered if adjusted for changes in body composition. So predicted change in energy expenditure, meaning how much energy you're going to burn. The energy balance model is, it's increased at the whole body level. And then the carbohydrate insulin model, and obviously please, please correct me where I state this incorrectly, is decreased energy expenditure is decreased if food intake, decrease if food intake does not increase. It's unchanged or even increased if food intake increases. Correct. Let me just take a step back. Thank you. So in humans, there is a lot of evidence suggesting that our total energy expenditure, meaning the amount of calories that we burn on a daily basis for maintaining our basic metabolic and physiological functions. So our hearts, pumping blood, our lungs, exchanging oxygen and carbon dioxide, all of those things that maintain us alive are a function of body weight. The same thing is true for the calories that we burn with all sorts of weight bearing activities, which for all intents and purposes are all sorts of exercises and physical activities that we do, right? Unless you are in space, for instance, but at least, you know, running, cycling, walking, the amount of calories that we burn are a direct function of body weight. Okay. So the more body weight you carry with you, the more calories you burn. To understand that, think how easy it is to walk around in the gym and then grab two 20 pound dumbbells and walk around again. You can understand that it's a little bit more difficult. You are burning more calories as you carry more weight. So this is what the energy balance model tells you that as you gain body fat and your weight becomes greater, then you start burning more calories. That's why the energy expenditure, the total energy expenditure for the whole body goes up. However, if you take a piece of muscle tissue or a piece of liver tissue or a piece of adipose tissue, then the metabolic activity of that tissue per unit of mass is not altered. It's just that you have more of that tissue in your whole body that makes a greater energy expenditure. Does it make sense? Yes, that makes sense. Would one be able to argue looking at the commonalities between this, that if we had a low energy environment, that would solve the problem. If we had limited access to food, if right versus let's say someone has a virus, but no access or environmental contaminants. Yes. Let me, I will get back to that. That's a very good point. And I will get back to that, but just now to explain you what happens with energy expenditure in the, in the carbohydrate insulin model. So what the carbohydrate insulin model tells you, remember is that since your brain cannot see all the calories that we just ate, right. It tells you that you need to eat more. That's what it tells you. It drives you to eat more. If you do not act on that drive and you do not eat more, then the second option for the brain is to shut down your energy expenditure. So it will make you feel more tired, for example. So you will not go for a run so that it will decrease your energy expenditure in order to match with the amount of calories or the amount of energy that your brain thinks you have available. That's why it decreases if you do not eat. But of course, in the modern environment, most people would eat. That's why most commonly the, the end result of the carbohydrate insulin model is also overeating or positive energy balance. Let's put it this way. And then going back, I'm sorry. No, let me now go back to what you just said. So there is no question. This is something that of course needs to be clear. No matter whether we are talking about genes, environments, type of food, amount of food, whether I am feeling good or bad or sad or happy, all of these factors that affect my drive to eat, they must manifest by known biological mechanisms that affect either energy intake or how I handle the food that I just ate. And you are correct. If I take people in the lab and I just remove their access to food, they lose weight as expected, right? Like text. So there is no magic there, but that is not something that we can do in humans. And it does not really prove that either model is correct. What were there any surprising points during this conversation? During this, would you call it a debate? Yes, to some extent I would. I think what was surprising, actually satisfying to me was to see these very good scientists come in the same room. And during, let's say breakfast on day one, you could actually cut the tension with a knife. But I think that as the day progressed, and then as we had the second day, at the end of the workshop, you know, everybody was so much better. And the environment and the climate was so much better. So for me, that was satisfying to see that we can achieve that. Because as I said, as humans, as scientists, we also have our egos. And these are not easily, these are not easy to kind of put on the side. Were there any insights from either party? Because really, this debate between the energy balance model and carbohydrate and insulin model has really been robust within the scientific community. And the only way that we have any kind of mental flexibility is if we're willing to acknowledge or hear from the other side, do you think? And also, is there a place where these two models work in tandem versus it's this or that? Yeah. So I think that, you know, if you also read the paper, a lot of how the normal physiology and the normal regulation of energy intake and expenditure is regulated in humans, both models agree to that, right? So there's a lot of overlap and a lot of agreement. It's just that it's not highlighted anywhere. But again, both camps and everybody, I guess, no matter what kind of model they back, you have to agree that it will operate under known mechanisms of energy intake, energy expenditure, you know, peripheral metabolism and all the things that we know that operate in humans as a species. And so it's unlikely that you will find someone that will suggest something different. I think that the realization that they have actually a lot of points where the two models converge is something that the two camps also realized during the workshop. And that was a pleasure to see as well. What did and what was their big takeaway that we need also longer human trials? Yeah. What were the big deal? My, my, yeah. So my feeling, first of all, is that even though they acknowledge that there is a possibility that, you know, I may be wrong or something else may be happening. You know, they went back home and they're still believing what they believe, right? And that's, I mean, we did not expect that something else would happen. But something that emerged from that workshop is that now that, you know, we have, we started having collaborative ideas and perhaps designing projects in common, right, to try to test some aspects of these models or some predictions of these models. There is no way that you can have a single study, as I said, that can prove or disprove one or the other. But at least now they are open to the possibilities. And that's, that's a wonderful thing to see that it happens even at that level of, of science, which you would think that this is the norm, but it is not really the norm. And you actually mentioned this in the paper, the paper mentions that the debate has often led to controversial discussions in both parties in both scientific and popular media. And, you know, you are a phenomenal scientist. We, I could speak with you for hours at which I do, but for the podcast, particularly, I was so excited that you wrote this paper because again, and I do want to touch on what you have seen in randomized control trials and some of the work that you have done in effective ways to lose weight. I do. I want to discuss diet, exercise. I know we didn't really decide that we were going to do that before, but I do want to make sure that we have tangible items that people can take away. And you've done a tremendous amount of research. So of course, I mean, that's, that's the reason why we are really interested in that. In what sense, no matter how obesity developed, right? People, or let's say the majority of individuals right now are interested in trying to figure out ways to effectively lose weight. Right? So it doesn't really matter how you put that weight on. Now you're interested in losing that weight. It doesn't, it doesn't matter the, the speed, if we were to think about, and I just want to pause there. It's an interesting mental exercise when it comes to obesity. Does it matter the swiftness at what's at which someone puts on weight? And the reason I asked this, because in my mind, I think that the distribution of fat would be variable over time. For example, if someone has been obese for an extended period of time, now you're not looking at just peripheral adiposity, but you're looking at intraorgan adiposity and perhaps that might take longer to course correct metabolic outcomes. Yes. So one thing that I'm not sure how much known it is to the wider public is that perhaps during the past 20, 30 years, we have had a lot of evidence and we realized that obesity or having excess weight and total body fat is not necessarily associated with metabolic abnormalities and metabolic disease and increased risk of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Right? And vice versa. I have to push back on that. So your students would never push back on that. So you are, what you are mentioning here is a, a phenotype of obesity that would be metabolically healthy. It's metabolically healthy relative to the majority of obesity. It's not, it's not the same as being lean and metabolically healthy. Right. Okay. I, I just, what I want to say is that, right. So what I want to say is that, right. So, uh, if you just focus on body weight and total body fat, that doesn't tell you much in terms of risk of disease. That's what I want to, uh, the point that I want to get across. And vice versa, you can have a normal body weight and a normal total body fat. But if you have accumulation of fat in specific locations around the body, then you can have increased risk of metabolic abnormalities. And this is the fact that typically people refer to us visceral fat, which is the fact that we have, let's say, around our bellies, but also fat that we can store in our muscle or in our livers or in our pancreas. And then that fat really affects the function of those organs, which are critical for metabolic homeostasis. And it is remarkable if you think that you can have, you can be a person with obesity, right, in a BMI of 40 or 50. So you can have 50 kilograms of extra fat in your body, but that doesn't necessarily tell you much as if you accumulate only, let's say, five kilograms as visceral adipose tissue or 200 grams of fat in your liver. This is remarkable. So the location of where you store that fat seems to be way more important for your metabolic health rather than the total amount of fat you have in your body. Now, why people tend to accumulate fat in this or that or in the third organ? It's something that we do not really know. Genes definitely affect or play a reason, but there are probably other reasons as well. So diet could be a reason. Exercise and physical activity habits definitely have a reason on body fat distribution and they have a big role. So generally, yes, obesity itself is not necessarily associated with increased risk for disease. And I think that there's a bit of a spectrum on that. Again, just to take it back, I was reading another paper and one of the things is potentially it's on a continuum. We might not be identifying. It's almost on a spectrum. So we might see an obese, quote, metabolically healthy person, but it's at that point in time. And I would argue that obesity is never going to be healthy. We might just not have the science yet to put into words. And, you know, potentially it's just that the body is able to manage and mitigate negative outcomes for a period of time. Or let's say we're not measuring the myokines appropriately or the inflammatory markers. We just are not identifying it from a clinical. You are totally correct. Because one of the commonest things about metabolically healthy obesity is that these individuals tend to be younger. Right. And we know for a fact that as we age, the chances that we are staying metabolically healthy are diminishing almost linearly. Even if your weight does not increase. So definitely it seems to be it is not a shield against the metabolic abnormalities that is a permanent shield. Right. It's just a temporary shield that it's exactly what you said. Your body, because of your age or your other functional capacities, has the ability to kind of withstand or mask the metabolic complications of excess weight and fat. If you were to. But let me touch. Yes. Let me, I'm sorry. I just remember you mentioned also the rapidity at which we put gain or. The period. Yes. The period in which you gain. So we don't really have a very good. We don't have good studies that that made people gain the same amount of weight with different rates. Right. Because in a study like that, in order to be able to get a good answer to your question, you would have to have the same amount of weight gain with different rates. So at different time frames. Right. But we do not have studies like that. What we do have, however, is the opposite. So we have studies that compared what happens if you lose the same amount of weight with different rates. So lose it fast or lose it slow. Right. Yes. And generally, these studies suggest that if you look acutely, so if you look on the day that you reach the target weight loss, then losing it slow is generally better. Right. But this is a little bit of a confounding interpretation of the data because you do not allow the body to stabilize at that new lower body weight. If you do that. So if you do the measurements after one month of stabilization at that new lower body weight, then it doesn't really matter whether you lose it fast or slow. For all intents and purposes, all the metabolic effects of weight loss are the same. No matter how fast or slow you lost it. And if anything, just as a last point to this point, we have data to suggest that people who for some reason lose weight initially at a faster rate are those who are more successful in long term weight loss. Whether it's biological, whether it's something else, we do not know the mechanisms, but this observation comes again and again, that rapid initial weight loss predicts longer success. I was still hoping you were going to say that. And remind me, that came out of, was that the, it's the ABC. Was it the- I think so. And also the look ahead trial. It was the look ahead trial. It was the look ahead trial. Yes, and several others. I think, you know, it is remarkable to say that the rate at which you lose weight in the first one month or two months of a diet predicts what you do four and eight years later. But because what I mean is that in the first month or two months of a diet, everybody is excited, right? So there is no issue of compliance over there because you can easily say that compliance is a major factor that predicts weight loss success. And that's true. Two of the main predictors of weight loss success is compliance to the diet and then the initial rate of weight loss. So the initial rate of weight loss must be something that has to do with the biology, right? Because everybody is excited and they are very compliant with the diet in the first few weeks. And this is all with not without medication. Because- Yes, yes, yes. When you use GLP-1s or GIP, some of these dual agnes, and I'm sure that I know that they will have multiple generations of these agents coming out. You know, I wonder where that plays a role because the recidivism rate, the regain weight of individuals just in general who struggle with obesity is, I mean, it's over 80%, right? It's higher than that. Yes, yes. It varies, but generally it's not satisfactory because if it were, we would have treated the problem, right? Yeah. So clearly weight loss drugs and especially these GLP-1 agonists and the dual agonists kind of help quite a lot. And actually, you know, results for these dual agonists suggest that we can reach, you know, bariatric surgery levels of weight loss, really. The point is that, you know, you need to get these drugs forever, meaning that if you stop taking these drugs, you go back to your initial weight trajectory. And I think that there is some studies published recently on clinical practice and real-life effectiveness. And it seems that, like with most other medications, the majority of patients are just not compliant to their medications, even if it has to do with, you know, these GLP-1 and GLP agonists. And of course, you have to take into account the cost, right? Yes. And that is important. And that brings also then the other question of insurance and politics, because if we consider obesity as a disease, globally speaking, and then these medications need to be reimbursed by the insurance companies, then this would bring most national economies to their knees. We have 1.8 billion people who struggle with excess weight globally, right? So there are a lot of other factors involved when you talk about how to treat obesity medically. Yes. And if one of the other things that we haven't spoken about is the quality of the weight loss. Rapid weight loss typically seems to be lower quality. It is lean tissue as well as fat tissue. And I'm curious from your work and some of the things that you've been involved in. Ideally, if you were to think, okay, based on evidence, how would I personally design a diet? How would you do that? How would you do that? Yeah. So let me just say something about the composition of weight loss, right? When we lose weight, generally speaking, it's about 75% fat and 25% lean mass. What this means is that if you lose 10 kilos, about 7.5 kilos is fat mass and about 2.5 is lean mass. Out of those 2.5, most but not all is muscle, but not all. Okay. So when we say lean mass is not just muscle. Lean mass is everything else other than fat and water and bone. Now, in terms of rapid weight loss, you're right. When we lose weight rapidly, it seems that we tend to lose more lean mass. But this is what happens if you measure people's body composition acutely. If you allow them to stabilize it up at that new lower body weight, then these differences are actually minimized. And I'm not sure if they are clinically significant anymore. Say that again. That's a very important point. Yeah. Say that again. You know, if you do your body composition measurements at the, you know, end of the weight loss treatment where people are just coming out of their negative energy balance, right? A lot of the changes in body composition that you see also have to do with water fluxes around the body. So they are not really true. So when you repeat those measurements one month later, when you have stabilized those people at that new lower body weight, then the composition of loss tissue doesn't differ that much between slow and fast weight loss. That, that is an interesting, it's just interesting because oftentimes, even in the literature, we think about rapid weight loss being extremely negative for muscle. Well, correct. But that's what I mentioned that this probably is not true. So when you think of control of control of control of control of control of control of control of control of control of control of control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control control genetic resonance imaging and you would have to do it at the whole body level right so you have to scan head to toe because you know muscles we have muscle is an organ that is not anatomically defined like your heart right muscle is is a tissue that is interspersed in various parts of our bodies right so you would have to scan the whole body and that would give you the best let's measure of muscle mass most studies that we do in nutrition research and obesity treatment we use techniques such as bio electrical impedance analysis which kind of tries to take advantage of the fact that fat tissue is a good insulator whereas the rest of the body is a better insulator so it kind of gives you a guesstimate of of body composition we also use another type of scanning with dual x-ray absorptiometry which gives you you know fat mass and lean mass but it cannot separate muscle mass so I would say that the majority of the studies that you see out there they do not use a particularly robust method for muscle mass what do you see as the problem in that of not being able to quantify muscle mass you mean yeah well clearly you could you could argue that if I cannot get a good measurement of muscle mass then I do not get a good estimate of what is the effect of weight loss and body composition then it goes back to what you said right the quality of the weight loss because if you lose more muscle theoretically your resting metabolic rate would go down you would have alteration in the amount of all these myokines that you have circulating your bloodstream and this could of course affect metabolic function but of course we we have some let's say indirect ways that you can probe that meaning that you can actually measure myokines right in the bloodstream are you guys doing that a lot in Copenhagen which first of all I know that you are and if I could maybe I'll put in a good word for me at Bente Penderson's lab yeah yeah but over here we yeah she does there I was actually trying to set you up for a softball I was trying to pitch you a ball I was gonna see if you're gonna fight on this or I don't even know what softball is yeah um soccer soccer football uh none of those things complete terrible joke um if we don't do a good job at number one identifying and quantifying skeletal muscle mass loss as well as gain in my mind it stands to reason this has been a huge disservice I know that that is not scientific but then we will fail to see number one the potential importance and the potential impact the loss or gain of muscle is in overall health in general the you and I were um talking about about something else and 10 years ago when I was in fellowship it was just the start of getting better at identifying um and measuring skeletal muscle mass with ct mri and that was 10 years ago yeah but you know these these pieces of instruments are very expensive I mean I understand what you're saying but generally we do the best we can do um and you know the majority of studies I would say that focus on the dietary treatment of obesity they are not so muscle centric to put it this way so you know you you have to allocate your resources in a way that is equitable for the outcomes that you want to measure right I'm guessing that you would have to do a specific study that focuses on the amount of muscle mass in order to engage and and and utilize those techniques that are more accurate still muscle mass in itself doesn't necessarily you tell you everything right because you have muscle function on top of muscle mass you have fiber composition right so you can have the same amount of muscle but depending on the composition of these myocytes the function and their metabolic effects might be different so I mean we see that in in professional athletes right whether they are endurance strain or resistance strain they have different metabolic profiles and they have different uh uh changes in their metabolism during their training so clearly mass is an important factor it's definitely not the only thing that that matters I would say for uh for health right you have to take into account how that mass functions when it comes to health what works for someone else may not work for you because we are unique we have unique genetics habits and health goals that's why I'm so excited to tell you about inside tracker you've heard me talk about it before inside tracker is a way to get your blood work which shows you exactly exactly what your body needs and gives you a personalized plan for strength hormone balance overall health you name it they get it done there are plenty of companies that just look at blood or just look at dna but I use inside tracker because it's the only one that looks at everything including your blood results dna fitness tracker inputs and other health information it's a 360 degree analysis that provides incredible visibility on what is going on inside your body inside tracker analytics centers on what calls your 10 health span categories this includes a whole host of things like fitness hormone health you name it when you become a member you'll get an individual score for each of each of your health span categories and you'll learn what you need to do to drive your score high your personalized recommendations will include things like food supplements exercise and sleep tips and by tracking your health span category scores and blood results you'll be able to confirm what is working and what is not now it's time to start your personalized health journey especially because inside tracker is dropping prices by 30 for this year's black friday sale get after it year-long membership plans will start at a hundred and four dollars you can also purchase discounted blood tests dna biological age analysis it's everything that you need to fast track your health mark your calendars because instead of buying that new tupperware or that new coffee mug get your blood work done starts wednesday november 27th and you want to act fast because you want to make this happen go to insidetracker.com to get your health journey started that's insidetracker.com and use the code drlion do you think the oversight in skeletal muscle or the lack of skeletal muscle is in part due to its complexity because it is heterogeneous versus adipose tissue which is homogenous and i'm just referring to circle back to what faden was saying about muscle mass no two people have the same fiber type composition intramuscular fat it's a very complex tissue and the composition of the fiber throughout the body potentially can be different yeah not potentially we know that different five you're the one who taught me to speak like this to not speak in absolutes this is your fault but this but this we know because we have actually taken biases from different tissues around the body of the same individuals and you see that there are differences let's say between the fiber composition of your solute versus glute versus gastrocnemius versus so on and so forth there's also differences in the rates of protein synthesis and all those things whether or not these are clinically significant we do not know right but statistically you can see differences anyway and maybe it we're just too early i think that they were just too early in the research yeah yes yes the other thing is that as you said on as an avarone on others you're right that adipose tissue at least white adipose tissue subcutaneous white adipose tissue is a more homogeneous tissue compared to muscle right but you know you have visceral adipose tissue you have adipose tissue or fat inside organs so i do what it means that yes probably on average the remark that muscle is much more complex is true now the the you know if you approach the diet right which you have to approach the whole body you cannot really approach the diet in an organ specific way typically uh um people get obese and this affects all organs and the same thing as they lose weight this affects all organs so you know if you if you go back to the 30 000 feet view and try to see you know what can we do you know for obesity you know we have at least ideas about the characteristics of a healthy diet and again i'm going i'm using the term healthy because i think that obesity treatment has over focused on the scale rather than on the outcomes what i mean is that would we care about obesity if it were not for the increased risk of disease no obesity would not even be considered by the w health health organization right because obesity is defined as the amount of excess fat accumulation that may impair health if it was not for the complications for obesity we would not mind so much nobody would care about aesthetics right and historically if you see this there was a time where obesity was considered a favorable trait in humans but anyway so we know that some characteristics of the diet that are conducive to good health are you know be prudent in calories have variety eat the mostly plant-based diet but with enough protein not vegan i'm just kidding i'm kidding you know i'm from greece right we we like the mediterranean diet so the mediterranean diet is a mostly plant-based diet but we eat meat we eat protein we eat dairy so you know i would say uh eat everything in moderation is a trick here right so we know most of the characteristics of a healthy diet but yet it is very difficult to adhere to that type because that requires that we go to the grocery shop you know it's not convenient with everyday life to go to shop and cook and do all those things at home we it's much more easy to get uh ready-made food and heat it in the microwave and eat it so it's it's it's it's really tricky and of course i know you're interested in exercise right we know that doing exercise or exercising being active is good and what is the best exercise it's the one you do that's very simple the answer to that not the one that aiden does this guy runs he just runs no not like me no i don't yeah but what i mean is that it doesn't matter if you lift if you run if you cycle if you swim as long as you do something right or you walk your dog all these are are behaviors that we know are healthy we know that they help you maintain a healthy weight or reduce a little bit the excess weight that you may have we definitely know that they will keep you healthier for longer which is important right because it doesn't really matter if you have one two three more kilos in your body as long as this doesn't affect you and you can still go around and do the things that you want to do with your life from i i agree with you and for history's sake you guys listening again finn and i have known each other for over 10 years when we think about the percentage of and we've worked together actually we've worked on um multiple studies together he's much more published i think i have two papers and a book chapter published but i did write a book that that did well which you i think pretty much congratulations i remember that yes because i think that you refused to review it because it was uh for general consumption and not in the white tower of academia i'm uh totally kidding you guys i am kidding but our perspective on muscle i think is very similar although i would say i tend to be very dogmatic in my thinking and i i definitely recognize this if i were to to really think about where does obesity where do these problems begin for for me it's muscle i appreciate my biases from a dietary perspective if one were to set up from a giving actual number perspective and there is variation for example faden does a lot of endurance training he does he weight lifts two to three days a week at least he did and he's a creature of habit i'm assuming you still do that right yeah go to the gym you spend like three hours training and then you're ready to go to bed by i mean you train at night it's a whole thing the listener wants to know how do they design a diet and let's say they're very prudent about protein we know that 0.8 grams per kg is the minimum to prevent an deficiency it's probably not enough to support aging one probably requires more if they are in a catabolic condition or even with obesity correct yeah yeah so uh now let me just say of course there is there is a lot of different ways that you can design a diet so i believe that you know if you think about drugs versus food right drug is a very specific compound it's one compound that targets one specific metabolic pathway let's say in the body diet or food has like a thousand if not millions of compounds that act on everywhere and interact with each other right so each one affects the effects of the other so i i like to think that there is no ideal diet there's no perfect diet and when i say that to people most people get sad and disappointed but i try to give it a positive spin in what sense that there is so many degrees of freedom for you to go out choose experiment and find out the diet that works for you as you said i like pasta my my diet is 70 carbs i have measured it so i'm 70 carbs 20 fat and 10 protein but i cover my protein needs because of all this exercise that i do i eat a lot of calories right and you you definitely have to to expand on that yeah what i want to say is that i have found a diet that works for my lifestyle and i use your body type though you're very lean yeah and i'm sure that there is a variation just as some people do better um on a higher protein diet which i am one of them absolutely yeah absolutely yeah you're absolutely correct uh some people do better on different diets and that's what that's the positive spin for me that diet has a lot of degrees of freedom and you have to find a person who is a little bit knowledgeable like me you or whoever and and and and help you identify what are let's say the the mistakes that you may do because you know sometimes when you know a lot of things like on this if if you are on the academic side of things you take some knowledge as granted and that's not true you know i can see that you know whenever you have a new input of students we also have to kind of deal with all the ideas that they come uh in the university right right and then i get to remind myself of oh my god how is it possible that you know you don't know this but that's the reality out there for the general public so you know you have to find somebody who is a little bit knowledgeable and they can help you identify some errors that you may be doing and then try to experiment and and and you know trial and error it's all about trial and error and finding something that works for you that's that's how i uh managed to to to do it anyway oh well you're also very evidence informed evidence-based and evident you're evidence-based but you're evidence-informed for you to get 10 of your calories from protein the reality is you counterbalance that by your activities extreme i i think that you're also at a standing desk you have enough uh well everybody in denmark has a stand you know this desk that goes up and down yes well we don't have that here in the studio denmark everybody moves around and by the way well let me just correct you in copenhagen everybody moves around and because you know bicycles is is so much into the culture so i bike to work every day right yeah back and forth in addition to the other stuff which everybody does that everyone does rural denmark is not the same but again from a larger view copenhagen is really the mecca it's like the harvard uh outside of the us especially for anything metabolic exercise related and skeletal muscle and just uh really this um nutritional perspective however one thing that you have to take into account is their lifestyle is not an american lifestyle people of course absolutely so the perspective is you know that is what the exposure is the individuals could get away with a lower protein diet because they counterbalance with a way of life that is that is extraordinarily active um and yeah but as i mentioned you know if you if you think 10 of calories over three or 3 500 calories on a daily basis this is about 300 calories from protein divide that by four right you get about 90 something which is low well from my perspective is low and you and i definitely but i'm weighing but i'm weighing 70 kilos so i'm eating about 1.3 you know what i mean i do i do so the the percent of the calories seems or uh sounds low but the actual amount is not low is not low and i'm i'm i'm lifting for maintaining right i'm not weight lifting to be a bodybuilder so you could be if you decide not clear if you wanted if your target is that then yes of course you need much more protein there's no question if someone wants to build muscle how much protein well i think that you should go up or of 1.6 but definitely no i don't think there's any needs for more than 2.2 2.3 i think that that's where it's you saturate the system and that's all the studies that we have so far where they where they measure muscle protein synthesis in response to you know different types of exercise and different forms of feeding amino acids insulin and all those things the response is always the same you have a linear increase and then a plateau so there is definitely a point where you saturate the system and then any more than that you will obviously either burn it or uh for energy or store it as fun and so you you should not overdo it that's what i mean and i i want to pause there and and interject what he's saying is that from a if your goal is muscle hypertrophy or repair skeletal muscle repair anything above 2.2 grams per kg might not be necessary right and that's definitely the upper limit from a overall calorie perspective and an overall intake there's no downside and finn and i may disagree here but you know one gram per pound ideal body weight i find is safe i think it's easy to do um assuming so two so two grams per kilo approximately yeah at the upper limit um you know there's i haven't seen any evidence to suggest that that oh no there is no there is no downside as long as your total energy intake is is kept like under control no problem at all there are no side effects really if you're healthy and you don't have any sort of kidney problems correct and you had mentioned um insulin and these other hormones where do you think that that plays a role from a obesity perspective because if insulin and other hormonal responses to food play a role in the carbohydrate insulin model do you think that say having a diet high in carbohydrates would be obesogenic or is it a genetic and activity related so i mean i obviously don't have the exact answer to your question but but let me just say that you know we are talking now about building muscle but if you are talking about building muscle in the context of losing weight so losing weight and building muscle then that is very difficult to do so you have to actually be going to the gym almost daily for like 15 hours a week i only know one or two studies in the literature with professional athletes where they were losing weight because they were trying to make to make competition weight right and they were training about 15 hours a week and only in this population under this condition do they manage to gain muscle while they are losing weight for all in terms of purposes for the average person i would say that when you lose weight you cannot avoid losing muscle you can minimize that muscle loss by exercising and eating more protein but you will not be able to avoid a complete loss of muscle and now the protein that you have in your diet as a percentage of your calories should go up if you are calorie restricted yourself right so maybe because i'm eating 3500 calories a day i can get away with 10 percent protein the person who is actively in calorie restriction and eating 1000 calories a day to lose weight the percent protein should be 20 or 30. if it was higher remember the protein sparing fast yeah yeah yeah so all the now the commercial vlcd products you know the very low energy diet products like the new point i don't know what you have in the states but all these now are about 50 protein right because you eat only 800 calories a day then protein is the most important nutrient to match and to to meet your body's needs so as a percent of calories the less you eat the more you need and then aging as well yes with aging as well and that's true aging so aging has been associated with a little bit of an anabolic resistance as we call it meaning that and going back to your insulin question right so the main effect of insulin is that it kind of stops muscle breakdown so when you exercise you increase you increase muscle breakdown that's the effect of resistance exercise or weight lifting on muscle but then when you eat after that exercise the insulin what it does is that it stops muscle breakdown and then the additional protein that you have eaten is being used to stimulate protein synthesis so your balance becomes positive right so it seems that aging is associated with a little bit of anabolic resistance meaning that for the same amount of protein people who are older they do not respond very robustly in terms of muscle protein synthesis what you can do to circumvent a problem is to feed them a little bit more protein so if you flood the system a little bit more then you get the same response that you would get so that's easily solvable with aging when your students are coming in again you're a full professor when your students are coming in are you seeing trends are you seeing trends of um incorrect thinking or uh perspectives and what are those uh well you know instead of rather than incorrect thinking because again i would say that i can never be 100 sure in research right but there's definitely um thinking that is not supported by the weight of the evidence right um things like eating both carbs and protein in the same meal things about what the effects of exercise are things about when you should eat like the time of the day tell me we all want to hear we're all dying to hear i just want to hear the the highlights where is it's not supported by evidence well i wouldn't say it's not supported by evidence but for instance you know this there is this idea that let's say eating earlier right or breakfast skipping or breakfast eating is associated with more or less body weight and obesity right so generally if you go out in the population you will see that people who typically habitually tend to avoid breakfast they are more obese or they have greater body weight so this has led to the assumption that breakfast is important to to kind of treat obesity however if you take people who are habitual not breakfast eaters like myself and you put them in a study and you tell them now start eating breakfast we gain weight we don't lose weight so breakfast is bad in that scenario right so complicated so that's what i mean so observation in the population is very difficult to different from what happens when you actually put it to the test because there's a lot of other factors that that could be responsible for that relationship you saw another thing is that you know we know also that people who tend to uh um uh eat or to spread their calories around the day have better weight body weight than those who pack more of their calories in fewer meals right so that's why we say it's better to eat more meals rather than pack all your calories in a single meal or two meals right you've heard that i guess i i'm trying to think where what i hear i mean i have seen people try to um you know i don't know i don't know if i've heard that some people try to do one meal a day or okay yeah i'm not sure generally however that i think that at least in my students because that's who you asked about the general perception is that eating fewer calories spread out evenly throughout the day is better for body weight homeostasis but again when we put this to the test and we bring people and we randomize them on one one month to eat one meal all calories of the day in one meal versus spread out in six minutes we do not see any differences again kind of new right yeah and i just want to put a little caveat on here what he's talking about is really thinking about things in population base this would not be for example that would not be a strategy a one meal of the day kind of a thing would not be a strategy i would use for uh an older person someone who's trying to build muscle someone who's trying to protect muscle um but again this circles back to the beginning of the conversation that i had with faden is there are population studies we're doing the best we can um but it when it comes to individuals it's there's variation clearly and it also will depend on the characteristics of the person right because we know that even if you so if you if you uh prescribe the same diet and exercise regimen for you know a group of 100 people you will get 100 different responses right depending on your outcome these responses may vary from you know a little improvement to a lot of improvement but for some outcomes they may vary from improvement to getting worse so you know the variability between people to the same diet and exercise is humongous some of it could be genetic some of it could be uh compliance to your instructions right because people also are not particularly compliant and we see that when we bring people in the lab and we actually house them in the lab so we are responsible for feeding them for telling them you know now rest now hop on the treadmill now rest now eat the the variability is much less than what we see in real life right i didn't know that the variability is much less when we study that you mean their response to exercise because there's some data out there that talks about exercise non-responders there's yeah yeah yeah yeah what i mean is that of course you see that in the lab as well it's just a range of responses smaller because you take the compliance part out of the creation clearly if you just prescribe an exercise treatment in real life then compliance to that exercise regimen will be a big factor in mediating the individual differences in response but when we take that out of the creation we still see some level of individual responses right what about what um about exercise that you are seeing your younger students come in thinking that is potentially um not following the literature well you know unfortunately the most of my teaching is in the nutrition field so my students don't feel strong about exercise and that's i think it's a pity because you know me i mean i always i'm 50 diet 50 exercise and i think that you know these are two sides of the coin that you cannot consider the effects of exercise without knowing what you are eating and vice versa you cannot evaluate the effects of eating without knowing whether or not i exercise yeah right from a nutrition perspective i i'm sure you get ketogenic diet questions and even with the the energy balance model and the carbohydrate insulin model where does a ketogenic diet play a role and does it prove or disprove one or the other yeah so ketogenic diet and if you mean by strictly ketogenic so i eat less than 20 or 50 grams of carbs per day these are very very effective diets in the in inducing weight loss so actually you if you do a real true ketogenic diet you cannot even if you feed people you cannot maintain their weight because they tend to to lose weight of course the majority of this initial weight loss is more water rather than fat for instance right but the the point is that these diets they are not diets that you can maintain uh in the long term and by long term i mean years for the rest of your life and that is a problem whenever we talk about diets so it is not difficult to make people lose weight in uh in short term what is difficult is to change their habits so that they can do that effortlessly for the rest of their lives that's the the the the big obstacle that we have in the treatment of obesity right you mentioned that before if we take food away people lose weight thank you very much but we cannot this is not life right yeah it is certainly when um when everyone was together was there a discussion about muscle about exercise i know that this is you know and i i bring this up because you said diet is 50 percent and exercise is 50 but you know they are tackling the pathogenesis of obesity but where was the conversation about muscle and exercise well back then you know i think that again the where we both were we were mainly focusing on diet and weight loss and obesity in regards to diet rather than exercise but you know to put it this way you cannot over exercise yourself out of a bad diet in the same way that you cannot um you know eat your way out of being sedentary um there is no question say that again that that's fascinating i don't think we've ever heard anyone say that that you cannot eat your way out of being sedentary yeah meaning that if you are sedentary it doesn't mean that you can follow like uh you know food and diet and then be in optimal health right that that's what i meant by that in the same way that you cannot eat whatever you want to and then just exercise yourself out of it so you have to pay attention to both clearly uh there is no question that being active helps you stay healthier for longer and that's important i think as a message because outside from what the scale says and all those things you know as we grow older we realize that you know we want to be healthy we want to be functional and we want to be independent and exercise and being physically active is a critical component of functional independence as you age there is no question about it and i know that you will tell me it's whatever anyone will do and that's the kind of exercise how do you place the importance of endurance resistance high intensity interval training where do you think about that from a health longevity obesity prevention standpoint well all of these things that you mentioned are probably different because from from let's see from the energy balance perspective clearly endurance exercise predominates simply because uh for the amount of time that you spend during exercise you burn more calories with endurance and resistance exercise right at least acutely during the exercise session uh which again is not that much meaning that if you see how many calories you burn by running for an hour it's 500 calories if you run at a moderate to high pace 500 calories is you know a slice of pizza so or a danis so it's really disappointing to see how many calories you but the point with exercise is that it puts you in a positive mindset right and in a positive feedback circle that you know you exercise you feel better you pay attention to what you eat and then you keep this going and then you you enter a healthier way of living that's i think that's the main value of exercise now again if if your main focus is calories then i would focus predominantly on endurance type of exercises if your main focus is to build muscle or to maintain functional capacity then definitely resistance training is important so for aging i would say i would put more emphasis on weight lifting and resistance training rather than dural training because this is mostly what you need to maintain your um functional capacity and that's i ultimately what people want they want to age well yeah i think so too of course i think so too and you also mentioned the high intensity interval exercise which is a great way to exercise as long as you can do it of course it's a way that you can reach your goals at the smaller amount of time right so it depends some people have more time to spend in the gym some people have less time to spend in the gym so with high intensity interval exercise you do not increase your biological ceiling you just reach it faster do you think that there is a biological ceiling you think that there is a lot of time to increase your weight so you can increase your weight so you know if you're trying to maintain all other parameters the same meaning that if if you do not want to increase your weight then yes of course there is a biological ceiling in terms of what you can achieve and we can see that even in in there's as you said in the response to exercise right we see some people who double or triple in capacity and some of them who increase only by 10 or 20 percent and they do the same amount of exercise so there's definitely uh some sort of ceiling in all of their responses that the human body is not endless uh i absolutely agree with you and i you know there are foundational principles that everyone from my perspective should be doing i think that you i agree yeah and we know most of that stuff right yes we know most of that stuff when you were in this room and you're seeing researchers and i i'm not sure if there were any clinicians in there but obviously if the smartest people in the world are struggling to have these conversations how do you suggest that we as science communicators as academics as clinicians as trainers as coaches communicate the complexities to the public well uh i'm sorry let me just mute my phone because you just told me that i need to get my medicine also we're by the way we're wrapping up anyway uh you want me to ask you that again i know i i remember that you know i was in beijing and then i was running like crazy and exercising like crazy and i got an exercise induced asthma attack so i was hospitalized in china you didn't tell me that yeah that was an experience that was a surreal experience so i had to stay like i have to go to the hospital like for six conservative days oh my god yeah yeah but the chinese were really uh detailed about how to treat it anyway so now they i'm i have been prescribed the um you know an inhaler oh like inhaled the bro-condylators for like three months oh my god uh okay so going going back to how do we communicate i think that what is important is to avoid being absolute and to avoid placing focus in on a single single topic a single finding a single food ingredient a single diet because you know focusing on on a leaf or leave it's it makes you lose the tree let alone the forest because that's what you know the public discussions typically take the form of right we focus on just a small like tiny little thing and then we forget the the the the whole idea of the forest behind that leaf so you know i think that taking a perspective that is you know trial and error and you know we know basic things about healthy diet and healthy lifestyle but we tend to not even doing those because we are focused on other things that makes sense and i have one last question and that is where do you think the future is going the future of obesity research well i wish i knew because had i known i would be very successful in getting new grants in the future right yeah but you know i hopefully you know now we are entering an era where we have uh big data so because you have huge studies around the world with thousands of people which are deeply phenotype and genotype and you know now with the advent of uh AI and all these artificial intelligence systems we might be able to mine this data in a more effective way that can possibly give us some ideas or some better ideas about you know possible causative factors or possible ways to to to chat to treat obesity um but it's it's not that i will see that this will go away in relatively fast simply because again obesity is so multifactorial that is is very difficult to kind of understand all of these factors in you know in a comprehensive way so on one side that's good for me because i will have work to do in the future um again on the other side i don't want this to sound as pessimistic in a sense that again we know a lot about what you can do right now already to be healthy even if you maintain one two three more excess kilos so you should not be focusing on the scale so much you should be focusing on your health and all on all those other aspects that that make living worthwhile right um so i think that that's that's an optimistic note to to end this uh discussion with me gabriel well faden thank you so much for sharing time and your brilliance you are an amazing human and a phenomenal phenomenal academic and um thank you so much for coming on the show thank you so much for having me and thank you for your kind words