 aromasiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumiumium the yellow Porsche ain't going to do it. Look, some guys look yellow, red, whatever the color is. Okay. But you know, the sports car is, is not going to do it. You know, the, the affair is not going to do it. The, the younger woman, if that's, isn't going to do it. The retail therapy, you know, isn't, isn't going to do it overall. You could take all the, the stereotypes of trying to dress like you're 20 again, you know, it's not going to do it. It's, it starts with you. It's, it's internal. And, and I go back to, it starts with your health. It really does. It starts, the mirror doesn't lie. So you should be proud of being able to go to the pool or the beach and really know that you did the best that you could. And I don't just mean that from an aesthetic standpoint. I mean, be the best of what you, you are genetically predispositioned to be. You know, the aesthetics are a bonus of healthy living. What I mean, when you really get raw and you get real and you get naked and you look in the mirror, it's like, what's behind your eyes? Are you being honest with yourself? Are you being truthful there? Are you really, again, doing your best, whatever, whatever that is, jacked or jacked or ripped or any of those things. Again, like you can achieve that to whatever degree you are willing to go and you want to put in, but it's more about that feeling about, Hey, like, am I the man that I want to be? Define masculinity however you want, but am I happy with myself? Am I proud of myself? If you are like, you're not going to be in crisis. Do you think there's one area where people really struggle more so than others? I get that it's completely individual, but again, after studying and looking, do you think that there's an area? I think the loneliness thing for men is real. I do think so. I, I get, I, I, I get why the suicide percentage is high. You know, I wrote an article a while back. Um, I'm like, like I'm the guy who kills himself. Wow. I mean, that's pretty intense. But you don't see it coming. The guys that from the outside looking in, everything looks great. They have, is it because maybe men don't ask for help as much, or, um, maybe they don't feel comfortable. In my experience, in my experience, that's it. I have, I don't feel comfortable with it. Um, I still work on dealing with my emotions, vulnerabilities, um, willingness, if you will, to, to expose perceived weakness or what could be perceived as weakness, or I, maybe, you know, that's a strength, you know, or you keep hearing like, oh, you know, the more vulnerable you get and the more you let out, this is not a weakness. It's a strength and everything. Let me tell you something that is hard. That is hard to convince somebody who is used to not, who's not used to doing that, that that's the way that they got to go. And I've gone, I've tried therapy. I've tried a lot of these things and I have not had success with it, with unpacking a lot of these things. And I think there's a lot of pent up, I think guys get a lot of pent up sadness, a lot of regret, um, a lot of how did I get here? I've done all the things I'm quote unquote supposed to do. And for some reason, something still feels like it's missing. And, and I get it. And I don't want to dump it on my friends. And again, I don't want to dump it on my coworkers or colleagues, or I certainly don't want to bring it home. So we internalize it all. And then you try to, then you try to train your way out of it or train your way through it. Or let me do exercise, right? Let me do all these things again, because I'm going to keep working and keep working it out through it. It's like, I think something, there's a reason. Like I try, there are other reasons I train the way I do. There's other reasons I care. And it's to cover up a lot of other shit. You think that guys listening can relate to that? I think so. Yeah. I mean, I hope so. I don't think I'm special. I don't think I'm alone. I will say a lot of my private concierge patients are men. And part of the reason I think there's been a dynamic that's been very successful with them, whether they're SEALs or tier one operators, CEOs, people that really want to push the needle is because of that actual conversation. Because oftentimes I feel that they're willing to speak to me, whether it's because I'm a woman or, you know, maybe nurturing. And I think what you're saying is very true. I'm able to talk to you right now. My heart rate is absolutely normal. We can talk about anything here. For whatever you put a microphone, we can talk about anything here. I'm able to do it on my own podcast. I'm actually able to do it on stage. I can't do it at home. That's fascinating. And probably a lot of people can. And I can't do it with most of my best friends. You're about that. Yeah. It feels, it's different. There's something about, maybe again, it's called a persona. Okay. Call it a character. Call it, you know, Greg's not being Greg. He's the midlife male when I'm doing these things or whatever. But when you peel it back in your home or you're by yourself or you're with your family or with your friends, that's, I think, look, it's really hard for me. I think it's hard for a lot of guys. And I've been to now so many of these, not so many, but a lot of these experiences. You know, the weekends in the woods now, the hikes, you know, the other, yeah. And again, you get the guys that, you know, that go to these things. There's something interesting about, again, anonymity. Also, you show up there, they don't know you, you don't know them. Like these guys get there and it's like, they can't wait to throw up all over it because they've been holding everything in for so, so long. And they don't tell anybody that's close to them for so long. Did you leave some of these weekends and it's like, you've heard things from guys they've never shared with any, with anybody else. And there's that kind of like, we can only really do this when it's confidential. You know, we can only really do this when we're in the woods in Vermont. We can only really do this after we've hiked 10 miles. It's really interesting. How do you think men can create a network of safety, security to open these conversations that they don't have to go to the woods in Vermont or, or maybe they have to? So, yeah. I think it's, again, a little bit different for everybody. I mean, and, and for men in that regard, there are some men that want to acclimate or acclimated or able and be more comfortable, whether it's a group environment. Maybe it is one-on-one therapy. Maybe it's, they like to read or they like to listen to shows like this and they like to feel like wherever they can get that connection, they can get that support. I think, again, it's different. It's different for, for every guy. What I think is really important is that we show that it's all possible. We show that anything you need, whatever you're looking for, it exists. It gets out there right now. You just have to be willing to go out and find it and be willing to do it. And that can be, again, just taking that step, that test and retest, that trial and error, just, hey, it may not be the thing for you, the thing that you try, but keep, try something else. Try something. Again, progress is a, is a process. Maybe you are the guy that wants to go to Cabo and sit in a circle and pass a talking stick around, you know? Maybe you do better at the silent retreat. Maybe you do better listening to the Dr. Gabrielle Lyon show week in and week out and hearing this. It's, it's different again for everybody. I'm still trying to figure that out. One of the things that I enjoy most is trying different things going, okay, different experiences, being around different kinds of, of, of people. How did that make me feel? Again, one or two better or worse. Okay. Am I comfortable here? Did my anxiety go up? Did it go down? You know, does this fill my tank and I feel energized? Do I feel drained from this? Look for years, you come over on Sundays right now. I'll give you an example. We have a great group of people that comes over on Sundays right now. Garage door rolls up. Everybody comes in. Everybody's awesome. Do you know how many years I spent inviting people to work out with me at my house and nobody showed up? Years. And I felt like a complete loser, complete outlier. I was inviting all the wrong people. Wow. I was inviting all the wrong people. I was, I was in the wrong type of kind of community. And it's like, you know how many people have spent years trying to get me to golf with them too? Like, it's a similar thing. Like, you've got to keep trying. One, one thing I say is, you know, chasing authenticity where authenticity doesn't exist. It's exhausting. When you're trying to be something you're not, it's going to suck the life out of you. When you go back to just being yourself, like you're going to be energized. And again, you're going to start attracting and repelling exactly what you deserve. And it is remarkable. It starts to become effortless in that regard. Yes. That's probably how you really know you're on the right track. Well, I'll see you next week. Thank you.