 sikin,roughsik.com. You know, one of the ways that physicians get their information is a drug rep goes out. A drug rep goes out and here is now I've heard about Pepsid. Yeah. Or I've heard about whatever it is. Yeah. wegovy. Yes. Is it that maybe we don't have reps that are going out or what what what is the what is the disconnect Do you think in terms of are they calling the office and doctor's offices are saying, no, we're not really interested? Or how is it not getting infiltrated? Women find their way to it all the time. I mean, so in truth, you know, despite the fact that so few people know about it, there are women who are getting on it all the time. And if you look at population size, it's huge for how many women could be affected. Mayo Clinic, just about 40% of women will experience HSCD in their lifetime. That's their data. Did you tell them about adding? Yeah, right. Exactly. I don't know that they mentioned it. I think the reason is that when we dared to disrupt and the world was resistant to disruption, which it is probably in many, many things, the attack came. I call it the fight of the first. The fight of the first. First always gets bloody. And basically, so many shots were taken. That became the truth. And I still am in conversations today, even with physicians who, when they tell me something, they tell me something categorically about adding and I go, but how does it work? And they're like, I have no idea. Because we haven't really had that conversation. And I think you hear about other things because they're already conditioned to be acceptable, right? Maybe it's a conversation around, I don't know, Pepsod, right? GERD. Reflux. Okay. My parents say this to me all the time. Cindy, could you have not done something in diabetes? Nobody has like a visceral reaction to it. In sex, we did. And so we created a narrative. And I was, I look at, you know, show me another category in medicine in which the medical professionals and the data haven't controlled the narrative. You can't find it. There was, there was a New York Times, oh no, not New York Times, New England Journal of Medicine. Tell me, tell me about this recent New England Journal of Medicine. So many people sent it to me and it was about, it was about hypoactive sexual desires. So it was about female sexual dysfunction specifically. Was it a narrative review? What was it? It was a publication on how important this was to address. It actually had great data in it about the impact this can have in women's lives. So I think it was doing its part to say we should value this in women. We should be talking to women about this. And then it did the thing that I think we repeatedly do, which is, and what we should do is we should just lead with only psychology and psychological intervention. Because I think the, you know, that community has mostly controlled the narrative. And I think there's a wonderful place in that. There's a place for everything in the toolbox. So, so, all right, this matters. The first thing we do is we examine all of the relationship, lifestyle, all of those things. If we decide they, we treat them, the products that are approved, there's two, Adi and Vailisi, right? There's more than one in this category. They are like, do they work and are they safe? Because that's the narrative. And then we go back to say, but it really matters. And, like, this is what we've missed in that whole train. We've basically ignored biology again, even though this is a medical condition, because we've said don't lead with that. And we said, but if we have to do that, well, shoot, here's these things that we now don't represent the data, right? We represent risk, not benefit. Weird. And then we conclude by saying, well, you know, it matters, but. And I think that is, it's so disheartening for me to the women who are affected by this, because do we accept then responsibility for when an insurance company, a doctor writes appropriately for a patient, Adi? This woman has this diagnosis. This is a product, again, proven safe and effective by the FDA. She's appropriate candidate. The insurance company then says, we're not going to pay for it unless she fails marriage counseling. This is happening. Do we accept responsibility? Do the people who write the articles that say we must just do this thing with women first, we must sit them down, have them go to. Then you literally have taken a medical condition and you've said, don't, but don't use the medicine. I don't understand that. Wait, wait, you have to pause. And you have to say this again, because it's so important because if it is happening with this. It's happening. It's happening. I don't want to say across the board, but this is a representation. It is. Of something happening that is potentially very subtle, maybe not subtle for us, but subtle infiltration within. It's PCOS. It's fibromyalgia. It's you. Let's keep going. It's maternal health care. It's whether or not birth control has been covered. It is. It's not just this. This is just a case study of this. It's pervasive. Okay. We're going to, we're going to say this again because it's so critical. Yeah. Basically, women have hyposexual desire disorder. Yes. There are two medications that are approved. We are talking about Addy right now, flubanserin. In order to get that covered by insurance because it's expensive without, I mean, I think that there's ways around it now. Yes. But initially it was very expensive per month if it was not covered under insurance, which by the way. $20 a month if it is. Right. So it's $20 a month if it is. The insurance companies will have the patient submit a script or whatever it is. Yes. And they are then required to go through and not take the medication first and try something else like marriage counseling before they get this medication approved. For a medical condition. For a medical condition. That is like saying before you get this diabetic medication, you need to go back and continue to, I don't know, do whatever it is that you're doing and continue on with diabetes, a known medical condition. But diabetes matters and this doesn't. And that is what we are. This is the cycle we are still in that we must break. And that's why I get sad. And I don't think the intention, again, of the author, the intention of the author was to say this actually matters. But we're, but we are stuck. And that just came out. And I'm looking for it. I'll have to. Yeah. I'll have to get it sent. But this is a recent New England Journal of Medicine. Do you remember the title of it? I don't. Okay. We'll find it on hyposexual desire disorder. And it's really on female sexual dysfunction. So it's more broad, right? All of the different sort of dysfunctions a woman might experience. But just like what we can't be blind to in reading that is that we are in fact feeding a medical system to ignore medical intervention. And to say the only intervention is psychological intervention. And so now I really do question, like, again, I'm going to flip the script. Can you remember a time in which any male patient who wanted to be on an ED medication? No. Was told you can't have it. You have to fail. Until you fail marriage counseling. No. And by the way, I don't know what that looks like. Is that a divorce certificate? Again, we're in a debate of worthiness. Does she deserve this medication? And I mean, it's quite clear to me. And again, I don't think it comes from so long as bias exists in the medical establishment, conscious or unconscious, women pay the price. And I think it's what you said about hysteria. Like hysteria is deeply embedded. The premise that women are more likely to be psychosomatic, that they're more likely to come in and be emotional about what they're feeling is so deeply and culturally rooted that you've got to really punch your way through that. And maybe give grace to the person on the other side of the table that they're not even conscious that they're there. But I think in an ideal world, women will start to push through that. And we will force a conversation to lead with the medical evidence and proof that's so important to me, too. We'll see you guys later.