 aromasin, jabflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflflfl of weight loss, right? As always, this is free content. Please take a moment to subscribe, pay it forward. And if you like things like this related to health and weight loss, take a moment and subscribe to my completely free newsletter that you can find on my website. I will say there is some explicit language in this episode, but don't let that deter you. Now, on to the show. You're a very special guest. No, you are Dr. Mike Isretel. Thank you. We have a part one and part one was so good. And then all of a sudden that I heard you and your lovely wife were going to be in Houston. And now here you are. Thank you for having us. Really. Thank you for coming because I would like to say the world is really confused about fat loss, about muscle and especially women. And again, we don't have to gear this all towards women, but most 16 year old guys, they're like, they read muscle fitness. They knew how important it was. Maybe it helped them get girls and a no, didn't it? Well, not for me. Well, I mean, I had other struggles. Where can we start with fat loss? Yeah. Great question. I think the principles are probably a good place to start kind of just general theoretical guidelines. Cause I think it really helps to ground yourself in them. Pretty well understood reality. And though it can seem really confusing and social media and media in general about like, there's so many competing voices about how fat loss is best done. The mainstream science on how the basics work is just hasn't been contested in, I don't know, probably 60 years, if not more than that. So you can lay down a lot of fundamental understanding. And then after that, we can have a lot of, well, how do you do this in practice kind of things, but the fundamental understanding takes you to three quarters of the way to practice anyway. Why do you think it's so confusing for people? That's a really good question. There's a couple of reasons. One, a lot of people are operating on inadequate knowledge to even begin to understand the problem. So if I hear an economist on TV say that the nominal GNP is falling, I actually don't know what nominal means or GNP. So when someone's like, it makes sense of the economy for me, I heard the G something or other is good. So if you know, like calories are a thing, carbs are bad, maybe, but maybe it's fats and you know, like junk food's probably not good, but maybe some of it's okay. You really start to, you know, piece out the fact in your brain that you don't really know anything about the subject. Like if you asked me to describe like Mike, like how does a car work somewhere between the engine connecting to the wheels is where you lose me. And so that's definitely a big deal because maybe this is too, too meta of a statement to be true. But I think people, when they swipe a lot, you know, the tick tock stream, they get these little bites of information. They really like them. No science pages like doctors discovered a new molecule or whatever. Cool. Like swipes onto your friends. They feel like they're getting an understanding, but they're not, they're getting a couple of sprinkles. Uh, another, uh, off color analogy. I can tell when Vietnamese is being spoken around me. I can tell when Tagalog, the main Philippine dialect is spoken around me. I can't understand a word those people are saying. I can, I can differentiate between Mandarin Chinese and Cantonese Chinese. I can hear it every time, but I can't speak it or understand it. So when you talk to people like calories, fat loss, dieting, right? Like tell me in a principled manner, what you know about that. They're like, why do you just hear things? And so that's a big part of it. Cause you hear a lot of stuff, but you might not have ever put it together and no one ever wants to look like they haven't put it together. So when you say like, well, you know, like health and fat loss, they're like, oh yeah. And it turns out, no, it really was not the case. Another problem is that there are people that are loudly proclaiming things that are one of two categories, wild exaggerations or things that are just categorically untrue. And give me an example. Yes. Yes. Categorically untrue. Calorie balance is a myth. Calories don't matter. Wild exaggeration. The low carb lifestyle is great for everyone. And you hear that enough from those people and they're iconic plastic enough that you come up on your social media feed. They write bestselling books and all this other stuff. And all of a sudden, you know, your idea of the thing, like I've had people tell me like, well, so like diet soda is like bad for you. And I'm like, no, it's just near consensus that it's totally fine. It's essentially almost inert. And they're like, well, I heard like, well, you're hearing lies and half-truths and misunderstandings from lots of people on social media that just say a lot of stuff. But I wouldn't really only point the nasty blame finger at the producers of this kind of knowledge. I think most of it comes down to a consumption problem. A lot of people are not really interested in what maybe they consider dry and boring ideas. They're interested in sexy ideas. Definitely. Definitely. Definitely. Definitely. Definitely. fix where you like, there's this really complex puzzle and you click one piece and it goes and it's all in place versus like having to do this and that, you know what this reminds me of? This reminds me of success. Oh yeah, sure. What you're saying, you're modeling it after fat loss and getting fit, whatever that means for an individual. But the same thing would go for success or executing on something meaningful and creating a business. Definitely. People definitely feel that there is a special hack or a secret has to be right. Yeah. It's called discipline and, um, sacrifice. Yes. And hard work. My, uh, co-founder of RP, my co-founder, my colleague and co-founder, Mr. Nick Shaw, he actually has a book called fit for success. And he talks about a bit of his personal journey, a bit of fitness and a bit of business success. And the things in common between fitness success and business success are actually quite massive on a principle level. They both have that little sting at the end of like, man, I gotta do all this fucking principled work for years to fuck that. Give me one hack. Just one thing is so I can get successful so I can lose fat. And here's the thing. I absolutely at a deep level, never blame people for looking for shortcuts because as we develop as a society, we come up with shortcuts of things. If you told someone 150 years ago, they're like, Hey, like, how do I get to 90 miles away? You're like, well, you get in a car and just do this and it goes. And if we say this in about three or four years, you're going to be like, you just actually get in the car and just do this and it just goes. I'm not getting what the hell is a car. What the hell is a car? And you're like, right. So this is this thing that drives. It's like, it's like having 150 horses, but all in one chariot and the horses are invisible. They're like, you're out of your mind. And they were like, yes, it's all shortcuts in the future. You want to go get food? You don't farm. You don't know anything. You just show up to the grocery store. You just kind of weird swiping some kind of a weird little card and you just take whatever you want and you leave. They're going to be like, this is nonsense. So if people didn't want shortcuts, if they didn't want massive efficiency improvements of orders of magnitude, they would have never invented amazing things. Like if we were all, it's all hard work, brother. Someone's trying to invent like the industrial revolution, like the farming equipment. You're like, man, this guy's just a book and pussy. He's just trying to get out of work. Like, dude, you're an insane person. So it's great to look for shortcuts. It's awesome, but you gotta be able to tell what shortcuts are cutting you right into bullshit that doesn't work and which ones are actually effective. And there are some effective little shortcuts or hacks, but in the diet realm so far, they're few and far between, and you can exploit them really well if you're good at the rest of the thing. So, uh, I remember I was listening to a podcast once on, uh, by a gentleman, uh, named Robert Keller, who's a Delta force operative. And he was like, yeah, man, I was, you know, I got accepted. I got, you know, passed through trials or whatever I went, dealt to school. And we're not allowed to say a lot about what we learned there, but it's like, I was expected. He's just like machine gun car chases. And he's gonna just go back to weapons handling basics for like six months. What? Then you realize like that is actually the main thing that makes you good at warfare. So for dieting and training and a lot of stuff, business success, it's similar. You're back to basic principles and get really, really good at them. So now we're here back talking about basic principles and it's like, ah, okay, fine. Okay. So give me the, give me the hierarchy and I'm going to give you what I would consider probably the hierarchy and you tell me where I'm right, where I'm wrong. Oh, you're wrong. Cause you're not me. I'm the only one that knows the hierarchy. It's called the doctor. My hierarchy. I'll take it off things that Dr. Mike knows. Cause he's special and important. Oh, I'm on a podcast. You are, but you are special. That's what my mom said. Um, calories in calories out. The next thing that I would think about is, well, I guess the first thing you would have to consider is what are your goals? Are you looking to lose fat gain muscle or maintain? Then the next thing would be calculate that number and you determine what that number would be. Calorie number. Yes. You determine what that calorie number would be. And then you would set your dietary protein intake to, for me, I would set it at one gram per pound, ideal body weight or one gram per pound. And then depending on my activity, I could choose carbohydrates or fats. You're well on your way, girl. I don't even, I don't even have to do the podcast. You just keep going. I'll just go. Huh? Huh? I'll be like, and that was Dr. Mike. Thank you so much. See you later. No, right on, right on. Yeah. Tell me where, how, how you would think about fat loss. Cause that's what everybody wants. Sure. So it turns out you don't have to count your calories. You don't have to count your calories, but it's really good idea to understand that calories matter. Um, imagine you're in a shooter video game and you have a certain number of bullets in your gun. You got to reload. It doesn't matter if you count the bullets one by one, but you have to understand the concept that you can run out of bullets. There's such a thing as too much shooting at an empty screen. And then the bad guy comes in and he eats you. So you don't have to count calorie by calories, many ways of doing things, but calories as a physics concept is not so up for dispute. No, it can be up for dispute. If you want to disprove calorie balance, you do a lot of real deep physics equations and deep experiments and bomb calorimeters. And you submit to the various journals and five or 10 years later, they'd be like, it's fucking Einstein or revolutionary, but good news. We don't have to do that because it's pretty well set in stone. And all calorie balance says is within a very general sense, if you want to become larger, you have to eat more than you're used to, or spend a little bit less energy. The energy spending thing I can get into considerably, but the short long and short of it is energy expenditure is not a big factor in most people being overweight. I know that sounds crazy, but it's just like, um, unambiguously true. What is a big factor is people eat too goddamn much. And I know that's crazy. We are in Houston, Texas where everyone's so fucking lean. I mean, it's just shredded. It's all skinny people and people. No, I thought everything was bigger. I mean, like, really? Yeah, no, it's impressive here. Texas is great. Everything is bigger. Yeah. Literally everyone. And it looks like people having a lot of fun with their food. I will say that. But, um, so the biggest thing about calorie balance is if your calorie level is here and your body weight is here, probably a big part of your journey to getting your body weight down is going to be to take your calories and put them down to some level. Would that be a controversial statement that people are eating too much? I don't know where. Well, I mean, I think the only reason I say that is because you hear a lot of people say that individuals are under eating. Yeah. And, um, yes, I don't know if you hear that. I do hear that. So there's a new nuanced caveated way that can be true. And there's a way that many people need it. This is categorically false. So the nuanced way, if we're really going to steal man, that is like a lot of people who get tired of being overweight, which is a lot of people decide, you know what? I'm not going to eat a whole lot. I'm going to lose weight and they take their calorie level and they bring it down to a level of some sustainable, like 800 calories. Sure. Energy grounds, hunger grounds, mental clarity grounds, getting fired from work because you can't make sense of things. Grounds, sleep goes to hell, that whole thing. And it is true that in that acute timeframe that lasts days for most people, weeks for some months, for very few, they are actually under eating. So the statement is true in that sense. But, uh, because they under eat way too much, they go back around and go, fuck this, gas me up. They go to Taco Bell late at night, you know, hot starts and it doesn't stop because your boys in the Taco Bell parking lot all day. I just walk in. They already know me. You have a card. They have my, oh yeah. Frequent flyer cards. They have your order ready. I'm so in line with the Taco Bell corporation that they actually just eat for free. They just want to see how ridiculously overfat I can get at this point. It's like a science thing. And they probably support your YouTube. Oh, they love us. Yeah. Taco Bell, please don't cancel us. But, um, at some point those people go back into like, because if you drag your body weight down rapidly in unsustainable manner, especially if you lose skeletal muscle, the profound hunger that results is not something most people can relate to in their daily lives. It's a kind of hunger that if you're watching a TV show where a family is discussing some controversial topic and you love the show and you're like, oh my God, what's the juice. You stop paying attention to what they're saying and you're looking at the dinner rolls. They haven't touched yet. You're like, why doesn't somebody fucking eat those? Oh my God. I'm not well, I'm that hungry. And for most people, they get that hungry. They just, they go, and this is a real trip on real unfortunate trip. They go this thing. I just did this crazy low calorie diet. This is what I understand fat loss dieting to be. And it's clearly just not, doesn't work for me. I'm going to go back to doing what I usually do. And I'm just going to be fat bucket because it's either suffering or being fat and being fat's a lot easier in almost all cases than suffering, starving for the rest of your life. So they just go back and they'd look back on their diet experience. And someone tells them like, you weren't eating enough. And you're like, oh, that makes sort of sense. So in the local scale, it can be true on a global scale. If you give me someone over the course of one year and they've gained 15 pounds, maybe they got married, maybe the first year of the marriage was fun. But then after he just keeps fucking never cleans up after himself. The guy's a slob. You just hate and hate me. The thing that makes your hate go away is the cookies. You just keep eating cookies and you gain 15 pounds over the course of a year. Is my wife in here? Speaker 1 001 001 001 001 001!! Definitely. I don't eat enough and I'm just like, or cough up my food. Like, no, that's not it. And I think that that's a really important point because oftentimes you do hear, especially women say, well, I'm just not eating enough and I have to increase my calories and I'm underfeeding. And the reality is you might go through periods of starvation and then there's a rebound hunger that seems to send people into a tailspin. Yes. What is a better way of doing things? We just get our app and then you're just, I get rich. I don't know what happens to the people. I don't even know if the app makes any. You also did fly here on your private jet. There were so many bags of money. I could barely get you here. The jet's actually powered by burned money. I mean, it's just amazing. It's insanely inefficient, but it's very, very trillion. But listen, all kidding aside, one reason why I was really excited to interview you is that there's a huge divide in what, and again, I don't mean to alienate the male listener. Guys. Fuck them. They've been brought in enough. I have highlighted, you know, men, women, female hormones, male hormones, but one of the reasons why I really wanted you on here is in sincere appreciation for the fact that there doesn't need to be this division between, yes, you look, you know, jacked, not very tan, but you are jacked, and there are core fundamental principles that I think would save people a lot of pain, and I think that women, I don't care what your age, if you're perimenopause, if you're menopause, you're searching to lose weight in a way that is creating a huge distraction from being able to focus on life and the things that matter because of the amount of mental suffering from body weight or health problems, and I think that you've done a really great job and I do want you to explain how we can think about it. You've been doing this for a very long time. You are a PhD in exercise physiology, and I think your nutrition is part of that. I've taught as a professor of nutrition before. So a real underachiever, but realistically, yeah, we need to hear it and the women need to hear it. Real quick to your point, there's kind of a bit of an interesting kind of sinusoidal function, like a wave between many social forces trying to say, kind of gender is not like a thing or whatever. Everyone's kind of similar deep down, and then that goes sometimes quite well, and then it comes around and it goes into the extreme territory of like everyone's completely different. Like women do not lose fat like men. The fucking laws of physics are different. There's some nuance between those two points, but I think a lot of times, to your point, women are like, they look at how men lose weight. They're like, that's not going to work for me. Well, if you just scale the calories, actually it will. Like my husband eats everything and he doesn't ever gain weight, but he also works construction and he weighs 215 pounds. You weigh 135 and you sit at home, and that means you can't physically eat as much food as him, but relative to what you normally eat, if you eat a few hundred calories less for a few months, you will almost certainly lose weight and improve your health and improve your appearance, so on and so forth. So calories are king. And what I would say is typically cutting somewhere between 250 and maybe 500 at the extreme calories daily from your typical intake is a really good situation to have. And this is just a reduction of food. And that's the core thing. That core thing being the thing that sort of powers fat loss is also going to explain that mega crazy observation that we see so many different diets working for people. You'll have carnivores and vegans in comment sections yelling at each other. It's amazing. I always wanted it to be a terrarium, like a combat to the death. You could probably find that up in my kid's room. Yeah. Nice. It's available there. Kids are quite brutal. And so they're like, no, veganism works. No, carnivore works. And they'll both have great blood work after and all this other stuff. And the thing is, the calorie deficit's really that thing doing most of the work. And so one thing we try to promote and kind of evidence-based fitness is, you know, if you're taking care of your calories, getting that little deficit going, and a few other things, a little quality control type of stuff, there's many ways to get there. And you don't have to be super dogmatic about like, no, it's only this one because there's pump. And how do people determine the amount of calories? So there's Harris-Benedict. There's so many different equations, online equations. We know that they're not totally accurate, but is there one primarily that you like? I don't like equations, mostly because I'm too stupid to understand them. I never know what the equal sign means. Can I move things around? You guys know he's lying. No, but on a serious note, I'm not a big fan of equations because there are a bunch of factors they can't account for. And people tend to view equations as very precise things. So once they get their number, they're like, well, I've been eating 1900 calories, but I'm not losing weight. What's wrong? Or like, why is it, would you get 1900? And they're like, the Harris-Benedict equation or whatever. And I call this nice, that's actually an estimate that varies in accuracy by 700 calories person up and down. And they're like, so you could be in a surplus deficit. Who knows? Right. So I would say probably the best way to do it is get a feel for your overall diet. Do a diet log. Just get, go MyFitnessPal and type in for a week everything you eat. And then it's just going to tell you how many calories you're eating and macros, proteins, carbs, fats. And you're like, ah, okay. And you just take like 350 away from that number and voila, you're well on your way because the actual calories you're eating, assuming your body weight's relatively stable last week or last few, whatever. That is, uh, what we would call a completely integrated measurement. It integrates every single aspect, hormones, diet, lifestyle, food choices, digestion, meat, non-exercise activity, thermogenesis, the whole thing. It's the resultant one integrator that says, this is, this is actually the calories you're eating and this is keeping your weight stable if it makes zero assumption, which is awesome. It's like, um, it's like seeing, um, you know, you could have a, an airplane that the average speed is like, says it's 700 miles an hour. Do you know if the speedometer works? You just take off time and landing time. You get an average speed cannot be wrong. As long as the plane flew in a straight line, you started here and you got here. It's real evidence-based for the individual. So once you have an amount you're eating, that tells you what you're eating. And if you're stable at weight at that amount, you can't be that far off. That's roughly your maintenance. Now that you know roughly your maintenance calories, you just got to take a little chunk out of there and kick the diet to end the gear. What about, um, the macronutrient distribution? How do you think about that? Because obviously you want them to lose fat and is there, have you found, you've been doing this, uh, just since last year. Um, so very recent. And this is also my first podcast. Yeah, I know. I know. I'm so grateful. How long do you think, or let me ask it in a different way. Can someone just lose body fat or do you think, um, there must be some lean mass lost? Is there a way to do it? Under some conditions, you can actually gain lean mass while you lose fat, but the condition has to be you're pretty new to training, um, or you're not new to training, but you're new to significant quantities of anabolic steroids. Um, there are a few other conditions, but generally speaking, when already lean people lose weight, they use some combination of fat and muscle. When people who aren't exercised, they haven't really trained and they haven't lifted weights much. And their diet is like just whatever they feel like when they start getting a healthy diet, higher in protein, and they start lifting weights, which we covered on your, on my last appearance here on the show, then they can actually gain muscle and lose fat at the same time for months and months and months and months and months, if not years. But for people that are already pretty lean or people who already lift weights, um, yeah, there's going to be some combination of muscle and fat. Now, how would you define pretty lean? So let's say someone was, um, a overweight female who is now tracked her calories for two weeks. She has determined what her maintenance calorie is. Let's say it's 1800 and she decides to decrease her calories by 350, 500. So she's eating, what is that? Um, 1300 calories. Okay. Um, do you account for activity or that's the number? The activity question is a little bit of a different question. Well, then I, I shouldn't go there yet. Sure. Sure. We can, we can definitely handle it. Okay. Whenever you like. Um, so how do we determine who's fat or not fat? Who's lean? I'd say the easiest test in the real world is like someone's wearing clothes and you just come up to someone else. You're like, is she fat or not? It's really straightforward. If you at least look like an up and down shape, you're good. If there's stuff coming off the sides in the front and the back and the whole thing, you're fat. Now it's ruthlessly unscientific and quite discourteous to say to someone, you would never tell someone something like that. But it's one of those things you look at documentaries in the 1950s. How many people were fat? None. How do you know? I mean, they're just in clothes, right? But, but yeah, that's what I mean by generally lean. Like no one would, no one would look at you and be like, that's definitely a fat person. Right? So if we like take a little walk, no offense, Houston, Texas, the fatometer is going to be at the grocery store like fat, fat, fat, fat, fat. Are you sure? You don't think that 600 pound ladies mostly lean body mass? No. Yes, I would, I would not say that. So people who are generally like close enough within 15 pounds of their insurance table adjusted body weight, you can consider them fairly lean and without some rigorous weight training and very perfectionist diet, they're going to typically experience significant amount of muscle loss. People who are significantly more over fat may lose less muscle, but also a lot of that is because they start being more physically active as they lose the weight. So that's a big deal as well. If both groups of people start weight training when they start losing weight, then they just build muscle and lose fat at the same time. And that's a really, really big deal. As a matter of fact, on that note of weight loss, if you don't lift weights and you start losing weight, you do lose significant amounts of muscle. And it doesn't actually matter where your protein is. We think, I mean, yes, protein has a protein sparing effect, but without activity. Without, without muscular specific training to get more jacked, it's actually protein doesn't have a terribly protein sparing effect. That's right. You can't like eat 300 grams of protein up to like getting jacked if you don't lift weights. It actually just gets burned and excreted and all that whole thing. So you're totally correct about that. So the lifting weights thing does matter, but a little while back, one of the new anorectic drugs, ozempic, got a little bit of hot water because people were like, oh, like it's causing people lots of muscle mass loss. It was true, but it was no more muscle mass loss than you would expect with people who lost like 50 fucking pounds in a year. It's just going to be a lot of muscle loss. It's not especially a thing that GLP ones even do. And there's actually a new review that came out that was like, exactly what we'd expect if you just lost a lot of weight. The thing is those people never lost that much muscle because they never lost that much weight because the, and I've got all great sorts of great things to say about the anorectic drugs whenever. They do have a big role to play in all this. I agree. Thank you to Timeline Nutrition for sponsoring this episode of this show. Timeline that makes MitoPure, which is one of the most thoroughly researched products that I have come across in over a decade of peer-reviewed published science. This is where it gets really interesting for those following a muscle-centric lifestyle. When you increase the health of mitochondria, you improve muscle function and overall wellness. In adults 40 plus, Timeline, which makes your Lithon-A, has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance without changing activity. Now, let's say you've been doing resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started today. Timeline Nutrition can help. It is a beautiful product line that includes MitoPure berry, ginger powder, things that you can mix into your daily smoothie. I personally use their soft gels. It's great when I'm on the go. And Timeline is offering our community 10% off your first order of MitoPure. I could not recommend a product more. Again, try their starter pack. Feel it for yourself. I've devoted my life to studying the human body. And in all my years of studying and practicing medicine, the biggest learning that I've had is, you guessed it, one-size-fits-all approach does not work, especially when it comes to the brain. Focus is something that I've always looked to optimize for myself and my patients. Now, this brought me to one of the sponsors of the show, Thesis. Thesis is the world's first customized nootropic company. Now, nootropics are nutrients found in nature or the human body that enhance cognitive function, things like focus and energy and mood. Thesis has formulas that I have never seen before. And for me personally, I love clarity and motivation. I cycle through them. I use them when writing my last book. I'm using them from writing this book. And they understand that everybody responds differently to nootropics due to natural variations in brain chemistry. The good news is they have leveraged years worth of data collection. Thesis has made the process of finding your perfect blend simple. All you have to do is go to their website, take a short quiz. They'll send you a starter kit with four different blend recommendations to try over the course of a month. In addition to customization, Thesis also offers a free consultation with a wellness coach, which is amazing to optimize your experience and dial in your favorite formulas. Thesis is offering 10% off your first box. To get your own customized thesis starter kit, go online to takethesis.com slash Dr. Lion. Take the quiz and use the code Dr. Lion at checkout. Everyone needs to do a better job of being and staying well hydrated. For me, straight water is not ideal and not to mention hydration also includes having electrolytes like sodium, potassium, magnesium, which is one reason I love and have been using Element. It is a mix of electrolytes and it comes in a cute, easy to travel with packet. For me, that means no more dehydration headaches or muscle cramps. Now, let's talk winter for a second. Winter is one of my favorite times of year because Element releases its special flavors, which by the way, I stock up on for the year, which include their Chocolate Melody, Chocolate Mint, Chocolate Chai, Chocolate Raspberry. Holy cow, have you tried these flavors? I guarantee you will never go back. Sometimes I mix it with coffee, sometimes I mix it with hot cocoa or have it alone. Now, don't forget to hydrate in the cold. Winter activities also require water and electrolytes. Element has offered my community a free Element Tea sample pack with any order when they purchase through my custom URL, which is drinklmnt.com slash Dr. Lion. And basically, it's totally risk-free. If you don't like it, you can get your money back, but I know that you will and especially with winter coming, get after these chocolate melodies. That's drinklmnt.com slash Dr. Lion. I want to, so I want to finish covering the macronutrients, how you would dose dietary protein, how you would think about dosing carbohydrates and how you would dose fat. And if there is a particular distribution that you would use, I am coming to you, Dr. Mike, and I want to lose weight. Somewhere. In any case, let's pretend you're just enormous. Like, not just overweight, but like offensively enormous. Are you pretending right now? Oh, yeah. Well, I was looking at Crystal. Stop checking out my wife. I mean, she's the best. By the way, she is going to be another podcast guest here. Thank you, Andrew Coates. I now put two and two together. Yes. So, there are two ways to go about it for macros. One way is to use the expanded fitness approach, which includes macros that are not ultra specific because the people who are using this, they want a diet that they can easily do. It does not require a huge departure from normal eating habits. For those people, I would say, take your body weight in pounds and multiply it by like .6, 60%. If you weigh 200 pounds, anything at, close to at or over 120 grams of protein per day is more than enough to provide a great amount of protein for almost every need that you have. wait, so say that again. So, it's 60% of your body weight. So, instead of a gram per pound, it's .6 grams per pound. For someone who's wanting to lose! If you begin to resistance train, it's more than enough protein for most people's goals. It'll largely prevent muscle mass loss and actually get some accretion going. So, that's really good stuff. And is that roughly 1.6 grams per kg? Is that how that? I don't know. Okay. Okay. Okay. We are? Okay. Well, we're in Texas, so I don't know. You 60% of your body weight. Yeah. In pounds, right? Which is not a lot. And so, but that is the scientifically honest answer to how much protein we probably really need need the capital N, especially people that aren't like trying to optimize hardcore. That's an important point. If you're not necessarily fully trying to optimize dip your toe in and get some great results. That's totally cool. Because a lot of people get that gram per pound thing, which is what I use. If the number I'm going to say next, that's the optimization number. So if you weigh 200 pounds, it's roughly 200 grams of protein a day. But even if they're trying to lose weight from 200, you would still say meet the 200 or would you say meet their goal body weight? There's a few ways to go about that. One is a protein has a decent anti-hunger effect. And so if you actually eat 200 even though you don't need it, it can be pretty decent. The goal body weight is totally fine. You can scale it to lean body mass, which also works just fine. So you're saying that there are multiple ways to do something right? sure. But any answer between taking your body weight and multiplying and it's nothing as if someone was sitting next to me on the airplane. First of all, it would be highly inconvenienced because my arms are on range. I have a different goal. If you want to optimize super physique, you're already lean and jacked, you might need more protein. If you're significantly older, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, you might need more. But for most people, especially like our hypothetical female audience for this podcast, 0.6 all the way to a gram is totally fine. So that's for protein. Do you care the kind of protein? If you go vegan products that are complete protein sources are complementary, no big deal. But if you're counting mostly protein from bread and just peas by themselves, you're going to run into some problems. So protein quality is a thing. That's actually in a later part of the discussion of where the food comes from. For carbs and fats, there's a very distinct story for athletic performance and optimization of hypertrophy and all this stuff. And that story is kind of like meet your needs for fats and then the rest should probably come more from carbohydrates than fat. What is the needs for fat? So for males probably on females as well you just generally have two classes of need. One is the essential fatty acids of which you need like a total of two grams per day. That's what you need to stay alive and well. And then there is a need that comes from hormone optimization testosterone etc. And that number is significantly higher. That number is measured more in the 20 to 30 to 40 percent of your calories per day. Many people can do a broad range of that. Some people really prefer one or the other. Another consideration for how many fats you eat is this is kind of the main point of the carbs versus fats is if you're just trying to lose some goddamn weight and get a little leaner and get a little healthier maybe a lot leaner and healthier how much carbohydrate versus fat you have as long as you're meeting that technically speaking 2 grams of EPA and DHA fats per day the rest is down to very very nuanced specifics and it just doesn't matter that much. So if someone says you know I have 20 grams total of fat per day but I do have a central fat supplement I feel great best time of my life all the veggies and rice I can eat I love it I'm losing weight you won't hear me say a damn thing but if someone says look I'm trying to low low fat high carb Mr. Twinkie that's what I call him as a reference to my genitals by the way he doesn't work anymore I have like totally lost interest to live I'm depressed all the time like okay you're eating too few fats your but a big one is preference and what works in your daily diet so if you're the kind of person that likes salmon and steak whole eggs which are great healthy foods you should probably eat a little bit fewer carbohydrates and more fats same calories protein is already squared away but more fats fewer carbs if you're the kind of protein the kind of person that is super cool with higher carb you're not really into fats nothing in your diet really you don't crave fat you can dunk the fats pretty low and keep that carbs much higher but for carbs the low end is considered something like oh I don't know 10 to 30 grams of carbs per day predominantly from green vegetables because they have a lot of fiber and nutrients in them very low that's low I wouldn't recommend that as a first principles thing but there are a lot of keto people and carnivore people eating that and a little less and at least in the medium term they get lean they're very healthy they love their lifestyle and all as well so there's a big broad range of carbs and fats as long as the calories are held constant you got your protein squared away plus or minus carbs and fats is mostly a try it see how you feel best some people fats give them a lot of fullness through the day are you a higher fat or higher carb person I haven't I haven't eaten to preference in a generation interesting what is your curiosity I'm currently on about 25 grams of fat per day okay so you're a lower fat person I mean I'm not because I hate it but I have to do it for body building but I'm not the demographic for this talk holy shit but it's interesting you you're right you might not be the demographic for this talk but I'm telling you the not I've been doing this for a long time and the knowledge that your demographic has for body composition is second to none yeah no like the body builders kind of figured out how this all works but that's a great point the thing is that like if you want to learn how to teach your 16 year old how to drive you don't need Mario Andrade to come teach him how to drive you don't need an F1 legend you need but he would listen more and there's nothing he's not going to be able to teach you exactly and if you tell him hey I have these ideas about how to drive are they right or wrong he can definitely be like that's wrong that's right here you go so for sure and it's good to hear from someone who's unequivocally doing the thing you know the cool thing about bodybuilders is like you see their glutes they're all strided and stuff and you're like these people have to know something about getting lean yes absolutely do a ton now some of them just know some of them can't speak to that luckily I went to school for the last for like forever forever carbohydrates so your fat is very low your fats 25 grams a day which is which is low what about I mean I guess low is all relative what is your carbohydrates like anywhere between 300 and 400 depending on the day and protein 300 and 400 between 300 and 400 250 ish okay what a great split I do better on something like that myself no way there you go I do and you feel good I feel terrible oh you do oh god yeah oh my god you're doing great in this podcast thank you how wait how far into dieting are you I'm like depending on how you count it this is like either my 12th week of dieting but if you take out like a three or four week diet break it's like my 30 somethings week something like that and would the and why so you died for how long before a show it depends generally between 12 and 24 weeks and between 12 and 24 weeks and you have a show coming up obviously yeah a few okay so um but this is now a way of life and you're not no it's not okay god no no this is a way of death but uh it feels like death but um that's the kind of extreme stuff now I'm happy to hear that you have a really good fit for you and what works with lower fats and higher carbs and that's awesome but what we have to be aware of is some people have a completely different experience and when they say keto work really well for them or they just have a few veggies a day and everything else is like fatty meats and it's great they're speaking some personal truth that's real their blood work looks great it works for them results wise and because calorie balance protein essential fats and some healthy carbs have been taken care of the rest is just um it's just not super consequential for their general goals and if they like it and they can maintain it that's a big deal so we want to be as inclusive as possible I think let me ask you this how long did it take you to get to this so how long have you been doing this how long have you been going through cyclical dieting dieting for a show all of that stuff how many years I've been competing in bodybuilding since 2013 so I would make it 11 years but I was doing some kind of diet modification most of my life since I was about um 17 or 18 years old how long did it take you to figure out this iteration how long have you been doing this iteration for you because I'm guessing you know exactly what you need to do to get to where you want to go you don't no no each time is a new time uh you learn more each time this new iteration is about three weeks old uh and because I just hired a coach Mr. Jared Feather he's my colleague he's an IFB pro and one of the best coaches in the world um and so uh I gave him the reins at least to some extent and so this is the diet that we agreed on that we're gonna try and it's working super well it does not mean I like it it does not mean it's comfortable interesting um and I guess for the listener I'm asking this because likely depending on how you do things diets work in different ways at different times and what did you do your last show was what last year last July now I have so much more I'm I feel very uh sensitive and protective because I didn't realize that maybe so I have done shows in the past and when you are dieting um the fact that you're sitting here and smiling mostly um my resting Russian bitch face is amazing it is it is oh man when I was dieting for shows I just don't even talk to me everything felt like a lot of work I definitely feel like that wow um I have a hell of a facade you're doing great doing great um the iteration before this what kind of nutrition were you doing and I guess like peak week and all that stuff is different different I was eating fewer calories on average and I was exercising more and I was uh had significantly more work and life stress and that broke me down completely um since I have to pull my wife back away from burning into the sun icarus style also we're both kind of workaholic insane people she tried to do a similar version under my tutelage of course and she got to her all-time best shape but she gained back like pounds of muscle afterwards because we had lost pounds we shouldn't have been losing so essentially went too extreme this time it's less extreme my diet and lifestyle are easier in almost every way which to my like Russian Jewish roots is weird because you believe in suffering yeah yeah well suffering believes in me anyway it's just uh natural um but I had it all wrong and it turns out oh interesting what did you have wrong yeah um there is a story that people tell themselves which is true for most people but not all and it's that if you push yourself harder you get better and that's only true up until the point where pushing harder exceeds your body and brains various abilities to recover um believe it or not it was technically a postulate that I came up with called maximum recoverable volume a few years back and I just didn't listen to myself because mostly what I was doing is kind of feeling my way through stuff and I told myself you know if if uh putting the best physique of mine on stage is something I want to do I'm just going to crank the willpower to a thousand and just go just like less food more training I don't give AI don't care how I feel doesn't matter and uh that turns out that the body hates it and when the body hates something uh to quote one of my mentors Broderick uh Chavez stress is the great killer of physiques and it turns out that when you have your best exotic physique it's when you do the deficit and you take all the fun supplements and you train really hard but you don't go overboard and you take care and you have as little stress as possible now I can't honestly tell you I have as little stress as possible but less much less and that's been a huge difference maker and one of the big de-stressors has been getting a coach because now that Jared's my coach I don't have to second guess myself all the time Jared sets the plan we confirm the plan but I do the plan and I'm really good about shutting up and doing the plan but I've never had a coach before so it's been really great so de-stressing is a big part now that's like for exotic pursuits I don't know do you think so or do you think that that is probably really helpful for anybody because I don't know calories in calories out whether there's a hormonal influence there's many things that influence exactly what you said calories in calories out whether again there's a million things that can influence that stress eating yes yes and getting the protein carbohydrates fats correct outside of nutrition and we didn't talk about alcohol where does that fall in for someone who's trying to lose weight do you want me to tangent off that now no no I'm just curious in the plan so alcohol has somewhere between the calories per gram between fats and carbs and that means it's got plenty calories per gram and if you calculate it into your daily calories it's fine alcohol preferentially makes it difficult for you to build and retain muscle tissue why is that oh my god there's like 80 reasons poison yeah yeah there's that um and it ulcers your hormonal profile to be more estrogen less testosterone it screws up your sleep there's like 10 things so there's lots of reasons why someone should drink that uh yeah uh alcohol the biggest problem with alcohol and dieting that I've seen with real humans in the world is that one margarita in you just got your margarita for the day and you're good two margaritas and you're like you fuck all this who gives a shit pass the chips and salsa matter of fact let's get some queso on this table and get a party going the hypo caloric condition the condition of being a little bit hungry is not one the body likes but you can use your prefrontal cortex and your willpower and your ability uh to be inhibited not disinhibited just just carry through eat what I'm supposed to go to sleep when you get a lot of alcohol in the mix a lot of folks will find that they don't give a shit anymore which is nice super big stress reliever in the in the moment huge anxiety reliever but then you wake up covered in oreos and you're like right I was gonna die that's a bad idea so if you can manage your alcohol intake have a little glass of wine at night it factors into the calories so someone it can be totally lose weight oh yeah I mean Italy exists they're all skinny and they're pretty sure that alcohol and red wine and cigarettes is all they consume do you care if someone comes to you and says okay I'm doing the calories I'm eating my 60% body weight protein I'm getting my essential fatty acids we're preferentially deciding whether it's carbohydrates or fats do you care where activity is if you say this is what you should do is it even cookie cutter enough could we say these are the things that you need to do to lose weight and potentially everything is over complicating it some people have a response to eating fewer calories that makes their involuntary proclivity to move for example it reduces substantially for other people it's moderately for some people it's really not a thing for most people it's going to be some effect for some people quite large so let's say you know your friend Stacy from college calls you remember Stacy she was great and she's like oh my god let's catch up hi you're like okay hi do you sit on the couch and talk to Stacy or do you pop in your earbuds and you sort of walk around the walk around the block people typically who are not starving not on hypercaloric restricted diets there is a high percent chance they're going to choose I'm just going to fucking walk and then they're going to burn like I don't know 300 calories during that hour of yapping to Stacy big deal when some people begin to lower their calories their body's like you want to sit down some people much worse than others and this reduction in non-exercise activity thermogenesis which is unplanned is a big deal because it can chunk away a lot of calories and then all of a sudden you thought you were in a deficit but your body basically brought you back to maintenance by reducing your physical activity to such a huge capacity so I think one of the best real world modern ways to obviate this is to get you a step tracker just like the one I'm wearing from I love that insert Chinese company name here and you just peg your steps to whatever they used to be before you started dieting or something like eight to eleven thousand steps a day there's caveats there there's nuance yes 10k steps is a rough really good indicator and that step tracker can remind you that like oh yeah I'm going to diet I don't want to walk but I have 6,000 steps like we'll come out of our respective offices halfway through the night or something my wife and I I'll be like baby how many steps you got she's like 7k and I'm like all right let's go walk and we'll go walk if you don't have anything telling you that you're just like damn I'm beat and you sit down and then you don't lose weight because your body told you to stop moving and you're still on your quote unquote deficit calories but now your deficits maintenance because your body doesn't like to lose weight it likes to gain weight and it freaks out when you're not eating enough so it'll tell you to slow down sometimes that's a big deal so pegging your activity 10,000 steps is what I would call a moderate high level moderate high means that it's challenging and it's a thing and it's to get to 10,000 steps like yeah to get to it every day getting to it once is easy getting to it all the time I have a walking treadmill desk over yeah yeah yeah I saw that and and a refrigerator that looks like it's from the 50s isn't that cute it's adorable it was actually in the waiting room but I have that massive crystal when they crystal of negativity it sucks all that yeah I know I know so I don't tell anybody but we moved the 1950s virgin here because I thought it was so cute excellent it is adorable so basically if you have that moderate high level of physical activity that means you're never dipping down into really really low levels of activity that would result in you just weight loss but stop or slow down substantially but it's not really high levels of physical activity which you don't want very in a car correct there are high levels of physical activity in a caloric deficit end up accumulating a lot of fatigue for you and they just become unsustainable because you feel so tired and your body's a very very very good at doing that so if you're like yeah I'm just gonna eat whatever I eat normally but I'm really gonna exercise super hard your body goes okay gotcha so when you're not on the treadmill you're not on the bike I'm gonna sit your ass on the couch you're gonna fucking burn zero calories Stacy's gonna call you're gonna look at the phone and I'm not talking to Stacy that bitch yaps I don't have time for that shit like that and then it'll do that for you so the ROI on a lot of physical activity goes like that real quick but at a moderate it's kind of like turning your furnace on to like like simmer just simmering your body enough physical activity to do all the good things but it's not super challenging and then you take the deficit you create it in the diet it takes some food away and then that slow burn weeks and weeks and weeks of fat loss it's probably the best way to go about it you can do totally normal levels of physical activity but then often you have to reduce the intake so much that you become really hungry and really crabby and really food focused so with a moderate level of physical activity not only do you have like plenty of food to eat but also that moderate level of physical activity especially if it's with a step tracker you can get a lot of stuff done I mean you have kids chasing your kids around shit that's 20,000 steps right there 30 here's another thing about step tractors so so amazing if you have like pre-prescribed cardio like 45 minutes on treadmill five days a week that's dope nothing wrong with that if you do your 45 minutes you know that 50 percent of Americans don't don't exercise at all oh yeah they're surprised it's crazy it's that low five percent don't meet both recommendations yeah right so that's just what I count yeah 100 percent yeah it's also not surprising if you go look at how people look and act yeah um so if if you have your 45 minutes on treadmill checked off and your husband's like hey honey I'm gonna grow grocery store you want to come along if you're tired and you're hungry you're like I'm good man thank you give me some oreos and he's like okay no great but if you have a strep tracker you know the gross only 7,000 steps I need three thousand more hey if I go to the grocery store I check the list off I do some fucking shopping and I had to go I go to target because I'm a Caucasian woman and that's where I belong you guys listen to this you have to know like he's hysterical and he's fully being sarcastic right now you don't have to know anything am I really being sarcastic have you ever been to a target yes many you ever seen any white women in there yes so you can like be like oh my god I can do all these things uh and it all counts towards your steps so there's no longer this fight between oh I have to do this cardio but then the rest of my life you have a step tracker it takes care of everything but you're talking steps do you care about the intensity of the training okay basically no okay so we've gotten the so we're talking about moderate weight loss we are not talking about or are we any weight loss it's just a matter of physical activity and steps are a really good way to measure physical activity not the only way but good we're talking about weight loss we're not talking about fat loss while preserving as much muscle as possible see that's what I want to talk about I want to talk about fat loss sure sure let's get through weight loss real quick circle back around because the fat loss modifications are super super easy right so we got the macros pretty well dialed in we got the calories down then their next question is a question probably of either nutrient timing or food composition and food composition is actually really important especially for this sort of podcast that we're doing now and it's kind of like okay I know only my mom is gonna listen to this mom hello shalom and she'd be very excited great and so proteins carbs and fats believe it or not you can't just buy at the store they don't exist they come in foods so your next question is what kind of foods do I eat for a variety of reasons providing enough nutrients avoiding a bunch of weird junk foods that aren't so healthy for you providing you with a lot of satiety like filling you up giving you lots of energy generally the best overall categories to choose from are lean protein sources meats and milks and all kinds of poultry and fish no wrong answers egg whites skim milk etc then from carbs you have veggies fruits and whole grains roughly in that order so if you're like I'm gonna fruit so great so if you're like I'm in a very low carbs most veggies and the pretty low carbs veggies and fruits I'm on a decent amount of carbs veggies fruits whole grain and then for fats healthy fat sources which are typically plant fats like olive oil canola oil avocado anything etc etc etc nuts any kind nut butter those largely unprocessed mostly whole food sources are the ones that are gonna check all those boxes and they're probably the best thing to eat most of the time that doesn't mean it's some kind of shibboleth and you can never violate it you can eat some junk here and there no big deal but if more or less 75% of your average intake per day comes from really solid foods just like that you're good and I I do submit I have a sort of a hunch slash hypothesis I think most people more or less regardless of education level know what healthy food is and what it's not there's not really a part of America you can come to and you give them a picture of a plate has like you know brown rice little salmon cut some veggies and stuff a little orange slices and then like a fucking cheeseburger with some chips on it like which one of these is healthier who you're gonna get to say cheeseburger nobody and by nobody I mean one out of a hundred people is gonna be just trolling you and like yeah it's that get out of here people know what healthy food is mostly unprocessed foods that are lean protein sources veggies fruits whole grains and healthy fats if you choose most of your foods from there you're super super winning at life and your your nutritive value is up because they have vitamins and minerals and fighter fiber and fighter chemicals and all that great stuff and also they keep you quite satiated because someone's like all right you get a free meal get the fuck out of here all right I can't wait but it's got to be lean meats veggies and fruits go you're like really yeah you're gonna Kroger you have some lean turkey you get some broccoli florets and you get the couple orange slices and you're like this sucks that's not what I had in mind now if someone said no rules you would just go over physically to Ben and Jerry's house I assume they live together and you would just start to interrogate them where is the ice cream you motherfuckers I want to know where it is and you just eat as much as you can you pass out so it's really really helpful from the satiety angle and the health angle to know because if you look at calorie balance and isolation so example at 2,000 right now I need 1,500 fine if you get it from junk food sources then what ends up happening is a lot of them are ultra palatable they're just really tasty and it's not up for debate it's it's a hugely like engineer it's engineered what's engineered but it's engineered by people who can only make money if you buy their candy again and people just generally most people have just one metric on how they buy food is it is it tasty and maybe the price but usually not even not in today's world where food is insanely abundant super cheap so most junk foods are designed to be fucking delicious and the way our biology has been designed by evolution that correlates really well to have a lot of calories in them and now food industry companies would really take a real good swing at making food that was ultra delicious but very low in calories if like a huge fraction of people gave a shit about the calories but they don't so the food industry is like fuck it put all the calories in there I don't care and so a lot of people will say oh 2,000 calories 1,500 I'm starving then I have half of my Reese's cup every day oh my god do you have every day I have to I'm kidding I'm totally kidding that would drive me insane because well even one would drive me insane and at this point five would drive me insane because I can eat like 50 if you really put me down to it this is you know I do have weird lines across my glutes and veins in there so my body's like please God give me fat I'm dying so when people don't have those healthy food categories and really look at their food palatability making sure not to eat the junky super tasty super caloric foods all the time they end up having a really good time with their diets because they feel full all the time they feel energized it feels great but if they have just the calories they're looking at they're still trying to eat junk and fill in the lines with junk then it's really tough because junk makes you want to eat more junk like you never give someone a Cheetos bag and like would you like one Cheeto nuts now to be completely frank there's a bit of a spectrum with dieting there are abstainers and moderator but the stairs are people who are like not get that nonsense away from me I'm sticking to my clean food moderators are people like if I have a few cookies I'm totally good and that's something you have to experiment with yourself but what I would say is we don't know you an abstainer uh it depends on how hard I'm dieting and how lean I am everyone starts out a moderator yeah everyone's ends up being an abstainer if you push it hard enough do you think everyone should try that at least once just out of curiosity like a gnarly fat loss diet yeah to see what their bodies keep I know it's like kind of a crazy question but it is that's a good question I would say it's something like a question you would ask it's should someone try to train for a marathon should everyone train for a marathon once in their lives I'd say you should really kind of figure out what you want out of it and really be purpose-driven but the things you want out of it really need to make sense to you I think that if you do a fat loss diet that's really extreme you can get a lot of insight into the human condition you get a lot of insight into yourself it's an unreal journey that tests you but there are a lot of other journeys that can test you and have a really cool thing at the end of it versus just you look like you have like a sunken in face and people ask you if you're sick why do you do this why do you do it me personally yeah like trying to get lean and Jack I mean I know that we're we're talking about for the listener weight loss and you promised me that we're gonna circle back to fat loss but why I am curious about why you are putting yourself through this it's a good question art art because when I'm in my gym at home actually any gym this is a bit of a problem pull up the shorts a little bit the quads going get a little chest tricep pump maybe a huge chest tricep pump it's flex like this cross stations everywhere there's something and it's not for anyone else it's just for me yeah and it's a personal satisfaction yeah it's like making a sculpture for a real long time and like kids run up to it don't touch that that's how I view my body it's it's just cool to be able to make something a little better and a little better a little better if you told me tomorrow I could have the body of my dreams by pressing a button I'd be like maybe in a year or two I'd press that button but I'm still on this really mega journey and so for me it's the journey it's just this pure artistic expression it's totally pointless I can assure you and is insanely stressful and probably not worth my time in any objective sense but but it's amazing you know we had do you know who Justin Gatlin is he's yes a former Olympic sprinter yeah and so he was on the podcast last week yes we're about steroids no we did not but one of the things that we talked about it was about the process yes I think I actually saw that you know what you're talking about is the process I feel very grateful that I get to speak with many people who are truly the trailblaze they trailblaze in life but they trailblaze for themselves and there are continuous things that they all seem to say yeah that's the kind of stuff that things people always seem to say yeah when they're successful and when they've surmounted challenges that's the kind of stuff you can really learn from a hardcore fat loss diet but this is not the only place you can learn you can learn that from having a few children and trying to raise them I mean the motherfuckers push you way more the fat loss that girl shit is easy that's a Tuesday you get three two three-year-olds and you're like I don't know what the hell's going on trying to get really good at your career trying to push any hobby super far forward of course you know like military folks it's a whole different yeah I know those guys and that's like that's the same kind of like quest for maybe not perfectionism but quest for becoming damn good at the art and that is a thing that that journey of difficulty and sacrifice can teach you a ton of stuff about yourself etc so I wouldn't recommend everyone tries to get lean but I would recommend that many people can probably do with a bit of difficulty in their lives for a prolonged period a period that results in something being made like my wife I got to watch her go through medical school and then residency and then fellowship and the shit broke her front to back but god damn did she come out hard as fuck isn't it and that's like you can't come out hard as fuck unless you suffer for a long time and so the fat loss dining is a category of that but it's a bit of an arbitrary category most people who if you're lean and healthy you don't need to like see your glutes do fluttering butterfly things in order to get some kind of meaning from life although if you're really a foodie if you get lean enough food takes on a qualitative taste that you never thought was possible and also maybe even this idea of um taking away the thing that drives you or you are addicted to and if it's something like food then you put into place the challenge whether it's a physical challenge whether it's a fat loss challenge that you felt like you could never do and actually quite frankly you can't yeah that can teach you how hard things are and can teach you that you're more empowered than you thought because you were successful with it yeah i just think it's it's valuable but um fat loss fat loss okay so um we got calories we got macros roughly we have food composition just a few more categories timing very very small one i can talk about the nuances of timing tom blue in the face we have a whole book at rp has massive chapter about theoretical timing but basically if you eat anywhere between to be honest for for the average person that just wants to lose some pounds and get in better shape anywhere between two and five plus meals per day is totally fine two meals a day can get you in a really really great shape you want to step on stage you want to have your best look it's probably like four meals is the answer four five or six but two meals and above is totally workable and the timing doesn't matter much if you want to conserve as much muscle as possible which we'll talk about just a little bit even timing is probably best don't go like nine hours without eating and then eat you know one hour one hour one hour i go to sleep but for most people just trying to lose weight and get healthier the timing doesn't much matter you probably want to eat in such a way that gives you energy throughout the day and also eat in such a way that you can have good sleep fall asleep at night and not have like you know um gastroesophageal reflux disorder waking you up so that's really all there is to say about timing unless you have any specific questions on that no i don't really exciting i think that that's that's well said i'm so happy that you guys have gotten your blood work done um and if you haven't you should because arguably nothing is more important than staying on top of your health responsibilities and right now there is more talk than ever on hormones and you should know where you're at and so i'm very grateful to our sponsor inside tracker whose service i use myself to live your healthiest and longest life possible you need to understand what is going on inside your body by using data from your blood dna fitness trackers like apple watch or aura inside tracker gives you personalized and science-backed recommendations on things that most importantly you can take control of to optimize your health inside tracker reveals the areas of your health that you need to improve so let's stop guessing and let's start taking action you can save 10 off the inside tracker subscription plan and any plan just go to inside tracker.com slash dr lion that's all one word inside tracker.com slash dr lion for 10 off inside tracker subscription and any plan i'm so excited to share with you guys a scientific breakthrough to support our long-term health and wellness c15 is the first essential fatty acid to be discovered and get this 90 years that was omega-3 fatty acids you've heard of the freshman 15 but let's talk about something positive our primary source of c15 has long been whole fat dairy products unfortunately i don't eat those you might not either and our c15 levels have gone down because many of us are eating a lot less of them additionally our c15 levels naturally decline as we get older now c15 works in a number of ways it helps repair damaged cells it may protect us from future breakdown could potentially boost mitochondrial energy output activates pathways in the body to help regulate sleep mood and natural repair mechanisms that of course support our overall health now it ends up many of us are deficient in this saturated fat c15 which results in obviously weaker cells potentially less energy fatty 15 when you take it orally is highly absorbable and it can actually help with cellular repair it is made from a patented pure oxidative resistant process it is vegan friendly no fillers no allergens no preservatives it is 100 pure fatty 15 is on a mission to help you replenish your c15 levels and restore your long-term health you can get an additional get this 15 off their 90 day subscription starter kit by going to fatty 15.com slash dr lion and using the code d-r-l-y-o-n at checkout supplements yes i that was i'm so glad you brought that up yeah so there are some supplements you may be interested in taking during a weight loss journey there's a little bit of an insurance policy magnesium zinc vitamin d a multivitamin multimineral maybe a greens powder maybe not maybe a fruits powder maybe not maybe some healthy fat supplements maybe not and those just make sure everything's squared away and working fine and it probably is anyway if you're eating a mostly healthy diet but these are things that are like super super minor that you can do it's the very least multivitamin multimineral every day probably a good thing as far as supplements that really like have a wallop effect after that they don't exist stimulants are okay but stimulants are kind like a yo himby fedra fedra damn girl back in the 90s is that even i don't think so i don't know yeah so and guys we're not saying to take it i am purely uh picking dr mike's brain so before you guys get excited right to the ephedra so i mean you did say stimulants i mean okay i probably should have went to coffee yeah right stimulants i would say is kind of like a really uh pretty gnarly sword like a powerful sword but there's no handle you just grab the sword bleed right into it and some people have really calloused hands they do just fine some people that out that doesn't work tell me what kind of what stimulant type of thing are you talking about yeah yeah so some people uh stimulants make their brain go really well and they're productive and are aware and all they feel great some people just get a lot of anxiety from them like way more than they get anything else and they're like this i can't live like this some people fall asleep fine i can i could do just do a natural experiment you give my wife an espresso it's 8 p.m you wait until 8 45 she'll pass out on the couch see my husband too actually you give him espresso at eight and by 8 05 that guy is done so if you gave me an espresso at eight at four in the morning i would be like connecting the dots and conspiracy theories and checking into a psychiatric well not that part but yes um but you talked about caffeine there are other ones i mean yes uh let's say over the counter stimulants caffeine is the main driver of all of them yep and other stimulants are interesting they have some interesting fat loss and health benefits but teeny tiny and actually caffeine is quite teeny tiny so if you can use caffeine to give you a bit more energy if it doesn't interfere with your sleep much and if you can do it to have it's got a pretty interesting decent hunger suppressive effect what about nicotine nicotine nicotine is in that same situation nicotine has some health downsides that caffeine does not um so it's just not my first go-to uh nicotine has uh substantial addiction potential so it's just it's not something you use on a diet and then quit because you're like i've been talking more nicotine right now just go straight to siggy's not even the filtered ones i'm talking about 1956 like your fridge probably has in there right oh yeah definitely just full of cigarettes and uh shrunken heads yes if you open that you never know what's gonna people have died from smoking cigarettes it's a lesson but nicotine because you hear um with the fasting community them using nicotine pouches yeah that works great for fasting but the nicotine's a pretty hard drug you know it's a drug drug like capital d drugs so if you want to get addicted to nicotine dope nicotine also doesn't have like great uh profiles on your blood pressure from what i understand heart dynamics aren't great caffeine is a little bit of that but they're substantially more muted from from my understanding not an expert area of mine so if you were to pick one it might be caffeine yeah for most people i probably start at caffeine and work your way up to cocaine as that happens um he's just joking yes don't don't go go taking cocaine and unless you're in the 80s and having a good time uh so basically um stimulants are on paper sometimes really cool and for many people they're a great kind of adjunct to this process of dying and it works pretty well they have the downsides interfere with your sleep when you're not on them you get headaches and literally like physiological drug withdrawal um if you're not on enough of them in your phase after you're done dieting you're really hungry and it drives you insane if you wake up in the evening or in the middle of the night or in the morning too early to take stimulants yet and you're hungry there's no way out for you because your anti-hunger thing is also wakefulness thing so i'd say stimulants are um also in study after study caffeine doesn't by itself have a very good raw thermogenic effect and so if it can control your appetite for you that's okay but also your body gets used to it real fast and so like coffee work great week one and week eight you need like eight monsters and five coffees and the ship barely does anything and it's all side effects at that point you're like this is unsustainable so as far as supplements that work well i would say caffeine is a cool thing to use stimulants are cool in context but they're not this panacea that everyone should have now this might be the time to talk about modern anorectic drugs yeah please yeah yeah so um what does that mean yeah yeah so anorectic is uh means something that reduces your drive to eat food drive and so anorectic drugs are drugs that reduce appetite and so there are a couple of classes there are two classes right now of anorectic drugs that work really well um it's uh the so technically the third generation GLP-1 agonists like ozempic aka some aglatide and then there's uh the fourth generation uh glp GIP combined agonists and that's uh zepbound terzepatide they work amazingly well they're the first kinds of drugs really of their kind in mass market they get at the problem of hunger from a pretty root perspective compared to caffeine for example so their suite of side effects is much more minimal their suite of side effects that improve health is substantial they're net health improvers if you just give them to the random person they'll just get healthy over time it's fascinating that's fascinating it's a big deal because usually you get drugs like that like yeah but it's killing you like nope this is like oh yeah well the stimulant based drugs have to suffer from a lot of the same problems here's another really trippy thing there are now at least a few studies that are multiple years long that show people do not get used to glp ones however much hunger it made you lose in the first several weeks is exactly how much hunger it's going to make you lose in week number 92 which is unreal and how fast and they you know um they work pretty fast people will say oh well it takes i don't know what is it 46 or 48 weeks to reach peak or there's multiple um inflection points that an individual could be good to lose weight but i mean we see it in practice by you know four weeks into i mean they're losing weight whether it's 24 weeks in they've lost a substantial amount of weight i think it's very individual yeah um whether it's 13 percent or 22 so i can speak to that with some detail most people will feel an anorectic effect within several hours of administration of the drug much of its subcutaneous once weekly so within several hours you look you may have an idea that you're going to eat a lot of food you put the typical amount of food on your plate halfway through you're like what am i doing i don't want this anymore yeah yeah right and so it kind of hits right away more or less and then um these drugs have very long half lives that are measured in a week or longer and so you take it once a week which means if you run the math a lot of for example uh semaglutide reaches its peak at any given small like any given dose you start let's say 0.5 milligrams per week it reaches its peak effect in your blood five weeks later even if you don't add anything it's just like once a week you take 0.5 milligrams and the dose in your blood goes up up up up up so one of the big take-home points from this is if you have an amount of semaglutide you're taking and you just started taking it and you're like i don't really feel a lot of the hunger effects it would be easy just stay on it for a few weeks after a few weeks you're going to be like holy yeah thank god i did not my dose because that would have caught up to you big time and then it takes weeks for it to go back down be sick and nauseous throwing up you could be the side effects definitely if you increase a dose too fast or uh not gnarly and a lot of times like people will get on social media and blame the drug like what didn't work for me it made me throw up like how much did you take betty and she's i don't know like the whole thing oh my god right this unreal powerful drug so for most people they're not going to need that much and then it's really kind of a turn dial for hunger the more drug you take the less your hunger is and then you just like lose as much weight as not you want but pretty close more or less i mean as long as you can tolerate the side effects and big time if your diet and lifestyle comport well with the drug one of the things about these drugs is if you give yourself high palatable foods that are also high in fat then you're able to like outrun the drug at the mouth and brain and eyes level you're like cookies and then your stomach's like two middle fingers and up it goes or you feel really sick or you're all sorts of both holes situation and so it's really a big mistake to do that so the best diet you can have for these drugs is a healthy diet relatively low in fat but low in calories and high in healthy food so that you never have to run to this problem of tolerating the drug poorly uh we have a friend that has been taking these drugs and she's completely transformed her body and she had what we love we call the macaroni and cheese incident she's a few weeks into the drug she was at like a family gathering and they're like oh mac and cheese and she took the right kind of portion to a little bit of it and she was like no bathroom the body's like no too much fat and so if you manage your diet properly and you take these drugs um the primary way in which they work is they use their anorectics they reduce food drive and they do all kinds of really awesome things for your health including mental uh side effects they actually make you less prone to every kind of addictive behavior that they've studied so far we see that all the time in practice yeah individuals that are interested in alcohol seem to be no longer interested in alcohol anything yeah it's fascinating yeah and so these drugs are not mandatory you can lose tons of weight and get super healthy without them but i would say that in the modern context with the evidence that we have they're definitely like a tool on the in the toolbox and if you've really been struggling without them i would say going to talk to your primary health care provider about them is a real small idea absolutely agree there nothing has been as effective since gastric bypass so yeah that's right and the numbers of the glp ones and the gips um the weight loss percentage again it might be 13 for a semaglutide or a GLP-1 agonist could be 22 for is that bound or much you take again it depends you know it's it's interesting i was on a podcast and they said okay well how long does it take to see these results could it be 24 weeks and yeah it could be it all depends it's a funny question is it is yes it's like saying you know how long is it going to take me to get to cleveland ohio if i drive from detroit we can answer that but the question of how long am i going to really like is my car really going to be going pretty fast like oh i don't know like within 30 seconds if you're getting out of your driveway bathroom stops right 100 and so when people say like how long until i see these results it's like well like every week you're going to be losing a pound and a half for as many weeks as you keep cranking until you need a psychological break that could be 12 weeks easy it's like just keep doing it and what i would say psychologically a really good advice i think is don't worry about that end goal too much the process eat your healthy foods get your 10 000 steps take yours at bound just let it cook it'll do its thing don't you worry and if it's not you adjust your food you go to the doctor they adjust your medication dosage and the cycle repeats itself it's another quick public service announcement because it doesn't get sad enough i don't think a lot of people have all sorts of interesting ideas and opinions about ozembek and all that whole craze and most people many people come from some place of either um kind of a reflexive anti-drug ideology which is nonsense to begin with you can steal man it but it's really tough and other people come from kind of an iconoclasm like well i'm not into these these drugs there's a problem and it's mostly just people's feelings it's not really based on ideas but it's true that some of these drugs are um can be improved upon but it's not a hypothetical because i can tell you two true things one is there are already drugs in late stage clinical trials that blows epic out of the water if you're at home google retatra tide reda true tide all one word triple agonist hits the glp pathway GIP and glucagon and i don't know how the they did it but the glucagon pathway non-stimulant increases your resting metabolic rate you just burn more calories it doesn't wig you out no psychotropic effects you just burn more calories and you're less hungry and whatever the GIP does i don't even know triple agonist retatra tide is going to be on the market probably in a year and ozempic is going to be like super discount cheap drug because it's saying shit if you look at the studies how much weight people are losing it was like was that because a big deal tracepatide was a bigger deal retatra tide is that same step and major pharmaceutical companies around the world though so retatra tide would be generation five in this drug scale they're working on six is an early testing seven is in development i have to ask you a question um i don't want to go down a conspiracy rabbit hole but i love those um now we have a uh highly palatable processed food massive food industry i love that industry by the way yes i will sit here and defend it okay now we have a drug that is severely limiting people's challenges with obesity i mean people are losing weight food addiction from some of these highly palatable foods are going away uh do you think that some of the influx of anti-obesity narrative drugs do you think that potentially that is influenced at all by the food industry or where do you think the um division is going to be if at all that's a great question so you have the situation where the food industry is just trying to get you to spend as much money as possible that they're not such big fans of you dying because then you don't spend money anymore they're also not big fans of you getting out of shape because then you don't like your life and you blame them and that sucks it does not like a hershey's ceo that when they see morbidly obese people barely getting out of our car perfect they don't like that at all they would ideally like to see people eat hershey's candy bars in a state of caloric balance and enjoying their lives that's how they were meant to be eaten that's how they were eaten in the 50s and 60s etc etc so the vast majority of the food industry wants you to have the tasty food you want and have a great time and not die the problem is they had no idea how to do those last two things because most people are like buttered popcorn i'll take 50. they blow up the food industry is like sure we could help these people but the we don't even have the food executive has no idea how to lose weight and fat's not his job his job is just get people to buy tasty food and it's not a job he chose to be like this is what we're going to make americans do there is no conspiracy the reason the food industry exists and it's massive and makes all these foods that kill you is because you want it not you but the royal you you get me to get to stop people from pulling up to taco bell every hour of the day i'll start to believe there's a food conspiracy if they're still pulling up talk to those people be like who where did you see this where's the advertising they're like i just like taco bell get out of my face wait wait don't don't don't get out hold up watch this awkward need a crunch now go people want the stuff so that's the food industry then you have the anorectic drug industry very nascent very just getting born that's going to combat a part of that the excess part there are two ways for the food industry to respond to this primarily one is to change their advertising go hey you're on these drugs amazing you do you but you can still have a snickers bar every now and again and they're completely correct healthy balance i love it dope because like i don't know about you but i'm not interested in living in a society where the government's like no more no more babe ruth bars or whatever no more fucking kit kats they're illegal because people are too fat what the i moved from the soviet union to get the away from that kind of stuff so that would be great another other idea they could have there will be a combination of these ideas employed over the next several years is they're going to try to outrun the drugs it's competition they're going to try to make their food even tastier so that it used to be something you could resist on some amount of semaglutide you need a chat or tied to resist that now when that competition is going to heat up very likely over the course of the late 2020s and 2030s i think it's entirely reasonable to expect this will either age very well or very poorly that in the mid 2030s at some point most of us maybe all will have at home universal robots cooking all of our meals for us and they'll be able to source recipes from all over the internet make it the tastiest shit you've ever seen in your life so if you want to get fat the 2030s will be dope time to get fat but the degree of drug advancement at that point will also be really gnarly so what we're leading to is a world and this has been increasingly true for the world the developed world for as long as we can measure you can get more of anything you want in the united states which is one of the freest countries in the world most developed capitalists one of the most developed capitalist countries people observe time and time again if you want to get fat and lazy best place in the world to do it you want to get lean and fit and shredded best place in the world to do it it's options you can take the anorectic drugs and here's a really cool idea to try this is crazy i know when you go to the grocery store don't fucking buy the junk food the food corporation doesn't lie to you it's not like broccoli is really chocolate on the inside and they with you it's really broccoli i can attest to that and you just listen to me the food industry does not care what they sell you fundamentally as long as you buy it so if a lot of people are like dude i want healthy oh my god they healthy right away mcdonald's had a thing where they tried like some salads and shit for a while a couple of different sandwiches they were healthier and it turns out there just wasn't enough market demands they pulled them off that's not a mcdonald's problem that's an us problem and so there's going to be tastier and taste your junk food guaranteed you don't even need an anorectics battle for that people just want to taste your junk food and there's going to be an anorectic situation in the end the anorectics will win because the at some point if you just successfully show up to the doctor's office once a month and he gives you whatever 20 32 you know eighth gen drug you will not look at food and be able to put it in your mouth past a certain point it's fascinating it's fascinating where we're going and if anyone wants to understand how that feels in an intuitive level they've never taken the drugs take all of the malaise away it's a little tough from a foodborne illness stomach flu and just remember how hungry you weren't like you sit with someone who has stomach flu and they're like oh you're like hey juicy cheeseburger what's it i can't even think about it you can get that not hungry on two and a half mgs of ozempic for six weeks straight someone talks about food don't don't don't i'm gonna throw up there's so much upside on that and the drugs are slowly reducing side effects increasing primary effects they're going to win against the food industry but those people who don't take the drugs and just well say it exactly as i mean it randomly buy food at the grocery store they're going to get real fat because the food's just fucking delicious and getting cheaper all the time it's getting great at some point an individual has to say i want something out of my body to go a certain way if you just show up to the store and eat fuck all but many of those people aren't even compliant with medications you're a practicing doctor you know how it is you're like take your shot every week and they show up and they're like you got great patients i do know that's atypical most of the folks that are severely obese they're not your most compliant patients they forget to take all kinds of drugs because he fundamentally just like maybe give a little bit less of a shit than most other people which first of all is kind of dope because you're like fuck it yolo taco bell it's great i watch fat people eat food and i'm like dude they're really getting out of that something i don't i let's just amazing but on the other hand it's going to lead to some side effects you're going to have to deal with sooner or later so the whole conspiracy thing there is no conspiracy uh we can try to find one to be a great new york times piece i i i really like this answer yeah but it's more of like i think the world's a little bit more libertarian than people like to think which is great because we have so much freedom but it's also kind of meh because like yeah freedom means you can make terrible fucking choices and there's no one conspiring to make you do it you're the one that pulled up the taco bell at 2 30 in the morning so what you're saying is you can uh tank your health or you can actually be in incredible health is truly a choice and we have education and resources like your rp strength and your sure uh app which you should probably sign me up for free because i'd like to try it all free huh well i mean i didn't become a trillionaire by giving away i know but um what you're saying is powerful is that actually there are choices and we here have the opportunity to leverage those uh whatever those choices are in an extreme way 100 what oh yeah i do yeah i wanted to make sure we hit up your the muscle factor that's what my next question was because i still cannot get over the fact that you are dieting and talking to me so we took care of most of the theory behind how people can lose weight but there's a missing piece weight loss is cool it's really healthy in almost all cases but we can do better we can do fat loss weight loss with conservation of muscle or an increase in muscle at the same time is a big deal because not only do you get even healthier but you take on a shape that i'll just say it becomes so much beating around the bush on the ship but it's not 2019 anymore it just makes you look hotter to most people that shape shape you're like i want to look like j-lo and you show them someone dying of anorexia they're like that's not what i had in mind like you know j-lo's got curves what you think curves made of either fat or muscle and if you get lean enough and have enough muscle everyone's got awesome looking curves now you may not be into muscular people i find them grotesque to be completely honest just kidding but like is that a joke is that i can't tell never can i can't yeah yeah i can't even tell if it's a joke coming out i have to like hear it again and be like oh i guess i was joking and then i don't remember so uh basically gaining muscle or keeping your muscle while you lose fat has a completely transformative effect on your health in the best possible way like if you just lose 50 pounds and the doctor gets the blood work done they're gonna be like a lot of stuff is going good we're a little bit worried about your muscle mass level a little sarcopenia here and blah blah your bone mass but if you do the kind of thing we're talking about where you spare muscle your doctor's gonna be like i don't know what the you're doing but i want some of it do you have like a website or what is who's your coach so it's all great stuff and it makes you physically stronger so when you lose weight a lot of times when people are pretty overweight i'm currently technically on paper quite overweight it's just a lot of body to carry around it's annoying it's just it just sits there you gotta like get up to go to the fridge like lean on stuff if you lose just lose weight you feel better and healthier and cleaner you don't feel that you can still kind of feel a little bit frail if you lose weight while keeping your muscle or increasing it you just get more or less superpowers um people talk about how they felt when they're in their 20s generally have almost no idea what they're talking about because i crush my 20 year old self like with one hand like matrix style keanu reese what do you mean you crushed yourself i can i can crush my 20 year old self because that he's a little bit compared to what i am now mostly because my skeletal muscle mass is much higher but if it was comparable and my fat was lower you see like that fucking like shining golden 55 year old man at the gym who still has hair somehow and like the fucker how and he's got that like florida texas sort of tan that's just gorgeous and he still has like a trim waistline and he's like pretty lean you could talk to him you're like hey like 55 huh you must be feeling it he's like i feel i'm in the time of my life my dad is just a person that's genetically pretty good shape and he's very physically active and eats really healthy he's like uh damn near 70 years old he's like things are great that's how you're gonna feel if you lose weight without losing muscle and gaining it you're just gonna be like all this fucking shit i can do things if you lose a lot of weight and you lose a lot of muscle you might be feeling a little bit frail a little bit tired walking up the stairs is tough picking up groceries and stuff how do we lose fat without losing muscle one of the things of protein intake but 0.6 to a gram per pound makes very little difference for most people in that the biggest thing is resistance training and if you want to know about that tune into our last episode yeah yeah but resistance training training with weights two to four times a week is enough for most people whole body etc we cover that in the other podcast it is a huge stimulus to your body that when you have a caloric deficit your body points metaphorically at various things it goes organs brain and we still need you don't siphon off any of your resources body fat what are you up to but if it's a good i'm busy i got meetings fuck you start losing yourself oh crap throws parts of itself off right when it goes muscle what are you up to and if you're not training muscles like oh meetings all day shut up give up some of your muscles start losing it because we need you but if you're resistance training that still happens but then the muscle when you're in your off hours recovering from training goes hey i'm going to take some of those amino acids and carbs and fats from the blood and i'm going to put them back in me and grow and guess where all those nutrients don't go you're fat so your fat's doubly starving not only is it starving from the deficit but the fats like finally food comes into the blood the fat's like oh oh come to me and it's no muscle takes it and then it gets smaller and smaller and smaller and so that effective resistance training is massive and it's transformative because um a great example of that effect recently was uh dana white ufc person i i made a video about i'm not a big fan of the gentleman he worked with uh like i said all sorts of mean things about that in that video but huge huge fan of dana white huge fan of what he's doing and a big fan of what he did which is he lost something like i think 35 pounds ish of weight but he must have gained 10 or 15 pounds of muscle at the same time so the metabolic effect is something you would see in someone who's lost maybe 60 pounds of fat but the muscle came up he looks amazing his blood work is amazing that's the ticket and he trained with weights multiple times a week with mila sarchev who's one of the best to ever do it i mean we can't all be trillionaires like dana and get the best guy ever to do it to be our personal trainer but everyone go to the gym more or less well almost everyone planet fitness is like ten dollars a month which is if you can't afford that i don't believe you i'll say that um everyone has access to it and the resistance training is that big of a deal but one thing that really starts to be important but there's this training it's important in its own right is let's say like the periodization of because people say okay i've got all the tools to do fat loss they take their headphones off they stop listening to your podcast they're like i got it i'm going oh but we're like wait no hold on one important thing don't turn us off yet friends yes don't turn us off because we have ad reads to do no not today we're doing that on uh thursday tune back in on thursday yeah the big thing is dieting is tough a condition in which your body is not getting sufficient calories to maintain its weight almost always accrues some fatigue and we call that diet fatigue in the industry diet fatigue expresses itself in a couple of different ways one is your energy levels decline your sleep quality declines your brain power doesn't do anything good and you're like sounds like being a parent don't get me started i'm i'm like uh what did uh my my wife did most of the dog raising at our house so at one point she was talking to a friend on the phone she's like yeah i'm a single dog mama but she's like you don't do anything i'm like okay what you were correct so the dog's hard enough kids are totally different level but yes and you have met mine so yes they're adorable by the way they could just be terrible monsters and you're like why did i have them so you're not in that book and they're so cute they're see yeah i can even tell it's a real emotion you're sharing they're wonderful there was uh they're complicated yeah yeah the i forgot wanda sykes do you know who that is she's a comedian comedian she wrote for like uh all the big guys like chris rock and stuff she had a stand-up once where she was like yeah people with kids man anytime you're like yeah like do you do you like your kids and was it worth it and they're like yeah yeah yeah it's worth it like do you mean that so in any case diet fatigue the biggest problem you run into with it outside of all the other problems i already listed which are kind of gnarly is increased um food focus now food focus has hunger within it but it has all kinds of other stuff like that story i told earlier where you're watching your favorite show and you're just looking at the dinner rolls and a glass of milk why isn't anyone gonna are those just props are those cold was the shot number five is no yeah that's really really hungry and there's a thing where you've just eaten you're no longer hungry but you're still food focused if you do the diet too long yes your diet fatigue gets too crazy so at rp we've we've probably diet coached several hundred thousand real humans at this point uh tens of thousands of them with an intimate personal coaching relationship because we have a team of psychotic phd coaches that are like they look like we made up their certifications but they're real i'm not good enough to work on that team so i don't bother and we have app suite that helps the templates and apps tons on tons of people and we found is somewhere between eight weeks of consistent caloric deficit fat loss dieting and 12 weeks is where most people shine eight weeks is like enough to really make a visual difference if you do a diet for four weeks the scale's down maybe five pounds but you order chinese and then it's up a pound because of the salt and you don't even know what's going on you can't really tell the one lady from your work said you look better but she always says nice things down and she just assumes she's a liar and so and so it's not you're not going to get motivated by the process and you might quit and be like i don't know what is it there's an amazing uh one of my friends had a his mom had a sticker on the fridge a fridge magnet and it's just like 1950s woman and she's doing this and it said um i uh i dieted for one month and lost 30 days so like that's how it can feel if you don't go long enough you don't have anything show for it but after about eight weeks most people with a good deficit they're going to feel different they're going to look different people are going to say stuff their clothes are going to fit differently go this is great but their diet fatigue isn't crazy yet in most cases after about 12 weeks not all but many people they're getting amazing results but this is starting to wear on them it wears on them in a bunch of different ways and there's entire books written about this but one of them is your type of social interaction that you can have is limited it has to be limited someone maybe you and your husband go to the movies maybe it's a thing you've been doing for a long time it's just a tradition you're on diet for nine weeks you go to the movies still you smell that goddamn popcorn everywhere and your husband's like those zombies are scary like what uh what yeah it's a popcorn it's all it's off and so if you're hard as nails you can just eat that shit right not literally just can't whatever yeah no worries you just get it done but it strains you and it strains you and it strains you and here's a really cool revelation if you go back up to roughly your maintenance calories you still exercise you still train with weight you still eat mostly healthy but a bit of junk you can lose a bunch of weight go to maintenance chill for we recommend roughly at least two-thirds of the time you're dieting so if you've been that come from any kind of literature just experience plenty of literature but lots of experience got it and you end up having a severe you diet for 12 weeks it's probably good for at least eight weeks for you to be at least at maintenance maybe even a little tiny surplus if you want to get a little more jack but at least maintenance that brings you back to normal it gives you breathing room and then you can hit it again if you want to lose more weight one of the biggest problems in weight loss is people whatever number they are let's say you weigh 231 pounds and you're like i want to women 70. And you're like okay great you get your zap bound you get your diet and you just go um it doesn't work like that because you're going to accumulate so much diet fatigue that by the time you get below 190 you're going to be like oh i'm going to eat my own eyeballs today um and if you have to take it off an erector drug for that to go away you still they don't take away all the food focus you still look at cheeseburgers on tv and you're like and it seems like you're missing something and you are missing something because you you go to the family reunion everyone's eating amazing hot dogs you're not eating them you got your own little that's not a way to live life that's a way to accomplish a task it's not a way to live so understanding it's a multi-phase process that has times of destitution times of deficit and then times of getting back to normal that is a big deal and that eight to 12 week period coupled with another eight to 12 weeks of chilling you get to your little ratchet step-like effect that works wonders and empowered by anorectics and really good diet advice people can get a couple ratchets down that thing nowadays completely transform their bodies it's going to take a couple years but again to to paraphrase one of my friends brought our chavez um it's baffling that people think that something that took them years to do like gain 80 pounds they're just going to get off in weeks but yeah it should be like five weeks i should be good like no no it's going to take years luckily not 15 years but it might take two or three and you got to hang in there and you got to give yourself breaks so you talk to successful people you're writing all your notes you're scribbling and say you you just happen to like the ceo of apple just happen to fly next to you in a plane he's like in my private plane broke down so could you scoot over all right and he's like just sharing ideas about how to be successful at some point you're like okay so work straight up 12 hours a day no breaks right no vacations no weekends he'd be like no no you need a lot of that because you need the the creative process that doesn't happen unless you do the just the same thing is true with dieting you got to go hard for a little while until your diet fatigue is like bro this is tough you go to maintenance and then you repeat that process huge deal i love that and um dr mike isertal thank you so much for coming on really if you guys enjoyed this i know that you're going to enjoy the other episode that we did um and again i really appreciate your time and especially that you're dieting you've put a lot of great stuff out in the world we're going to link everything and crystal you're up next friend get in here sit down right now but um thank you so much thank you so much for having me on it's been amazing and i get real spoiled talking to you because you're uh medically trained and you know all kinds of things so everything i say seems to make sense but i bet you half the people listening are like i don't understand the word of that she's too she's too smart uh no i think that this is um it really bridges a gap and we need to bridge a gap because ultimately muscle is you know and everyone's like ah it's not all about muscle no actually if it yeah you know muscle demonstrates a certain mental fortitude it does it takes that to happen muscle is metabolic health it's protection it's a whole host of things looks great looks great that's the part i care about that's all you care about we know but if somebody really cares about their health it's the one organism we can actually do something about huge and it's anti-diabetic and the whole thing that's all different it goes on and out for the next one for round three that's it uh dr mike thank you so much for coming on thank you so much