 M-maimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marimidex, frustration, marim And if we're able to discern what is true versus what is questionable, then if we can fall back on good science that has a substantial amount of evidence, then we will have discernment into making right action at the right time at the right moment. Do you agree with that? Yeah, I think, you know, this is I was actually talking about this last night with AI was out at dinner and I was sitting next to a guy at the bar who he was here on business as well. We got talking and I said, you know, it's really it's it's not that complicated. It really isn't like if I put down two plates in front of you. Within a certain range, you know which one is better for you, but the problem isn't an information problem. We have an act and execution problem and a behavior problem. What am I? I'm going to use a financial example. Oh, OK. But I really like what Dave Ramsey said about his debt snowball. I don't know if you're familiar with it, but essentially what Dave Ramsey says is if you're trying to get out of debt, if you have multiple debts, take the smallest one. Be as aggressive as you possibly can on that and pay minimum payments on everything else. Once you knock that one out, move all that money you were paying towards that one towards the next smallest one and so on and so forth. And people have criticized us. That's stupid. Like you should pay down the highest interest rate first. And his response is beautiful. He said, yeah, if we were doing math, that would make sense. But if we were doing math, you wouldn't be in this much debt in the first place, would you? So what we're dealing with is not a math problem. We're dealing with a behavior problem. And I think a lot of people, they mask or excuse inaction through paralysis by analysis. It's or even jumping around. We have patients that jump around all different diets diet to diet to provider to provider. I'm not so much in our clinic because then you never have to take personal responsibility for your own choices. And I will say when it comes to calories in calories out, I definitely agree. It's there. There are potentially nuances. For example, I know that during menopause, the data doesn't show that menopause just overtly causes weight. And I really struggle with this because in my mind, I see a lot of patients that go through midlife and calories in, calories out. They go through menopause and then they gain weight. But then I worked on some of the early studies out of layman's lab. And these were the first studies of their kind and really looking at postmenopausal women, diet and exercise and it works. And then, you know, when I think about... I'd be happy to address... Okay. Yes. And then one more thing about this carbohydrate insulin model. I am guessing that... And if you guys notice, Lane is very particular about what his statements are. I think if the average American is eating 300 grams of carbohydrates a day and they are sedentary individuals, that is probably too much. We have to think about quality weight loss. If we reduce... I mean, I know, you know, some of the other studies when we reduced carbohydrates to 120 grams, we saw multiple percentage decrease in triglycerides. Yeah. I will say low carb does seem to have an advantage for reducing triglycerides, whereas like low fat seems to have a little bit more advantage for reducing LDL cholesterol. So it's kind of like your trade-offs. You know what I mean? Both can reduce each unless you're eating a stupid low carb diet where you're just going crazy on saturated fat and putting butter in your coffee like some of these psychos. And that just tastes disgusting. So, you know, I think one of the things to keep in mind is that when you're reducing carbohydrate, you're reducing calories by default. And a lot of people, what they think of as high carb foods, when I ask people, well, what... They say, well, I'm addicted to carbs or I have a hard time not over eating carbs. Okay, well, what carbs are you talking about? Cookies, donuts, ice cream, pizza. Those aren't high carb foods. Those are high carb, high fat foods. Yeah. High calorically dense foods. Correct. And so if you do low carb, it's hard to have pizza. It's hard to have cookies. So you're actually just reducing out those, that variety of foods. Now, if you do low fat, you'd have a hard time keeping the same things in as well. But I think for some people, low carb, because they can have more savory things, it just clicks with them and is a little bit easier. But not for everybody. But what I would say is when you look at... Because people will ask me, well, Lane, how do you explain the mechanism? Like insulin goes up, it blocks lipolysis. So how does this work? What you have to realize is, again, you're doing trade-offs. Carbs and fats are... Think of those as more of just fuel sources. Protein is kind of your building blocks. I am drastically oversimplifying because you can also use amino acids for fuel. They can be oxidized. But let's just take carbohydrates and fats. And it's so funny when people go, well, Lane has obviously never heard of the Randall cycle. No, I've heard of the Randall cycle. But have you heard of the reverse Randall cycle by Bob Wolf? So if you eat... So let's take two extremes. Low carb, high fat, high carb, low fat. If you eat a high fat, low carb diet, you will increase your rate of fat oxidation. Because you are eating more fat. Because you're eating more fat and you're eating low carb, so insulin is low. If you eat a low fat, high carb diet, you will not burn nearly as much fat because insulin is higher. But... You would burn more carbohydrates. Right. Correct. Because carbohydrate, once you have maxed out what you can store with glycogen, you have to oxidize it. Why is that? Well, that's because carbohydrate really isn't stored in adipose tissue. Like, if you look at metabolic tracer studies that examine the fats that wind up as triacylglycerides in adipose, where did those carbons originate from? 98% or over 98% originates from dietary fat. Less than 2% came from carbohydrate. So, and again, these are metabolic tracer studies where they've looked, they've labeled carbons and seen where they've gone. Carbohydrate has to be oxidized. The downside is, if you're oxidizing carbohydrate, you're not oxidizing fat. But also, on a low fat or low fat, high carb diet, okay, you're not burning much fat, but you're also not storing much fat. On a high fat, low carb diet, you're burning a lot of fat, but you're also storing a lot of fat. And fat loss is not just fat burning, it's the amount of fat you burn versus the amount of fat you store. Right? Just like net protein balance is the amount of protein synthesis versus the rate of protein degradation. Right? You can have synthesis go up theoretically, but if degradation exceeds it, you're still in a net negative protein balance. Right? You can have synthesis go up theoretically, but you're not burning much fat. You can have synthesis go up theoretically, but you're not burning much fat.