 В В В Dr. Vonda Wright, thank you so much for coming on the show. I am very, very excited. In fact, I would say I am more excited to talk to you than I think. Now, friends that are listening that have been on the show, don't take this the wrong way, but I'm so excited to have a conversation with you. I feel like we're old friends. Yes. And we're just sitting in front of each other for the first time. I absolutely agree with you. Yeah. You are a mom. You are a surgeon. You are an innovator. You're so many things. Yeah. What I want to know to start is how? Why? How are you here? How did I work hard enough to get to this place and still standing? Yeah. Is that what you're asking me? Well, let me ask it in a little different way. It takes a lot of sacrifice. It takes a lot of grit and resilience to even become a doctor. Let's just say to become a physician, but then to become a surgeon and to be a mother. But even before that, you had a bit of a non-traditional beginning. Yeah. And I'll just end with this one last thing is that it's in those moments of transition that you really see what someone is made of because you could have just kept doing what you were doing. I could have been really happy there. So you know what I think? I love it. You give me the opportunity to talk about this road of mine because I was just invited by a group of women doctors to talk in their event. And guess what? They want me to title my talk something about the long view or the long road. And I said, are you just doing this because I'm getting older? And you think that 30 years is enough story to tell? Yeah. But you know what? I was fortunate to be raised by two of the hardest working people that I know there. And so I didn't know any other way ever that education and hard work would get us off, get me off the homestead where we lived on land that our family had gotten from the government in the 1800s on a farm, right? And I understood that my father was the first in his family to get a master's degree. My mother, who immigrated here at 21 with nothing and made a life from her in a new country. Education was the key. So I left the farm. I went to college in Chicago. What farm? Wheaton? I went to college at Wheaton College in Chicago, right outside of Chicago. My father had gone to graduate school there. So it was a little bit of a legacy. And I went sight unseen. I'd never seen it. I just thought, OK, well, let's just find a place to get a great education. Where did your mom immigrate from? My mother is Chinese from Hong Kong. And she was raised in British Guyana, which is on the tip of South America. She and her nine brothers and sisters. And I love her work ethic because as the oldest of nine in a British school system, you're done at about 16. And she could have just stayed and managed the stores that my grandparents had. But she was going to get out of that country, which is now totalitarian. There is no future there. So this woman took a secretarial course, saved $1,000 and took off for California where she went to college. Right. And the funny story is that my dad met her and tried to date her. And she's like, I did not come here for an MRS. I came here for a BS. Now let's not talk. But he must have won her over. So these two really hardworking people, it's all I've ever known. And all they ever said to me was, Vonda, you can be anything you want to be. And I never questioned that. I could be anything I wanted to be. And I'm really smart. And my brain can memorize a lot of things. And at the time, in the 60s, smart people became doctors. I mean, now that's not so tracked, right? But at the time, you're like, okay, so you're smart. Go be a doctor. And so that was the trajectory I went on. And then in college at Wheaton, this is lesson number one. One failure does not predict your future. So in college, I show up, right, from a small farm town in Kansas. And it was a big adjustment to learn to study at the level that I needed to succeed at a college that was pretty high level. So I failed my first organic chemistry exam in my sophomore year. Nobody told me that that was not the end of my medical career. They're like, oh, I guess you should find something out. Bad counseling. I didn't seek hard enough. By the end of the semester, I had a B. But one failure does not predict your future. So I had pivoted what I was going to do by then. And so after I got a degree in biology, which if you're counseling your children, is not an entirely useful degree. Biologists out there don't hate me. But you've got to go to grad school to use biology, right? So I had a degree in biology. So I went to grad school. And in three years, I got another bachelor's and a master's degree in oncology nursing. And then it was in the early 90s, I was staffing a cancer floor where we were treating a lot of women with breast cancer. At that time, it wasn't as curable as it is now. We were doing the tamoxifen, the GCSF, and the Zofran trials. It was at Rush, a very academic place. In Chicago. In Chicago. I know exactly where that is. And then I, after six years of that, I became the second in command at the Rush Cancer Institute under the chairman. And learned so much at a very young age about life and work and what I wanted to do. And ultimately, I decided to go back to medical school, which was always the direction when I was 28, because I could have gone into business. I was interviewing on that pathway. I could have gotten a Ph.D. It would have been very easy to get a graduate degree. But I decided ultimately I wanted to care for people and do great research. And as a physician, you can do both. Right. And so that's what I did, only to choose the longest frigging pathway. Like orthopedics. I know. 11 years later, at 39, I emerge and start this orthopedic career. So that's how I've gotten to orthopedics as a career. But how orthopedics? Because you were working with cancer. Yeah. And you were seeing women with breast cancer. That's right. And they were reducing their estrogen, right? Tamoxifen. Mm-hmm. Was there... But you've been a lifelong athlete. I was. Okay. Mm-hmm. How... How... Why sports medicine? Yeah. Why orthopedics? From cancer. And is that one reason why you circled back really as an advocate for women's health? Because your early career? Or is it kind of a different trajectory? It's all tied together. It seems circuitous. It is not. It is pretty linear. So in medical school, do you remember how personalities just divided? There were the medicine people who like to circle the doorway with all the data and think about it a lot and all day. Funny, the different archetypes. Yes. And then there's the surgeons who want to assimilate the information, make a decision, go to the OR. And thankfully, I come from a farm in Kansas and I have mad hand skills, right? So coupled with my decision-making process, which is more surgical, I have actually very good hands. My brain can see something and my hands can do it. So I knew I had to do surgery. And then in choosing surgery, I tried a bunch of different things. I can't stand secretions. So I couldn't do EMT. Yeah. Colorectal surgery was out. None of that. But the beauty of orthopedics is I get to treat people from birth to death. And here's the driving mantra of my entire career. When I make you walk again, when I save your mobility, I am going to save you from the ravages of chronic disease. So it is more than just putting muscle and bone. It is more than the technical aspects of reconstruction, which I'm all about. You know, I love new technology. But the fact that I am actually saving lives in the same way that I did when I was a cancer nurse by being an orthopedic surgeon really drives me. It's why I get up every morning and make the donuts, if you will. It would never be enough for me just to be an orthopedic technician, meaning just put the metal in and walk on because I am a whole person surgeon. I every person coming in. If a man comes in bursting his tendons everywhere, we're going to talk about his testosterone. If a woman comes in and has is in midlife, we're going to talk about the hormonal changes because it affects everything. And that's one of the things that makes me different. Well, I would argue that there's many things that make you different. You're extremely well thought out. I think that there's just layers to think about as your career as a physician, but also as truly an advocate. I asked you before we started recording, what is the thing that you are most excited about? And your answer was? That women are rising and people are listening to the message that has been my same message. Not that it's not new and fresh, but the message that you are worth the daily investment in your health and that by investing every day in your mobility, you can change the trajectory of your health. I have never, ever believed that aging is an inevitable decline from the vitality of youth down a slippery slope to frailty. And yet, Gabrielle, I still have to take call even this many years in and I see the future of men and women today who are dying of frailty, laying in bed in excruciating pain, incontinent for women in particular with hearts so bad that I can't even clear them for surgery. With either a touch of dementia because they're sick or full on Alzheimer's. But do you know what they're saying to me? And usually their daughters who are at the bedside, it's usually the daughters. They're saying, I was once like you. How did I get here? Don't ever get here. Because they want to be remembered as the vibrant people they were in midlife, not as the frail person who is no longer in control. So if I can do anything to get in front of that for myself and the people that I serve, that is work worth doing. We shall take a minute and just take that in. It's powerful. It's what drives me. And it's not easy, right? People probably thought you were crazy. They still do. I love my orthopedic brethren. Bros. Bros. I love you. I am here to save you from becoming frail old men. But you know what, Gabrielle? I have always had to publish my work outside of orthopedics. Because there was not an ear to musculoskeletal aging or whole person. And that's okay. I mean, orthopedics is what it is. And I love them. But to get to serve the most people in the way that I want to serve people, we just find other avenues. And where does this service come from? Just this, yeah, this servant leadership. Um, you know what, I was raised in a home that, that revered God and service was at the heart of my father. My father is a servant leader. My mother gave up her own career. My brother, my mother is more brilliant than I am. And she just, it wasn't the time. She's 84. It was not the time in this country for her. But they've always done it. And I think I just learned it. Yeah. It became a really strong driving value. Yeah. I don't know another way. Um, that makes it very powerful because that makes an individual unwavering in the pursuit of excellence and the pursuit of, of real change, which isn't something that you could find inspiration for on TikTok. It's, it is this kind of internal driver. When you talk about musculoskeletal aging, um, it's now almost, it almost is having its moment. Not quite yet. Right. You and I are sisters in this. And, um, it's not quite there yet, but from the time you are seeing a patient there, there seems to be in different grades of aging. Mm-hmm. The young individual that you're seeing that pops her Achilles tendon versus the, I don't know, guy who is on a motorcycle, super healthy 30 year old. Yeah. Braces leg. Yeah. To the post-menopausal woman. Mm-hmm. Their musculature, their bone health, all is very different. Completely. Can you talk about some of the work? And by the way, uh, again, there was this amazing paper, muscular syndrome of menopause. You were the first, you coined that the first, um, talk to me a little bit about what happens as we age from these different perspectives, both in muscle and bone. Mm-hmm. And then in menopause, cause we're really behind the eight ball when it comes to probably arguably all hormonal changes, but in particular for women. Right. Mm-hmm. Well, I want, since you've given me the luxury of this, I want to start back with the first work that we did at the University of Pittsburgh in the musculoskeletal aging in itself. So, um, there was this big NIH funded cohort study called Health ABC. Yes. Yes. Of course. I mean, you're, you have, you're a geriatrician, right? So, you know this. Yeah. So the, so it, it, one of the, the researcher, Ann Newman was at Pitt. Mm-hmm. So they followed a cohort of 70 year olds for a decade or so and just saw what happened. And one of the things they saw happening is the, the quads, uh, and the leg muscles in these people, for lack of a better term, became grossly infiltrated with fat. They became well marbled. Their strength decreased. They became more frail. Having a father who has always been an endurance athlete, seeing, uh, I became, uh, I became, uh, involved with the senior Olympics, which you have to be 50 year old, 50 years old to compete in these things. You have to win your state games to go to the national games. They are some of the most fit people I've ever seen. I can't believe 50 would be considered senior. Oh, and let me tell you, the 80 year olds are mad that the youngins are in the same race, same group as them, right? True. 50 is not that old. It isn't very old. I mean, I'll tell you, I'm way past 50, but you know, the NIH describes, um, masters athletes as 35. I mean, come on people. But you know, if you look at life expectancy, it's younger than you, midlife is younger than you think. 35 to 40. I mean, people don't realize. So anyway, so Anne Newman was doing that, uh, foundational work at Pitt where I was. And I said, I don't believe it. I do not believe that that is our destiny. And so most aging studies are done on populations. What do we know about our population? 70% of our population does not do one extra step of mobility a day. So what we know about aging is what we know about sedentary aging. We do not know what we're capable of long into the foreseeable future. So my group and I, we called ourself Prima, the Performance and Research Initiative for Masters athletes, began studying all these Masters athletes we had. We did a series of studies and basically in summary, what we found is you can preserve your lean muscle mass. You can preserve your bone density. If you do impact exercise, it's even better. We can preserve, uh, the, the, we can make satellite cells replicate again. Which is, um, fascinating because, uh, and we can circle back to the satellite cell conversation because most people would say that the health of satellite cells is in youth and then there's senescence that happens, but yes. You can reverse it. Fascinating. And then the last study we did, well, there's two, two remaining in that series, uh, took us, the, the brain study took us five years and this was long ago. No one was talking about the relationship between muscle and brain as we are now, thankfully, but, uh, we showed that we can preserve three of the executive functions of the brain with chronic exercise. And then finally, right before I left Pitt, we started looking for the why and we started studying a protein called clotho, the longevity protein. And this is all in coordination with the lab of Dr. Johnny Huard, who's, uh, um, one of the leaders in muscle aging and Dr. Fabricio Ambrosio, who is a, uh, a physical therapist, PhD, who is just brilliant. And so I say that because as a clinician, no clinician ever goes as far as they do unless they're paired with a great PhD. And I want to acknowledge that. I agree with that wholeheartedly. Yeah. I wholeheartedly agree. So we did that series dispelling the myth that aging has to be a decline. And then most recently I applied what I, the passion I have for that. I learned taking care of women as a cancer nurse. I, I, I began doing work with women's health in 2012, um, before the crest of the wave, because I think women are in the most powerful position to change the health of this country because we make 80% of all the healthcare decisions in this country for ourselves and everyone we touch. Cause I don't know about your husband, but my husband will go to the doctor if I make the appointment or he can't play golf or various other activities. He likes. So no, my husband is at the doctor every week. He's like, Oh, this is great. Free VA care. Oh, I think I should get a sleep study, cardio echo. Where's the acupuncture? My VA gives all the guys acupuncture. It's all good. But majority of the time, most people are very just, that's right. We're to follow up and don't take care of themselves at all. Which is why I always harp on getting blood work, doing the, just the basic stuff. Your body's talking to you, whether you're listening or not is the issue. So you were saying that aging, you know, based on this earlier work that there doesn't have to be this decline of aging. Um, do we know that to be true in a meaningful way? So let's, if we were to think about the majority of individuals are fully sedentary, 70, 50% of Americans don't work out. That's right. Over 70% don't even meet the recommendations of resistance training plus cardiovasculars. So that means most people are completely sedentary. What we think of a quote, healthy normal is a disease population. Inactivity is a disease population period. What is normal actually, if you frame it is being diseased and sedentary. Correct. The anomalies are people that we care for or try to care for, right? But I want to, your, your whole mission is to pivot that. My whole mission is to pivot that. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And, and my question to you is, at what point does an individual have to interject in midlife? Let's say we have a, or even, um, kids. Like at what moment do we know and what activities from a practical standpoint? Do people have to take to have a meaningful impact? And we could say from a metabolic standpoint or even from, you know, a durability standpoint, you talk a lot about mobility, durability, collagen, tendons. How much is enough? How much, what is the min max? Yeah. Yeah. What is the minimum for the maximum? Yeah. Well, if you, if we were talking about our children before, and I've just started to read this. I was introduced to this by the head of our metabolic lab. I happen to practice in this wonderland of technology. Um, our children are replicating their mitochondria and building the mitochondrial load and, um, from the time that they're running around. And so if we're raising a generation of children who are not act enough, active enough to stimulate that, that has lifelong consequences, right? But what if, what if we're not talking about children? When I, maybe what you're asking me is two questions. When do we have to really get serious and how much do we have to do? I mean, maybe those are the questions I'll ask. I describe a critical decade to get your shit together. If you have never thought about it before and tell me if you disagree, I think between 35 and 45 is a critical decade because you're an adult, you're settled in your career. You're hopefully you're out of your parents' house. You're, you know, all the social things. Unless you're my child, you can stay. Yeah. Actually come home, tag Landetti children. Um, but you know what I mean? Yeah. We have a little bit more agency. Yes. At that point. Oh my God, we're peeking out on our muscle. We're peeking out on our bone. And we still have our hormones, men and women. It's the time when we still have an active contribution for women. Many women start the decline in estrogen at 40. We have, we have 1% of our eggs left. It's a miracle. I had a child at 40, right? I squeezed out a healthy egg. But before all those midlife changes start happening, it's a critical decade to start back on caring about what our heart does. Our VO2 max at that point, I like to talk about the frailty line of VO2 max, right? You've probably talked about this too, where if, if we don't do something about it, every decade, we decrease our VO2 max, which is our absolute fitness level. Your crowd knows this by 10%. So if at 40, your VO2 max is only 30 and you decrease by the time you're 70, you're going to cross the frailty line, which is 18 for men and 16 for women. So we need to do everything we can to maximize that. From a cardiovascular standpoint, I prescribe for people. I was of the generation where I was doing HIIT every single day. I know. I heard that in an interview. Every single day. I was running marathons and all the things that, and I have biomechanics, I have kinetic chain issues. So when I'm training like that, I have a, predictably, because of my repetitive kinetic chain issues, I have Achilles tendon on the left. I have right hip flexor and my fascia on my left thigh. It's predictable. It sounds like a good time. Yeah. And basically what she's saying for you guys listening is this kinetic chain, her movement patterns. Right. When she is doing movements that are more explosive, less controlled, less slow. More frequent. More frequent. Five or six times a week, right? So many people are still doing moderate intensity. But here's what I prescribe now. Uh, I want everybody to do base training at a lower heart rate because that affects all levels of heart rate. How much are you recommending? How much time? Yeah. A week? Three or four 45 minute sessions. Skip unless it's icing on the cake, unless you want to just join a class and do fun. And then sprint twice a week because we have to stimulate. We have to get at that intensity and only sprint after you are thoroughly warmed up with your base training. And friends, it doesn't have to be on a treadmill. You could sprint on an airdyne bike. It doesn't. On an airdyne, on an assault bike, a rower, an Alpine, any, it's about heart rate. It's not about being Usain Bolt. It's about heart rate. Right. And in that way, I have not been hurt in years versus when I was training like I was before, I was pretty hurt. I would have to stop. And that's what I see because people. I know I called you. Right? I mean, that's the truth. We can talk about that. Vonda, um, can you help me? I just had an issue. But, um, so that's the aerobic side of it. And like you, I want everybody to lift heavy all the time. Talk to me about that because there is, it's interesting. And I think it means how do we prioritize, define heavy? Why are we lifting heavy? Um, so we're lifting heavy because to, in order to stimulate muscle protein synthesis, we have to have an intensity threshold and then we have to feed that threshold. So it gets, it's important to think about nutrition, but what, and it depends what our goals are, right? I'm not lifting for hypertrophy. Some people are, so they need to lift in a different way. I being less than a thousand days from 60 and lifting for longevity and power, I must build power so that I do not fall down and break my hip. And will you define power for us? Power is strength through movement. It's over, it's through time and motion. It's a time, right? Time velocity. Yes. How, um, explosive, how much you can move. Yeah. Can I, and there's an added, it's not strictly power, but it is can't, do I have enough explosiveness to move my feet fast enough so that I don't trip over my own red bag, which is my work bag is, or I put it too close to my desk. I trip every day, but I have the speed. I, I posted box jumping lately and people are like, Oh my God, why are you doing that? Because I want the power and agility to not fall down. So my goals and the people that I, the midlife people I serve, I want them to be powerful. You can live for hypertrophy. So what's, so what do I, what do I suggest? I suggest, and I'm just trying to make it easy for people. I don't know what you have found, but I found I, in my first books, I just tried to give suggestions of here's a regimen, choose what you want to do. Here's the principles. I have found people do better when you give them something specific. Totally. Yep. Totally. So I specifically say for the four power lifts, push, pull, upper body, push, pull, lower body. I just chose a number out of the range, four lifts, four sets. What does it mean to be heavy enough? It means you have two, one to two lifts in the tank, reps in reserve. You could probably squeeze out one or two more with good form and then you're done. It's not to exhaustion. It's just before that. So, but that's only the four power lifts, the supporting lifts. And how often are they doing this? So they're doing cardiovascular activity. Does this matter if it's men or women, midlife? This is specifically for women, men, men. You guys can do whatever you want and you can go up to more. You know, I listen to Andy Galpin like everybody else, you know, men can go up to about eight reps, but still the same principle. We are not lifting mamby pamby weights. I'm getting you. Please do not give me hate mail. But one of my patients was something he read in an ancient magazine. He was hurt. He came to me hurt because he was doing the whole, I don't even know what it's called, centurion thing. It was 10 reps, 10 sets every single day. And it was just, he got hurt. And I'm not saying that he got hurt because of that, but it's a lot of stress on the tendons. And I want to come back to tendons because I think that that's, I'm very interested in that as of recent, as you know, because I just keep injuring myself. But the four women, it's interesting. The three to four days of cardiovascular activity zone to keeping their, keeping the cadence where you can talk and it's 45 minutes. How many days, two days a week of high intensity interval. Do you care about how they do it in terms of, is it a 15 second all out? I do. Great effort. 30 seconds, four times. What about recovery? Do you, do they have to be fully recovered? That's how I do it. 30 seconds on. So here's how it goes for me. I'll just give you my example. My base training. I keep my heart at one 30 ish around that range. Um, is five incline and four speed 4.2 sometimes, but that's that awkward stage where am I running or am I jogging? So I do that. And then when I'm ready to get my heart rate up, I punch it to 11. Now I'm not that tall. So I am just trying not to fly off the back of this treadmill, um, for 30 seconds. And then I completely recover. It takes me about two minutes completely to about one 40. I don't make myself go down to one 29 or whatever again, but, and we, and I just repeat that four times and that's enough stimulation for me this year. I'm trying to layer on VO two specific training. It's a, it's a lot to get in. It's a lot. I have a life on the outside, but that would be four minutes as hard as you can go with only four minutes of recovery. And there's good data to support this. Extremely good data. I'm not making it up. It's not my data. You know, I am so happy to hear that you guys have been getting your blood work done. Um, most likely because arguably we know that nothing is more important than staying on top of your health responsibilities. Right now there is more talk than ever on hormones and you know where you are at. And the only way to do that is to get your blood work. And I'm so grateful to our sponsor inside tracker whose service I use myself to test my own hormones. They offer 10% off inside tracker subscription and any plan. Just head over to inside tracker.com slash dr lion. Let's face it to live your healthiest, longest life possible. You have to get your blood work done. Most people put that off, but that is not a champion mindset and you are here to get it done. And by the way, let's say you've got an aura ring or an Apple watch, and we all know you've got DNA inside tracker looks at all that and gives you meaningful recommendations. Things like food, supplements, workouts, lifestyle choices, and even ways to optimize sleep and stress. Yes. Sign me up. Whatever it takes, whatever it is that you want, you are going to do it better with your blood work and knowing what is going on. Go to inside tracker.com slash a doctor lion for 10% off all their stuff. I recommend and take Puree O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil. Why? I did my training in nutritional sciences with a heavy focus on muscle health. There is an abundance of evidence supporting the use of omega-3 fish oil in overall health, muscle, brain, mood, the list goes on. Now, I won't take just any omega-3 supplement. I only want the best quality fish oil. That's why I've been using Puree. This is the ultimate in high quality and high class brands. Puree's O3 is third party tested. I trust it to be free of heavy metals and other impurities. Every batch, which is amazing, of Puree O3 Ultra Pure Fish Oil and all of their supplements are tested against more than 200 contaminants with all results published online. Puree omega-3 fish oil offers a high dose of 2,000 milligrams of long chain omega-3 fatty acids, EPA, DHA in natural triglyceride form. Now, I worked out a deal in exchange for sponsorship. They will offer my listeners 20% off the entire store. That even applies to already discounted subscriptions. That means you'll get almost a third off the price. But to get this offer, go to Puree.com slash a Dr. Lion or you can use my promo code Dr. Lion. Don't wait. You'll love it. And what are some of the changes or why do you want to do high intensity interval training? For the listener, they're thinking, okay, well, you guys are, yeah, that sounds like a terrible idea. That doesn't sound like fun. I don't want to do 30 seconds of I'm going to vomit in my shoe. Why do we, why should they do that? So our goal is to convince them to want to vomit in their shoe. Why? Well, the most, so extreme guys really don't do that. Especially the most esoteric answer is, and then I'll list the few of the science and you fill in because I know, you know, these data probably so much better than me, but the esoteric answer is how do you want to live? Do you want to be that frail person that I meet in the hospital bed wishing that you were still the vibrant midlifer? Well, there's this problem in the country. It's called temporal disconnect. This is what I, I've spent my entire career trying to motivate people. Even when people pay me a lot of money to, to go one-on-one with them, people don't always follow through. And, and so the idea of temporal disconnect is it's a banking idea. We cannot see into the future to care about that person. So we do what feels good today, which is skipping our things or going easy on a day. And, and I'm not saying that I have to be intense every day, but you have to put in the effort consistently. But I believe that helps to believe that cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle cycle drives insulin into your muscle all the things happen when you're intense enough that your body thinks that you're still alive our body doesn't know whether you're sitting in a cave in the middle of winter about to die unless you tell it by the intensity of life right right and that is um you know you're asking people to up the ante you're asking them to to train in a meaningful way and i'm asking people yeah to not waste their time and not be a trash compactor with their diet you hear that honey it was basically a shout out to my husband and matt over there uh matt the producer over there um by the way we will be getting him a camera yes and the high intensity interval training in terms of what goes first what goes first for have you seen in your research with women and aging it probably is variable people will often say power decreases quickly power strength than hypertrophy but again i don't even know if that matters muscle fibers decrease it's the power yeah it's the power muscles the power fibers that go first we know that yeah um when you design when you were thinking do you design programs for people or you do amazing when you have now covered those three things where do you think about mobility and how are they maintaining joints um how are they maintaining and preventing tendinopathies because i really think that this listenership would value greatly from hearing about some of those things because that's what seems to take people out of the game it is right they can they can spew out the intense stuff but until they break so when i help people remember what to do i call it facing your future there are four components that i ask people to think about f is flexibility and mobility meaning that the natural tendency of tendons is to get tighter and tighter with age because the covalent bonds between the fibers get stronger and that's why older people are hunched over and shuffling it's because they've lost joint range of motion they lose joint range of motion because the collagen and their ligaments and tendons becomes tighter and so we need to prepare those not only to keep them at length muscles work at a set length to be optimal but also so that they're not so friable if you will so every workout needs to start with a dynamic warm-up where we depending on whatever activity during we're warming up every muscle group and every joint that they're going to use and i have the same little i walk for 15 minutes every time every time before i lift i then do this uh eight or ten it's not stations but exercise dynamic warm-up where it's hip rotations it's inchworms it's deep squats like planting rice in a field deep squats you know you've seen those pictures of people who work like that um it's warming up my hamstrings it's glute activation put a band around my um ankles and activate my glutes if i'm going to go squat or something to get everything going if i'm doing my upper body i'm so it's specific it's specific to what i'm doing that day before i then go do my main course my aerobic so flexibility flexibility uh a is aerobic if that's what i'm doing that day or c is carry a load f-a-c i specifically don't say lift weights because i think you can carry a load in a lot of ways it doesn't have to be under a bar it can be with kettlebells i um i used to prescribe in my first series of prescription only functional and body weight and now i only use those yeah why did you why did you do that because you know uh i evolved we are it's funny right as we go through this all we we evolve because then someone say what were you prescribing before when you say just body weight and by the way that's what everybody wants everybody says i don't want to have to go to the gym i don't have to do they want to do it at home you want to do it at home well and you know what i use those programs um to get people started because if 70 of people in this country don't do anything i have to start them somewhere so we start with body weight we start with getting to know how our body moves and then we add kettlebells or bands and through uh just a series of what i would call mobility and functional and body weight things because if someone who is stepping off the couch for the first time in 30 years goes and tries to get under a bar something's gonna hurt and we don't we don't necessarily want you to do that but we want to get ahead of this we do so if we work people through that stage for a few six weeks three months and then we'll move you to lifting heavy and this is the time when i encourage people to invest in an expert because if you've never done it before there is a technique matters oh where your body is matters so that's the time so carry a load and e f-a-c-e is equilibrium and balance because you can have the weakest bones you can have the weakest muscles and you may be okay until you lose your balance and you fall down when did you start introducing balance training in 2008 okay wow before that was my first book i was thinking this is going to be a later addition to this is in my first vonda wright program but it's not it's always been and probably it would make sense because fast forward um did you ever see the movie it's a wonderful life yeah i mean that's kind of what this this storytelling that we're talking about is basically you're thinking about balance because you see people that are falling and breaking a hip and they're never walking again they're never i know i see the future today do you know that's how i got into social media no i was i did i did geriatrics because i was studying nutritional sciences and the deal was in order to get funding uh and i wanted to work in this metabolic lab i had to do a fellowship a clinical fellowship a clinical fellowship and the clinical fellowship that i had to do at that time what was available to me was geriatrics yeah and part of geriatrics is palliative care yes um i was not prepared for what i saw i was not prepared for what i saw in geriatrics at the nursing home constantly consulting orthopedic surgeons like yourself and um i wasn't ready for it i'm gonna tell you a story and you're gonna you're gonna say i've seen that i was i was talking to one of the icu nurses in the hospital a couple weeks ago and she was telling me about one of her patients she was her patient let's call her aunt minnie i love that aunt minnie um she's 89 she was the lady she was she was old right but she was the lady who still had her driver's license and she was driving around the seven-year-olds and the six-year-olds who weren't as able as her they had this little community of of collaboration she was the able one didn't mean she wasn't frail she stumbled and she fell and she broke her hip and she broke three ribs which puts you in the icu and she was too frail to get cleared for any surgery and so her 70 year old son made her palliative care just to take the pain away so you go one fall away from dead right yeah and it is um you know the the larger conversation is i mean this is so preventable and when we begin to see it is um skeletal muscle as an organ system then we can absolutely change the fate of we can change the trajectory of our future and totally and so i love that you and i have gotten to this place in the conversation because sometimes when when i don't know if this is true for you but i think people see me box jumping and they're like oh it's just about being strong and she's box jumping at her age or they see you lifting and they think it's you're just building muscle mass because you love muscle mass well i love muscle mass but the fact of the matter is i don't want that to be me and i'm not being histrionic no it's the reality of frailty yes and i don't know the statistic but a lot of our old people end up dying in nursing homes absolutely and with increasing levels of sedentary behavior and obesity it's only going to increase sarcopenic obesity and you know who i really worry about i worry about our kids right because the training that they do when they're young influences the satellite cells influences cartilage influences the tendons influences their metabolism absolutely for later on in life we don't even know what it's going to be like if we continue down that road you know my kids train with me i see that they're not that good and that's okay they're little kids as long as they're doing something but i think if we lead by example oh then things will begin to fall into place what do you do for balance training yeah so it is the romberg it is as simple and because i don't do any balance training by the way so this is new for me it's carlos's fault we're gonna have to carlos mana this is your fault buddy carlos we need to stand dr lyons on one leg and do mini squats okay and see if your knee falls into valgus and your hip drops it definitely will do that yeah we are not meant to walk like supermodels we are meant to walk straight we are we are uniped people meaning every time we run we're on one leg if every time we run our knee falls into valgus like an l people who are listening and the hip drops it's causes hip instability it's bad for your back it's you're going to be more injured so what i do for teach people for balance listen when you're brushing your teeth stand on your right leg and the perturbation of moving your arm on one leg is going to retrain your balance the next day stand on your left leg or do tree pose however you get one foot off the ground okay then the other thing i do for the women who come to my retreats is i have our speed coach her name is coach b who works with olympic athletes teach my people agility with the we jump through hexagons over the it's just like you would see in an elite athlete training over the little hurdles we're just teaching our bodies to move faster in a controlled way so that when we need to jump over our bag and not trip our body's used to that that makes a lot of sense for everybody listening um what vonda is saying is get a cardiovascular base lift heavy things you know three to four three days a week how often are they lifting at least two at least two three preferably okay um everyone here can do that push pull um and then you had lower body right push pull squat deadlift deadlift balance training which now i'm gonna have to do yes and flexibility slash mobility would you that's right that's kind of the durability but let's answer the elephant in the room question i get this question every single day but i do yoga and pilates is that enough is that enough and i say that is amazing icing on the cake you do that if you make it makes you happy that is never going to be enough to build the muscle we need to not die frail well since we're going to the elephant in the room i'm going to throw out another elephant okay uh and the other elephant is is walking enough to maintain um strength power all the other things muscle mass walking is a good base but i think you have to sprint so you're what you're saying so you guys vonda right dr vonda right is going on record of saying that walking is not enough exercise listen so you want to know where this elephant came from i'll take anything because people sit around sit around brisk walking sprinting twice a week that's what i'll take fine where did that come from so i two things number one i actually got a lot of heat because i said yoga and pilates was not enough i'm sure you did um i thought that my head was on a chopping block really there could have been darts at my back door um which you and i both know as medical professionals who specialize in muscle yoga and pilates is wonderful it's not enough it's not going to be enough it's not enough to maintain i care about hypertrophy because i care about the metabolic benefits of having mass and it's very difficult to maintain mass for me my patients hypertrophy matters um so how many reps do you prescribe how many yeah how do you do it um well i think that there's a lot of data to suggest that you don't have to lift heavy for hypertrophy as long as you're going close to failure with reps with reps however that can take a long time right we don't have i mean i can't just do 25 30 i mean i'd be yawning the sun would be coming and going my son would pee on the wall it would just be a whole thing yeah i like to see people do you know there's this repetition continuum yeah i mean anywhere from 8 to 15 it's okay probably if they want to do higher rep range and we see that data from schoenfeld and um stew phillips that you know you can do 15 whatever 20 reps doesn't matter but doesn't maintain power in the way that you are talking about right and this yeah and what i'm trying to avoid women doing in particular is picking up the mamby pamby little pink weights and thinking it's enough i don't okay so do a lot of reps but could you pick up a meaningful weight and i think that there's something absolute to be said for that so um that is where the elephant in the room the yoga and pilates which you know again is wonderful and then the other thing is i had a lot of backlash because i said walking was an exercise in the span of a two-hour conversation all about maintaining type 2 muscle fibers oh and you know mass and these type these type of fibers that are necessary for strength the data supports that walking will not maintain these fiber types that's not right so it was taken out of context right totally oh yeah yeah it's like doing an article interview in one sentence is pulled but it was but it was interesting and i think that it exploits the predatory nature of the internet um because you know this is really interesting and i don't want to sidetrack too much but um in order to become an expert you have to go to um you know for your field especially in medicine or health and wellness you have to get an undergraduate education and then you have to get i don't know a graduate a graduate education and then graduate education is not enough right then you have to do i don't know medical school and then fellowship and then work in um the scope and then you know slave away for 10 years or so and then maybe then you become an expert now when we have influencers they get to bypass all the things that would make someone humble i'm just laughing because i'm thinking 17 effing years i did 17 years too yeah took me 17 years it took me 17 years so then what we do is now if you have a big enough following and you're a quote influencer that's enough so you don't actually have to have the humility nor the understanding that you that there's a level of respect none of your colleagues would i mean orthopedic surgeons are a little bit different so i'm going to rephrase that but the reality is um the place at which one gets information matters and also um there are things above and beyond the information that is put out there it's the way that it's said it's the way that it's evaluated and so that's where those two elephants in the room came from not important soapbox is over um but anyway so when it comes to i just want to say yeah listen if you are not if you and i were out to hurt people or to make more money we're brilliant it would be easy but we're not no so when we're criticized online i just swipe right yeah it's a good one i just i i mean there are so many people people can listen to i know that i'm i know where my heart is yeah so i just swipe them off they can listen to whomever they want to they don't have to listen to me and i think it's a good point i think it's a good point um yeah it is it's doesn't mean it's not hurtful i'm like frick our frack i swipe right whatever that's funny um yeah well this actual this clip went viral and it was amazing to see um i think the bigger point is that it divides us so if the overarching goal is how do we get people metabolically fit stronger more capable more resilient then the way to do it isn't to uh create this cancel i mean it's so nonsensical people it confuses people and then and so and then people don't get better or they hold themselves to a lower standard um because i would say and you know i'm not going to speak for you vonda but i think what we're asking people to do is to work hard physically and not because you want to get into your little black dress no because you care about your future yeah that's why we were designed to be under environmental pressure yeah and yes exactly now you and i were talking about you know we've covered your components that you add in tell me about this tendon tendinopathy these injuries there was i was looking at some of the the research because i do want to also get to the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause yes which is extraordinary yeah um when women are in their 40s or 50s it seems as if there is this precipitous decline in tendon health is that true or they get more injuries they get more tendonopathies well here's the background is that sometimes we think of estrogen testosterone progesterone as only sex hormones the fact of the matter is they're just hormones because almost every tissue has receptors for these hormones so why wouldn't the musculoskeletal system have receptors is my little receptor basket i always do this i like your receptor basket if you were in urology they would think it's something else oh you're married to urologist i get that um has receptors right so when estrogen is taken away whether it's an alpha or beta estrogen is taken away none of the good downstream things are going to happen in terms of supporting the collagen matrix or um in the in the in terms of cartilage and tendon none of the things that we use to maintain will go on if the ligand estrogen is not sitting in the receptor so i don't know why it surprises us right why does that surprise us so what i see a lot clinically is i see a lot of tennis elbow in women i see a lot of uh rotator cuff pain without frank tearing because sometimes you know often i will do an mri if they're presenting in a certain way lots of achilles tendonitis out of nowhere they're like i'm not really playing pickleball that much why is my why is my tennis elbow hurting um it's because the normal metabolism of those tissues the support for the collagen is being withdrawn in a precipitous way i have two questions on this do you think that the various receptors and there might not be an answer for this but let's say there are certain individuals that have like tag repeats that are more sensitive or less sensitive to androgens because of their receptor density let's just say that seems to be variable for everybody do you think um you know and this is just kind of us thinking individuals that have lower uh let's say less estrogen receptors in their tendons maybe age better because whatever circulating estrogen it seems that it just seems that there is a vast difference even between athletic individuals as to how their tendons maintain themselves yeah have you thought about that i'm going to tell you this is this is not only do i not know i don't know that anybody knows yeah because there is so little research being done on musculoskeletal aging as it pertains to hormones i can think of i mean the paper i just published has 80 references but they're on all things so to really answer that question you need to sample a lot of people and they don't do i mean there's no studies yeah there's no studies i mean your your crowd may have heard these data that of 450 billion dollars of nih funding for medicine uh 150 million are for women and 14 million or are those numbers wrong for 450 billion 450 million 145 million for women post fertility so when i say to you i don't know i truly don't know that anybody could give you receptor density but isn't that interesting to think you know if we were to think about um who ages better yeah or what why is there such a variation in aging well or is it receptors or is it metabolism totally yeah you know i you know i just think about it because you know when you are beginning to see these injuries why do you think that they're happening is it the the lack of well you know here's a something that has been has been studied in orthopedics not at the receptor level but in every orthopedic clinic when men start showing up with multiple tendon injuries midlife either they're on anabolic steroids or if they're not their own natural testosterone is low oh interesting so we measure testosterone levels and i want to talk about the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause i have the paper pulled up if you want to i do want to talk about what can women do kind of prior if they are suffering from gluteal tendinopathies are there wheeze or tennis elbow what do you have them do and what do you have them do for prevention and what role i have so many questions does hormone therapy yeah into that yeah so when a woman in midlife comes into my office with one of these i don't address the musculoskeletal injury right away we actually start about talking about the fact that you're 45 years old your estrogen is starting to starting to drop precipitously if it hasn't already and then they usually volunteer their their you know do they have a uterus do they have their ovaries status to me then we start talking about all the other things because i find that when i open the door to say we are going to treat you like a whole person not just a tendon problem that it is better for them and so we have that conversation and then it gets around to well why are your glute tendons so inflamed or frankly rupturing off the greater trochanter the gluteus medius rips off the greater trochanter it's very painful or tennis elbow out of nowhere when i put women or i send them off to be put on estrogen or menopause hormone therapy that goes away many times the the severity of the pain because not only is estrogen important for tendon health but it's a huge anti-inflammatory and so it quiets down the fire within but then when people have glute tendonitis or tennis elbow i don't send them to do stretching i send them to do strengthening because both the tendon and the muscle must be able to bear the activities of daily living so we strengthen them i stand women on one leg and in glute tendonitis and see if they can even balance on one leg because every step you take you you spend time on one leg and if you can't balance your pelvis for a microsecond you're prone to injury interesting the the tendon issues why are they more common in women i don't know that they're more common in women or oh let me rephrase that the gluteal tendinopathy oh because women have weak butts okay i do it's true how can you have a weak butt how is that possible i don't know it just happened but i don't think it's true i think you're making that um no no i totally do but the so the gluteal tendinopathies has nothing to do and by the way what we're talking about is your sit bone if you were to sit on your sit bone uh true story i did uh call vonda pretty freaked out although i was very calm because that's my freak out i thought it was your hamstring yeah my hamstring your hamstrings okay so it wasn't my glute but the issue of tuberosity yeah but then you should explain gluteal tendinopathy where is it yeah i could stand up and show people but it is so these these bones on the side of your body where everybody thinks their hips are they're like my hip hurts and they're putting their hand on the side of the body that's actually not your hip at all your hip is in your groin as a purist the joint is in your groin that is the side of your femur so if the femur is shaped like this this is the bone you're feeling your glutes all three layers wrap around the back of you and attach to the side and so the big muscle that we're all sitting on the maximus that does okay for itself it's the medius the middle level that is so critical for balance and propelling and slowing you down that is usually most damaged and it can be tendonitis people mistake it for uh bursitis which is a difference so guys i just want to be very clear i was giving you the absolute wrong guidance and actually explaining hamstring tendinopathy um so please we're gonna talk about that next yeah um but what she is talking about gluteal tendinopathy is on the lateral side of the hip that's correct you kind of feel if you were to rub it there's a bursa there but the glutes are just behind yeah um if you have them but the um if someone were to have that yeah it is same in men and women pretty much has nothing to do with the sex difference so much women tend to have glute tendonitis more and i attribute it not only to the estrogen deficit but literally weak butts okay i mean um so that's number one but hamstring yeah let's talk about that so the sit bone that we're all sitting on the ischial tuberosity three of the hamstring tendons come up and attached to it like this in a kind of a y-shaped i find people get hamstring tendinopathy at the origin which is where it is due to the kinetic chain totally right and and basically kinetic chain is the is the you know from the tip of our big toe through every joint of our leg to the low spine we really are the hip bone connected to the leg bone to you know to function correctly in our gait when we strike our heel we have to bend our ankle enough that our tibia can internally rotate right that then our femur can internally rotate which will then cause firing of the glutes you must have enough motion for that you must yeah yeah i see um what would someone do aside from let's say they they don't have access to hormone replacement yeah yeah if you do wonderful but if they don't choose not to right or they choose not to of women do how many what percent seven percent are prescribed hormones so that's a lot who do not seven percent of women are on hormone replacement therapy or would choose it or would choose it and guys that is it's just because we're not yet over the whi yeah we're not yet hopefully my goal we're getting on another topic but my goal is that for the next generation my daughters and my daughters-in-law are 30 31 that it's going to be a non-issue they're going to know how to choose they're going to know where to get it but right now we're still getting over so when i say that to you we're just getting over it still not there no we are trying there's seven percent are on hormone replacement which is crazy low but i think our patient population that's something that they come to us for yeah very interested in understanding the kinetic chain right would be prevention um what she's saying is don't be stubborn and continue to train on it not that i don't know anything about this nobody i'm just talking to the air maybe my mom is listening to this podcast um you don't continue to train on it really go and fix those kinetic chain movements i think you have to have an assessment by someone who understands mobility it's it's a different science than how do you lift well a mo correcting motion is a different kind of eyes so sometimes physical therapists can do it i have i call them hip whisperers just movement specialists who see the body move in 3d how important is it to have imaging of these things for example x-ray mri so it depends how people present to me i don't get an mri on every hip bursitis or every glute tendonitis right off the bat it depends on how painful it is how long the duration um if they have tried therapy but if they have tried the simple things and they're still not recovering or still in a lot of pain i want to see the quality of the tendon because if it's about to rip off of bone well we have to have a conversation if it is doing something called mucoid degeneration which is tendon uh looks like a a white rope it is structurally beautiful but when it starts to degrade from the inside out because of micro tears tendons don't heal because they have a very poor blood supply right and so you accumulate they don't they don't heal they they don't heal gosh it's so interesting because tendon turnover people think it's really slow but it's it's similar to muscle it's like 1.5 percent per day it's like something it's very hard to get a bad tendon to heal okay so i mean i've never seen it heal but yeah i was gonna i've never i've never seen it heal but it's interesting because the turnover isn't necessarily it would right it's slow it just seems like a um i don't know and if you you know in the lab in the 2000 2000 when i was in the lab of johnny huard we were trying to inject uh um v v e g f it's been a long time yeah jeff to tendons to see well it creates more capillaries but it makes it structurally less sound so we don't want to do that that is the process that happens in tendinopathy not tendinitis but tendinopathy so that tendinopathy is the chronic condition chronic condition where there is mucoid degeneration meaning this gorgeous structural white rope of a tendon becomes kind of like a jelly donut in the middle as i tell my patients and so that's when that's never going to recover it's never going to isn't that crazy what about stem cells exosomes yes exactly kind of opportunities so we have a couple options before i go and ellipse out the tendon and reattach it asking your own body to create the healing response at this point we have orthobiologics which i use a ton of platelet-rich plasma about depending on what we're doing 10 billion platelets injected into the microenvironment asking the body to try to create a healing response i tend to use uh although i tend to go in order sometimes people go straight to stem cells i tend to go platelet-rich plasma first and it's from their own blood it's their own i draw 120 cc's of whole blood from the antecubital vein my phlebotomist does and then we spin it spin off 10 we don't want we don't want vonda to try those veins well if someone has garden hose vase i can hit that but if i can't you do not do not want me coming to all your blood um but then also we have the availability of um mesenchymal stem cells or adipose stem cells which is a little bit of liposuction but because i i'm a little conscious of the cost for people yeah and so i start with prp and then move to because short of that it's a surgical incision ellipsing out the rotten part and if that works but um for you guys listening i think this is a really important conversation we're covering you know we covered what vonda thinks needs to happen if you are in midlife to continue training and i'm also very sensitive to the fact that many people get injured and it's not necessarily muscular injury there's a lot of tendon injury that whether it fully takes someone out of the game whether they rupture or whatever it is if the end point is tendinopathy and you now have to then begin to limit more your box jumps or any kind of activity we have to really think about what are the solutions to that and how do we prevent ourselves from even getting to that place right and those are some of the things that you're talking about now what could happen is that the prp the mesenchymal stem cells that's right i would try because we have them now i would try all the biologics first exosomes we may get hate meal for this they're not fda approved and i don't think they're ready for prime time same with stem cells i come from a stem cell lab do i believe the body is capable of healing itself absolutely do we do i think that we have an have a handle on what kind of stem cells what are the mark cell service markers how many do we need because stem cells gone bad is cancer so and we don't know very risky it you know we don't know the answer do i think we'll get there absolutely just give us a minute we try all the orthobiologics and then if we can't get there gabrielle it does work for hamstrings for glutes to take down the damaged tendon he lips out the bad part and put it down to a fresh bed of healing bone so that your body your bone can heal to the tendon bone heals to tend so how does that work you if someone were listening to this and they're like you know what um and is this the same for so we're talking about hamstring is this the same for any tendon it's the same for glute it's the same for tennis elbow okay wow um they when you say uh ellipse it down is you just strip it down no so ellipsing is you know let's take a is this when you're you're stitching no i make a small incision okay over the area of damage spread through the tissue layers the body is in very discrete layers to the area of damage you can usually see it tendons gorgeous this looks like brown mucus okay with a if you want to know specifically a 15 blade we just take out the badness and then sew the goodness together wow yeah or in the case of a hamstring if this is the ischium the hamstrings are attached like this and they're just very unhealthy very painful tendinosis is very painful i physically take it down again ellipse the damaged part and using little anchors in the ischium that are made out of suture put it back down so that it's sealed down to bone bone then the stem cells from the bone grow into the tendon oh that's interesting yeah tendon doesn't heal to bone bone heals to tendon bone heals to tendon and then is that always successful or does an individual have to change the kinetic chain um and the dynamics of the movement yeah in the rehab process so we give them we give biology a month head start and then we start moving but if we do not change the kinetic chain the movement patterns you will re-injure yourself so that's a really critical part of recovery is not just returning or being you know i get this in runners a lot actually hamstring injuries and runners um because their backs are tilted their hamstrings are too tight and so if you don't correct that you'll just go accumulate enough miles to hurt yourself again and that sounds like a terrible idea right don't go through it twice don't don't do it again i've devoted my life to studying the human body and in all my years of studying and practicing medicine the biggest learning that i've had is you guessed it one size fits all approach does not work especially when it comes to the brain focus is something that i've always looked to optimize for myself and my patients now this brought me to one of the sponsors of the show thesis thesis is the world's first customized nootropic company now nootropics are nutrients found in nature or the human body that enhance cognitive function things like focus and energy and mood thesis has formulas that i have never seen before and for me personally i love clarity and motivation i cycle through them i use them when writing my last book i'm using them from writing this book and they understand that everybody responds differently to nootropics due to natural variations in brain chemistry the good news is they have leveraged years worth of data collection thesis has made the process of finding your perfect blend simple all you have to do is go to their website take a short quiz they'll send you a starter kit with four different blend recommendations to try over the course of a month in addition to customization thesis also offers a free consultation with a wellness coach which is amazing to optimize your experience and dial in your favorite formulas thesis is offering 10 off your first box to get your own customized thesis starter kit go online to takethesis.com slash dr lion take the quiz and use the code dr lion at checkout i have been using element for years i find it really hard to drink water and get the minerals that i need and let me tell you i feel it whether it's cramping or fatigue element has been my solution it is a zero sugar electrolyte drink mix and sparkling electrolyte water born from a growing body of evidence that supports that health outcomes may require higher sodium levels than we're actually getting each stick pack delivers a meaningful dose of electrolytes free of sugar artificial colors and other crazy ingredients and i'm so excited personally that it's getting colder because i use chocolate element in my sugar-free hot cocoa so i definitely recommend that you try it you will never go back go to drink lmnt.com slash dr lion that's drink element.com slash dr lion thank you to timeline nutrition for sponsoring this episode of this show timeline that makes mitopure which is one of the most thoroughly researched products that i have come across in over a decade of peer-reviewed published science this is where it gets really interesting for those following a muscle-centric lifestyle when you increase the health of mitochondria you improve muscle function and overall wellness in adults 40 plus timeline which makes your lithon a has been shown to increase muscle strength and endurance without changing activity now let's say you've been doing resistance training your whole life or you're just getting started today timeline nutrition can help it is a beautiful product line that includes mitopure berry ginger powder things that you can mix into your daily smoothie i personally use their soft gels it's great when i'm on the go and timeline is offering our community 10 off your first order of mitopure i could not recommend a product more again try their starter pack feel it for yourself you said something really interesting about bone when it comes to bone and muscle that relationship yes can you just talk about that i love that so you know medicine tends to be siloed and mechanistic right so people assume that even though muscles live next to bone connected to bone through their tendons they're in their own separate neighborhoods they're not talking the fact of the matter is if we think of muscle as you talk about all the time as the metabolic center of the universe people think that bone it's just the strong silent type hanging off in the corner not talking to anybody the fact is bone is a master communicator and that makes sense why wouldn't our bodies use the ability of bone as an endocrine organ from the top of our heads to the tip of our pinky toe so bone here's an example bone creates a hormone called osteocalcin osteocalcin goes to the brain and helps stimulate the production of neurotransmitters it goes to the muscle and the pancreas and works to increase glucose metabolism if you're a man and have testicles it works on the lidic cells to help you produce testosterone bone is not just oh that's interesting i did not know that yeah osteocalcin it is not just providing structure to an otherwise quivering pile of muscle it is a master communicator and they work together in the same neighborhood such that when you have osteopenia and sarcopenia it's not one plus one equals two it's one plus one equals three yeah it's even worse is that why you know in your paper and i'm referring to this paper you talk about women have an average reduction of 10 in bone mineral density is that why you wrote the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause because again it's musculoskeletal yeah syndrome of menopause i named it that um the purpose of the paper was to put a nomenclature to the six or seven things that that there might be 20 things but these are the things that i've identified so far and my group has identified because women need something to be able to communicate about because if someone came into my office which they often do with eight complaints that is a lot to get our heads around but if they come in and say i am midlife i have the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause and i called it musculoskeletal and not just osteoporosis or not just sarcopenia because it's the whole system working together yeah was that the answer yeah i mean i really i think that this will um put this in the show notes and the newsletter i'm assuming it's is it open access it is we made it open amazing yeah and which guys that means that she paid for it to be available but you know what listen to this this is how competitive i am no are you really you're competitive totally kidding this paper in three weeks has been downloaded 143 000 times i looked it up what is the average download in the best journals jamma new england journal british medical journal 10 000 is the average and 50 of all academic papers are never read by anybody but their author so i tell you that because i'm competitive but also it shows the tremendous need for a communication tool that's why we published it i love it can you summarize this paper for me in what you think that the i mean i can pick what i think the greatest highlights are but from your perspective again as the the senior author on it what what is it so the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause are the five or six diagnoses symptoms that women can present with when estrogen plummets eighty percent of all women will experience the musculoskeletal one of the symptoms of the musculoskeletal syndrome of menopause 25 will be disabled by it it was one of my biggest perimenopausal um problems as i'm an athlete i couldn't get out of bed because of my arthralgia which is total body pain and when you go to a doctor and get a workup mri of your shoulder mri of your hip one percent of the time there is no structural damage and then people are told to go home there's nothing wrong with you blah blah blah so i wanted people to recognize that estrogen is a huge anti-inflammatory and inflammation can give you total body pain it can give you the dreaded frozen shoulder because the shoulder capsule is very sensitive to inflammation and is the that is one of the other things that people will often see with menopause is this frozen shoulder completely but it is an inflammatory problem because men with diabetes who are highly inflamed out of control A1c's will also show up with it in the group besides the inflammatory problems are sarcopenia our osteoporosis is the rapid progression of osteoarthritis before 50 years old men have more osteoarthritis than women as estrogen walks out the door and never looks back women rapidly progress and what happens during midlife women gain 30 pounds or more so the pressure on the joints increases five to ten times whatever weight they've gained so it's just problem on top of problem right so there is rapid increase of arthritis there is a loss of satellite stem cells which puts us behind the eight ball and so we wanted people just to have a way to talk about all that and we fashioned the name after the gyneco-urinary syndrome of menopause oh interesting this is a great a really great paper again we will include it um what has been the biggest feedback from your colleagues on this because again now just to paint the picture you are in the orthopedic realm you are now coming out with new nomenclature essentially what has the i don't know the feedback been from your colleagues well the biggest group that has picked it up are the ob-gynese from across the world isn't that interesting so the chairman of mount sinai in new york is a woman and she had the vision last year to have me come to grand rounds to all of her departments all the musculoskeletal departments um so that's one uh i am speaking in an orthopedic conference in september and they don't know it but this is what i'm talking about and then in in the group that i practice with the houston clinic we're going to train our doctors there is one doctor on the internet who is harassing me about it and get in line i say to him but the rest of them are still yet to learn interesting for the arthralgia component yeah is there a dose specific outcome that we're looking for for example are you going to get or is every woman variable are we going to give a woman a 0.05 milligram transdermal patch change it twice a week in her every woman is variable and and hormones are dosed by symptom relief but if you ask me about bone studies have been done that shows the minimal effective dose for for caring for bone is 0.025 there have been some studies that 0.0125 which is tiny dose yeah um is the minimal effective dose but that being said every woman is different i take 0.0375 some women need 0.075 right out the door and that has to do with their metabolism and they're just their unique biology do you think that there's one um delivery pathway that's more effective for muscle and bone or muscle or bone i don't think we know that what we suggest is transdermal because then you don't have first pass kinetics through the liver that you have with oral and also transdermal estradiol is bioidentical to what your body makes versus orals are synthesized are gathered from horse urine and there are multiple types of estrogen versus estradiol because we can make it in a lab like we make insulin so most of the time transdermal patches is what we suggest most of us do not suggest pellets although that's a big business for the main reason is that you cannot control dose whether it's estrogen pellets testosterone pellets it's in you're stuck that's right um i have seen some uh less than desirable outcomes of that um but if we do creams we can titrate the dose yeah we we also use transdermal um we find that patches are really great yeah have you also looked in to the testosterone side and testosterone treatment especially for bone i mean obviously estrogen is very impactful on bone and what have you found and and do you have general recommendations well the fda's only approved reason to give a woman testosterone is low libido i don't think that's the only reason to give a woman testosterone but that's their party line um testosterone in women starts to decrease in their 40s also so in the same way that estrogen declines the production of testosterone does and so you have lack of energy you have less ability to build muscle um i don't have a dose response way to tell you it's going to take this much cream on yeah no we don't we don't know we don't know right which is so fascinating for example we we couldn't say okay well our goal for testosterone is that even though the range is what is it it depends on the lab but the total testosterone might be up to 45 and yeah i mean you want it to be 50 so ridiculous um but whatever we can't say okay i'm going to give you testosterone we're going to increase it to let's i'm just arbitrarily picking a number a hundred which you don't care about but your free testosterone is three times the you know normal limit you're feeling great but it's interesting because then there's no outcome for muscle do you know what i mean like or studies haven't been done it would be it would be so helpful if we could get a better perspective to use these pharmacological agents alongside of exercise which we we know we need it would just be so fascinating we just don't have studies you know and i don't i don't know do you think we're going to get there i mean i even think on the mail it's a matter of funding right yeah we haven't gotten there so much so yeah we just need some really invested philanthropist to fund these studies because i don't see them coming rapidly from the nih what are you um thinking about next just out of curiosity so typically how this goes is you've probably already how long did it take this paper to write and get out uh i've been thinking about it for a lot of years and finally finally it just with your schedule how did you get that done because i have a brilliant medical student amazing i do because i my the university of uh central florida is next door and so they don't have an ortho department so i'm a a good resource for them and yeah how often um just out of curiosity with the hormone replacement therapy do you think it would change outcomes for people are you pre-treating them prior to surgery is that even the standard of care could that be beneficial you know orthopedics is just getting to pre-treating with nutritional intervention and and protein and carbohydrate carb loading before surgery six weeks of high protein before surgery we are not to the place of hormones although there are a few papers looking at um women on estrogen how they do with total joint oh that's interesting there's a couple papers right it but it's not the field's practice yet um do you think most people are concerned with osteoporosis bones are silent until they break i don't think i was hoping you were going to say that people don't know they have bones until they break unless they're cheekbones everybody knows they have beautiful cheekbones right it's so funny yeah yeah um what are some well number one do you think that the screening is set up in a way that's going to be meaningful to protect women so insurance will pay for dexa scans if the doctors remember to order them at 65. i know it is too late people so i scream from every podium i'm on that let's i just drew an arbitrary line in the sand based on what i see every 40 year old woman needs a dexa scan because i have 24 year old women who have low bone density already so just to bring the people listening up to where my brain is is if we're maximizing air quotes maximizing our bone density by the time we're 30 because that's what the dexa scan does right it compares us to the bone density of a healthy 30 year old but this is what i'm seeing and this is you know some some studies have been done on youth athletes doing dexa scans but here's what i see either girls have been athletes their whole lives we are 52 or 53 years into title nine and girls have been athletes but this was my case i would not have a period for six or nine months because i was so uh relative energy deficient right i was working out so much i had such low body fat until i had my daughter which sounds like a high body fat in the presence of you but it was only 19 which is low for which is pretty low for a woman um you don't lay down enough bone without periods right and so we have an entire generation like that you also then um have a generation of sedentary people who never exercised so they may have had periods but they're not pounding bones they're not building muscle so i'm seeing 24 year olds with low bone density because i get them on almost everybody i've had i've had 28 year olds with hip fractures i've had very young women so anybody i'm suspicious of or has a mother who's shrinking if they're shrinking if they have been on steroids because of another disease and when she means steroids because we have a lot of practitioners and male listeners prednisone we're not talking about and matt over there my producer we're not talking about we're talking about prednisone we're talking about things like that um if you are a smoker if you have autoimmune disease any one of those 12 or so risks i'm using it as an excuse to get a dexa scan so that at least we know what our stance is because if you get to be 65 and your first dexa scan shows a t-score of minus three which means your three standard deviations below what we consider normal frank osteoporosis it is very very hard are the and are the drugs good with osteoporosis is that something that um you prescribed you you send them to endocrinologists so there are many categories of of bone maintaining or bone building drugs but i what i find is at least in social media women are like i don't want to be on pills i'd do anything not to and when you've got a t-score of minus four i encourage them to rethink their decision totally um and you know i was i was talking to um katie who you met katie burns um the makeup artist that makes me look presentable hey katie and we were talking about people with hypothyroidism yes and one of the things that we hear a lot is well i don't want to be on a medication for my life and in my mind i would think okay well um i think that that's part of the internet because if for example someone has low thyroid and it's not going to be recovered right why would we not and people would say you know on the internet well because it's not natural and in my mind it is actually natural your body makes it well um yes so when when we think about that is that people are very it's interesting it's almost there's a very divergent path either people are very medication adverse yeah or um maybe there's 14 15 pills whatever supplements or something whatever it is but i i think sometimes to that what is a medication in your mind i mean your body makes this it's not totally great we've just figured out by recombinant dna technology how to make it for you right yeah i mean the ultimate goal is to be taking um as least amount of supplements medications as possible right you get your lifestyle to uh balance out totally exercise you know it's restorative sleep just because you're taking 15 supplements doesn't mean that that's the best strategy either what's the difference i don't know how people come to you in your clinic but i have AI have a part of my practice called precision longevity and and what people come to me with is sometimes they want to go straight from fine how's your how do you feel fine to biohacking and all the weird esoteric stuff yeah but we have to optimize health before we get to performance before we get to do whatever thing you want to do and i think people skip that a lot of times and not wanting to be unnatural and restore their hormones what people don't know because they're not in medicine is our bodies are in such fine-tuned homeostasis i mean it's a it's a miracle and if you're not making one of the key constituents well we can help you with that yeah and it's not unnatural it's restoring nature and there is the the reality that menopause is coming oh it's inevitable and i think there has to be a little bit i people have to understand that it's coming anybody born with ovaries is going to go through it one way or the other it's coming my surgically how are we going to do it right it's it is an interesting conversation because people will be like i'm gonna you know stay as natural as possible roxy i'm not talking about you um for as as long as possible and you know we're joking it's like that sucker's coming how do you want to do it and and how do you want to end up because you know what i hear that okay you can stay as natural as possible you can choose not to hormone replace that is i believe women are sentient beatings with the agency to make that decision you can then not ask to not be frail laying in a hospital bed with a fracture incontinent with a bad heart and dementia you have to do something to get in front of that whether it's your lifestyle or it's your lifestyle plus hormone replacement but you if you just let time pass that's tough that's like the would you rather you know the books that's kind of yes choose your own adventure yes you know would you rather do these things would you rather train hard or would you rather um you pick it be in a hospital bed what do you think the risks are of hormone replacement therapy at this point you know the book i love best that summarizes the world's literature on this and i know you know these people estrogen matters yeah avery blooming and carol tavris it's the book that changed my life really um it got me in front of the data what do i think the risk factors are even for women that have a history of breast cancer it is not always no but what i think i women in active cancer care that's a contraindication but when you're done it's not always a no and each woman deserves that risk assessment whether we're talking about breast cancer risk cardiovascular risk you know there are some um if you're taking oral estrogen risks of clot especially you have a clot history or you have a predisposition genetically but to blank my point here is the blanket statement of bad good is not actually the answer it is you deserve to have a personal risk assessment instead of just following the crowd that's what we deserve and eventually the idea of following the crowd i think it's going to look a lot different and it will 10 years yes hopefully my daughters yeah hopefully my daughters will the follow the crowd will be healthy vital active joyful long into the foreseeable future one thing that i really love and respect about you that i find extraordinary is that you are also a mom oh and i'm just curious because people probably ask you oh how do you do it how do you maintain all this resilience and i i mean how do you do it how do i do it from a time perspective all of it or an energy all of it so right now your kids are older yeah but there was a period of time you had your daughter at 40 i did you were building a career you were not well established you came out of training at 39 had your daughter you are now entering your career as a orthopedic surgeon with a newborn yes actually what's funny i could show you these pictures uh i was given in the first year of my practice the head physician for the university of pittsburgh football team i was one of the only women at the time taking care of football at that level and i was nine months pregnant i got the team when i was five so there's these pictures of me nine months pregnant uh standing on the football field so my daughter has been around sports her whole life so how do i do it well number one i think for me and for all women you have to recognize your capacity everybody is different and has a different amount of energy and a different amount of capacity and you cannot compare yourself to somebody else i have a tremendous capacity and i've just accepted that and i'm no longer apologetic i do not when did that change when did you stop apologizing for that uh well there's two parts to that story i have stopped apologizing for it when i started extending grace to people who are not as high capacity as me because i did not realize that people had different energy levels or different abilities i thought everybody could do what i did and i would expect that and i drove my teams like that until i came to the authentic self-reflection that everybody's different and i have to meet them where they are that's when i stopped apologizing for my capacity because i was capable of giving grace to other people who couldn't keep up and i think that probably happened around 2018 when i left the university of pittsburgh and went to atlanta to build an orthopedic surgery department it was not only culturally different but the pace of work was different and that's when i realized these are not bad workers they are just different types of workers than me so i'm a high capacity person but that's only part of it i when i first heard of hillary clinton's book it takes a village to raise a child i was young and stupid and i scoffed at that it takes a village to raise a child whether it's a village of your family a village of your girlfriends a village of your family and your girlfriends a village of the nanny that you hire to come at 5 a.m in the morning so the way i did it and and i it's a privileged position to be able to say this i was a surgeon so i could hire a nanny who would come to my house at 5 a.m she would stay until 1 30 and then my parents who were retired came and helped me i am not too proud to tell you that i could not have been a division one football doctor a surgeon at a preeminent orthopedic surgery department building a practice in my 40s all by myself and then when i married my husband uh he took 50 of everything from me and that's not always the case so it has taken a village for me i'm high capacity it's taken a village but i also spend the money on the things that are going to buy me time i'm a firm believer and i see this demonstrated in my sons uh when a group of guys get out of college and get their first apartment they pull their money and they get somebody to help keep house for them women wear it as an honor of bad a badge of honor that only she can do that i thought wtf what are we doing right so you outsource it anything that you can isn't going to be valuable of your time all of those things matter do you find you still put yourself in um crucibles like challenges of resilience and you know selfishly i'm asking for my own yes knowledge um for myself and also to be able to share but you've obviously done really hard things yeah things are easier for you it's just the fact um than probably many people some people it's just true it is now how do you then put yourself in a position of crucible or change yeah i love that you asked that um two years ago i started so i was a runner a lifter right all those things the sports things two years ago i started doing spartan stadium races obstacle course races right we put it all together swing from bars and i was afraid of getting hurt i wasn't actually afraid of getting through the 3.2 miles still i'm afraid for you i'm afraid of getting hurt too so the first one i did i was just so pleased that i got through it the second one i did i'm worried about your arm popping out of socket or any other stuff no i'm strong like i'm not strong as strong but i'm strong i'm strong but so i got through the second one i increased my time blah blah blah this last one i did in tampa because it was 600 degrees i can usually swing through the the rings i have the upper body strength to swing through the rings it was hot it was sweaty i jumped off the steps because women can it's it's high it's like eight feet so i to reach the rings i have to climb up on steps i jumped off i grabbed the first string because i needed momentum to swing across my hand slipped off i'm flying through the air like a starfish and i land on this flank and it's on camera because i was being filmed for a documentary at the time and so i'm laying on the ground like a starfish and something popped in me i could i think it was my quadratus lumborum because i could barely move but i'm like i'm in the third optical of this race i'm gonna go and it just got stiffer and stiffer the whole race but i am not gonna quit i've gotten through this before plus there were cameras on me it was embarrassing do not let the quit in that's right friend lisa always says yes i don't care what age you are you can still do hard things i'm not dead yet that is pretty intense and amazing well i don't know what i'm going to do next i've done i was just thinking well you've already done that i know i don't know what i'm gonna do what what's gonna be the next you know i don't know actually but it's just an interesting thing to think about because comfort kills comfort kills yeah no matter what kills us physically yeah kills us mentally i like the feeling of feeling like a badass i mean maybe that's my ego speaking but yeah totally yeah what is next what do you think is next for you for the industry for the movement my goal is to pivot the conversation that i've been having about women's health to a different place and i think that's what we're doing we're helping to pivot that conversation because i'm offended listen my research is in aging and longevity it has been since 2000 but i'm offended that the national zeitgeist talking about longevity from living long for men is longevity in fact there was a darling gq spread with uh with cluny and brad pitt uh cluny's 60th birthday two guys in the french riviera just looking like distinguished gentlemen aging in a glorious way longevity and men getting older is viewed like that women getting older is viewed as anti-aging and i'm offended by that wow i never thought i love that what's the description i love that yeah everything is anti-aging for women i'm not anti-aging i want to live long and prosper so all of my language is pivoting female living longer to longevity and healthy vital active joyful and frankly being unbreakable if i do not want to be in the hospital bed which i've said nine times now on this podcast then i have to train for longevity power and to be unbreakable in body but also in my mindset and part of that is to stop looking over my shoulder everyone stop looking over your shoulder to worship your youth because you think 20 and 30 was the best time of your life but you just think that because you've not been 40 50 and beyond powerfully said powerfully said what are you doing now and where can people find you yes so the primary place where i am every day is instagram dr vonda wright i'll link everything here yep i show up there every day um i do have a new book coming out in the uh end of 25 called unbreakables great we will have that and when is that coming out probably december of 25 okay yeah great and then we'll have you back on to talk about that i can't wait that is so fun and then you know what i have all kinds of live events for people and so they just need to stay tuned on instagram to see what i'm up to amazing and if they want to see you in practice as a website yes so we send them to your website and you can come see me as an individual both for orthopedics and for precision longevity well thank you so much for spending the time with me you are really truly extraordinary oh it's my pleasure it's a privilege