 There's a couple very hot topics that seem to be trending right now. Seed oils, ultra processed foods, do you have opinions on either? Sure. Let's start with the ultra processed foods. I think the value of the category and the meaningfulness of the category depends upon what one is doing with it. So, if you are a scientist and you are studying social phenomena, and one of them is perceptions around ultra-processed food, fair game, fine. I don't have any concern and criticism and so on. If you are either a person recommending things to others for their health and diet, or you're trying for yourself to choose things, if you're looking for a general heuristic, and by heuristic I mean a way of doing things that might have some benefit, but not a statement about the state of nature, about how things actually work. Meaning, can you give me a more specific example? Sure. If I said to you, or I said to your kids, maybe it might be at that point, they're very young, I didn't want them to go into that wooded area because there's a cliff and a stream and you can fall in and you can drown and there's wells. It's a whole situation. Right. Yeah. And I say, there's evil fairies that live in that forest. Don't go in there. Now, we can have an ethical conversation about... You might now have their attention. Should I be lying? But let's put that aside for the moment. You might say, that's a very effective way to get them not to go into that forest. You might say, well, if that's your goal and you don't have an ethical concern about lying, then you talk about fairies. Okay. Now, if you said to me, no, no, no, I'm actually an epidemiologist and I'm trying to understand the degree of danger that comes from going into that forest or things like that and the causes and effects and what causes the bad outcomes. And so I'm a fairyologist. I'd say, no, you're crazy. You're not a fairyologist. There's no fairies. Allogy is the study of stuff. You can't study stuff that doesn't exist. And Richard Dawkins talks about that. You know, there's no fairyology. So I think that's ultra-processed foods. If I wanted to say to, you know, I remember my dad who was a PhD in math education, very, very smart man, but he always struggled with his weight. Is that how, is that was one of the things that drove you? It got me interested. Yeah. And he said, I remember him, he would say these things. He'd call me up and ask me how many calories is in this and that. And he'd say, look, I'm eating nuts. Isn't that great? You know, because it's all natural. Isn't that healthy for my weight? No, I'm having nuts and a martini. I'm like, well, the nuts are good food, but no, they're a lot of calories. And the martini has some calories too. And that's not really all that helpful for you. But he can convince himself of any nonsense in nutrition if it let him have his martini and his nuts and a few other things. And I think, you know, we can look at these things as just ways of operating. And if it works for you, that's fine. So if I said to my dad, dad, here's the thing. You don't have to learn a lot of nutrition. You don't have to understand what protein is. You don't have to know what a carbohydrate is. All you got to do is this. Don't eat ultra processed foods. And I'll give you an easy way of identifying what an ultra processed food is. And let's suppose he could do that. Which probably not. He probably wouldn't. But let's suppose he did. He probably would weigh less than otherwise. And if that's a good outcome, fine. And if you say, but aha, ultra processing. Now, David, you've shown that ultra processing, at least in your father, causes greater weight gain. No, I have shown no such thing. What I've shown is that telling my dad to not eat ultra processed food led to this outcome. If I said to you, I want you to only eat foods that are in the peripheral aisles of the grocery store, not that you get in the central aisles of the grocery store. And it turned out that you wound up there by eating lots of fish and meat and eggs and et cetera, and not lots of cinnamon rolls. Maybe you would weigh less. Okay. Does that mean if I move the cinnamon rolls to the periphery of the grocery store, they become better for you? Of course not. So just because telling you to eat a certain way leads to an outcome, and just because I can label things as being there, doesn't mean there's anything to do with the causal effect. So there's a man named Schwartz, and he has a book called A Fly in the Ointment. It's a great, funny book. And in it, he says, repeat after me. The effect of substances in the body depends on their molecular structure, not their ancestry. So if you tell me that this food that happens to be ultra processed causes some different effect than that other food that happens not to be ultra processed, I can accept that that could be true. If you tell me that it's because in that food that happens to be ultra processed, this substance is in high levels, and it's not that substance is not in high levels in the non-ultra processed food, I can accept that. It's about the substances. But if you tell me the substances are identical, got the same atoms in this food and in this food, these atoms were collected and packaged through something we call ultra processing. But you are now going to make a claim that the effect is going to be different. I'd say, okay, now we're in feriology land. Now you're in homeopathy. Yeah. You're thinking if you wrap the Bible three times on the tube containing the water, the water has a different effect. I don't think so. I don't think so.