 wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired wired middle aisles of the grocery store. I do all the stuff that you're supposed to do. Whole food, plant-based type. Intermittent fasting? Intermittent fasting, yes. Intermittent fasting has been really big for me. I was never a huge breakfast person anyway. So I like to have my last meal. And here's the other thing too. Oh my gosh, the early bird special. I have become one of those people who loves to eat at 5.30, 6 o'clock at night. I'm over the moon. If someone says, can we eat early? I'm like, yes, please. I love that window between eating my meal and having a good four hours of new food in my belly before I go to sleep. I also sleep better that way too. So that's been something wonderful. And then I won't eat until, so let's say that meal was at 6, 7 o'clock at night. I won't eat until probably noon the next day. So I like to give myself a good 16 to 18 hour window. It's just what works for me. What also works, I would say, well, first it begins and ends with proper HRT if you can take it for your body. I mean, that's a zero-sum game right there. Absolutely. You have got to get your hormones at optimal levels. You know, we're not going into menopause and then dying. You know, once upon a time, you know, people didn't live past a certain age. Now we are living so, so many years past reproductive time in life. And we need that to be optimal. And people always think about, and you may hear this too in your practice, you know, HRT isn't just for mitigating night sweats. Okay. That's right. This is for the long haul. This is for my 80-year-old brain that's still going to be able to solve a Wordle puzzle. You know, this is for the me who's going to be able, like I said, lift luggage and put it in the overhead bin. I'm doing this for the long haul. Yeah, I want to be able to sleep at night. Yeah, I don't want to sweat. You know, absolutely. I want to have, you know, plumper skin and sex drive and all the things that come with it. I want to live great now. I want to live great later. So what does that look like? And that definitely requires medical intervention. Period. Period. Now, how you choose to do that and what that looks like for you is your journey and your expression. Just explore it. I do appreciate the candor on that. And I agree. There's been a lot of information out there that's really done a disservice. What would you say has? For aging, HRT is huge. It's huge. And it is body autonomy, personal choice. We might not be able to say that estrogen protects and solves the dementia. But what we can say is that perhaps we know what deprivation therapy looks like. And could we safely say that this potentially could impact the brain? I don't need to wait until a study says this is going to protect against dementia to, as a clinician, to say, I feel comfortable prescribing this from a cognitive standpoint, from a bone standpoint, from cardiovascular. So totally agree. Hormone replacement therapy. And then lifting. You cannot. You cannot. There's no replacement. Walking is great. Not going to have the same impact. No, not at all. Cardiovascular stuff is great. Fine. But if you really want to maintain a certain body composition, bone mineral density, there are some non-negotiables.