 EPT4, EPT4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, EP4, zone two per se and health outcomes. Now, depending how you contextualize zone two, there could be some evidence to support claims about its effectiveness to boost your mitochondria. But back to your point, you're right. If we look at the WHO guidelines, we have physical activity guidelines that say, if you do this amount of physical activity in this general intensity range, that's associated with robust health outcomes. That's exactly what it said. Improving things like your insulin sensitivity, your glucose control, your blood pressure, your brain health. Metabolic function. Correct. Mitochondrial function. All of them because they're all related to fundamentally to health. And so the general guideline is we should all be doing about 150 minutes a week, that's two and a half hours, of moderate to vigorous physical activity intensity. 30 minutes a day. Do you agree with this recommendation? Well, absolutely. And in the sense that there's very good evidence to support that if people do this volume of exercise, like I say, it's associated with many, many, many health outcomes. I think where we start to quibble or you start to see debates happening is around, well, vigorous versus moderate. High intensity versus traditional moderate intensity continuous. Which is better? And those studies are hard to do, but my contention is that, and I think there's good evidence for this, you know, for a given amount of physical activity, a given dose, there's good evidence that more vigorous physical activity will promote gains in those markers that we care about. You know, those health related markers and arguably the most important one is your cardiospiratory fitness, which we objectively measure with a VO2 max test. But, you know, if, if there's one health metric that people should worry about, I think you could make a really good case that it's cardiospiratory fitness because it's just so clearly related to your risk of dying from all causes, your risk to develop type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, metabolic syndrome, certain types of cancers. You know, it's, it's not a guarantee, but we know that if you boost that number, your risk of all these negative things goes down. So what I'm hearing you say is that 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous activity, which is defined differently by different populations, that the athletic population is really looking for very specific data points. Is that true? Like a lactate threshold? So athletic coaches and athletes are worried about performance. They're not worried about, you know, they, they can do, many athletes can be quite healthy. Many athletes can be unhealthy if they do too much, but you know, fundamentally athletes are interested in performance. Um, and they use those metrics because they provide very good indicators of specific zones where they think they should spend the majority of their training. Right. And so if you're a high level endurance athlete, importantly, not doing 150 minutes a week, not doing two and a half hours, doing 25 hours a week of training, then there's good evidence that about an 80, 20 ratio optimizes performance. So 80% of your time is spent at low to low moderate intensity training and 20% is high intensity training. But again, this is for high level athletes doing 25 hours a week, you know, where I would quibble with the recommendation that that's optimal for everyone. You know, so if you're, if you're struggling to meet the guidelines or if you're just meeting the guidelines, I don't think there's any evidence to suggest that an 80, 20 split is optimal there for you. And again, 80% of what these notions of your lactate threshold or your, or your fat max intensity, which is really hard, I think, for people to, to, to grasp. And then when we start giving these approximations of it, it just doesn't, it doesn't apply well. I don't think that people have thought about it in that way. And what I mean by that is that online, there's a ton of information and it really, there is a line that people are always talking about optimization, optimization for an athlete. Arguably, I don't think that that exists because what I see in my own practice is that the better the athlete, the poorer the health outcomes, because the more they're training, the less they're recovering, they're getting ready to quote peak for whatever that is. But the general population, we are still talking about, people are looking for longevity, buzzwords like longevity. Health span. Health span, muscle span, sex span, optimization. But the information is largely informed not from, I would say, arguably the general population. It's informed the evidence, or I would say the majority of the evidence, at least that I see, is related to sport and performance. And so the populations are different and the danger in saying, well, if we're doing 150 minutes and 80% of that time is spent at zone two training, which if people are arguably not quite conditioned, might not be as meaningful as we want it to be, then are they really getting the health outcomes? Yeah, no, bingo, right? And so I think depending on the person and depending on the metric, you know, 80% of that 150 minutes a week telling people that they should be doing low intensity training for that, I don't think is the best prescription for them. But I would just say, show me the evidence that it is, right? So where is the evidence that three hours, four hours a week of zone two is optimal for your mitochondrial health? And there isn't any. You know, now, I totally appreciate where it's come from. You know, athletes have very high metabolic capacities, right? If you're doing 25 hours a week of training and you're training at that classic 80-20 mix, and there's definitely good evidence to show that, yeah, athletes have, you know, elite endurance athletes have very high metabolic capacities, have very high mitochondrial function. But again, I come back to then just saying, well, that's the optimal ratio for everyone. I just, I don't see the evidence for it. And that would be the, you know, let's talk about the science. What is the science show? I don't know. Thank you.