 Amlip Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho Cho between men and women when it comes to training, whether cycle-based workouts actually matter, and the biggest mistakes women make when it comes to fitness and health. The data was showing us that between kind of late 30s and into 40s, there's this pretty big change in body composition and both physical and mental health. And so we're really trying to understand some of the things that are happening in that space. So if you've ever wondered whether you should be training differently or eating differently or more protein, if your hormones really are to blame, then this episode is for you. Dr. Abby Smith-Ryan, welcome to the show. Thanks so much for having me. And on a Sunday, no less. So thank you for all your time. Yeah, I can't believe we made it happen. So appreciate the time. Yes, and hopefully not the last time. We make it happen. That would be great. One of the reasons why I really wanted you to come on is because you have spent a lot of time and energy in the body composition, in the exercise phys space. And there are a lot of controversies. And I don't even think that controversies is the right word, but there's a lot of information floating around. And at the end of the day, people want to have a better body composition and they want to perform better. I don't even want to say prevent injury, but they want to perform better. And that's really what led me to some of your work. So thank you. Yeah. I always thought body comp was kind of boring, but it's so important. So you are currently at UNC. And tell me a little bit about your background as to how you ended up where you are and really what your lab is focusing on now. Yeah, so I've been at UNC for 14 years. And currently I serve as the associate chair for research and I direct the applied physiology lab. And really my background is as an exercise physiologist. So that's where my training is. But during my doctoral work, also really paired it with sport nutrition. And then coming to a place like UNC really translated that more into, I wouldn't say clinical populations, but overweight, obesity, and cancer, osteoarthritis, to really take that physiology and apply it to help people feel better. And what are some of the things that you're working on now? So where that lasts about five or six years, a lot of my work has translated mostly into perimenopause. And that's not because I'm of the age of perimenopause, but really because the data was showing us that between kind of late 30s and into 40s, there's this pretty big change in body composition and both physical and mental health. And so we're really trying to understand some of the things that are happening in that space and trying to understand and help those women. Would you say that women have been somewhat left out of research in terms of studying them? Yeah, it's funny. When we look at the literature, there's actually a lot of old research on things like RED-S and menstrual cycle dysfunction. So they haven't been left out in that space, but very much from a scarcity mindset of like not enough of fuel and the side effects. And then when we start to look at female-only studies and or women characterizing where they're actually at in their life stage, there's very little research there. And is it because that is just really challenging because the female cycle or even lack of, you know, it's easy to say, for example, that someone is, okay, you were 45 years old. I know that that individual is 45 years old. It's much more difficult to say, this woman's LH is this. All 45-year-old women have a hormone profile of this. We're no longer comparing apples to apples, right? Yeah, I mean, I think everyone will say it's a little bit harder, which is a bit of a cop-out. Okay, I like that. I mean, I think it takes a little bit extra resources and a little bit more time. But honestly, I think it really stems from there's a lack of education of how to study women. And so they're just left out, meaning there is no guidance in the space of physiology of how to track menstrual cycle. What does it mean? And even, especially as a woman, is in their mid-40s that hormonal status is changing. So that variability makes it harder to do research and is often considered a limitation. But that's what we need to study, right? Well, and I think that the next question that I would have is, does it matter? What do you mean, does it matter? Does it matter? For example, would a woman's cycle impact her performance outcomes? Does it impact her body composition? Would that be something that we say, okay, we need to study it? Or perhaps it maybe has minimal effect? Yeah, it's a great question. I think at a minimum, we need to characterize it. We need to state where they're at and what some of those scenarios look like, which we didn't used to do. And I'm even guilty of that. Like our early studies don't say anything about the age or the menstrual cycle status. And so I think some of it does matter when we start to look at and what we know about sex-based differences in physiology, things like muscle fiber type and fatigue resistance and blood flow. So those things will impact our outcomes. I think we don't see as much of an effect in a group level, but it does matter individually. And I think that's more, I mean, we're women and I think a lot of women need not validation, but they've experienced things or things change across the menstrual cycle. And so more data to understand or to provide some onus on that of here's what's actually happening. Do you think that there is the, do you think that the inter variability has to do with a sex-based difference? Again, this is a really broad question. Is it a sex-based difference or is it that, you know, for example, my husband has been extremely physically active his whole life. He has a ton of type two muscle fibers. And let's say I was someone who typically focused on endurance. Maybe I was more leaning type towards type one. Would it have to do with, do we know what sex-based differences the impact of those are versus just training and lifestyle? Yeah. So one, I like this question of, I think there's a lot of debate about sex-based differences and I would say who the fuck cares? Because like really, I mean, yeah, yeah. You know, like I don't need to be compared to a man. I need, we need to understand like, how do we help women? And they're all different. I actually think there's some really great data on these sex-based differences. And the best way I like to describe it is a woman's going to perform high level no matter where she's at in her menstrual cycle status. But I do think there's some contributions that might vary and even muscle fiber types that are different. And so from a physiology perspective, how I would interpret that would be perhaps, so a lot of my work is with high intensity interval training. Perhaps our rest interval needs to be slightly different to see the same adaptation that the research is reporting in men. Wow. So will we see adaptation? Yes. But if we want to hone it in, we might need to alter some of those approaches. Tell me more. That I, I love high intensity interval training and I think that we both have very busy schedules. I mean, bring it on that, you know, you get a lot done. You sure do. In a short period of time. Tell me a little bit about what high intensity interval training is, what you've seen for men and women. Yeah. So a lot of my work started here because of that reason. It's very effective and time efficient. And, you know, we all hear like, we don't have time for exercise. Well, everyone has time for 20 minutes, 10 minutes. Totally. And it's very effective on many aspects of body composition and cardiometabolic health. And so some of our initial work is really focused on 10 sets of one minute on, one minute off. Not because it's the best approach, but it's very easy for someone to go, you can do anything for a minute. Versus a lot of the original really great work is 30 seconds at a percentage of your body weight. People have a hard time doing that. But at that same time, that one minute on, one minute off is, I mean, go hard for a minute. Something you couldn't do for a minute and 20. We've done that in cancer patients. We've done it in OA. We've done it in very obese individuals. And it seems to work for males and females. We also have some really interesting data in an animal model that genetically bred mice that have a paradoxical response to exercise, meaning they gain fat and lose muscle. That is wild. Right? How is that even possible? Well, it happens in humans too. What? They just, then, you know, it's often those are the people that say, oh, you know, you need to count your calories or you're not exercising right. Wait, wait, wait. So there are individuals that would train and have a paradoxical response to exercise? Well, yes. The hard part in the lab is you can't control everything. So we looked at it in a mouse model. And for the listener, mouse models are very easy to control. You control their entire environment, what they eat. They're living in sterile environments. It's very challenging to translate that to humans, but it is a basis for where science often starts. Yeah. And I am not an animal researcher, but partnered with a geneticist. And it seemed like that hit response when putting mice through hit training, they actually then responded like they should. So if you take a genetically bred mouse that gains fat and loses muscle, they actually were able to gain fat, or sorry, lose fat and gain muscle with hit, especially in women. So that was enough data for me to say, okay, using this model as we go on is a really good model if we want to try and look at some of these physiological adaptations. And did that, and now you've done that in humans? We've done it and we did it before that in humans and continue to use it as a really good stimulus for lots of different changes in muscle, body fat, not as much depending on, there's a nutritional component there, as well as things like insulin sensitivity, fat oxidation. For the high, have you ever spoken to Martin Gabala? Not directly, but a huge fan of his work. We love Martin. He's amazing. And we talked to him a lot about high intensity interval training. He is, for those of you listening, he's just, I would say he's the ultimate OG. Yes. In high intensity interval training. And the, I want to highlight a little bit about how one could make this effective and as how it would also work. So for example, if we have someone listening to the show who has never done high intensity interval training, could you make a recommendation as to how one would begin? Yes. And I love this question. The very first study I did at North Carolina was interval training in overweight and obese men and women. Perfect. And our ethics committee basically said, you can't do this. They won't be able to do it. Like physiologically speaking, that's not true. And so we finally got it through. And in reality, it's all relative to where someone is starting. And I say that, like we have done it in bone marrow transplant patients before transplantation. Meaning anyone can do it. It's all relative to fitness. So someone that's starting out, if we do it in a very non-scientific way, essentially, we would start, try and aim for five to six times of one minute hard, one minute rest. And that could be a standstill. It could be an active recovery. That one minute, ideally, is something that you could not sustain for a minute and 20. It's hard enough for you where you finish and you're like, oh, I really need a break. And would we say that it is, you know, just taking some of the signs out of it? I know it sounds weird. No. Because my mom, let's say my mom, my mom is 72 years old. I recently posted on her that she was 74. She was very upset. And I said, listen, Lenny, you look great for 74, but even better for 72. And if we were to say, I need you to do high intensity interval training, I want you to go at 80% your VO2 max. No, you don't have to do that. Okay. Yeah. So like, and we've done it both. We've actually done this similar protocol within a family medicine clinic to see how feasible is it for people to do at home. And the biggest translation is if you come to the lab, we would do it very prescriptive based on VO2. If you do it at home, it might be slightly less that we would prescribe. So it just takes a little bit longer to see effects. But as you know, with Dr. Gabala's work, really after one or two sessions, there's metabolic adaptations, which is really important, particularly for someone like myself. I want exercise to feel not easier. Like if you're doing it right, it should be hard. But when you're done, life feels better and easier. And with HIIT, those adaptations are so much faster. And so for someone like your mom, it's going and doing an exercise that brings your heart rate up. And like I said, doing something that you couldn't sustain for longer than a minute. And that could be, you know, a lot of times we worry about joints. It could be on a bike. It could be stairs. It could be any method that just elevates heart rate more than you could doing more of a sustained exercise. And for some people, you know, you're talking about cancer patients and before they do bone marrow transplants, it could literally be sitting down and standing up from a chair. Walking. Yes. These things. And it really is individual. Absolutely. Does one have to push harder than that? So for example, let's say, you know, some of the initial work is the Tabata style where it's 30 seconds on. I mean, when you go all out, you cannot, I personally cannot go 100%, which is, I know, different than high intensity. I cannot sustain that for a minute. Yes. And I think it's good. So I think this also brings in some of the sex-based differences. Now you brought up the example of, you know, maybe you had more endurance background, but a lot of times, women do tend to have more type 1 muscle fibers, more oxidative. Do we know why? Um, do we know why? I don't know why. I mean, some of it is, is more, um, it's maybe not direct, but also related to fuel utilization, hormones. It's not a cause and effect though. Would we say that if, um, a woman and a man were to train similarly, would you then negate the fiber type differences? So I guess the bigger question is, are we talking about untrained individuals? No. Um, so I would say to answer your first question, can chronic training overcome some of our baseline genetic differences? Absolutely. That's why we train. Um, but women tend to be more fatigue resistant and have more type 1 fibers. And so it goes back to your all out. I'll use myself for example. I was probably meant to be an anaerobic athlete, but I was an endurance athlete. You were? Yeah, I ran cross country and track in college. Um, but I can't go all out. I have one pace and I could go forever. Well, it's fast, but I also can't, you know, um, and so something like a Tabata style, I could do that again and again. Uh, but it's about the same pace that I would go for a minute. And so some of those oxidative adaptations vary. And so essentially, also you have to think about a minute is slightly different adaptations than 30 seconds when we talk about energy systems. So if we talk more about cardiometabolic health, a lot of times that slightly longer exercise bout can result in some of these mitochondrial changes, fat oxidation changes that might be better for insulin sensitivity, glucose regulation. Hydration is so important and we typically recommend half your body weight in ounces, which makes a lot of water to drink. I struggle to drink straight water, so adding in element has been key for me for a number of reasons. I don't get enough electrolytes in my food and when I am drinking just water, I swear I don't seem to recover as well. Element has been great for me and my family with a thousand milligrams of sodium, 200 milligrams of potassium and 60 milligrams of magnesium. I have less headaches, muscle cramps, and you know, it tastes great, especially with iced tea. Get your free element sample pack with any purchase at drinklmnt.com slash drlion. Also, try the new Element Sparkling, a bold 16-ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water and you can try it totally risk-free. If you do not like it, they will refund you no questions asked. I will also say they have a very high reorder rate. Head over to drinklmnt.com slash drlion. And what I'm hearing you say is that there may be some benefit to doing more, is that what you're saying? That there may be some benefit to doing some more endurance or we shouldn't even define it that way. Because when people say endurance, I know that they are thinking zone two, 45 minutes, and I see you nodding your head and meaning that you, we are probably very much in alignment. I do not believe that people need to be doing that from the data. There are multiple ways to improve fat oxidation, endurance, mitochondrial, mitogenesis, all without doing zone two. 100%. Zone two is having its crazy in the spotlight moment. Yeah, I shouldn't admit this, but I was on a podcast and someone was like, what do you think of zone two? I was like, I don't even know what that is. Like, what do you mean by zone two? Moderate intensity? No, I think people should do moderate intensity, you know, kind of low intensity duration exercise if it's good for their mental health and they want to, you know, add some exercise. But that is not, I actually think it's harder on the joints. I agree with you completely. And that is probably music to people's ears that they do not have to do long bouts of, quote, endurance type training with to not, to, they are still able to get the same adaptation with high intensity interval training. Well, yeah, and that honestly, that's why we've continued to study HIIT because the best way to describe it is if I was just going to do endurance training or zone two, it may take me 12 to 16 weeks to see any sort of cardiovascular benefit. And that's if I'm doing it right. Most of the time people are still too low of an intensity. Whereas with HIIT, we see changes in three weeks. Tell me what changes you see. We see improvements in VO2 max and a lot of times people think that's just related to fitness. But VO2 max is the number one indicator of cardiovascular health. So a lot of times that's what we want, quality of life, functionality. We see improvements in muscle. Actually, our lab was one of the first to show that HIIT can increase muscle. Quality or amount? Both. It does depend on the mode. So for instance, our work was with biking and obviously that places a bigger load on the quad muscle. And so we saw improvements in muscle size, but more importantly muscle quality, which we know is often the bigger target. And when we define muscle quality, I think in the literature that it's defined by strength, but are we talking about muscle biopsies and actually looking at the tissue? It's a good question. So we do mostly non-invasive work and there is a way to measure muscle quality of strength over the amount of muscle. We use a couple different approaches, one being ultrasound. And the best way I like to describe it is would be a low muscle quality would be more similar to like a ribeye. fill a fat infiltration connective tissue versus a fillet leaner tissue. And you can do that with ultrasound. We also use a technique called PQCT, which is basically a CT scan of the quad and MRI. Which those are the gold standards. So MRI for sure, most people don't use CT, so that is certainly more advanced. And then ultrasound for the listener, it seems to be, there's a variation depending on who uses it, right, it's user dependent, technician dependent. But I think that's amazing. Yeah, and a lot of my work's fairly beginning was to look at the reliability of that technique and validity, meaning, is it actually measuring what it's supposed to be measuring and how sensitive is it? So like when we think about a lot of these changes, we're understanding if it's actually a real change or if it's coming from measurement error. And we've got it where it's coming from change. That's tremendous. And that is so incredible when we're thinking about how do we make the world healthier? And what are the actual tools? How do we make exercise more prescriptive? Absolutely. When you are, because I know also previously you've done work on DEXA. And I do want to circle back to the DEXA imaging versus CT versus MRI versus using ultrasound, looking at muscle quality. I want to finish up really quickly with HIIT. But when someone is improving, would they, once it becomes easy to do that minute of biking, how can someone self-adjust? Yeah, well, two things. This goes back to your other question. If someone is doing HIIT every day, that means they're not doing it right. Like you really should only be able to do it, I mean, I would say max three times a week. And there's good data to say that too much is not good. And every day, I mean, think about it, some days we're more tired, which is a good... I don't know what you're talking about. And then you pan to the multiple energy drinks from every single company you could ever imagine. I mean, some days you might not be able to do as many intervals and you adjust that way. Your body's still adapting. And that's the best part about it is no matter how fit or unfit, you can still do it. And so it's more of self-regulation. It's great to measure your heart rate if you can. Another good way is breathing rate. So it goes back, like do something that you couldn't do for a minute and 20 or a minute and a half and that's a good intensity. So the listener is going to be doing this. They're going to do it three times a week and they're going to do it for 10 minutes. Is that fair? One minute on or are you going with 20 minutes? Where is the amount of time for the outcome of can we pick body... So could we pick body composition, VO2 max? Would it be fair to pick all of those? Yeah. I mean, I think my key outcome is usually VO2 max because that's telling us then there's cardiovascular adaptations, which is what we're training. And we've shown that something like five or six bouts is enough. but even if someone starts with four bouts, if they're really sedentary... A week? Four minutes. Okay. So eight minutes total, they'll see some benefit. Now, working towards that 10, so 10 minutes of work, but it's a 20-minute workout, tends to be a really good sweet spot. Doing that a couple times, we have data showing twice a week over three weeks will show adaptation. And other labs show that even one or two sessions will result in some of those changes. And if you were to think about the hierarchy of importance, would you say that that would be critical as opposed to... You know, I don't want to say as opposed to resistance training because we're clearly laying out that this is not time intensive. Yeah. And that if you want to improve your cardiovascular health, you can do high-intensity interval training. You could do it twice a week for the more untrained you are, the bigger the benefit you're going to get. The more trained you are, obviously, you're going to probably have to push yourself. Yep. But I think everyone can do that. Mm-hmm. The outcome you look at is VO2 max. What would be the secondary outcome? Yeah. So, I mean, I think that's the... We are also seeing some support on muscle as well as some initial work that shows that maybe there's a reduction in visceral fat, which is hard to... It goes back to just the mitochondrial changes. We often don't control diet high-level. We control kind of acute feeding because of feasibility, right? Obviously, diet plays a big role in body composition. And I like to create studies that have a very translatable and feasible outcome. And so, by just making some small changes around HIIT, we do seem to see some changes with a loss of fat, particularly around the abdomen, so the visceral fat as well, and some slight improvements in muscle size and quality. And that's without HIIT or resistance training. Would I recommend not to do resistance training? No, but we have seen that too. Obviously, I am not in the space of academia anymore. I mean, I still work and collaborate on studies, but we did see that. When I was doing research, we saw improvements in muscle hypertrophy with high-intensity interval training, and that is separate than resistance training. Yep. Which is, when we think about barriers, anyone can do HIIT. You don't have to have access to a lot of equipment. And so, it's a really good way to add into training. Now, if you have body composition goals, it would be beneficial to add in resistance training. But HIIT is a great, you know, I would say it's hard to lift heavy every single day. And so, HIIT is a good way to kind of integrate within your daily routine. Was there anything surprising in the research that you found that was unexpected in looking at high-intensity interval training? Yeah, one thing comes to mind, that first study we did where our ethics board said you couldn't do it, we did a little survey of enjoyment. So, here are these untrained, overweight, obese men and women. And they significantly enjoyed it. And the more they did it, the more enjoyment they got. And to me, as a physiologist, it was really important to see, well, if you teach them what it feels like to be hard and that it's a good feeling, they actually start to enjoy it. And I think you can start to feel the benefits. Like, you walk up the stairs and you're not as winded, you can get out of bed easier. And so, that enjoyment piece, you and I both know sometimes it's really hard to get motivated to go do the workout. Are you kidding? I'm already bitching about it. So, tomorrow morning, maybe you'll join me, 645, we will hit the gym, and I'm already bitching about it. I already know. I already know. I don't want to get up to do it. Well, I will absolutely join you. I'm glad you said that. But no one ever finishes a workout and says, oh, I wish I didn't do that. And so, it's that piece of that adrenaline and those endorphins that people actually feel, which I think is great. So, we can increase that. And then the other thing that I've seen is, we've literally had to wheel people to the bike. So, like, individuals with osteoarthritis, or like I mentioned, bone marrow transplant patients. We saw that if you can increase VO2 max prior to transplantation, it actually improves mortality rate. So, it directly helps with success. We've published that. And then those OA individuals, it actually reduces pain. So, a lot of times people say, oh, I can't bike. I have knee pain. But in reality, because of the strength of the muscle and the range of motion, there's some metabolic changes that helps with inflammation over time and reduced pain in these kind of non-functional individuals. And you mentioned something earlier that it really is, it's interesting because high-intensity interval training, you provide the stimulus and the benefit actually is pretty, acute. It happens quickly, meaning you'll see changes, I don't know, immediate and two to three days later. Is that fair to say? Absolutely. And I think the hard part, I mean, coming from a distance runner, like you want to finish a workout and feel exhausted. Now, hit, you do, but it's hard to believe 10 minutes will do that. But in reality, there's not a lot of caloric expenditure. There's a lot of glycogen utilization within the workout, but a lot of the changes come within the 24 to 48 hours after. Two things here. You often see people will do a high-intensity interval training workout and maybe they'll go to Barry's Bootcamp again. But one thing that you said that if you are able to do these things multiple times a week, you are not doing it hard enough. Well, it's just maybe not interval training. Like, Bootcamp is not quite the same as concentrated, high-intensity interval training. That doesn't mean there's not benefit, but... Always benefit from a intensity standpoint. Because what you're really talking about is exercise intensity. Right. And if you are working intense enough, you are not going to be able to do this multiple times a week. Right. And nor should you. Nor should you. Mm-hmm. And that's one other reason to thank one of my all-time favorite products, MitoPure, which is made by Timeline. If all companies operated with such scientific rigor and integrity, the entire supplement landscape would be changed. And why I love and have used MitoPure forever is because I trust their science and I felt stronger and have more endurance since being consistent with MitoPure. Now, MitoPure is a precise dose of a postbiotic urolithin A. It works by promoting an essential cellular cleanup process that clears out dysfunctional mitochondria. AKA your cells battery. It's the only urolithin A supplement on the market clinically proven to target the effects of age-related cellular decline. From my perspective, it is the ultimate in muscle and whole body health supplement. The current human data supports its benefit for muscle health, strength, endurance, and frankly, I wish I had come up with it myself. And Timeline is offering 10% off your order of MitoPure simply by going to timeline.com slash lion. That's T-I-M-E-L-I-N-E dot com slash lion. You mentioned glycogen utilization, which is a storage form of glucose. Many people, I think, by unintentionally counterbalance any weight loss goals goals or progress they could make because they finished those workouts and then they will pound smoothies or a lot of high-carbohydrate food. I'm curious as to your thoughts on that because we are using some glycogen doing these high-intensity interval trainings, but do we need to post-training fuel in a significantly different way? Yeah, I actually think of it differently because I feel like most people go into exercise under-fueled because they're trying to exercise to lose weight, which then can impact adaptation. But yes, if our goal is body composition and muscle, we don't want to refuel. I mean, we want to refuel, but it doesn't have to be all carbohydrate. Those changes to muscle glycogen result in some of those mitochondrial changes for the better. Helps with that glucose regulation. Do you want some carbs? Absolutely. Should it be all carbohydrates? No. I mean, that's where some of the amino acid and the nutrient timing work where we've spent some time comes in. How do we optimize that? Do you think it matters if it's very close to post-workout versus within that 24-hour time frame? I feel like this is a hot debate right now, which is so funny. So I think, and I'll have a bias, a lot of our work is showing that pre-exercise nutrition, particularly for women, is maybe more optimal. But we have to look at the bigger picture. A lot of that post-workout fueling. One, it depends on the duration of your workout, the intensity, and when your last meal was. So if someone goes into exercise fasted, which I would not recommend. See, I train fasted all the time. You do? And I've trained fasted my entire training career. Well, then we need your secrets. I'm happy. Yes, I'm happy to share them. Yeah, always. So if you then are fasted, then you'd want to fuel more quickly after your exercise so that you can then replenish your stores, or at least have, I think, more of it from a protein synthesis side. You have amino acids available. Yeah, and I was talking to Don Lehman about this, and, you know, based on his work and kind of the collective data so far from our perspective, as long as it's, unless someone is totally untrained or perhaps has a lower protein diet, the anabolic window, it just seems that it might not matter as long as you're getting it in within that day. I guess I don't know that literature. It seems that what I have seen is within a couple hours is most optimal. But again, it's not, it does depend on when they ate last. And I think about more practically speaking, and maybe you can speak to your experience, but if you train fasted and don't eat for several hours, someone who chronically trains, you're not going to see as much of an effect, but you'll probably be more sore. So then are we trying to optimize recovery? And so I think it comes down, like, will you be fine? Absolutely. Especially if our goals are VO2 max. I'm at a space where I want to optimize body composition, or I don't get to train as much as I want. And really the response is why wouldn't you eat? You know, like you need to eat anyways. Will I add an added smoothie? No, but I'll add a meal so that then my nutrients are available when I need it. Do you think that there is the, and again, I know that you're doing a lot of this work right now. Again, the discussion we hear a lot and I think in our space is men and women. Where are they the same and where are they different? Let's say post-menopausal women who now potentially, it's so difficult. We just have to say that, listen, we are trying to make it black and white, but the reality is, let's say someone who's post-menopausal does that now make her equal to her male counterpart at that age? And it doesn't. It's just, it's so challenging. It is challenging. And everyone has different goals. And so, I mean, I think with women, what I run into and what we're seeing is that many of them aren't fueling because they have this desire to lose fat mass. But what it seems is if we have some protein or amino acids prior to exercise, in comparison to fasting or carbohydrate, they have, they feel better. They can do greater volume, greater intensity. So it's more of an indirect effect, whereas a lot of times women come under-fueled and then they don't feel very good. And they have a hard time recovering. And that makes a lot of sense. Do you see individuals, they say, you know, I'm looking at some of my notes here. Many individuals say, I hit menopause and now I've gained weight. And I think that some of your research shows that it really is focused on lifestyle and perhaps less of metabolic changes. Can you speak to that? Yeah. I mean, that's what we're trying to figure out now. There is a very real data that shows that women hit menopause and they do gain weight. And we're trying to see what kind of weight. And it does seem to be, yes, they gain fat mass, but more, I think importantly, they lose muscle. And so when we start to think about approaches to that, how do we handle it? And also thinking, I think more from a practical standpoint, chronic exercise seems to help with that, meaning the sooner you can start to train, the better. And I say that because a lot of women, I mean, we all feel guilty when taking care of ourselves. I do not. I don't. Well, good. You do not want to talk to me unless we've gotten some training done. We're just, we're not going to be friends. Well, maybe it's not guilty. Like, yes, I'm going to prioritize my training, but we have a lot of other needs that are pulling at us. And so prioritizing our exercise can help us in the long run. And it does seem that something's happening in that perimenopause window. Yeah, I agree. And I, I want to, and I actually really struggle with this because I worked on some of the early studies in the early 2000s with Dr. Donald Lehman. This is the kind of the first group looking at, he looked at perimenopause, postmenopause. These were largely untrained individuals and we couldn't find a difference. in terms of when diet and exercise were controlled, again, they were new. They were able to lose comparable amounts of weight, maintain lean mass. We were using DEXA. Again, for the listener, DEXA is not sensitive. It's an extrapolation of all lean mass and skeletal muscle mass is a portion of that. And I personally want to believe and I'm sure that, I don't know, maybe we'll find something because some women go through menopause and everything changes. And then some women go through menopause and they're great. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, so very preliminary what we're trying to and what we're seeing now is trying to understand some of these metabolic rate changes and is it driven by muscle size, quality, hormones, exercise. This is very early. but a lot of it, those women, we've seen women with resting metabolic rate of 500 calories, which is crazy. And when you ask... Is it accurate? Do you think those are accurate measures? We're also adding doubly labeled water to try and get that accuracy. So there is some variability, but it's very different than what you would expect for someone in that size. And it seems to be more driven by their lack of eating, meaning like they might be fasting for most of the day, which makes a little bit of sense. I don't think it's the only thing, but I take that in a way of we should be fueling our bodies and if the less you eat, your metabolic rate might come down. And I think we see more of that behaviorally because body composition is changing. But it speaks to something we said before. How can we optimize it? One of the things that we know mitochondria are the best way to help with that metabolic rate. And if we become very efficient, meaning if we do zone 2 training forever, your mitochondria are very efficient. And so doing things that make them less efficient, things like interval training, we look at a lot of high intensity resistance training, just stimulating the muscle and the mitochondria in a way it's not used to can help with support that metabolic rate. That is fascinating. When you are thinking about, you know, one of the things I love about your science and your work is you do make it very translatable. So it's not mechanistic data and then trying to make broad generalizations, but really trying to translate good work to the world. If you were to say, okay, ladies, listen up, you've gained central body fat or men because men, you guys, you know, you're not exempt to this and you said, I want you to do this kind of training program. Let's take an untrained individual or even, we could say untrained or even beginner training that now needs to push themselves. I've heard you mention high intensity interval training. I also heard you mention high interval resistance training. So I want to talk about that and then straight up resistance training. How would you think about putting it all together? Gosh, I mean, this is very simple, but doing something is better than nothing. Always. Yes. So, and adding HIIT training, interval training twice a week and then resistance training at least three times a week is where I would start. Do you care if it's full body split? Do you care if it's compound movements? You care if it's machines? Where are you at? I mean, I think if we're starting it doesn't matter. But yes, you want to hit the larger muscle groups. So think about your quads and your, like big movements are where I would start. We need to remove barriers for people that are training. So adding a stimulus to the muscle is the first place to start. Perfect. What about, so what about high intensity interval resistance training? Yeah, so high intensity resistance training, the only difference it is is it's, and what that is, it's progressive resistance training. So the load is usually six to eight percent or six to eight, one RM, six to eight percent. So like, you can only lift a weight six to eight reps is the load that you want with short rests. So about 30 seconds in between each exercise or each rep. And the reason that we do that is just time efficient and it's heavy. So we see a lot of people, obviously the first six weeks are usually neuromuscular changes of people. And what does that mean for the listener? That just means you should, if you have never lifted weights, you should expect to see increases in strength and load quite quickly. It's your body's ability to lift that weight, kind of activate those neurons. It's not morphological. It's not necessarily coming from the muscle itself. I think sometimes people are scared, especially women, of like, oh, I shouldn't be able to lift that much weight. But that's normal and we want that heavy load. So they're afraid to, what you're saying is that the tissue changes don't happen. So the morphological fiber type changes don't happen. But the ability to generate force and lift those weights, you said neuromuscular. And for the listener, is that the brain connection to the muscle? Yeah. And I mean, one thing to think about, a lot of people are worried about lifting weights because they're going to gain too much muscle. Oh my gosh. Wish I could have that. I'm still trying. Can we please end this? Yes. We have to. Never again on any other podcast or any women. You will not get bulky ever. I wish we would. I'm trying. I know. I'm still trying. I guess I got to start fast and exercise. So is my friend's from Matt. He's still trying to put on muscle over there. That is, the first six to eight weeks are, is that, again, and the idea of muscle memory. It is not that, is it? No. It's your brain's ability to recruit more muscle fibers, essentially. And so, the more trained you are, the more motor units you can kind of attract to allow those muscle fibers to contract, which will allow you to lift a heavier weight. And that's a good thing. That means you can carry more groceries. Or more children. Or more children. Absolutely. And those happen, like if you've never exercised or resistance trained, those will happen quickly. Now, if you're someone that lifted when you were younger and then start again, then it maybe is not six weeks. Maybe it's closer to three to four. And I say that because a lot of times people will start lifting and then pick one load and keep that load for a long time. Is that a mistake? It's a mistake if we want to maximize the effect of our workouts. We want to progressively load the muscle, which also indirectly helps the bone. And what you're referring to is progressive overload? Yes. And then I'm sure that there's also progressive stimulus. Whether it's, and I was talking to Dr. Jordan Shallow about this and he really opened my eyes to this idea that it is, it doesn't always have to be load because eventually you're not going to want to squat more than 250 pounds. I mean, maybe, but you might risk No, then you're worried about your back and your joints. You might risk getting injured. Man, women have it rough from joint pains to pregnancy. It's one of the most challenging times for the female body and there are a lot of demands placed on the body with the growing needs of the baby. 95% of women in the perinatal stage have nutrient deficiencies. Most prenatal vitamins include the bare minimum nutrition based on outdated guidance and stale research. Needed offers better nutrition products and there are so many supplements out there it can be hard to know which one to choose and Needed is a great option. It's recommended and used by more than 4,000 women's health experts from nutritionists to midwives, functional medicine doctors, OBGYNs. It was clinically developed based on insights from collective practitioners over years. Their products offer the form of nutrients your body can use dosed at optimal versus bare minimum levels. They also go above and beyond with third-party testing. They test every batch to ensure the safest product. Needed offers wonderful nutrition for women from conception to pregnancy to motherhood to menopause which man there seems like there are a lot of problems that come with that. So there is so much that you can't control. Let's control what we can and nutrition is one of those things. Needed's prenatal multi is available in capsules and easy to take vanilla powder that's perfect for nauseous moms or those with pill fatigue. Needed offers premium supplements for every stage. Supports egg quality from lactation to conceive to breastfeeding moms sleep, stress, support. The list goes on. And if you are perimenopause or menopause they have stuff for you too. Head over to Needed that's thisisneeded.com and use the code Dr. Lion for 20% off. Head over to thisisneeded T-H-I-S-I-S-N-E-E-D-E-D and use the code Dr. Lion for 20% off your first order. What is one of the biggest misconceptions from aging perspective? I was going through much of your work and I really focused on your work regarding women but you do look at both men and women and is there a training misconception midlife that people continue to perpetuate that maybe holds them back from their goals? Yeah, I mean a lot of my early work we studied an older group with males and females with resistance training and HMB which is a leucine metabolite. It is and I think the biggest misconception is that you can gain strength and muscle no matter what age you are which is really important like it's never too late to start and we should be empowered by that. You guys hear that? Which is an interesting statement so it's not that you know people are doing it wrong they're just not doing it at all. Or not doing it with enough of a stimulus you have to have you know sometimes you have to lift something heavier than what your normal day-to-day looks like and then once that's easier you've got to continue to progress that load. And load does it matter if someone lifts heavy or and obviously heavy is all relative tell me about that. Yeah I love this question and actually a study I hope to do is the the messaging right now is lift heavy weights but for everybody you think? I mean that's the messaging but I think I have a little bit of a problem with that of what does that mean and I think people could be intimidated and it could be harmful like if you lift too heavy I'd like to know what that threshold stimulus is and really I mean that's a lot of it of what is your baseline strength and how do we have a slightly heavier stimulus than what's your baseline strength and then we could continue to to provide that stimulus or for someone that trains regularly like I don't always progressively overload my goal is to maintain muscle and and sometimes increase it depending on where I'm at in my training cycle but it it's not largely a lot of load it's volume it's intensity driven I am number one surprised that this is still controversial it's a it's a bit surprising when you look at the various groups I would say that we probably both agree that when you find data and it comes from multiple groups over a period of time we now have a collection of literature and from what I've seen the collection of literature doesn't indicate that we have to lift heavy weights to still make progress and yeah even in the geriatric world you look at some of Stu Phillips work it is not about the heaviness of the load it's about the increase in stimulus yeah which can also be and you're saying this but can also be tackled with volume absolutely which is important do we believe or do you think that we will ultimately find differences between men and women and again perhaps when women are younger it's maybe there is you know from a protein perspective when children when our kids we have young kids when they eat protein they're very anabolic whether it's five grams or ten grams again we don't do muscle biopsies on kids we're not studying kids but what we can see from the interpretation of the literature surrounding them is they're very anabolic less intervariability whether it's a male child or female child where do you think the differences are that we know from a scientific perspective versus where we think they are it's a great question and a heavy one what's that it's a heavy question it is I mean so we actually have a paper in review trying to look at this with more non-invasive measures of protein turnover and breakdown which is not the best way to do it why not do more invasive I don't want to do biopsies and I don't I do not blame you I still have PTSD from that well and a lot of women don't want to do that I mean a lot of men and honestly yeah women tend to be a bit more resilient in the lab you hear that guys and we are seeing some things that there's not huge changes across the menstrual cycle I would agree with that but there are some things happening for instance if you are rebuilding the uterine lining or with some of the potentially fuel use does it actually end up with needing more protein I wouldn't tell a woman to change the amount of protein across her 30 days if her days you know across her cycle but there are some things with recovery coming out like maybe in the luteal phase of recovery is a little bit longer or sleep is not as good so then that would be a question about maybe optimizing the timing of the nutrients around the training would it be different nutrients probably not most people are under fueled and not appropriately you know fueling anyways and that's an interesting perspective I want to know what you mean by under fueled because right now we have what 70% of the population is either overweight or obese yes so I mean and I I can't wrap my head around that I can but when you like when I see participants in the lab and day to day and when we look at diet analysis obviously there are lots of she's in North Carolina so that's there are lots of yeah you know troubles with that but people don't eat during the day they or they have very carbohydrate centric processed food so they're not getting all of the nutrients that they need and it's not just protein it's fiber it's you know vitamins minerals and so then when they go to train they don't have the appropriate fuel which then can impact recovery protein synthesis etc so it's a lot of times just making sure there's fuel like protein like carbohydrate around exercise so that when they need it it's there versus many windows and there's some data that shows going for several hours without fuel does potentially lead to some I don't say hormonal imbalances but there's a lot of things physiologically that makes sense if you don't have fuel and you're up moving around all day then well one of the things that I think that we can say that a lot of the evidence points to is if you cannot manage your blood sugar you will have fluctuations in cortisol is that necessarily a bad thing if you're increasing your cortisol to generate more gluconeogenesis then well you might really make bad choices and you might take the nutrients away from say protein synthesis or various other places so again I think it's probably very complicated the other thing that I thought that you said was really interesting is that individuals have I don't want to say poor diets but low diet quality I love that that's positive low diet quality and that definitely would make sense to think about when it looks at the totality of that individual's ability to recover absolutely again we I think you and I talk a lot about macronutrients but again there are other micronutrients other bioactive ingredients that probably play a role in overall body composition again I say that cautiously because nutrition and exercise physiology it's a new science yeah and it's complicated I know you had Dr. Heather Leidy on who's done a lot of the quality she's awesome but the quality of the diet has a huge impact how do you control for that well I mean gosh if we knew we would all be rich right like but that diet quality around exercise tends to have I mean it makes sense it will impact maybe exercise volume if you're able to push through maybe not but then on that recovery element which could indirectly impact body composition muscle mass and do and do you look at a lot of recovery if someone is training hard and under recovering is that something that you've looked at we are recovery is such a kind of funny term we're trying to look more at recovery because it's an under science or under research area really yeah because when you think about it it's impacted by so many things outside of an intervention it's impacted by sleep you mentioned cortisol which is a funny like a hot topic and then how do you define recovery it could mean a lot of things especially in the female space it's under researched and I can appreciate that because there's things that we can change in our life and there are things that we can't change you had mentioned that women and I don't know if you've mentioned but I've heard you say that women chronically seem to under eat especially maybe in that transition of menopause or during menopause is that a fair statement I don't want to put words in your mouth but yeah no and there's data that shows that one of the greatest increases in eating disorders is now in that perimenopause space and would you say that again I have notes here that chronically under eating protein has been a problem and can affect body composition do you have thoughts about how women should design diets to actually build and maintain muscle and overall body composition yeah I mean yes there's you should actually tell us that science I mean it comes back to some of that feasible approaches yes should we improve our entire day-to-day diet absolutely that's also a very deep behavioral science and so one thing we've tried to look at is well can we make small changes to the fuel that to maximize those benefits both body composition and you know metabolically and it does seem that having some amino acids whether it's in a usually we're not eating whole foods right before exercise due to some challenges in digestion but some protein or amino acids prior to exercise tends to help with some of the effects of the workout that's interesting do you mean in terms of performance or soreness or you know again because I'm someone that has always trained fasted I don't know if I eat but I'm not training for performance per se it's both but I also think and I'll be honest like there are days that I train fasted I I try not try to train fasted if I I try to train fasted why would you not want to train fasted when I look at the science and I look at I want to have amino acids available for when I break down the muscle and I'm also not one person when I get done with my workout I'm usually off to help my children I'm not going to not I also am not trying to get that extra edge I'm just trying to maintain or like so it's just maximizing the little time that you have and so when we look at more of an untrained or moderately trained population it does seem that having protein prior to exercise helps with energy expenditure up to an hour after so increases energy expenditure increases fat utilization after exercise which does not always mean fat loss and helps with training volume which makes a lot of sense to me meaning have you ever done a workout fasted and got like dizzy or felt it is but you keep pushing which a lot of people then your training volume is lower so then indirectly we've seen increases in strength and body composition I don't think it's always a direct response so it's almost like why not if you're training to maximize body composition and by having some fuel beforehand you know you probably will feel better have a greater volume and you have greater energy expenditure after why would that be is it just because your ability to perform more some of it but we've even tried to control for volume trying to maximize or control volume during the exercise we're trying to understand some of that now is it because you're still digesting some of the protein is it like a thermic effect approach maybe I would find that hard to believe with just amino acids! because it doesn't take a lot of metabolic rate or is it because it would be interesting and how do you measure energy expenditure is it a metabolic heart so our early work is using metabolic heart now we are using a tool called micro dialysis so and we're using doubly labeled water to micro dialysis doesn't give us energy expenditure it gives us fuel utilization so more fat oxidation which allows us to understand what type of fuel you're burning and doubly labeled water standard for energy expenditure yes and that's exciting that you guys are going to be utilizing that that's amazing when you design a diet for body comp what does it look like oh my goodness um and is that a fair question yeah it is it I wish it was that easy I mean we could probably need your insight here but in reality when I have a body composition conversation it's starting each meal with about 30 grams of protein obviously depending on the individual yeah I know speaking to the choir and then I say follow it up with some sort of vegetable and our fruit so prioritizing fiber and then carbohydrates that are are starchy so non fruits and vegetables are really going to be based on how much exercise someone is doing essentially you earn your carbs! and those carbohydrates you're getting from your fruits and vegetables and your water content and so trying to do that as a minimum of three meals a day most of us need to eat more than that which comes back to that conversation of people under fueling very few people are having 30 grams Which is shocking and it's hard for me! to understand that because the listener is probably thinking under fueling I thought the majority of us are eating too much and maybe it's over consumption but it's under nutrition under nutrition for sure and that perhaps it's the nutrient density is too the nutrient quality is too low but the caloric density is too high because you know you're not going to build muscle and change body composition without amino acids where I mean it's just not going to happen or without breakfast maybe a little bit more for lunch I mean Don Layman's work you know where everyone then throws down at dinner and then consumes a lot of their calories then so it's even spreading those nutrients out and I have here that your research if someone were to look at your research and try to translate that that the protein recommendation is greater than or equal to 1.6 grams per 1.6 grams per some sex based differences and I think it's a good starting point like if you're a female based on some of you know even if it's smaller muscle or muscle mass or whatever it may be 1.6 is a really good starting point would you say greater than or around 2.0 grams per kg is better I'm looking here for post menopausal women I would even say for per I agree hair loss which affects over 80 million Americans and almost all of my patients I personally have struggled on and off for many years with hair loss and there have been many times in my life that I thought I was going to go bald and lose all my hair I swear to you and I've tried just about everything a million different topical and oral formulations and Divvy is one that I love I have seen tremendous results using it alongside combination with PRP now Divvy's first product is a clinically tested scalp serum that improves the appearance of breakage nourishes! hair follicles and removes products and oil buildup some key ingredients you're wondering copper tripeptide caffeine tea tree oil and in an independent study of 31 subjects! over six weeks use of daily Divvy serum saw improvements Divvy also finally released their dry shampoo with clean safe ingredients that will allow you to not wash your hair every day and it makes it thicker extends the time between washes even better all of Divvy's products come together to create a daily solution that helps both men and women Divvy is not just for those experiencing hair loss but it can be used by everybody men women of all ages who want to start their scalp care journey do you want to take back control of your hair and your scalp health and do it with clean science backed ingredients well we have we have a special offer for you and that is go to diviofficial.com and use the code drlion at checkout or go to diviofficial.com slash drlion and enter drlion for 20% off your first order that's d-i-v-i official.com slash drlion for 20% off your first order and so somewhat of a hypocaloric or you know matching goal is what we want and anytime you do that you want to slightly increase the protein intake and probably also for men as well absolutely right yeah you know I think what you have done is a really good job we both feel very passionately about making the world better and the whether it's a male or a female the reality is women are on their study they weren't even required to be in research until 1993 and there's just a lot of questions and people don't know where to turn or what to think from my perspective I think that good lifestyle habits regardless whether you are man or woman there's probably less of a difference and perhaps if you are some elite athlete or you know there may be more evolved conversation eventually about how do we do things that are women specific but from my perspective I feel like we're not there yet I don't know if you feel like we are there are things that we know even when it comes to osteoporosis men get osteoporosis too absolutely yeah I think my passion that fell with the female space is really because one they really want the information and they don't have it so it need to lifestyle there are also a lot of mental health changes and think about just women are CEOs of their household meaning like we need to give them the information that will also impact their spouses and their children and sometimes it's in a slightly different way of like you could tell a man to eat 30 grams of protein and they may have a better idea of what that looks like because of our environment where a woman might think that's way too much for me and how do I do that and so I think it's just taking the science and putting it in a! way that makes! how we interpret things or enact things have you looked at the influence of hormones or hormone replacement on training our body composition not we haven't published any data our last few studies have said no hormone therapy and just looked at hormones naturally to help us understand that some of our new work because so many women are now taking hormone therapy based off the you know kind of the back end of the women's health initiative most of the data I have not done but have a big interest in it and you and I have chatted a little bit about the impact of hormone therapy on body composition which is partly also why I'm passionate about it like even if a woman takes hormones it is not going to override the lifestyle approaches but I think that's where we lack and hopefully what I can contribute is what do we need to do exercise wise to be able to stimulate muscle changes and bone changes and metabolic changes even with that hormone metabolic perturbation and that makes a lot of sense because again when we give individuals progesterone or estrogen even testosterone we don't see it change body composition drastically and especially if they are not doing the lifestyle component pieces it doesn't make a difference yeah I agree I would ask you do you see any changes on maybe like their motivation to exercise or their sleep like indirect! Absolutely when and you know if you look at some of the body composition literature and even the standard guidelines hormone replacement therapy is not considered a treatment for body composition yes but what you are saying in terms of sleep we know progesterone affects sleep you know even estrogen and some of these testosterone metabolites all help with joint pain recovery but again does this translate directly to body composition changes I think as we begin to study it more probably but where we are right now I can't say that that's true no and I mean I think it's more of an indirect effect of like can they be better recovery or a lot of women like you said deal with pain or even just no energy to go do the exercise but that adds so many different layers of variability when doing you know a controlled trial which I know you've had conversations about and no I mean I think we need more work but my first stance would be let's not wait for the work like we need the lifestyle what about the advanced trainee the person who is totally already well trained what are they going to do to maintain body comp that's a good question I wish we had the answer I mean it it's those people that those small changes are going to make a big difference or I mean the best part about science and knowing science is to use your own body as an experiment to some extent maybe it is altering their nutrition slightly different if they've already consumed a high protein diet there is some interesting data that shows about a 60% deviation in a young muscle is needed to see improvements in muscle size so like if someone's consuming 1.3 grams per kilogram per day of protein which is within the recommended norms maybe now they need to go up to 2 grams per kilogram for that deviation that's interesting I would love to see that that is I mean it makes sense and I would love to see that I haven't seen it done in women but that would be the thing of a lot of times and I am guilty of this as a scientist too of what does the data show but ultimately everything we do is weighing! our risks and benefits you risk to that which could benefit an individual where if you could wave a magic wand where would you ideally like to see the collective research group go for answers like what type of answers I think I don't know I left it kind of open so that you could pick you know for me I know I'll give you what I would love to see yeah okay I would love you want to go first you want me to go first are you ready yeah okay then you go okay um this is probably because I'm a physiologist but we need good solid recommendations for exercise in women do I think they're going to be different I actually don't know if they'll be that different but right now all of our recommendations are based on men and is that true yeah tell me about that we'll say okay here are the general guidelines which is international society for sports nutrition or well yeah so ACSM and MSCA will make our exercise recommendations well they're just very broad and so when we start to look at some of the nuances related to muscle mass and bone mass will it need to be different in males and females if you are a middle aged female and you're seeing changes in body composition would you see benefits from zone two training or high intensity resistance training or HIIT training and that be a bit more specific right now our guidelines say you know do 150 minutes per week of activity or 75 minutes of high intensity throw in a little resistance training but I think we need to narrow that for males and females do you imagine it be somewhat of a flow chart would it look like you are a perimenopausal woman who has always been athletic with no pre-existing! You need to be doing high intensity interval training this you know if we were to kind of think about how we would do that I mean I think it would be training age will definitely have a role but I do think their goals will matter and outcomes I think some of it you would tell everyone to do high intensity interval training but maybe a bit more prescriptive depending like you mentioned there are a lot of women that have been active but continue to gain fat mass so what do we do for those people like I feel like we need to help them versus exercise becoming frustrating or those are the people that work out even harder and then end up with injuries and unable to train have you thought about a solution for that I mean I think this is maybe pessimistic but I feel like we don't have that foundational work so my initial solution is let's start with what we think would work for everyone and to start to see is there any difference so that we can start to target some of those is it based on age or is it based on the individual I mean I don't think it's based on age which is amazing and I would guess that many of the listeners or if you are watching this you might feel that it really is based on age and it's again you're never too old you're also never too young right absolutely and I mean menopause is natural aging like that is aging but there's a lot of things going on that seem to be more than age and those are the things like how can we tackle some of those and you're absolutely right like a lot of the data seems that the sooner you start the better but if you start it's never too late and I think that's important especially when we look at our 20 year olds and early 30s there's a lot you can do now that will have a big impact when you are in post menopause when you say prescriptive do you think that there are ways of training that are a bit understudied or that we're not exploring more for example plyometrics absolutely and you don't want just people to go do plyometrics I mean unless you want a really busy ER or a surgical suite go what you were talking about this prescription and what do we need to do to improve performance and also allow people to continue to train over a lifetime absolutely and I recently injured my calf and I should have done some plyometrics I did too I don't even want to tell you the story I was just bouncing over to tie my kid's shoe even though I just ran five miles but it's that ability or our loss of ability to recruit our type two motor units as we age our larger motor units our larger muscles which plyometrics I should be doing more plyometrics but how do we integrate that in a way like even and maybe never stop right and that would be interesting to see if there was some kind of roadmap because you know I was talking to my friend Mark Bell we are we're all very good friends and he he sprints he runs and he said you know better do it now I don't want to lose it absolutely and he's a big dude yeah which I wish I sprint like just how do you fit that in at five in the morning you know but if you stop doing it yep how do we incorporate number one I've asked myself is it necessary to be explosive I don't know if we would consider a sprinting explosive but I would okay great and then if we've stopped doing it which I have how do we do it without getting injured yeah and what's the I always like to ask what's the minimum threshold a lot of people want to know how do we optimize but with a lot of this too like what's the minimum I can do at this phase in life now there's like and what is that prescription if we want more how do we progress and then you know what's too much because too much of this is also not good jump rope I mean I'm afraid to I've got a jump rope sitting in my garage oh man you know yeah this is probably really important because most people as they age they step off of a ledge and they fall well and I mean we're in a space that really I don't want to say idolizes but we want to look better we also want to feel better and I can probably look better without sprinting and so it's like how do we incorporate that that's a really good point do we train for aesthetics versus do we train for I don't want to say injury prevention but long term maintenance of muscle span that's what we should be training for it's hard to do that have you ever seen those memes of how do you take care of yourself and sleep and grocery shop and work and train how do we do it in a way that fits in our lifestyle that optimizes health and injury prevention would you say that you said you trying! can do that or from an aging perspective have you no but I mean honestly that's partly why we stick with the high intensity interval training model as a starting point because that type of training does help with recruiting those larger motor units is it the only way absolutely not but I feel like that's a good first step where you again minimum amount of time that's getting the maximum amount of benefit I have not seen a lot of polymetric data and it just seemed that it's a bit underwhelming because I think how are we going to protect bone and does it have to be something different we know that muscle and bone pull together and that generates force which then seems to generate use none of us want to break a hip at least not today but what do we have to do to do that and do we have to do jumping I think it depends too like sounds like you and I need to do some more jumping or sprinting girl I'll meet you out there I just recently hurt myself again personally I like to lift heavy and I am as you know now a very small human maybe I be pushing 110 and I'm 501 I wanted to for whatever reason push a heavy sled I didn't really warm up and it was probably close to 350 pounds and man was it fun yeah I did not warm up and then I was throwing these you know the bags because it's fun yeah and the next day I could barely move and it's still recovering now and it was so stupid what muscle my calf it is killing me I totally stream my thrives off of challenge and it's also how we maintain our capacity through life our faculties physical and mental and understanding how do we design a life where we can push ourselves without getting injured I say that cautiously while maintaining performance well and knowing that we will get some injuries but how do we optimize it and that's where a lot of the nutrition and dietary supplement work comes in of how do we accelerate that what are you most excited about coming up for you I'm really excited about this conversation of women's health meaning like when we recruit for a study I have like 300 women that want to participate now they don't always fill in that inclusion criteria but I think the time is now and I think there's a lot of good funding research doesn't isn't cheap but there's conversations about funding whether that will actually come to fruition so I'm just excited about the opportunity and there's more groups doing it and I'm a big believer that if we all come together we can accelerate research because it is so slow do you think that with the highlight of women's health it's going to swing people too far you know it just seems! one I've seen there's actually more barriers to doing work in women's health because they say it's not high quality enough it doesn't meet the right standards and therefore it's not published so it's actually pushed us back a little bit and can you explain for the listener a little bit about what you mean by that because I think it's an important point the idea of high quality data and why they publish versus not published doesn't have to be anything deep but yeah I think it goes back to where our conversation started women weren't originally included in research because there's a menstrual cycle or changes in hormones which adds a level of variability well how do you account for that it does take extra time and money but sometimes those granularity pieces aren't necessarily needed but if you don't have all of those things there's an extra level of scrutiny when publishing data that says oh you're studying women you didn't do all of these things it shouldn't be published when in reality that's throwing the baby out with a bath water absolutely and it's been quite frustrating and I also see this space of research is very competitive of you know like if someone gets a grant or publishes it but in my view like there are so many questions that are needed and we are so far behind we need to change the space to say like we can all come together and there's enough space for us all and I think if we can swing the pendulum the other way of saying yes there will be some limitations in the research but this is one step forward let's make sure we're not all answering the questions and you go together I love it Dr. Abby Smith Ryan thank you so much for spending your Sunday with me and I'm really grateful for your poise and desire to help share so thank you so much for coming on I'm so grateful for the chance to be here and for all your work if you found this conversation valuable make sure to share it with a friend or loved one leave a review