 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter there's nothing there. You're just sitting. The word for it is actually just sitting, shikantaza in Japanese. And just sitting means literally just coming closer and closer to the way in which my mind works and seeing how absolutely funny and terrified it's been and how easy it is to just let go of what drops, let go of what drops. Everything is so ephemeral. My mind is dropping another thought. I'm going to drop it too. My mind is dropping another thought. I'm going to drop that one too until there's nothing there. And then I get up from that seat, 40 minutes, 30 minutes, an hour, whatever it is. I am a slower, calmer being. I am an island of coherence to the people around me. You can't shake me for hours after that. I'm unshakable. You know, and you've taught me how to be physically strong. You know how to really prioritize muscle. I have muscle now. That is just the best thing ever. Physiologically, structurally, everything. I feel so good. This is that for my mind. I would argue also that you've always been very strong and that you have sought to put yourself into deeply uncomfortable places to have this unshakable presence. You write in Whole Nothing that Zazen meditation allows the body to disappear into the practice. We live in a world that is faster paced than it was 10 years ago. It's only accelerating. How would we even begin to embody this kind of stillness so that one could metabolize trauma or grief? I think the first thing I want to say is, in addition, as sort of an adjunct to that question, we also live in a world where visibility is very important. It's everything. Here we are. Lights are on. Books are out. My book is not out, but your book is out. Where is your book? My book is coming out soon. We have a few months left. The sitting and the dropping of the thoughts, the personality, all of the sort of configurations of the mind, the disappearing that I write about, that is so I can be present for you, for your kids. Why do those kids love me as much as they do? Because I'm right there. You smell good. You're funny. Do they talk about how I smell? I mean, come on. The disappearance is really so that everything else can happen. And I don't need to be there. I can just be present for what is happening. I'm not trying to, you know, do more or be more or be more visible. I'm just trying to be present. God, it's so hard. It's so hard. And think about it because for exactly the reason that you said, we live in a world where visibility, if we want to speak and share, you will go to hospice and there are five beds. We will talk and you will help millions of people. I know. Even have a whisper thinking about dying. Well, it is not an if it is a when. And again, just very personal to me. These are things I reach out to about all the time because on one side, we have joy. And I think that we all feel so privileged to have each other and our families. And there is a level of, for me, and I hope that I'm speaking to you out there who is listening, a level of vulnerability of complete and total loss of everything that you hold dear. I love my parents so much. I love my best friend, Don Lehman. And I also know that there will be a moment we will not be together. How good are you? To finish the last question, how good are you? How practiced are you at letting this go? Letting them go? Not at all. I, that's, yeah, that's the, that's the whole charge. That's the task at hand. That is it. And, and I will say to finish that thought, the sitting still when I'm grieving, especially after I heard about that 15 year old kid, I can't even, I sat for an hour that morning, the next morning after hearing it, I barely slept that night. I just couldn't get over it. But me, I'm like all hospice. I'm, you know, but when something sudden like that happens and it's out of order like that, and it's the kid dying before the parents, wow. It just really throws you for a loop. But I sat for that hour and I suddenly felt, okay, okay, okay, I'm back. And I could feel the waves of grief. The waves moved through me. They're so palpable now. And slowly I was able to move that sadness through my system because I was sitting still. It's the craziest truth. And it's really boring. And it's not bright lights and it's not visibility and it's not a personality. It's the opposite. It's the disappearance that you just cited. We have to disappear in order to be able to metabolize. And then once we've metabolized these things, little by little years, we can really serve other people and helping them get through a challenging time. Where's the balance between the personality and the ego of being driven? There's a drive of contribution. Right. It sounds to me that there are layers to this. There's being driven to contribute, but then also just being, is the word steady and present to be contributing? How do we intertwine those two things? I like the word steady a lot. I use it a lot, perhaps too often, but yeah, I have to be very careful when I walk into that hospice that it's not about me. I have to be very careful when I'm talking to my kid. It's not about me or my agenda. I am here to serve your unfolding. I am here to serve the unfolding of this person who's in the death process. I'm not here to like be perfect and make it nice and help. Nothing is broken. I'm just here to presence. And it keeps coming back to that because that's the only truth. It's not exciting. That's the funny part. You know, I wish we had some like big, wow, this is the, this is the teaching. It's like, no, actually the teaching is how present can I be for you when you're having a hard time, when you text me and you say, I don't understand this. I can't rub my head around this. How present can I be for you? What practices have I done or, or tried that have helped me? How can I share that with you without foisting an agenda on you? Yeah. You know, that's how that's friendship. That's, you know, and there are tactics, there are practices that do help. Roshi Joan has taught me about grace. This is an acronym that she uses that she's taught to clinicians and doctors and people in the social engagement field of any kind. G, gather your attention. R, recall your intention. I can do this now in just a moment like this when I walk into a room. Okay. I'm gathering my attention. I'm recalling my intention. The A is attuning to myself. Okay. How am I doing? Can I attune to the other people in the room? How's everybody else doing? C, can I consider what will serve? What will actually serve right now? And mostly it's going back to the very boring, but very real. I can presence these people. And E, engaging and ending. Like, sure. That's something we can cite here. It's lovely. It really does help me. But there's nothing like super exciting about any of this. It's just how present can we be for each other at the end of life? We're all going in that direction. Thank you.