 balmir-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i- best trainers in the world behind me. I got Muscular Development magazine. I'm going to be in articles. I just did a photo shoot with them. Everything was great. About three weeks later I lost my job at Cacosing. It was devastating. At that same time we found out that my wife was pregnant again and then a few weeks after that we lost the baby. All of a sudden we went from being on this giant high. Everything was so great to this absolute low that we didn't know what to do. It was a really rough time for both of us. We were both emotional mess from losing the baby. With work you can always find work but it was a time whenever we were, we didn't know what to do with ourselves. Because we were away from family. We really didn't know what to do with ourselves. It was a devastating time. But regardless we had to find out how to push through it because we still had a very healthy two year old at the time. We still do. She's four now. But at the time we needed to find out what to do to help to get to the next level. My trainer, Haunie Rambod, I look at him as more than a friend now because he really helped me get through those times. Both of our families were very supportive and they still are. But at that time we had to step it up. So we pretty much poured all of our eggs into the basket of me doing nationals and turning professional. I know that's a hard thing to say but at the time it was the recession in the economy in the US and we really couldn't, there really wasn't a lot of work for safety professionals. My wife, she had to quit school because she was pregnant and we didn't really have too much. But regardless we had to push through. At 2009 nationals all I did was work. All I did was work. It was hard work. Haunie explained to me that you have the potential, you just have to do the work. So throughout the whole preparation for nationals all I did was focus on training, making money for my family and working my butt off. I did so much, I probably did two and a half hours of cardio a day for about ten weeks straight. I did an hour and fifteen in the morning and an hour and fifteen at night and I trained in the middle of the day. Again I didn't sleep too much at that time. But again my wife, God bless her soul, lived with me, dealt with all my crap and it was pretty intense. But the whole time leading up to that show actually when I was about, I think it was eight weeks out from the show is whenever Muscular Development Magazine decided to sponsor me for nationals. I actually started getting paid a little bit of money to do that show so it was pretty exciting. Leading up, Haunie was just saying Seth, he says just kind of go into your little hole and not listen to what anybody has to say because all of a sudden when I as the show got closer I started getting a lot of people saying that I couldn't do it. Again saying Seth, you're wasting your time, there's no way you're going to win this show. This is the biggest show in America, you're wasting your time, don't even try. And I said no, this is the only chance I got in my life at being a professional bodybuilder. This is it. Because after this there's no way I'm going to have the money, there's no way I'm going to have the support, there's no way I can put anything else into it so I had to put my life into it now. And I was getting emails, I had a form on Muscular Development, I had people saying that you're wasting your time, you suck, there's no way you're going to compare to this guy and this guy. And that's the type of stuff that I thought about the whole time I was doing my cardio, the whole time I was doing my training, was just the adversity and saying I'm not giving up, I'm not taking no for an answer, I'm going to do it and I'm going to win. And it turns out as we got closer and closer to the show, everybody said, Seth, let's see some pictures of you to see how you look. And I talked to my trainer and he said no. He said don't give anybody pictures, don't send anybody pictures. And I'm like why not? And he said just don't do it. He says you don't need that crap, you need to be focused on the show and that's it. So just do your training and that's it. I said okay, okay. And so as we got closer to the show, I remember we got down to Fort Lauderdale in Florida for Nationals and or in there I'm nervous, my brother's there, my family's there, everybody came down to the show because I think they were the only people, my family were the only ones that said Seth you're going to do this, you look phenomenal, you have it. And I'm a nervous wreck and I just, I don't even recollect parts of it, I just remember just working my butt off. And we get to the show and I remember at Wayans I saw everybody, I saw Tamer Al-Gundi, I saw Brandon Ray, Al Agusti, I saw you know everybody and I was just like wow these are the guys that everybody's talking about that I'm going to lose to. And I remember Ani telling me that he says whenever you're in line for Wayans you're going to take your clothes off until you get to the scale. I go okay, sure whatever that's fine. But then meanwhile we're in line and everybody else is stripped down and I'm like the only one in my clothes. Here with Seth Ferrosi. Yes sir. Man you've been making a lot of noise lately, you kind of came out of nowhere. And he says just keep going so we're in line and everybody at Wayans if you've never been to a Wayans everybody who's anybody in the industry is right there watching you. And I'm staying there, I'm the only one in my jumpsuit and everybody else is in their, in their suit and I get up there and I look over and I'm two people back from the scale and I look over and I see Honey and he's like good. I take everything off, up in pants and all of a sudden I'm like I was kind of nervous because you know I don't know you just I didn't think too much of it. I look out and everybody's just staring at me. I felt like a deer in headlights I was like I don't know. And then I said and I just saw, I just saw two of my friends I saw Honey and a couple other friends and they're like and at that point I was like I must look really good. And then I would get there and then I turned around and I saw my Tamer who's actually a very good friend of mine he looked at me and he said you look unbelievable, unbelievable. And I was kind of taken back because I thought he looked incredible. I mean he's the razor he was just he's shredded and he says I work hard. I work very hard. But this you can see that you work harder than I work. And right there that's whenever for at that point I was taken back and I said like oh my god like it was it was it was it was an aha moment for me. I felt touched because we're such good friends now and and because he does work incredibly hard. He's a professional now as well and he just he really made me feel that like all the effort I put forth has really paid off. Needless to say I shot up all the naysayers and I won that show. I turned professional. I got a bigger contract with Muscular Development Magazine. I got sponsored by the biggest supplement company in the world Muscle Tech. And today I'm still with them and it's a blessing. It's been it was it was a really probably the most uplifting moment at that point. As we go forth my next show everybody's you know after that everybody's what are you going to do next. And I said that you know okay we're going to do a professional show and again the next show that we did was the 2010 Europa Super Show. It was down in Dallas Texas and needless to say I won my I won the 202 Pro Division at that show as well. And from there again muscular development said good job and the lifelong dream of me being on the cover of their magazine came true. It was I still look at this magazine today and I just I can't believe it. You know this is something I remember buying my first magazine when I was 16 years old. I remember Roland Zerlock was on the cover of it and I was like I want to be on the cover of Muscular Development Magazine. And today I still look at this because when I'm at a show I mean people bring this magazine they'll bring the cover and have me sign it and I'm just like I can't believe you're having me sign the cover of Muscular Development and it's me on it. It really is another aha moment but it's it's really happening. And the best part about all this is the fact that I'm just me. It's just hard work. No matter what you're doing in life. No matter what the adversity is. No matter what other people say. No matter what happens to you. You still can do it. You don't have to be a bodybuilder. You don't have to. It doesn't have to be bodybuilding related. You're going to face adversity. You're going to have setbacks. You're going to have things that put you in the dumps and say I don't know how I'm going to get myself out of it. But the thing is you got to find it. You got to be inspired. You have to get up and do it. You can't get down because with all the things that my wife and I have been through I can't tell you how many times we cried together at night saying we're not going to make it. What are we doing? How is this even possible that we're enduring this? And somehow we come out smelling like roses. It really is. It really is touching and I mean I'm humbled by every experience. I mean I'm looking at this magazine now and I'm thinking Jay Cutler. My idol grow enough. I remember a giant poster on my door, on the back of my door in my bedroom. He signed and now I'm on the cover of him and he's the small fiction. I'm the big fiction. I mean it's and I talk to Jay as a friend because he also works with Haughty and it's just incredible. And like I said, no matter what happens to you in life you can change things. It happened to me at a young age. The nickname thing killed me. It's still today I look back and I laugh about it and I get a kick out about it because it's kind of changed. But it had a serious impact on me. It's changed my entire life. Everybody has these things in life that they feel that they don't know what to do. They don't know how to change it. You have to change it. You need something inspiring. You need something to help you get there but you ultimately have to do it. It's all about you saying I'm not taking no for an answer. And because of all these people and all the support that I have and everything that's happened for me and inspiring me, I want to help inspire you. I want to help you get to the next level. I want you to become the person that you want to become. And I know that the problem is that sometimes you don't get that solid information. You don't get the real information that you need to hear that says that sounds relevant. That sounds like the logical thing to do because a lot of times things get shot over your head. But regardless, I'm putting on a free webinar. You can go to SethFerrosiTraining.com and I'm going to go into detail about things to help knowledge. Training tips. I'm going to explain to you the hot training styles. Training techniques. Things to push through plateaus on training like everybody goes to the gym and they're like I just can't get through the next thing. I need something to help pick me up. I'm going to help you. I'm going to go through variations of things to do to help you get to the next level during training. Nutrition. Everybody always has problems with nutrition. And it's like do I have to eat the same things or what do I eat at this point? Then how do I lose weight and how do I gain good quality mass? That's what the webinar is going to be for. It's going to help you get to the next level there. Again, there's going to be things in the kitchen. I don't have a good recipe for this type of food. I hate eating fish or I hate eating this. The thing is, nobody's ever taught you or just gave you a real solid answer of what to do. That's what this free webinar is going to help you do. It's going to give you the tips that you need. I'm also going to show you some of the things that I use in the kitchen to help to make your life easier. Go check out SethFerrosiTraining.com. We're going to have a free webinar up and it should be great. I hope that you guys enjoyed my story and get ready to get some information. Some real solid, real information.