оньcarnitine. This is Honny Rambod. I'm with Seth Ferroci. We're here for Muscular Development Magazine shooting with renowned photographer Kerr Bernal getting ready to do the second photo shoot of his life with Seth Ferroci. Seth, are you happy to be here? I am excited. I may not look like it on my face. I'm still a little dead, but I'm pumped, man. This is awesome. It's just incredible. I'm from Pittsburgh, and I come to California. 25 degrees, 70 degrees. Big difference for us. A lot of people are talking about the fact that this was your first Nationals. You've only been competing for eight months. Can you just walk us a little bit through your contest history for 2009? First show I did was in March 14, 2009. It was the NPC 2009, Northern Kentucky. I started dieting probably this time last year. I kind of skipped through Thanksgiving a little bit, missed Christmas, and just drove straight through until March, but it wasn't anything compared to what I did here for Nationals. OK, and this was around March. So if we had to go through the timeline, March, Kentucky, you won your class. Won my class. And then lost the overall. Lost in the overall. And then after that, I was like, OK, the Pittsburgh was like, that was my dream show. I've been going to it for so long. I'm like, this is the show I got to do. I'm from Pittsburgh. I've been going for years. All the top pros come. I got to do it. And Jim Mannion brings out the best of the best of that show, so it's almost like a mini-Olympia there. It's incredible. And I'm like, it's just been a show I've wanted to win forever. And again, people from the area are like, you're not going to win the Pittsburgh your first time. There's no way. It's just in Pittsburgh, the Mr. Pittsburgh shows huge. It's everything. If you hold that status in Pittsburgh, it's everybody's like, oh, Mr. Pittsburgh. And I was like, well, I want to win. That's the whole reason I got into competing was I want to win. I don't train for second place. And it just turned out things started rolling. And I started getting better. I started looking better. I'm like, oh, it's starting to come together. And then you and I kind of hooked up. And then I hooked up with you. And it's about 10 days out. Yeah, a couple of weeks out. It was about two weeks out. And you told me that you had issues with water. I looked at Seth. And he looked great a couple of days before the show. And I get there. And he's just a water buffalo. And then he goes, this is what happens to me. And so I was like, all right, well, we'll try to fix it. So we did. We fixed it. And you were able to walk away with the overall there. Absolutely. And a lot of people thought that you could have hung in the 202 at that show. So I think that definitely that was a big, big step for you. Because going from Kentucky winning your class, going into Pittsburgh, which is a great show, but obviously it's not the Nationals. And how'd you feel backstage at the Nationals and tell me a little bit about that experience in a nutshell? You know, from the Pittsburgh to Nationals, I knew it was a level of confidence, attitude. I knew that it had to be a whole completely different preparation. And working with you the whole time, it wasn't that you just guided me along with a diet. It was like he never told me what I wanted to hear. But that's the whole reason the process happens. And the entire time we went, it was like I started building up this confidence. I started building up this new feeling inside that said, I'm capable of winning this show. I know I'm capable of doing it. And just seeing all the progressions, it's like four weeks out, I said, I can do very well. And then all of a sudden, you just kept on saying, no, we're going to get better. We're going to get better. And I started getting better and better. And then a week from the show, I'm like, I don't know how much better I'm going to get. And then two days before the show, it was like, this is incredible. This is a whole different ball game than what I thought. And it just brought this confidence, preparedness, a whole different feeling inside of me that said, I'm capable of just about anything I put my mind to. And as long as I have the right people around me, I'm going to do it. Come on. Come on. Four, four, one, up, up. Come on. Two, two, one more, one more, up. All right, I got it. Is that in yet that you're a pro and that you're in the same status as all these pros that you see in the magazines and whatnot, just reading about about a year ago? Kind of. It does whenever we really start talking about it, it starts to just feel like it feels like something's coming on my chest. But it's exciting. It's not like this is what I've been training for. This is why people train their entire lives, is to get this pro status. And I'm starting to feel it because now, whenever we talk, it's like I'm not competing against amateurs any longer. There's every single guy that I will compete against has something amazing. They have something incredible. They bring something to the table that is unlike everyone else. That's why you're a professional. And it's like, and my thing in my head is, what am I bringing? It's almost like the next time I step on stage, I plan on bringing a bigger, better, more package, a completely different package, something better than ever. And I guess that's all you can strive to do. But the names is pretty much what sets in on me, is who I'm competing against. It's pretty incredible. I know that you're signed with Muscular Development now. You're on muscuredevelopment.com. You have your Q&A. Welcome to the club. So now that you're actually a professional and able to look back and say, hey, when you used to start reading this magazine, tell me just a little bit about your history with it. Absolutely. I think it's almost been 10 years since I've been reading the magazine. I mean, I still have everyone in a box that, I guess you could say it, I hold sacred. But I love it. It's just always been something. But the first magazine I got was Roland. I don't even know how to pronounce it. No, no, no. Yeah, him. He had the glad, he had the sunglasses on. Yeah, Roland. And it was like he was in all the twin lab ads. Yeah, and he was a badass whenever I first saw that cover. I was like, look at this son of a bitch. And I was just so excited whenever I was the first magazine I bought. And I said, I want to look like that. And I got it. And I started reading it. I liked it. I was going through puberty. So the girls were awesome. Everything was great. You know what I mean? Back when Steve had a ton of girls in the magazine. But it was, and the great thing about it, I always say is whenever I look back at that first magazine, and I look at the magazine today, and I mean Cutler's on the front, and it's probably one of the best covers ever. But the progressions that the magazine has made is something that I've looked at my whole life. And as the magazine progressed, I progressed. It's like, I mean, it just completely changed. Because I've read that magazine since 99. And that's when I started lifting weights. So it's like, that whole progressionary phase is pretty much my whole life. It's the ups, the downs, the great parts. I mean, it's got every time there was a new bodybuilder, I was like, oh my. Every time they signed somebody new, I was like, oh my. I want to do this. I want to become a part of it. And sure enough, we made it happen. MUSIC I'm sure there's a couple people you want to thank back home. Everyone. My family, my parents, Elise. I love you. My daughter Adeline. My sister's Amanda and Whitney. And my brother Jake. Man, I couldn't have did it without you. That kid stuck by my side. He did not leave my side the entire show at Nationals. I mean, I can't. You had your support systems pretty amazing, because your mom, your dad, your brother, everybody was there. And your parents were so proud. And they were so happy to see you win. Oh, absolutely. And it's like, now everybody talks about the next show I'm doing and the next this. And I've only done three shows. So my fourth show will be professional. And it's kind of like, my parents were just like, you know wherever you go, we're going. And I'm like, that's kind of incredible. Because it's all over the country. And they're just completely fine with it. They're so excited. And I mean, that's what makes me feel absolutely amazing. Because my entire life, it's felt like it might happen. And now it just did happen. And how excited everybody is. Just it's going to take me to the next level. I'm excited. Awesome. Well, this is Hawni Rambod with Seth Ferosie here. Week and a half right after the 2009 Nationals Light Heavyweight Champion. Thanks to everybody there. I mean, my God, that guy. He worked for his money working with me. I made him work a little too hard, I think. But you got great shots. Hope you all like it. Good stuff.