 BRANDON-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i And then you'll be redirected to the Seth Ferrisley training members dashboard. Here at the dashboard it's just a short video of Seth welcoming you to the site. It gives you a little bit of background of what the site is made of and what not. Here at the bottom is also a little comment area. These are under each of the videos on the site where you can leave feedback for Seth, ask him any questions and stuff so that's another cool feature. Here at the top is the navigation bar. Under each of these tabs are drop down menus for each training video. This first one is the nutrition videos so let's click that. It gives you each category for all the videos under nutrition. For instance here if we go under proteins, carbs and fats, select part one. Then the proteins, fats and carbs part one video pops up right here and you can watch it. Again, and then there's that comment area for all the videos. Moving forward if you go over here to the training videos. There's two categories, training style seminar and training styles in the gym. The training style seminar is all the different styles for training. Seth takes you through different intros of the overall topic, tells you some training terms he's going to be using and then goes through volume, hit, FST7 training, some 5x5 and then he talks about some training tools for your gym bag and stuff. Here's that video. Over here at Seth's kitchen, Seth actually takes you through a walkthrough of his actual kitchen at home, shows you what's in his cabinets, what's in his refrigerator and how to set up your kitchen for success. Seth also goes through his local grocery store with you, goes over things you should buy, things you should not buy, some aisles to stay out of and stuff like that. Over here under the downloads column, there's different training programs as well as nutritional guides that you can download right to your computer. I'll show you this volume training PDF just for an example. Here it is. Click right here to download it to your computer. Like I said, there's nutritional guides, nutritional programs. Seth actually offers his own personal program as well as one of his clients' programs that he wrote up for them. That's all comes with your membership. Also there's a forum link right here, which is an interactive forum between all the members as well as with Seth. You can come here to ask him any questions, give him some feedback from the videos and ask him for anything that you'd like to see on the site. Go to SethFlorisTrain.com, check it out and get your membership today.