 balmir-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i- I'm leaving his wife's good cooking in the beautiful house that they live in and heading home on the road for five hours. So I'm going to get packing. There's two versions of the bag. We have the six meal version and the three meal version in the front compartment. We have ice packs already loaded up. They slide right. There's one in the middle. What is it with Velcro? One on each side. On the inside of this, as you can see, there is a vinyl lining in here because anybody that has any type of lunch cooler knows that if you spill something in there, it is a pain to clean out. So functionality of the bag, again, easy to clean. Here we go. Another great functional part of this bag is the fact that we have stackable containers for your refrigerator. If there's anybody that knows, you need to be organized. And if you're anything like me at home with my wife, I'm a bit of a mess. And this actually helps organize myself. These are the 16 ounce containers that we have available. They are available with the two bags. Whenever you order a six meal bag, you get 12 containers. When you order a three meal bag, you get six containers. They are the 16 ounce containers. However, we have available a 38 ounce container, a 28 ounce container, a 16 ounce, and a 12 ounce. As you can see as well, this is the six meal version. However, if you're a pack rat like myself or some of you are, I know that you can fit a little bit more in. Let's get packing. Get my chicken, my veggies. Now you can see there's a little bit of room at the top. No. I know I can fit another 16 ounce container because Dave's wonderful wife cooked these brownies. And since I'm in my offseason and I'm getting a little pudgy, I'm going to eat them on my ride home. So we'll squeeze them up in here. And we're good to go. Now on the side compartments, you have your netting for your drinks, which I again also have, but I'm taking my ketchup with me and my honey mustard that I bought at the store when I was here. I actually contributed. Is this for my? Again the functionality of this bag in durability more or less and reliability. On the top here, we did not sew the handle onto the lid of the bag so that no matter how much food you put in here, it will not rip off. Again, the functionality, take this apart whenever you have to put the lid. And again, if you're anyone who has a mess like myself, you need your paper towels and your silverware. Another great thing about these containers is that they're freezer safe, microwave safe, dishwasher safe, and BPA and lead free. Now that means it won't give you any diseases. It won't melt in your microwave and they're leak resistant. Let me show you a little demonstration. This is a pretty cool part I thought was, you know, whatever you're toting fish around, training for a show, you don't like the fish guts or the fish leaving behind all through your containers or all through your bag. Show you she's still tight. Pretty cool. It works. You know, that's probably the best part, one of the best functionality parts of this bag is that, you know, these are safe containers and they're leak proof. The bags here are made in the USA by Isolator Fitness where, you know, quality has always been our main priority. On the outside we have a high quality nylon material. On the inside for the installation, we use 3M Thinsulate. That's what you find in your snow boots, in your winter gloves, in your ski gloves, ski boots. The high quality material, this is what's going to help keep the food colder for longer because, you know, with me traveling a lot, with anybody who's at work for a long period of time traveling, you know, whether you're going, you know, from city to city for work or city to city doing shows, you never know how long your food is going to stay cold with what is usually put in, you know, soft outside bags, which is just foam. Again, when we're looking at this bag, one thing that always concerned me was the size and the weight because wherever you fill up anything, you know, whether you're toting it around, again, with traveling or throughout the day, you know, having my five year old daughter following me around and whatnot. You need something that's lightweight, you need something that is able to fit in smaller areas because a big bulky bag sometimes doesn't work and me being so big sometimes I am a little bit of a wimp and I cry a lot about things. The six meal bag is 18 inches long, 8 inches wide and 9 inches high. The three meal bag is 14 inches long, 9 inches high and 8 inches wide and if you're traveling on an airplane and you've ever had that lady walk by, the phone police I like to call them, tell you to turn your phone off and kick everything underneath the seat, this fits perfect. Weight of the bag also plays a role because whenever you're toting around a number of bags and I know my wife is a bag lady, she's going to hate me for saying this, but with a purse, you know, an extra clothes bag with her food that she carries and any, you know, your extra coats or extra clothes or whatever, you don't need a big bag that weighs 15 pounds. The six meal bag, empty, weighs four pounds, the three meal bag weighs two pounds, very light even with all the food in it, it's very light. You know, this is a functionality part of it that is extremely important to me because your life depends on functionality and how well you function. If you're not operating at a high level then, you know, you're just puffing around and wasting time. The pre-orders have started for the ISO bag, they will be physically in inventory mid to late November. If you go to isolatelfitness.com today, type in ISO bag, you will receive your 10% off coupon and we're good to go. Functional, durable, affordable, quality, it's our motto, go get your bag today.