 how to enjoy Christmas without ruining your progress. Now, this time of year tends to produce one or two responses from people. Either one, it's an excuse to eat whatever the hell they want because, hey, calories don't count during the holidays, right? Or they get really stressed out about having dinners with their family or friends or whatnot, and they end up not enjoying it. There is a little ground here. You can enjoy Christmas dinner and the Christmas holiday without it ruining your progress. Christmas typically isn't just one meal like Thanksgiving. It's typically a series of events. You have Christmas dinner, Christmas Eve, maybe even Christmas breakfast after opening presents. If you have kids, then there's usually Christmas parties, but here's the thing. If you're smart about how you do it, doesn't have to ruin your progress. Now, the first thing is be flexible. At the end of the day, your weekly calories are a budget, and that's how Carbon Diet Coach operates. And you can use our diet planner feature to give yourself more calories on days where you know there's gonna be other parties or meals so that you have more flexibility. And then it will compensate on the other days by lowering your calories, keeping your total budget in a range. So you can a lot more calories to the days where you need more flexibility. Additionally, when it comes to the day of, you can make certain adjustments so that you still have more flexibility within the day. For example, if I know there's gonna be a big meal at dinner and I wanna enjoy it, I will mostly just eat protein-heavy foods throughout the day and save my carbs and fats for a later meal. Now, the caveat to that is don't restrict so much that you feel super hungry coming in to that last meal because otherwise for some people that can trigger them to binge. But just consume enough that you feel satiated and when you're going in, you have enough flexibility to enjoy it, but you don't feel ravenous. That's a great way to kind of set yourself up for success. The next thing is don't mindlessly pick at foods. Pick your favorite foods that you enjoy, have a serving or two, and then be done. You don't have to stuff yourself like a Thanksgiving turkey in order to enjoy a dinner. In fact, typically dinners are more enjoyable when you have enough that you feel satiated, you've enjoyed the food, but then you don't feel like your gut's gonna bust. And the next thing is just get back to it the next day. Get back on the program, do what you're doing. Again, if you've accommodated for it in the diet planner using Carbon Diet Coach, you'll be totally fine. So if you guys are interested in getting custom nutrition coaching for a fraction of the price, check out my app, Carbon Diet Coach, links in my bio.