 Lies, you've been told about fat loss. First lie, you have to starve to lose fat. Simply not true. The most important factor for losing body fat is to be in a caloric deficit over a given period of time. You can do it faster with a bigger calorie deficit. On the downside, it's also increasing the possibility of the loss of lean mass. So I don't think starving is a good idea. And that is one of the reasons that with carbon diet coach, you can't set your weight loss faster than a certain amount per week. Second lie is you have to eat clean all the time. It's simply not true. Is it true that eating low caloric density, high nutrient density, high fiber protein dense foods improves satiety, adherence, and long-term success in navigating a calorie deficit? It's absolutely true. But if you have some treats here and there, it is not going to wreck your progress. And you wanna think about your diet as a budget. If you are somebody who's very active and have a lot of lean mass, then you have a big budget to pull from. By the same token, if you make $50,000 a year and taking a big vacation means you can't afford to pay your mortgage or you have to go deep into debt or you can't afford to pay your taxes, then you absolutely don't wanna do it. It doesn't mean you can never take a vacation. It just means you're gonna have to save up a little bit more and be a little bit more targeted with things. Nutrition is the same way. If you are taking care of meeting your caloric intake, if you're eating enough protein to support your lean mass, if you're eating enough fiber to support your satiety and overall health, then if you have calories left over, is it okay to have a few slices of pizza or have a donut or have some of these treats? Of course it is. And in fact, I know for me personally, if I can have those things in a moderate amount, it actually helps me be more adherent to the diet. Now that doesn't mean you have to do it. If you don't get enjoyment out of those things, if they don't improve your adherence, then you can choose to not consume them. But consuming them is not going to cause you problems. It's not gonna negatively impact your goals. And for some people, if it helps you adhere better, then it's gonna be better for your goals. And that is why Carbon Diet Coach focuses on maximum flexibility and maximum adherence so that you can choose the specific type of dieting style that fits your lifestyle and allows you to have maximum adherence. Because at the end of the day, that is gonna be the biggest determinant of your overall progress. Make sure you sign up for Carbon Diet Coach, click the link in my bio or visit at Carbon Diet Coach on Instagram. It is simple and it's scientific. It is sustainable. You will love this app.