 why are you hungry on a diet? Well, besides the obvious answer, which is you're eating less, so you're going to be hungry, there's a few things that you can do to improve your satiety when you're on a diet. The first thing is eating volumous foods. So if you look at like 100 calories from, say, broccoli versus 100 calories from, say, Skittles, there's a big difference in volume. And when we think about volume metrics, one of the things to keep in mind is you have these baroreceptors in your gastrointestinal tract, which basically are sensitive to stretch. If you stretch those, they can send signals to tell you that you're more full. So you fill more full. All things being equal, choose foods that have more volume versus foods that have less volume per calorie. Dietary fiber is also a great way to feel more satiated. If you eat a higher fiber diet, that's been shown to help with satiety, adds bulk to food, and also may stimulate some hormones that help you feel satiated. High protein diet may also help. There's some disagreement in the research literature about this, but there is some evidence that a higher protein diet may be beneficial for satiety. Other things that can help exercise. Believe it or not, regular exercise has been shown to improve your sensitivity to satiety signals. Your satiety hormones, the signals that the networking in your brain actually works better when you exercise. Drinking enough fluid can also help. If you drink enough fluid with your meals and in between meals, that may have a small effect on satiety as well. And another one is perhaps your calorie deficit is just too much right now. You're trying to lose weight too quickly, and that's why you feel hungry. But it's important to point out that if you lose enough weight or you're on a diet long enough, you are going to be hungry. That's part of it, and you just got to learn how to manage it. And keep in mind that hunger is usually fleeting and does pass. Keeping in mind that you're feeling uncomfortable, but it won't last forever. And using these tips that I've laid out here to help manage your appetite can help a great deal. And that's why carbon diet coach is such a great tool. Because carbon not only helps you track your food and you can see how much fiber you're getting in, but carbon also coaches you based on how you're progressing. And it coaches you based on, for example, in a weight loss phase, based on the rate of loss that you choose. And carbon guides you on what a reasonable rate of loss is. And we don't let you go above a certain rate, because we know it will have a big impact on your satiety and on your hunger negatively, that is. So we really choose ranges that allow you to not feel hungry all the time. And carbon will adjust your nutrition based on how you respond during your journey to your goal, so that it optimizes your results. So for less than 10 bucks a month, you really can't beat it designed by smart people. Go download and subscribe today.