 why New Year's resolutions fail? The research shows that like 80% of New Year's resolutions fail by February. And I've always said, if you know something needs to change, if you don't have the wherewithal to change it when you know it needs to change, there's nothing about January 1st that's gonna make it magical. Now, there are people who started New Year's resolutions that turned it into a lifelong change, but that's because they understood they had to change their lifestyle. It was the impetus, the initial motivation to change their lifestyle, their overall life that mattered. And really, when it comes to making a change in your life, you have to change your habits, your behaviors, because if you want to create a new life, you can't do that while dragging your old habits and behaviors behind you. And change takes time, and it's not gonna be perfect. It never is. If you're expecting yourself to just be perfect, then you're gonna have a lot of shame, you're gonna beat yourself up, and it's actually gonna disincentivize you to continue because shame is a very intolerable feeling for people, and so they just would rather not try in many cases. So focus less on the outcome and focus more on the process. Research shows being process-orientated is actually more likely to get you the outcome you want than being outcome-orientated. So if I'm climbing a mountain, and I'm just looking at the peak of the mountain the entire time, it's gonna feel like I'm going nowhere. But if I focus on the things I need to do step by step, I need to make this step, this climb, I need to get to this spot over time. If I do that enough times, by default, I get to the mountain top. And that's how you have to approach nutrition and training. Focus on the procedure, focus on the process. I'm going to the gym three days a week or whatever it is. I'm walking this many steps per day. I'm gonna get to sleep at this time. When it comes to nutrition, okay, I'm gonna track my calories. I'm gonna target this many calories. I'm gonna target this much protein. Focus on the process. And my app, Carbadiacoch, can help with that. Makes it easy to track what you're eating. Makes it easy to track your protein. It is a coach in your pocket for a fraction of the price. Our advanced nutrition coaching algorithm not just will give you nutritional recommendations based on your goal and individual metabolism. It will assess your progress every single week and adjust those numbers when needed to make sure that it's optimized for how your body is responding so that you stay on course towards your goals. Quite simply, it will show you the path that it will be up to you to walk it. If you are process-oriented, if you focus on the steps, if you do the work, it will work. If you're interested in getting that kind of expert nutrition level support that fits in your pocket for a fraction of the cost, click the link in my bio and sign up and subscribe today.