 five ways to stay full on a fat loss diet. Going through fat loss, being in the calorie deficit, you're probably gonna feel hungry at various points, but there are things you can do to improve your satiety. Tip one, eat high fiber. Fiber has been shown to be filling, improve satiety. In the case of things like insoluble fiber, insoluble fibers like cellulose and hemicellulose, they pull water into your GI tract. This increases sensation of fullness and can increase not just your GI sensation of fullness, but tell your brain that you actually are more full. Tip two, eat a high protein diet. Protein not only increases energy expenditure, but it's also been shown to improve satiety. And this effect is consistent even across minimally processed foods and highly processed foods. So no matter what your diet consists of, eating more protein is gonna be beneficial for your appetite regulation. Tip three, eat slowly and mindfully. So chew many, many bites, kind of as many as you can, and eat slow purposefully and focus on what you're doing. There's research studies to show that if you mindfully eat and you eat slowly, then you actually eat less overall. So your eating rate matters. Tip four, drink fluid. There is research showing that if you do preloads before a meal with water or any kind of fluid, except for obviously sugar, sweetened beverages, that that can induce sensations of fullness and help you in the meal faster. So if you drink some water, make sure you're hydrated or drink even a diet soda or something like that, that can help with sensation of fullness and help you feel like you don't wanna eat as much. Tip five, eat mostly whole food minimally processed. Now this goes along with eating a high fiber diet. High fiber diets are hard to do if you're eating a lot of processed food because most processed foods don't have a lot of fiber in them. So they kind of go hand in hand. But research has shown that switching from a minimally processed diet to an ultra processed diet can spontaneously increase caloric intake by over 500 calories overnight. So if you want to have better appetite regulation, choose minimally processed whole foods. They're more filling, they have more fiber and they're gonna have a better effect on your overall appetite. Now if you guys don't know where to get started with nutrition, check out my app, Carbon Diet Coach. Carbon takes all the guesswork out of it. How many calories you should eat for your goal, for your individual metabolism, and what your macronutrient composition should be, and it adjusts to your dietary preferences and your lifestyle. It is a phenomenal tool, I can't recommend it enough. Check out the link in my bio and go follow them at Carbon Diet Coach.