 Have you lost a significant amount of body weight, but you still feel like you're fat, like you're in your head all the time, you always see yourself as the before, you're not seen after? This is a common thing that many people go through, and unfortunately, while losing weight can help with body image, it doesn't always fix the root problem. And many people who lose weight actually sometimes get even worse body image issues. And so, if you're not trying to correct for the core problem of never feeling good enough, there's no amount of weight loss you're going to be able to do that's going to make you feel like you hit a goal. I have worked with some of the highest level physique competitors in the world, by all objective measurements, people with the best bodies on the planet. And I can tell you that many of them felt like they were too fat. Many of them were afraid to go out in public at various times. Many of them canceled events, dinners, public things, because they felt they were too fat, even though they were leaner than 99.9% of people on the planet. So, unfortunately, if you don't address the root causes of body dysmorphia, no matter how much weight you lose, no matter how lean you get, no matter how much muscle you build, those issues will persist. So, if you are somebody who's struggling with body image issues, I would highly recommend working with a therapist who works with cognitive behavioral therapy, because that has been shown to help improve some of these body image issues. And some body image issues also can lead to more sinister things like eating disorders, anorexia, bulinia. It can be a pretty serious issue, especially when you consider that eating disorders, not depression, are actually the leading cause of mortality in mental health disorders. They have the highest mortality rate of all mental health disorders. People may be surprised to learn that. And they don't talk about it very much, and a lot of it stems from never feeling good enough. If you're somebody who's struggling with this, I highly recommend getting help. If you just will lose a few pounds, it's fine. I'm not saying don't lose weight, because you're never going to feel better about yourself. You may very well feel better about yourself. I think what I'm trying to say is short of having some sort of psychological issue, make sure you're celebrating your wins. Make sure if you lose five pounds, and you're not to your goal, you still feel like you don't look the way you want. Still give yourself credit for losing the five pounds that you did lose, because if you don't do that, it's going to be really hard to stick it out when things get tough.