 nowestousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousousous So I did want to go ahead and start off with this question that we got, which was, I've been doing a reverse diet on carbon for a few weeks now. How do I know when to switch to maintenance? So really, that just depends on a few different factors. So whether or not you switch to maintenance is really up to, one, are you happy with your current maintenance calories? So basically, do you feel like your energy expenditure is up to the point where you feel comfortable and can be really consistent? And then the other one is, have you been doing it long enough to where your maintenance calories are now at a, thank you, Madison, I appreciate that, where your maintenance calories are now at a level that is in line with what should be predicted? Meaning a lot of times when we recommend people to reverse diet, that is because their daily energy expenditure is far below what you would expect based on their level of lean mass and their activity. So that's kind of how we decide like when you should stop a reverse diet and switch to maintenance. But really a lot of it is, you know, just are you happy with your maintenance calories? Somebody said, how is Chad? Chad is great. Chad is downstairs right now relaxing. I'm sure at some point he will come up here and start bothering me. Let's see here. I just joined Carbon yesterday. I have a general question. How much do you think I should or should not worry about eating clean as in trying to choose things without natural flavors, sauces without added sugars, and eating organic? This is going to be probably a really unpopular opinion. There really is very little evidence that eating organic food actually provides added benefits compared to non-organic food. There is some evidence that some organic foods are higher in certain vitamins and minerals, but they're also tend to be lower in other vitamins and minerals. So most of the randomized control trials on organic food don't really show any difference. And most of the randomized control trials regarding like sugar, if you eat enough fiber and you control your calories, sugar doesn't seem to have any impact on health markers in randomized control trials. So the problem with sugar intake is sugar is not very satiating. And if you're eating a high sugar diet, typically you are eating low fiber by default. But there are some caveats to that. Obviously, sorry, I'm like something caught my throat. Obviously, you like things like fruit are high in sugar, but also high in fiber. So what does the data on fruit say? Well, the data on fruit says that it's actually really good for your health. Once again, because it's high in fiber. So once again, I don't, again, there's nothing wrong with eating organic food. It's not going to harm you. I'm not saying it's worse, but there's very little evidence to suggest it's better. And a lot of it just ends up being a gatekeeping for people who want to get healthy and feel like, well, I can't afford organic food, so there's no point. No, no. You can do just fine on non-organic food. Guys, in the comments, please do not feed the troll. That person comes on every single live I do within minutes. It's actually the biggest compliment I can get. So this is on Instagram. It's actually the biggest compliment I can get because I have no idea who this person is. And apparently, they just have their notification set that anytime I go on a live, they spring into action and come in here, which they're actually driving up my engagement. So thank you very much for that. Really appreciate that. Also, the fact that I live completely rent-free in your head is amazing. It's literally like the best compliment I can get because I have no idea who the fuck you are. And apparently, you're obsessed with me. So thank you for that. Huge compliment. Really appreciate it. I would suggest that everybody in the comments just not even worry about it. All right. Let's take a question here out of the question box real quick. Can you talk about CGM spikes? What should we be looking at and focusing on with spikes? CGMs are helpful for people who have dysregulated glucose metabolism. They are next to, if not worthless, for the average person. There is no evidence that short-term acute increases in blood glucose in response to feeding have any negative health effects. If we are going to look at short-term glucose excursions and extrapolate out why that's going to be bad, let me explain why using that same logic, you can't eat anything. Because protein, protein stimulates mTOR. mTOR goes up after a meal. IGF-1 goes up. Guess what mTOR and IGF-1 are tied to? Cancer. So you can't have protein. And then you can't have fat because fat decreases flow-mediated dilation, which is a risk factor for heart disease. So you can't have carbs because they increase glucose excursions in the short term. You can't have protein because they increase mTOR. And you can't have fat because it decreases flow-mediated dilation. And you probably shouldn't exercise because in the short term, exercise increases inflammation. It increases reactive oxygen species production. It increases blood pressure. It increases heart rate. It increases cortisol. All of those are bad things. Except they're not because they're acute. Okay. So there is a big, even scientists screw this up. There is a big, big, big, massive difference between an acute response that is truncated versus a long-term low-level dysregulation. Thank you, Matthias. I saw your hair was on fleek today as well, my friend. Okay. Let's see here. How do you explain the weight of a protein versus the protein content? For example, three ounces of chicken, which is 85 grams, has 25 grams of protein. That's probably in cooked chicken. Well, protein is not the only thing in chicken. There is also quite a bit of water weight, which is also why when you cook chicken, it decreases in weight. It's very funny because people are like, man, you know, why does cooked chicken have more protein than raw chicken? How does it add protein? It doesn't add protein. When you cook it, the water leaves, or some of the water leaves, and so you're left with a more protein-dense source because it has less water. So there you go. All right. Let's go look over on – okay. Let's see. Irwin, can you – PFAS, PFAS. I'm not sure I know that acronym. It looks familiar. I probably do know it. But can you elaborate further? All right. Let me see here. False. Acute response superimposed on a chronic health issue can cause major issues. What chronic health issue are you referring to, and how would it cause a major issue? Furthermore, we are not talking – nobody mentioned chronic health issues. We were talking about just for in general. So that's like saying, well, if you have a broken leg, if you squat on it, you could hurt it. Yeah, that falls under the no shit category. So if we could, like, stop making straw man arguments, that'd be great. Let's see here. Okay. New to the app, can you explain compliant versus non-compliant? So on our app, Carb and Diet Coach, after every week when you check in with the coach, it will ask you if you were compliant. It will show you what your tracked macros were versus what your targets were, and it will give you a range. And it will show you if you were compliant within those ranges for all three macros and the calories. In general, what we say is if you were compliant to calories and protein, then you are considered compliant. Obviously, we'd love you to be compliant to carbs and fats as well. But for the most part, carbs and fats are relatively interchangeable energy sources unless you go to extreme high carb or extreme low carb. So if you're getting the protein and calories in, you're getting 95% of the benefits right there. So, you know, we consider that compliant personally. Let's see here. Don't feed the troll, guys. Don't feed the troll. Remember, that is the best compliment I can get. Don't tell them to go away. I want to see them making all the posts calling me a scammer because once again, I have no idea who the hell they are, and they seem to be obsessed with me, which is fantastic in terms of my ego because I live rent-free in your head. Okay. So these are man-made substances, do not occur naturally in the environment. So some of these things, you know, again, some of this data is very new, so I can't really speak to it. But for the most part, we have to, like, a great example of this is pesticides. Everybody makes a big deal of glyphosate. Oh, my God, glyphosate. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. In fact, if you even, like, breathe and talk about it, everybody gets so bent out of shape. Okay. So people say you shouldn't eat oats because of glyphosate. You shouldn't eat grains because of glyphosate. You shouldn't eat vegetables because of glyphosate. Let's do organic. Okay. What do the human studies say for people who eat oats and fruits and vegetables? By the way, in these studies, these people live longer and have better or reduced risk of cardiovascular disease, all-cause mortality, and cancer. And it's pretty powerful. Now, do you think that these studies are done with organic foods? No. They're not done with organic foods. They're done with plain old foods sprayed with, guess what? You named it glyphosate. So if glyphosate was so horrible, how is it that, in fact, there was a study that just came out a couple months ago that showed that people who consume higher levels of pesticides actually live longer. Like, they live longer. Why is it? Well, they're eating more fruits and vegetables. Guess what? Why is that? Because the amount of glyphosate or pesticides you would need to consume in order to have negative health effects are such a massive amount of fruits and vegetables that you would die from other stuff before you ever had died from glyphosate. Okay? This is going to be popular. People are going to freak out. They're going to say, I'm paid off by big food. I don't really care. I don't care about your feelings. I care about... What was it, guys? Did you guess it? Data. I mean, guys, like, I think one of the things you should keep in mind is, like, I don't want to die early. I am a high-level competitive athlete. I compete in a world-level in powerlifting. Do you guys think that I, like, secretly do something else? Because I don't. I eat normal foods. I drink diet soda. I don't really worry about it. And all my health power walkers are awesome. So... It's so funny, too, because people will accuse me of being paid off by, like, you're paid... Like, the vegans are like, you're paid off by big dairy or big meat. Big meat. Or, and then the carnivores, you're paid off by the ag industry, by the big food, blah, blah, blah, blah. Isn't it funny that I'm always paid off by whoever they don't like? Okay? So, the reality is, I just don't give a shit about anybody's feelings, and I just tell you what the data says. I'm sorry if it hurts your feelings. Actually, I'm not really sorry if it hurts your feelings. If you get your feelings hurt by me presenting you with factual information, you probably should look inwards at your own insecurity around your diet. Because most of these nutrition zealots actually try to get more people on board with them. They try to convert them because they're actually insecure about what they do. Because they feel better if everyone else is doing it. Because they don't have the cojones to actually believe in something themselves, they have to try to get everybody else to do it. I notice I don't try to get people to eat like me. I present data, and that's it. And I don't really care if you eat like me. By all means, don't. I don't care. Just don't make crazy claims around it. All right, let's see here. Somebody asked about glucose goddess. She is not a reputable source of information. She is full of it. Okay, who else? Let's see here. Glucose spikes bad independent of how long the spike. I already answered this question once again. Short-term spikes in glucose do not matter for long-term health. Okay, let's see here if we got other questions from Facebook or YouTube. Okay, from Casey. After doing a cut, do you recommend going straight into maintenance or reverse diet if my goal is to keep body fat percentage somewhat stationary? So this is a big misunderstanding of people. Our app, if you do reverse diet, our app starts you at maintenance calories. That's where you start. But a lot of people do not understand maintenance calories because they think of, oh, when I started the diet, I was maintaining on, say, 2,500 calories. But that's not what you're going to be maintaining your body weight on at the end of the diet. It's going to be less than that. And so they think of maintenance as what they started the diet at. That's not where we're going to start you. We're going to start you at your actual post-diet maintenance. So whether you reverse or go to maintenance, both of them will start you at maintenance unless you add like a 10% or 30% boost in calories, which you have that option with carbon. But a conservative reverse will go and start at maintenance. Carnivore diet long-term effects. Oh, boy. Well, we don't have data on long-term effects because there's really no randomized control trials on the carnivore diet. And I doubt you'd ever be able to get it past an IRB. Maybe you could. Maybe a cohort study you could. But we can look at the data on people who eat low amounts of fruits, vegetables, and fiber. And so many of these people go, you know, I went to the carnivore diet and fixed all my inflammation and my autoimmune problem. Hold up. You ate vegetables and some fruits and got a tummy ache. And you think that that is inflammation. That is not inflammation. Now, it's localized inflammatory response to GI distress. But inflammation is CRP, IL-6, IL-1. These are things you measure in the blood. Vegetables and fruits reduce those. Okay? Typically, what you find out is that people who eat less vegetables and fruits have lower life expectancy. So somebody just said, well, not Sean Baker. He's been doing it seven years. I don't think you guys understand how cardiovascular disease works. It's not like you stop eating fruits and vegetables and within a year, you have a heart attack. That's not how this works. This is the difference between dying at age 80 and dying at age 76. Okay? It takes time. It takes time for this stuff to happen. So I don't really care that somebody's been on a carnivore diet for two years and their calcium score is zero. It means absolutely fucking nothing. Okay? The research data is very clear. If you eat low amounts of fruits and vegetables or devoid, all things being equal, you are at greater risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer, and dying earlier. Okay. Let's see here. Let's see here. Do eggs increase bad cholesterol? So bad cholesterol is what's known as LDL cholesterol, which is low density lipoprotein, which really the endothelial damaging portion of that is what's called apolipoprotein B, which just tends to run in concert with LDL cholesterol. LDL cholesterol is a fantastic proxy for apolipoprotein B, but everybody should probably get their APOB tested as well. So LDL cholesterol has been shown to penetrate the endothelium and cause damage to the endothelium. It has been shown in mechanistic studies. It has been shown in human randomized control trials. It has been shown in Mendelian randomization trials. It has been shown in cohort trials. to be a causative risk factor for heart disease. Carnivore and low carb zealots will argue that. I don't know what to tell you other than there won't. Like if there was, if there was this amount of data, that something that was plant based caused damage to the endothelium, carnivore people would be called, would be going crazy crazy over anybody arguing to the opposite. But unfortunately, people don't really care about getting the right answer. Most people, when they ask questions, they want you to reinforce what they already believe to be true. They don't actually care about the truth. And a great example of this is a study in politics where they took both Republicans and Democrats and presented them with information that would either confirm or refute a position they previously held. Both Republicans and Democrats, there was no difference between the two groups. They were both equally dumb. But whether they showed stuff that refuted or supported their position, it only equally was, it only reinforced their pre-existing beliefs. Meaning whether they were wrong or right, they simply doubled down on their beliefs even more, even if they were shown to be wrong. Which shows that most people are such victims of cognitive dissonance, they cannot possibly, they would rather literally do something that would kill them than admit that they were wrong, that a belief they had was wrong. So getting back to eggs. Eggs actually do not appear to increase LDL cholesterol. They may increase total cholesterol slightly, but eggs now are largely considered not a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. And they're a very high quality source of protein. I don't really worry about eggs. Unless, you know, just in terms of the overall fat content could contribute to more calories in the diet. But in terms of an independent risk factor outside of calories, I don't think eggs are an independent risk factor. Okay. Lots of questions in here. All right, I'm going to take one from YouTube. What are some signs of a slow metabolism? Well, typically you will have low energy. And typically you would have trouble losing weight. But the vast majority of people do not have slow metabolisms. And you can use so when we say metabolism, I'm talking about your BMR, your basal metabolic rate. The only thing that really appears to independently reduce metabolic rate is thyroid hormone. So if you have low thyroid, it could be up to 25% slower than your standard BMR, which means it could take somebody from being like, you know, a BMR of like 1500 down to like 12 or 1300. Okay. There is, and I want to be very clear. There is no known physical problem that causes metabolism to become so slow that no one loses weight in a calorie deficit, period. End of story. If you are not losing weight, you are not in a calorie deficit, period. It may be whatever, it may be something you calculated to be a calorie deficit. Your smartwatch may be telling you you should be in a calorie deficit. But what do you think is more likely? That that calorie calculator or your smartwatch might be wrong? Or that you're somehow defying the laws of physics? I know which one I would lean towards. Okay. Let's see here. So getting back to slow metabolism, when they look at obese people, and they look at type people with type two diabetes, on average, do they see them have slow metabolisms versus lean people? The answer is no. And in fact, if anything, they actually have faster metabolisms than lean people. So I would not worry about a slow metabolism. If you're not losing weight, if you're concerned you have a slow metabolism, go get a hormone panel done. If your thyroid hormone is low, then I would suggest seeing an endocrinologist to fix that. And in fact, these new, somebody asked about the Zimpik, these new GLP-1 mimics actually showed that people did not have slow metabolisms, because many of them who took these GLP-1 mimics like Zimpik lost a bunch of weight when they claimed to have slow metabolism. Except weight, Zimpik does not increase your metabolic rate. Zimpik is actually one of the most powerful appetite suppressants though to man. So you eat less. Now, appetite regulation is very, very difficult. And so I am not against people being prescribed these GLP-1 mimics. I think that they're great tools, but it's not because they increase metabolic rate. It's because people eat less. Guys, don't respond to the troll. I already told you, this is my favorite person on Instagram, because I have no idea who they are and they jump on every live I'm on within minutes. They like, I live with three in their head. Can you imagine being so pathetic that you're sitting around waiting for somebody that you don't even, never even met in person to jump on Instagram so you control them? That's like the best compliment I can get. You all should be hearting this because this person is like increasing my engagement and like they hate me and I have no idea who they are. It's fantastic. Okay. Let's see here. Let's pick another one from Instagram here. Pardon me. So I'm just looking for a good question. I keep hearing whey protein is bad for the liver and digestion. True? No. And whoever said that, you should unfollow them because they're an idiot. Whey protein pretty much across the board shows improvements in pretty much all blood markers of health. And it is one of the most bioavailable, high quality protein sources based on the amino acid profile. So whey protein, great option. Most people who are crap, like shitting on whey protein are usually like of the, the vegan kind of plant based milk because they just don't want people to use animal products and they kind of justify just lying about research studies to get people to stop using whey protein. Do protein requirements change if you're enhanced? If you're enhanced. This is a big myth out there, actually. The idea that if you take steroids, your protein requirements magically just jump up so much. um no in fact if you like i can do math this is actually very easy even if you added like 50 pounds of lean mass in a year okay when you consider that two-thirds of lean mass is water you back out the dry tissue that gets added you get back to like 20 25 grams of extra amino acids deposited in muscle per day so just eat the amount of protein that maximizes muscle protein synthesis which is like 1.6 to 2.8 grams of protein per kilogram of lean mass i i tell most people oh one gram per pound is perfectly fine and then add 20 grams of protein on top of that and you're more than covered but this whole idea that you need more protein if you're on steroids was created by bodybuilders who were on steroids so that they could come up with some magic reason as to why they look so muscular and they could say no no bro i'm not on steroids it's the 500 grams of protein i take in a day false pardon me jeez i'm gonna think i'm a smoker can you explain how eating less than a thousand calories today can allow someone to maintain or even gain weight uh it doesn't they're not even a thousand calories per day okay if you were a really small woman with very little lean mass and you were completely sedentary maybe you could maintain your body weight a thousand calories per day but there is a classic study in nutrition where they had people this is from 1992 and i believe the title is discrepancy between self-reported and actual food intake and they monitored people in a lab who claimed that they were eating 1200 calories a day and couldn't lose weight guess what they actually consumed when they were monitored oh by the way the researchers told them we will know if you're under reporting they under reported their calorie intake by 53 percent they over reported their activity by 47 percent and many of them argued with the researchers about it i'm sorry you're not eating a thousand calories a day and not losing weight it is likely that you are um that you're just having some hidden calories somewhere that you don't realize either they're snacking licks bites you're chewing a whole pack of gum in a day you're not counting vegetables you're weighing out you're not weighing out your food like if honestly honestly if most people have no concept of portion size if you weigh out your food go right now and weigh out a serving of cereal weigh out a serving of peanut butter weigh out a serving of ice cream and then tell me that you think people are really eating a thousand calories a day because i knew somebody that said that and i watched them one time fill up a bowl of cereal and i'm like there's four servings in that and you're probably thinking it's one i'm sorry they're not eating 1200 calories a day not losing weight over time i'm sorry i i don't know what to tell you like there's just like you you you have to create atp out of something you have to like it's it's not uh like this isn't negotiable you you have to create that energy from something you cannot just get it from nothing it doesn't come out of oblivion okay this isn't the wizard of oz this isn't lord of the rings we're not conjuring up stuff okay you can you can have your feelings or you can have data okay i'm not saying that people are lying i think people are really bad at tracking their food intake and i think that they don't really account for a lot of the snacks licks bites taste like we're going to go with alcohol as calories or they're binge eating one day of the week and they're like oh i'm eating 1200 calories and they are five six days of the week and then they're eating 4 000 calories on one day and they wonder why they can't lose weight gee i wonder what it is is it your broken metabolism or the fact that you're binge eating on one day of the week the week and i think that is one of the reasons people really struggle with this stuff because one of the reasons that people really try to dismiss calories in versus calories out because um there's inherent responsibility there people don't like personal responsibility because they tie fault and personal responsibility together i'm not saying if you became obese i'm not saying it's your fault 100 your fault what i'm saying is if you became obese that happened because for your given level of energy expenditure you ate more calories than you expended that's just a fact if you didn't save money it's because you spent more than you made that's there's there's no arguing this period let's see here i saw something somebody asked me to explain p values in studies i love this question because a lot of times for those of you who actually look up studies you'll see what's called p value now a p value is considered significant so the results or the differences between groups are considered significant if a p value is less than 0.05 now what does 0.05 mean so 0.05 refers to basically a percentage and it means that the straight up statistical uh definition is there is less than a five percent chance that the difference observed between the groups sorry there is less than a five percent chance that the null hypothesis is true the null hypothesis means that the treatment will not have an effect between the groups now allow me to give you the layperson interpretation of that statisticians out there will cringe at this but it works for our purposes a p value of less than 0.05 indicates that there's less than a point there's less than a five percent chance that the differences observed between the groups in the study are due to random chance okay there's always a chance but it's a low chance now for whatever reason statisticians long time and all picks five percent is kind of their what they honed in on you'll get some people who argue that oh if you have a you know a p value of 0.07 you should be able to talk about it there's other people who are very staunch about 0.05 i tend to just look at the consensus of the beta would you agree that intermittent fasting would be a good option if you wanted to increase autophagy without losing weight i did an exact example of this as to why this is misguided because let's say you're doing an extreme version of fasting let's say you are fasting uh three days a week okay and you maintain your weight on approximately 2 000 calories a day that is 14 000 calories a week total to maintain your body weight which means if you're eating zero on three days you now must eat 3500 calories on your four days of the week that you're eating in order to maintain your weight will autophagy increase on the days you are fasting undoubtedly and guess what happens on the days where you're eating 3500 calories per day autophagy is going to be far lower than somebody who just eats 2 000 calories every single day and then people will say well what if you didn't compensate by eating 3500 calories in those four days well then you'd be in what's called a calorie deficit and we're not comparing apples to apples anymore okay autophagy is not magic it's not magic and it's not always a good thing either people invoke the term autophagy just like it's like this mic drop like it finishes the argument argument's over i said autophagy everyone can go home uh autophagy is elevated in many wasting diseases it's elevated many forms of cancer many forms of cancer actually use autophagy in order to extract energy so i'm not saying autophagy is a bad thing but just people who say that it's blanketly a good thing also false let's see here let's see here i'll answer this just like this is a personal question i get a lot why do i do sumo instead of conventional deadlift so i compete in powerlifting sumo is allowed in powerlifting um people will say that sumo is blanketly easier it is not it depends on the individual person's leverages and they're um anthropometrics now do a lot of people lift sumo yes it reduces the range of motion but it also decreases your power because if you were going to do a standing high jump would you spread your legs out really wide to do a standing high jump no because you can transmit the most force through the ground when your feet are directly underneath you so conventional has the advantage of you can generate more force it has the disadvantage of it is a longer range of motion i have pulled 700 conventional at the same body weight that i've pulled uh 716 sumo why do i choose to do sumo now because i have to lean forward quite a bit on my squats because i have a short torso and long femurs and the bar must stay over your midfoot when you squat therefore based on biomechanics if i want to hit depth i have to lean forward quite a bit in order to achieve depth so my back gets quite fatigued from squatting and if i do conventional deadlift it actually gets way more fatigued and i end up getting um more pain than if i do sumo i can do more volume on sumo and it doesn't beat me up as much so i do sumo let's see do you think it's healthy for to fast for several days like i've seen people do um i think the reasoning for a lot for people fasting for multiple days is honestly pretty stupid um if you like it great but there is no evidence right now in humans to suggest that fasting or fasting based uh nutrition is more advantageous than a comparable calorie deficit or controlled calories um for a non-fasting protocol now time-restricted eating can be a great way for people to manage their calorie intake awesome but it does not appear to be magic especially based on the most tightly controlled human randomized control trials so again talking about like i'm doing it for three days to raise autophagy and gobble up all the the bad cells and you know the zombie cells and all the things that people like mindy pelts and all these other scammers say um yeah there's really no evidence to to support that that's somehow superior now again if you like time restricted feedings that's fine somebody just said i like to do uh fast for multiple days when you're in the ibd flare okay you could probably do an elimination diet and you wouldn't have to totally fast um but you know if you want to fast that's fine so here's the problem with fasting um you are you cannot make up for low protein at one time a day by overeating it another time you don't store protein really there's no story there's not like glycogen for carbs it's not like adipose tissue for fat you don't store protein so if you are going days without any protein you are going to be in a catabolic state for your skeletal muscle mass um so if you're wanting to build muscle it's definitely not optimal by any stretch of imagination and a lot of people frankly end up fasting for several days and then binging their face off for a few more days after that which is going to completely abolish whatever you just did so i just i just i think the reason that most people fast is honestly pretty stupid if it's hey i'm just doing this because i'm not hungry in the morning so you know or another time of the day so i fast for those periods so that i can have more calories at bigger meals and other times of the day when i'm actually hungry perfectly good reason to do it but this idea that you're fasting for days at a time because there's these magic health benefits there is i want to again there is no evidence that there are independent benefits to that what is the reason for weight gain in perimenopause and menopause okay we've been triggering people this whole live we might as well trigger some more um it can be harder to lose weight in menopause and perimenopause but not because your metabolism slows down there's no evidence that your bmr slows down uh in menopause but when the hormonal fluctuations happen what can happen is people get less sleep they don't recover as well they don't feel as good and they spontaneously become less active and they can they say well i'm still doing my hour gym sessions that's cool i'm not talking about that i'm talking about your subconscious movements like like me waving my hands and stuff as i'm talking about your body that actually adds up to a lot of caloric expenditure per day i talk about this all the time it's called non-exercise activity thermogenesis and um you're not conscious of these movements and so you may need to do more purposeful activity to make up for the fact that you are probably not moving as much spontaneously because you just don't feel as good so from that aspect menopause can make it hard to lose weight because you become spontaneously less active but that's not what people like to hear because it sounds like it's their fault again and they get all triggered about it i'm not saying it's your fault if you're spontaneously not moving as much it's not conscious so therefore not your fault did you and paul solidino do the third party podcast yet no we're trying to line that up um both he and i have agreed to do it uh we're trying to line it up we do have a pretty big podcast to do it on but we're still i actually got to follow up on that this week so um yeah we'll see guys i'm lay norton uh you should check out my app my app carbon diet coach for ten dollars a month it does customized nutrition coaching um you know basically it gives you based on your goals your dietary preference your individual metabolism it generates a plan for you and then it adjusts that plan based on how you progress each week so you click click in my bio go download subscribe today it's only 10 bucks a month it's fantastic if anybody uses carbon drop a comment let us know what you think of carbon let the people know if you hate it let them know if you love it let them know um but i think it is an awesome app and i have used it myself personally for almost five years to do all my nutrition and it's always been on point so again it's hard to um beat customized nutrition recommendations for ten dollars per month we've got people in here love carbon love carbon love carbon love to hear it thank you all so much uh mr memphis fantastic app lost over 13 kilos we love to hear it we've had numerous people lose over 100 pounds um we had one person lose 80 pounds that got off all the blood pressure medication all the diabetes medication uh amazing uh nicole says love carbon down 20 pounds so far awesome thank you guys so much so if you're interested in that please go to my bio i don't sell crap i don't really do sponsorships or anything like that every all the income i make is based off the products and services that i help create that i sell and carbon is is an absolute steal for the value you get so please go check it please go check it out download and subscribe and i will catch you guys uh next time thank you so much for joining