 sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair sair Anything that will help you ultimately on your path towards reaching your goal. So this is open season for anything you guys have for me. If you are on Facebook or YouTube, please put your questions in the comments, and then I can pull it up on the screen for everybody there. If you're on Instagram, there is an ask a question feature. If you ask through it that way, it's a lot easier for me to pull it up on the screen for others to see. So once we get a few questions here, we can get started. We're getting some people in here. How's everybody doing? I hope everybody's excited for Thanksgiving next week. I'm sure there'll be some questions around how to track macros around Thanksgiving or how to estimate certain things. We can talk about that stuff, anything that you have. You're confused about protein powders. What's confusing about protein powders? All right. Looks like we got one on YouTube already, so I'll pull that up. Hello there. Can you give me a better idea where to tape measure for body fat percentage? I'm a male. Is it just above the navel, including the love handles? Typically, it's like the widest point around your belly. Typically, that is right around your belly button. That's going to give you the best measurement for estimating body fat. Don't use your pant size. I know a lot of people enter in their pant size. But that's typically off from where the formulas are typically looking for you to measure. So measure around the largest point, typically right around your belly button. You might need to move it up and down a little bit to get the exact right point. But just do the best you can and then pop that in one of those equations. Good question. All right. So what is the best way to up my protein intake? This is a good question. A lot of people do struggle with reaching their protein targets, especially when they're just getting started. It can be daunting to reach a high target. Typically, carbon recommends what's optimal for lean body mass on whatever goal you are on. So muscle mass, building muscle mass, maintaining muscle mass. So that's going to be a lot higher than your typical RDA recommendation for a sedentary person. So when people see their protein target recommendations, they often get scared about like, how am I going to reach that? And the best way to do it that I found is to break it up. So break things up. Look at the total you have for the day. And then however many meals you eat per day, you just divide that total by those meals. And if you have snacks too, you can divide it by all of the times when you eat. And that'll give you a meal target that you should aim for. I find it a lot better having per meal targets for protein just because it helps me stay on track with my protein throughout the day. So if I have any meal that's low in protein, I know I'm going to be behind. So I always am thinking about, okay, what am I going to base this meal around in terms of a protein source? I think about protein first when I'm trying to build out a meal to hit my macros. And then I put other foods around it and think about what the full meal can be in terms of what I want to eat. But yeah, I think breaking up protein for multiple meals and then having a protein target per meal helps a lot of people stay on track with their protein. Another thing is you want to probably introduce some protein powders, just an easy way to top off your protein and make sure that you are reaching your targets. And over time, you'll find that you rely less and less on protein powder because you'll be looking for what foods are high in protein. Like when I started trying to reach a higher protein intake, I thought I had to drink protein shakes all day long. But now like literally, I barely have any protein powder every day. So you get to a point where you search for high protein foods and you include those in your diet and it makes it so much easier. So just do the best you can and then just adjust and keep trying to bump it up until you reach your recommendation. All right, let's see here. Okay. Okay. How does the reverse diet work exactly? Because when I tried it, it seems that it works exactly as a massing phase. So it is similar, but there is an important distinction between those two goals. So in carbon, you can choose weight gain goal, which is, which is basically like a massing phase that you're referring to, uh, or a reverse diet goal. And the main difference between those is if you choose the gain weight goal, the app is going to force you to gain a certain amount of weight every, every single week. So if you're not gaining the right amount of weight every single week on average or your trend or whatever, it will make an adjustment. Whereas with the reverse diet goal, it is going to allow you to gain a certain amount of weight per week without, without holding your calories back. So it's kind of, it's kind of a different approach where we're, we're trying to maximize your metabolism and we're okay with a little weight gain, but weight gain is not the goal on a reverse diet setting. So it's more permissive in terms of like what happens with your weight, as long as it's within, within a certain range of what you deem acceptable when you create your reverse diet goal. Whereas yeah, the weight gain is going to force you to gain a certain amount of weight each week. So it just depends on what you are looking to do. Like if you're coming out of a diet, you want to work in your metabolism suppressed and you want to work on building that up, then you may want to choose the reverse goal. But if you are like deep into you, like you haven't dieted in a while, your metabolism's fine, but you want to gain, you know, some weight and force your body to gain a certain amount of weight each week and hopefully build more muscle that way, then you want to choose the weight gain goal. So it's an important distinction. It's, it's, it's just a little bit of difference in those goals. But if you guys have questions or anything around how to choose the right one for you and your circumstance, don't hesitate to reach out to our customer support. Super helpful in working through anything that you guys have to figure out what's the best goal for you. All right. So why can't I lose weight on low cales, but when I put calories higher, I start losing weight easier. It could be a couple of different things. First, that's jumping out to me is one thing that happens with a lot of people is if they try to be too restrictive, they end up not being as consistent with their diet because it's harder to stick to. So they might have a few more slip ups here and there, and they're not really thinking about how many calories those slip ups are contributing to their average intake throughout the week. And so if you are too restrictive, trying to, trying to lose too fast, your calories are going to be too low. You're probably going to have more slip ups where you end up overeating. And if you look at the average of your intake, it's likely going to be higher. That could be one scenario. The second scenario could be you're tanking your metabolism. So you're trying to lose really, really fast. And then your body's adapting negatively by slowing your metabolism even more than it would if you were on more moderate weight loss. So that could be another thing to where you need to then, you need to then even lower. To create the same deficit that you would have when your calories are a little higher. So those are the two things that come to mind for me. But it's hard to know without really looking at all the details of what's going on. Good question. All right. Any tips for my wife who is consistently under her calories but still can't lose fat? She's been weight training as well. It might just, she might just need some more time. It sounds like she's doing the right thing with weight training and trying to build muscle. Like I would put a large, a large focus on the gym for her. So make sure that she's progressively overloading her exercises to give her body stimulus for building muscle. But yeah, like losing fat, you do want to really push it in the gym and make sure that you're holding on to any muscle that you have and potentially building some more muscle. And if they're newer to weight training, they can build muscle and lose fat, you know, at the same time. It's going to be easier for them. But as she gets more experience in the gym, it's going to be harder and harder to do that. But it sounds like she's more new to the gym. So just have her push hard in the gym, track her weights on her exercises, make sure she's pushing for more each time she goes into the gym. And that can go a long way in terms of body composition. And then make sure the diet is in check on the other end. And she's not crash dieting, but she's also not eating in a surplus for her. So, you know, just a very slight deficit would probably be the best approach for her. So take the weight loss goal and move the slider to the slowest possible area. And yeah, do that for a while. It's going to take a little while to accumulate some muscle. But that's likely the best approach for her and make sure that she's also eating enough protein, which if she's using carbon, she will have the proper macular ratios for building optimal muscles. So hopefully that helps. All right. So this kind of I kind of mentioned a little bit, but in your experience, have you ever seen someone build muscle, whether it be minimal or more while on a cut and eating enough protein? Absolutely. It's it happens quite often for people that aren't super experienced in the gym that haven't been going to the gym for a long time. So and even for myself, like if I take a while off from the gym for whatever reason, there's been a few circumstances in my life that I've taken some time off from the gym. When I come back, I can even a deficit and gain gain that muscle back. So if you are a person that built a certain amount of muscle and then you lost it, you can easily build some muscle back while being in a deficit. And like I mentioned, also the newbie to the gym, if you're new to weight training or if you've been eating a lower protein diet in the past, like those types of scenarios or scenarios where you likely will still build some muscle while being in a deficit. But once you get like farther down the road and, you know, I've been going to the gym for, I don't know, maybe 15 years or so, hitting it hard in the gym. And once you've been in the gym that long, it it really is beneficial to have more distinct phases of I'm looking to lose fat right now. I'm looking to build muscle right now and then being OK with my body composition. So once you get more experience, then you've got to focus on making sure you're in a surplus when you're trying to build muscle. But for somebody that's newer, absolutely. It's absolutely possible to build some muscle while being in a deficit and eating enough protein. Let's see. OK, so if I cook three pounds of ground beef to make it easier to plan my meal for the week, if I put 200 grams of cooked beef, cooked ground beef. How much weight is it really? So the thing is, is of tracking things cooked versus raw is when you track it cooked, there's a lot more variance in terms of of accuracy, because every cooking method that you have is going to is going to make the food loses lose water at a different rate. And so the weights can vary drastically across cooking methods, and that can be hard to keep track of. And that's why if you want to be as accurate as possible, it's probably best to weigh and track it raw. But that can also be a pain, you know, because if you're cooking in bulk and then you're doing it, that can be a real pain to try to weigh it raw. So what I recommend is if you cook in bulk, three pounds of it, what you can do is so, you know, the weight before you cooked it, it was three pounds. Then cook it all, then weigh the weight, weigh it again, all of it. And let's say it's two pounds. It lost a pound in cooking. Then what you're going to want to do is figure out what percentage was lost throughout the cooking process. And then you'll take that percentage and just adjust your, your gram tracking amount for whatever method you're doing. So if you want to, if you want to track it cooked, figure out how much weight was lost while cooked, then you know the ratio of cooked to uncooked. And then that can help you convert the tracking. But, you know, if, if you don't care, like if you're not trying to be super, super crazy about it, as long as you're consistent with the method that you're doing, that's what's most important. Um, so like, I don't even mess with cooked or, I mean, uncooked weighing. I literally always just do cooked and then track it as uncooked. Um, that I'm consistent with that. That's what's most important. So I'm getting more protein than what I have tracked. Um, but I'm fine with that because, you know, it's not going to be a crazy amount and I'm always consistent with the way I do it. So if I eat chicken, I'm always tracking the same chicken item in my database. Um, and I'm doing it as cooked, even though the thing in the database is raw, uh, I'm just fine with being a little bit over my protein. And since I'm consistent with the method that I'm doing, that doesn't matter anymore over the long run. Cause carbon is going to adjust based on how my body's responding each week for my check-ins. So it's going to not matter if I ate 210 grams of protein versus, uh, 200. What, what, what I tracked and what carbon thinks. So, um, yeah, just be consistent with it. But if you do want to be accurate, figure out the weight that's lost while you're cooked, cooking it. And then, and then just adjust your portion sizes and your tracker to compensate for that. All right. So Eric has another question here or Erie, sorry. Um, does exercise really help with hunger signals signaling? I've heard exercise can make you feel less hungry, which seems counterintuitive. Uh, yeah, absolutely. It can play with your, uh, hunger hormones. So you can be less hungry. You know, if I found for myself, I found that cardio can, can be like a good appetite suppressant for me. Um, so everybody can be a little bit different. Um, but I've found, you know, the more exercise I'm doing, I, uh, I do have different hunger levels. And if I'm, you know, a lazy person on the couch, whatever, like skipping the gym, like my hunger is all out of whack and I'm more hungry and I want to eat more food. So I think, and it could just be some mental as well, like of, of your focus in the gym and you're focused on this. And, um, you may just, you know, have different, uh, mental aspect around that, but, but it, there is some evidence that it does, does alter your hunger signaling. So, uh, exercise does a lot of things. It's very beneficial. Um, so we definitely want to make sure we're doing, uh, exercise, uh, regularly. Discuss compliance. Do I need four blue checks to be compliant? Compliance to be like fully compliant in the app. Yeah. You, you do need to hit all of your macros. Um, but a lot of people find that, uh, they have good enough compliance with just doing something like making sure they hit their calories and protein, and then they let their carbs and fats go wherever, uh, they do. Since you're doing that, you're still staying within your calorie requirements for your goal. Uh, so your energy requirements are, are being met and you're eating the right amount of calories for your goal. And then protein, you're making sure you're getting enough protein. So it's not like you're, um, risking muscle loss. And so a lot of people have a ton of success doing, uh, calories and protein. If you do calories and protein, however, I would make sure you're, um, using macro calories in carbon. Uh, and what that'll do is that'll just standardize, um, the calories in, in, you won't have to deal with any, any, um, alterations in food labels. And so make sure you have macro calories enabled. If you're going to do calories and protein, that that's important. Um, but I mean, for any, everybody, I really recommend macro calories just because it's a, it's a more standard approach to, to tracking your macros. Um, but yeah, compliance is something that, and we also ask you, where are you compliant? Because everybody has a different definition of what they want to consider compliant. Like if we just across the board said, well, you didn't hit all your macros, uh, you're not compliant. Uh, people would be very angry and it's not, it's not required in certain circumstances. Like it depends on how strict your goal is and how important being, you know, right on the money is for you and your goal. And so we leave it more open-ended of allowing you to determine if you're compliant or not. Um, but most importantly, calories, that's something you need to focus on first and foremost, making sure you're reaching the right amount of calories for your goal, whatever carbon determined your calorie requirements are. And then protein is also very important. So those are the two main ones that are super important. And then carbs and fats really aren't, aren't crazy important. Uh, they're important from a performance perspective. If, if you're, um, doing a lot of exercise or doing a lot of endurance training, for example, you're going to want to have more carbs in your diet, uh, in proportion to the fat that you're consuming. So you do want to shift your, uh, carbon fat ratios towards that. But, um, for most people, just, just calories and proteins fine. And letting, uh, carbs and fats fall wherever they do on the spectrum, uh, based on the foods that you're eating is, is plenty fine. So hopefully that helps. Thanks for all your hard work and help. You bet. Thank you for, um, using carbon. If you are, um, if you are, I hope so, but, um, thank you for tuning in as well. Uh, let's see. Can we say we're compliant if we hit the macros 80% of the time and not a hundred and not a hundred percent of days. So that's another thing as well as like compliance is on the weekly scale. It's not necessarily on, uh, every single day. So like you, it's not like, Oh, today I didn't eat enough. So I'm not compliant or I ate too much today. So I'm noncompliant. It's on the weekly scale of when you check in. So your average macros is what is, what's going to be most important. Your average calories and average protein. That's what you need to focus on. So you can have some days where you're under some days where you're over, but as long as that baseline and the average it's right on compliance with, with where your goal, then that's totally fine. And you can use the calorie planner for making sure that you are adjusting your macros based on how you're eating throughout the week. So you can make sure you're still staying on track with, with the average macro targets. Let's see. Um, when you're on a cut, do you recommend immediately dropping to one to two pounds a week, or do you prefer the least amount possible? Uh, it, it all depends on your weight. So carbon goes based on an average of, of your current weight. And so, uh, it scales for anybody's size. So one to two pounds for, for me, it could be drastically different for one to two pounds for somebody that's lighter than me or heavier than me. So it just depends on, on what, um, your current weight is. But for me personally, um, I like to take diets slow and I'm fine with going longer just because I get in, like, I get in the zone when I'm dieting and I'm totally fine with, you know, having the diet be dragged out a little bit longer, as long as I can keep calories higher. Cause it just doesn't feel like I'm dieting when I get in the zone and I stay busy, uh, with things. So I like to take it as slow as possible, uh, on carbon. So when I do a weight loss, I'll just bring it to the slowest possible setting and then just live life and, uh, see when I'm feel like I'm lean enough and then I switch my goals. So, uh, that's just the approach I take. Uh, there's sometimes where I, I have periods where I'm like, I want to lose, uh, more, uh, during this like shorter period. So maybe I'll do a mini cut and go a little bit faster, but if it's a diet where I need to lose more than like five pounds, I'll just take it slow and, and allow myself to have more calories and not feel like I'm dieting at all. Indeed using carbon, I love it. Lost over a hundred pounds through diet and exercise using this app and diet too. That is absolutely amazing. That is so great to hear. And yeah, it just goes to show like you put in the work and you put in the time, you can achieve amazing things. A hundred pounds. That's, that's crazy. That's awesome. So what's your goal right now? What are you looking to do? Are you looking to lose a little bit more? Are you looking to, um, gain some more weight or reverse diet? What, what goal are you on right now? All right. How would you track butter? Uh, I'm using to cook my meal prep for the week or just not worry about it. Uh, it depends on how much it is. Um, if it's like cooking spray, uh, that you use for cooking, I don't even worry about that. It's such a small amount and, um, and I don't ever track it. So I'm consistent with not tracking it. So, um, the more consistent you are with your meals, then, then that's going to like the, it's not going to really matter anymore. Um, but if, if it's a lot of butter, uh, you know, I would definitely track it. So it's kind of a personal judgment thing. Like how much butter is it? Do you feel like it's contributing, uh, a significant amount of calories? If it's, um, if it's something you're super consistent with, not a huge deal, just be consistent with how much you use and, and how often you use it throughout the week. And then it's not going to matter anymore. Um, but yeah, just depends on how much it is. If it's cooking spray, I would never really worry about it unless you're like just taking the can for like 20 seconds on the pan and you got visible like butter drips everywhere. Um, but if it's just normal cooking, not a super big deal. All right. Um, what to eat after a hard training session when you're more tired and less hungry. So you don't instantly have to eat after a training session. Uh, it really depends on how, how soon before your training session you ate. And like the spacing of the meal before. So like, if you eat right before you go to the gym, you can go without eating for a little while after training without having to worry about any, you know, any kind of missing your anabolic window or anything like that. Like the anabolic window was, uh, made to seem like it's very small, short period of time. You got to chug your, your protein shake, like instantly as you're walking out of the gym. Like it's not, it's not that dire of a scenario. Like you have, it's, it's like a huge barn door. You have this big window to where you are going to be able to maximize things. And it just depends on what you eat before you work out. So like, as long as you're having food one to two hours before your workout or one to two hours after your workout, you're completely fine with any kind of maximization of benefits from weight training and, um, pre and post-workout nutrition. So don't stress about it too much. If you're not super hungry after your workout, give it a little bit of time, um, or do just, just a protein shake or something within, you know, one to two hours after. Uh, and then when you get hungry for a meal, then you can eat a meal later, but, um, don't stress about being on it like instantly with, with your post-workout meal. All right. Uh, I've been inconsistent and non-compliant in the past. Uh, is it better? Is it best to turn off coach trend weight? I lost the target amount of weight for the week while compliant and the coach still lower my calories. So trend weight is a very useful feature and, and, but people tend to struggle sometimes with it because, um, they see that they had a single week where they thought they reached whatever they needed to. And the coach made an adjustment trend weight is really making sure your trend is on track with what you need to be and not necessarily just like week to week progress. So, um, you need to kind of detach a little bit from the week to week, um, adjustments with the coach, just because trend weight is a very sophisticated algorithm that, that makes sure, um, you are progressing at the right rate, um, on, on your trend. And so it's, it can be hard, like I said, but, um, you know, you had one week where you lost the target amount of weight, but if you take a step back and look at, okay, how have I been trending on this goal? Um, the coach would do the right thing in that scenario. Um, so the coach is not making, not making, you know, quick decisions based on a single week of data. It's looking at all of the data since you started your goal and started carbon and then making the appropriate, um, recommendation from there. So, um, I recommend trend weight. I use trend weight. I've been using it since we released it as experimental for users and I found it to be super beneficial. Um, but I did notice I, I have to kind of detach a little bit from, um, the psychology around my week to week progress and just let the coach take over. And I found, uh, to be more successful using trend weight than, than not. Um, but if you don't like it, uh, you can still turn it off and use the, the default, uh, the default way of doing it before we introduced the experimental trend weight and trend weight is still experimental. Um, so we are continually looking to make improvements to it. So if you guys have scenarios where you don't think it did the right thing for you and you're on trend weight, do reach out to our customer support and, and give them all the details and let them know about those scenarios, because that'll help us fine tune things to make sure, uh, it works best for everybody. Uh, and not just, you know, 95% of scenarios. We want to make sure that we're covering on the basis. So do you reach out to our customer support if you do have feedback on, uh, the experimental trend weight feature. Thanks for the question. Okay. So Yuri, I'm still on fat loss. I have 22 more pounds to lose to reach my weight loss goal. Hoping to be around 14% body fat at the end, but we'll have to reevaluate when the time comes. Yup. That's, that's great. Yeah. Sounds like you're, you're just chugging along. Things are going great. Appreciate you being a carbon user and happy to see all the success you've had with it. All right. Let's see. Um, okay. Okay. Um, let's see. Um, I checked in last week with my weight, which was higher due to my cycle this week. When I checked in, I was down two pounds, but not sure if that was an accurate loss due to my cycle. The app increased my calories due to, uh, more weight loss than I selected thoughts on that. Um, so I'm not sure. Did you, did you, um, did you mark when you checked in that you feel like your weight could be affected by your, your period? Um, there's a question that asks that. And if, and what it does is if, if you say that there is a possibility that your weight could be affected by your period, the coach will take that into consideration. Um, and, and if it's like a large swing in your weight and you mark that, like it's gonna, it's gonna really take that into consideration and think, okay, this is likely due to the period and just normal water fluctuations around, around the cycle. And so, um, it wouldn't make an adjustment, but I don't know if you mark that or not. Um, and yeah, the, the, the thing is, is you mark it if you feel like your weight has been, um, affected, uh, not like if you're on your period currently, or if you're about to get your period or like, do you feel like your weight is affected by, um, your menstrual cycle right now? Uh, if yes or no. And that's an important thing to do when you're checking in. Um, um, but overall, I think, you know, if you end up losing, uh, don't, if you end up not losing enough, you know, in the earth, in your check-ins that are coming up, uh, on average, the coach will bring you back down a little bit. So in worst case scenario, if it, if it over-corrected a little bit, um, you have a few more calories to have fun with for a week or so. But, um, most of the time it's doing the right thing in terms of that, but it can get hard when, when you have some weird weight fluctuations around your cycle, but we try to do the best we can with that. Thanks for the question. All right. Clint on YouTube. If, if I see I'm short 500 to a thousand calories before check-in, is it a bad practice to eat that extra to try to catch up? I find myself being short on calories each day and have to catch up at the check-in. That is completely fine to catch up at the end. Um, uh, it's not, it's not going to make any difference on your progress. Um, one thing that I could see potentially happening is, is if you are eating under a lot, you know, during the week, and then right before you check in, you eat all those calories up. There is a chance that your weight is going to be even artificial, more artificially higher when you're checking in. But if you're consistently doing that every single check-in, then that shouldn't matter too much. Um, like overall, what's most important is your average macro targets, uh, throughout the week. So take a step back, look at when you're checking in, are you hitting your average macro targets when you go to check in? Yes. If so, then it's not a big deal. Um, and you can have fun for, uh, the day before you check in and try to catch up with all those calories. But, uh, you can also try to like, just be a little bit more conscious throughout the week. Um, and make sure you're including some higher, uh, calorie dense foods in your diet, just so you aren't always behind. Um, even something as simple as like, uh, cooking or like adding olive oil to like a tablespoon or two of olive oil to a meal every single day can get you to where you need to be in terms of calories each day. So you don't have to, you know, eat, eat foods that are super filling to reach those calorie targets. Um, you can do more, more calorie dense foods to, to stay on track throughout the week, but overall, don't worry about it, Clint. Uh, it's fine as long as your average macros are on track. All right. I want to try to, I want to try carbon diet coach, but don't know what goal to choose. Also have an eating disorder. What do you suggest? Um, I can't really give you guidance on around your eating disorder. Um, but, but in terms of what goal to choose, uh, if you're somebody that is always under eating, um, you likely have, uh, a suppressed metabolism and would benefit greatly from reverse dieting and, and getting out of that diet mindset. Uh, some people get so ingrained in dieting, losing weight, um, that like taking a reverse diet can help break that cycle of, of always wanting to diet. And so, um, if your metabolism is likely suppressed, you probably want to go with reverse diet for a while, uh, and then kind of reassess as you get consistent with tracking and get with carbon and checking in. Um, yeah, then you'll see kind of where things are at and then you can adjust from there. Uh, and if you need help figuring out like what goal to choose, um, then you can always reach out to our customer support. Super helpful. Uh, they can't give guidance around the eating disorder stuff. Um, uh, you should speak with a specialist around that, but they can't give guidance around they can definitely give you point you in the right direction with, with carbon and utilizing it based on where your body's at right now. Thank you for the question. Clint, thanks for the chat. Uh, I keep seeing recommend recommendations to choose high quality sources of protein or deli slices of turkey, ham, or beef considered processed. Uh, if it's like lunch meat. Yeah, it is. Um, and I would probably try to avoid or just minimize those types of things in, in, um, your diet. But like, like deli meat isn't, uh, super calorie dense. So that's not going to be something that, uh, helps you easily hit your, your calories, uh, and macros for the day. Um, like beef, just include some more foods, like go eat a pizza, go eat some pizza or something or ice cream. Like those are calorie dense foods that people love, uh, and can easily give you some more calories for the day. I think as long as, um, you're getting 80%, 80 to 90% of your calories from like whole nutrient dense foods, you're completely fine with having 10 to 20% of your calories from more discretionary, like junk, quote unquote junk foods, uh, without any negative impact on your health. Like it, you need to practice moderation for sure. Um, but don't super try to avoid, um, foods that most people consider junk, but, you know, including a little bit of those foods that you really, really enjoy in your diet can go a long ways in terms of, of compliance and allowing you to stick to a diet longterm. And that's, what's going to be most important for like reaching your longterm goals is finding a diet approach that is sustainable. That doesn't feel like it's a super chore. Like there's no good or bad foods. Like when you stop like looking at foods as good or bad, um, it, it really opens up your perspective and, and allows you to, um, stick to your diet so much more easily and, and it doesn't have a negative effect on your health as long as you're practicing moderation. Uh, some people say I eat too many chocolate bar. Uh, yeah, just moderation, making sure you, um, like I, I love the 80, 20 rule because it's like, it's like a very nice balance of, of, of food, healthy food to junk food ratio. Like, like, and speaking of junk food, I lost 20 pounds just by eating, um, a mod pizza every Saturday as my cheat meal. Like you can include foods like that for sure. And your diet, um, and you know, even like the cheat meal mindset can be, can be, uh, negative for some people. Um, cause then it kind of points out like, Oh, this is a bad food and I'm doing a bad thing. I'm cheating. Um, we put a negative connotation around, around cheating. And so labeling it as a cheat meal is probably not the best thing to do, but is if it allows you to stick to, um, your plan long-term it's going to be a success. And it sounds like it's been very successful for you. So, um, let's see, how does carbon deal with plateaus? Um, so it depends on when carbon will make a prop, the proper adjustment when you have plateaued, um, once it senses that you, your average or trend isn't, isn't progressing at the rate that you have set, then it's going to make an adjustment in your macros to get you progressing at the rate that you have set. So it deals with plateaus by, by adjusting your calories and macros to what your body is telling us that you need to eat to progress. So when, if we know how much you're eating and we know how your weight is changing, we can, we can impact the, how much your weight is changing based on adjusting how much you're eating. And so we figure out what do you need to eat to actually see the progress that you're getting based on check-ins. And so carbon will always, uh, adjust and get you out of a plateau. Now getting out of a plateau may mean you eating fewer calories than you want to eat. And that's just a sign that you probably shouldn't be dieting anymore. Uh, if, if it's going to be hard to stick to, to break through that plateau, for example, you may need to switch gears and reverse diet for a while and work on building your metabolism so that it is easier for you to diet again in the future and allow you to lose weight on higher calories, uh, if your metabolism's in a healthy place. So, um, how does carbon break through plateaus? Adjust your macros. All right. We got a few more minutes here. Uh, are there any future plans to add include tomorrow when it comes to compliance toggle? There's an include today, but it would be nice to see what tomorrow's plan macros look like. So the include today, uh, toggle when you're looking at compliance is there because some people, um, when you check in, typically you weigh yourself and check in in the morning. When you check in, that's actually day one of your next checking period. And so you don't want to include today. If you, for example, track some, your breakfast, uh, and then you, you track your breakfast and then did include today and checked in today, that's going to throw off your averages. So that include today has to be there, um, because your check-in day is day one of your following week. So you're going to get new macros once you check in and then that's going to be there. So that's why that toggle is there include tomorrow would be kind of hard to do just because we need to know what your weight is when you check in on, on check-in day. And so that's super important. So we can't tell you what your macros are going to be until we have all the data that we need to determine, uh, what adjustments need to be made. So I, it would be, I think it would be impossible to be able to allow you to see in the future of what your macros are going to be like. Um, there could be scenarios where like, um, we could, we could maybe estimate and give you an idea of, Hey, you're on track to get a, an adjustment or something just so it's not a surprise when you check in, but, um, that's all stuff we can chat about and think about more. Um, but yeah, hopefully that clears up some of the info around the, uh, include today toggle in your compliance screen. All right. Um, let's see. All right. Got time for one more question. So let's see. We'll go with, uh, fiber one. So how important are, uh, how important is fiber when dieting? This, this is a, this is a good question. Um, cause fiber isn't going to fiber is something that you want to keep pretty consistent. Um, so it, it is important to make sure you're eating enough fiber and then also being consistent with the amount of fiber that you're consuming on a daily basis from a GI perspective. Um, so make sure you're consuming a healthy amount, uh, based on your, your body and a good way to figure out how much fiber is, is recommended for you is a super easy figure to go by is take your total calories, uh, and, and multiply it by. Um, and no, so for every thousand calories that you consume, you want to get about 15 grams of fiber. So if you're consuming 2000 calories a day, a good fiber goal to shoot for is 30 grams of fiber. Um, and, and that's just an easy figure to go with just to get a good fiber number. And like I mentioned, it's important to consume it, uh, consistently, uh, just so that you're not getting backed up on some days and just so you're more regular, the more regular you are, the more, um, the more. Consistent your weight ins are going to be every single day when you're weighing yourself. Um, also fiber can really help with a satiety. So when you're dieting calories are likely a little bit lower. Um, eating a higher fiber diet is going to help with your hunger and make you not as hungry, um, as it would if you were eating simple, simple carbs like sugar, for example, for your carbs. So you want to make sure you're getting adequate fiber, uh, for, from a satiety perspective, as well as from a just staying regular while dieting perspective. Uh, overall it's, it's important for health. So appreciate the question. And I appreciate everybody tuning in today. Um, next week's Thanksgiving. I hope everybody has a wonderful Thanksgiving. Uh, if you need any help with, with using carbon, we have an amazing customer support team that you can reach at support at joincarbon.com. Um, and, uh, if you haven't already, uh, tried carbon do give us a try. It's super affordable compared to, uh, if you were to hire, uh, a macro coach on your own. So it's only $9.99 a month to use carbon. You can cancel anytime. You also get a discount. If you want to commit to six months or a year, uh, we'll give you a slight discount in terms of your subscription price. So, uh, do, do give carbon a try. If you haven't, uh, if you are enjoying carbon, something that really helps us is reviews on, on the app stores. So if you are a carbon user and you would enjoy the app, do leave us a good review on the app stores. We appreciate it. Um, thank you all for joining in and I hope everybody has a great rest of your day. We'll see ya. We'll see ya.