 biggest weight loss myth holding you back is that your metabolism is slow. Now, I know people don't like hearing this because it feels like an attack, but if you look at the research literature, on average, slow metabolisms do not even come close to explaining the obesity epidemic. In fact, if you look at some pretty clear research data, over 90% of the variance in metabolic rate can be explained by differences in lean mass. Yes, you may have a low energy expenditure, but it's much more likely from a lack of physical activity than it is from a slow metabolism. Even people with severe hypothyroidism have a reduction maximum in resting metabolic rate of about 25%, which could account to several hundred calories. But again, this is untreated hypothyroidism, and these are the largest reductions in metabolic rate we see across the board, and this is in untreated hypothyroidism. So if you don't have untreated hypothyroidism, it's very unlikely that you have a slow metabolism. Why people think they have slow metabolisms is people tend to not be accurate estimators of their food intake. In the same study that demonstrated that over 90% of the variance in people's metabolic rates is due to lean mass, they also showed that on average, people who are overweight or obese under-report their food intake by over 50%, and they over-report their physical activity by about 50%. That is a massive, massive, massive difference. Now, a lot of people will hear that and say, well, you know, that means people are lying about their food intake. No, people are just really poor estimators of their food intake. They forget their snacks, their licks, their bites. They don't realize that things like alcohol, even if you're not having beer or wine, alcohol itself has calories. They forget about that. They forget about small little things they have during the day, and then also they just don't know portion sizes. If you wanna be depressed, go way out of serving a peanut butter. Go way out of serving a ice cream. Go way out of serving a cereal. I promise you, you'll be depressed. So people will track these things kind of loosely and say, well, I'm eating 1,500 calories a day and can't lose weight when in reality they're eating over 2,000 calories per day and can't lose weight. Can individuals have slow metabolisms? They can, but it's not common. And even people who are type 2 diabetic and obese, it's been shown on average, they do not have slower metabolisms than people who are lean or normal weight. And in fact, if anything, they have a slightly faster metabolism and slightly greater total energy expenditure, possibly even when you standardize for lean mass. This idea that people get overweight because of slow metabolisms, is it just not supported by the data? And possibly the strongest research data is that of the GLP-1 memetics out there, like Ozympic, like Wegovie, like Trezeppitide. Those drugs do not increase energy expenditure. What they do is they're a very powerful appetite suppressants so people eat less. And they are the most effective obesity treatments we have. I think the biggest thing I would say is if you're having trouble losing weight, this mindset of, oh, I can't lose weight because my metabolism's slow, it could be a self-limiting belief. And if you aren't tracking things accurately or really paying attention and being diligent, at least for a period of time, to understand truly what food portion sizes are, then this could be holding you back. If you need help with tracking and your nutrition, you definitely want to check out my app, Carbon Diet Coach. It takes care of all the guesswork around how much protein, carbs, fats, how many calories you should eat for your goal. And it makes tracking a breeze. With the barcode scanner, with the food label scanner, it's just so easy to track everything you eat in a day and get a really good idea of what you're actually taking in. So make sure you follow them at Carbon Diet Coach and download and subscribe today.