 tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener we have more ability to do more exercise and we're more motivated to because it's sunnier outside, it's warmer. So it's a great time to focus on fat loss as a goal. But there's also significant hurdles for a lot of people. Summertime is when people take vacations quite often, especially if they have kids. Summertime is also when there's a lot of cookouts and parties every weekend because it's nice outside and people are wanting to enjoy that. So how can you plan for this and manage it? Well, one of the things I really like about our app, Carbon Diet Coach, is we have tools to help with all this. So I think one of the first things is for people going on vacation, I really recommend using a diet break and setting the app to maintenance because trying to do fat loss during vacations usually ruins vacations and ruins fat loss. And I'd rather have somebody just maintain their body weight, have more flexibility to eat some calories and enjoy themselves, maybe even have a few drinks, but not gain body weight and set themselves back. And then when they're done with their vacation for a week, they can come back, switch back to fat loss and continue their journey. And that is a totally reasonable way to do things. And as you got 10 weeks out of summer, just taking one or two weeks of maintenance is not a big deal as long as you are really focused on those weeks where you're in fat loss. And if you allow yourself to enjoy some of those vacations using maintenance, you're probably more focused when you come back and get back into fat loss. Now, what do we do about the fact that there's also more get togethers during the summer? Well, this is where I really like the diet planner feature of Carbon Diet Coach because you can go into individual days and adjust them. I do this all the time. The last time I lost a significant amount of body weight, I did it over the course of spring and summer in Florida. And I lost about 30 pounds in total. And I really, really used that diet planner feature each week. And what I would do is I would keep my calories a little bit lower during the week where I'm more in my routine. I am not thinking about food as much because I'm so busy. And then on the weekends, I would give myself much more calories. So for example, if my average calorie intake was say 2,500, I might do 2,100 during the week for five days. And because over five days, I'm banking 400 calories each day, that's 2,000 extra total calories. Now I can pump my weekend calories up to 3,500 on each day. And the overall effect is I'm gonna continue to lose fat because I'm still in an overall calorie deficit. But now on those two days where maybe there's some get-togethers or I'm out with friends, I have more flexibility to enjoy myself and I'm not as worried. And I like doing that. Some people like to eat the same thing every day and they don't like doing that. Totally get that. But for me, I know I love using that diet planner feature and I use it every single week. All right, guys, I hope these tips have helped you with your summer shredding. And remember, you can download Carbon Diet Coach on iOS and Android. It is fantastic. It is the app I helped write the algorithm for and I personally have used for the last five years to help me control my body weight and my body composition. It works fantastic. So download and subscribe today. You won't be disappointed. tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener tener