 so the holidays can be a source of stress for a lot of people, especially people who are trying to lose weight. Carbon can help. Now, the first thing I will say is, when it comes to Thanksgiving or some of these holidays, sometimes it's okay just to go to maintenance as a goal. Most people gain anywhere from a half kilo to two kilos, or around five pounds, over the holiday period. In fact, if you look at the research data, the amount of weight people gain year over year, over 90% of it comes in the six weeks between mid-November and January 1st. The holidays. So the reality is, navigating the holidays, if you can just maintain, you're in a better position than most adults are. Now, specifically with Carbon Diet Coach, one of the things that you can use to your advantage is the diet planner. Because the app works based off of a weekly calorie budget, you can choose a day to a lot more calories to, and borrow those calories from other days. And the research shows that however you allot your calories over a week, period of time, doesn't really matter so much. It's more about what you consume over the entire week. Now, you still want to get your protein in per day, because that's important for body composition. You still want to get your fiber in per day, because that's important for your overall health. But as far as calories, you can kind of allot them over different days, whatever fits your lifestyle best. So, if you know you want to enjoy Thanksgiving, just go into the diet planner, raise your calories on that day, and it will correspondingly automatically lower the calories on the other days, so that you're still on track for your goal for the overall week. And, let's say you overeat more than you anticipated on Thanksgiving. You can go to the diet planner and adjust that day to match the calories you consumed approximately, and it will adjust the other days as well. So, it's going to help keep you on track. Then, day of, eat enough to not be starving when you get there. You don't want to be ravenous. But, you can keep it mostly to like lean protein sources, some fiber, to keep yourself satiated, but then give yourself more calories for Thanksgiving dinner. And that is some of the easy ways you can use carbon to stay on track over Thanksgiving and through the holidays. Make sure to follow Carbon Diet Coach on Instagram. And, if you're interested, download and subscribe at the link in my bio. Click the link.