 gradual fat loss versus crash dieting. Which one should you do for your summer diet? Now, I've evolved my thinking on this a little bit. I used to tell people, hey, slow and steady wins the race. You should absolutely go slow and kind of gave those recommendations across the board. There is now quite a bit of research showing that for very obese people, faster initial fat loss actually correlates with long-term dietary success. And this is likely because people who are very obese, who've had multiple dieting trials, they don't really trust the process. And so if they lose a lot of weight quickly, they buy in, they trust the process, and they're more likely to stick to it and be adherent. So I don't want to tell people, absolutely do not do rapid fat loss. I think for certain populations, it can make sense. But for most people, if you're not really obese or don't have a ton of weight to lose, I think going at a sustainable pace is important. And when I say sustainable, I mean your average rate of weight loss over time. What do I mean by that? Well, I think you can do periods of rapid fat loss, interspersed with periods of slower fat loss or maintenance. When I diet to lose fat, that's exactly how I do things. I set up what I call fat loss sprints, where for two, three, four, five weeks, I'm losing weight pretty quickly, like around two pounds per week. But then I will switch to maintenance if I have travel, if life's getting more stressful, if I have more events on where I want to be able to have more flexibility to enjoy myself, I will set it up that way. But when I look back over the course of say months, my overall rate of weight loss is typically pretty conservative. Let me give you an example. From November of 2019 until about September of 2020, so about 10 months, I lost just under 30 pounds. Now overall, that rate of weight loss was less than a pound per week. But of those 10 months, probably only about half the time was I actively trying to lose body fat. I think over half the time I was at maintenance. So I would pick periods of time when I was home, didn't have a bunch of events on, with more in my routine and could focus where I was targeting, you know, up to two pounds of fat loss per week versus when there was like travel, work events, higher stress, or I wanted some periods of time where training was gonna be harder and I wanted more energy to be able to do that. That's how I set it up. So this doesn't have to be an all or nothing answer. Overall, I do think you should target a relatively conservative rate of weight loss and carbon helps you stick in that conservative range because we will only allow you to go up to a certain rate of weight loss because above a certain rate, research does show that you're more likely to lose lean mass. And we also don't want you to go too slow because then you're not likely to stick to it because it's going to be kind of demotivating to not see things move. So we put you in a range where you're going to be motivated to lose, you're going to see results, but you're not going to go so fast that you're going to lose excessive lean mass. So if you're looking to lose fat for summer, CarbonDye Coach, my nutrition coaching app is a great option at less than $10 a month. It will do all the hard math work for you on figuring out how many calories, what macros, based on your dietary preferences, based on your individual metabolism, and based on your goals and based on your targeted rate of weight loss. And carbon will make sure that you stay in that range of weight loss and will adjust your macronutrients and calories based on how you respond so that it optimizes your results. So I've used carbon to coach me for over five years now and it always performs flawlessly. And I'm somebody who competes on an international level in power lifting, where my body weight class is something that I have to be very mindful of to maintain in order to be under that 205 pounds. I cannot recommend carbon highly enough. It is a fantastic app. So if you're interested in carbon, you can click the link in my bio to subscribe today. Catch you guys.