 Speaker 1-verevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevereverevere but go at a pace that's sustainable for you. Something that you can continuously execute on a daily basis, it's gonna make it more sustainable. It's also gonna make it so that you learn what you can integrate into your lifestyle so that once you lose the weight, you can continue to implement those behaviors and habits and keep the weight off. Whereas if you're just crash dieting as fast as possible, you're not really learning anything other than how to just be really hungry for a period of time. Second one is ignoring macros. Obviously, your daily calorie intake is the most important thing, but macros matter too, especially protein. Satiety tends to be very food specific, but overall, in general, protein tends to be more satiating than carbohydrate or fat. There are some caveats to that, but in general, protein tends to be more satiating. It also has a higher thermic effect of food, meaning it takes more calories for you to expend to actually get the calories out of protein than it does for carbohydrates or fats. protein helps with lean mass retention, which is very important in order to keep your long-term basal metabolic rate at a healthy level. And in studies, people who retain more lean mass are less likely to regain body fat. So it's important from that perspective as well. Another mistake people make is they are weekday dieters and they don't worry about it on the weekends. They are very strict during the week and then on the weekends, they just kind of do whatever and they're shocked that they can't lose weight. They say things like, ah, I ate in a calorie deficit and I couldn't lose weight. Yeah, you ate 1,800 calories Monday through Friday and you were in a deficit. And then you ate 4,000 on Saturday and Sunday and it pulled you out of your weekly calorie deficit budget and to maintenance or even a slight surplus. And so you're confused, but it's kind of like if I had a budget of $1,000 of spending for the week and I did so good Monday through Friday and I only spent $100 each day for a total of $500 and then on the weekend, I spent $300 on Saturday and Sunday for a total of $600. Well, guess what? I was good Monday through Friday, but I still went over my budget. It doesn't matter that it was the weekend. And so the same thing applies with dieting. Inaccurate tracking is another thing. A lot of people, they try to track their macros, but if they don't have experience actually weighing out the food that they're eating, it's really hard to know what a serving size actually looks like. In fact, in research studies, we see every single population underreports. Obese people tend to underreport the most. They underreport their calories by about 50%. Normal weight people will underreport their calories by about 30%. And even dieticians who are experts underreport their calories by 10%. Now, I don't think that that's necessarily people trying to lie. I think that people just don't really have a good idea of serving sizes. So if you've ever weighed out a serving size of two tablespoons of peanut butter, and if you scoop it out, you'll probably see that those two tablespoons end up being about double what you would expect that peanut butter would weigh. Or if you want to be depressed, weigh out a serving of ice cream or a serving of cereal. And you will probably be shocked by how small those servings actually are. So unless you've had the experience of weighing out and tracking every single thing you put in your mouth for a period of time, I think it's really hard to estimate. And I think that's where a lot of people get crossed up. They think they're eating a lot less calories than they really are. And then finally, hidden calories. This is an example. Like you're cooking something, you take a few licks off the spoon. I mean, in isolation, not a big deal. But then maybe you grab like a few chips and eat some of your kids' mac and cheese or whatever it is. And then you chew like an entire pack of gum. And then you don't count the veggies you ate towards your macros. None of those things in isolation are gonna add up to significant amount of calories. But if you have three or four things that are 50 calories a piece, which is very, very easy, that adds up to 250, 300 calories in a day. That is more than enough to pull you out of a deficit. So that is where a lot of people go wrong and don't think about it. Another sort of hidden calories is some people don't realize that alcohol, not just from the carbohydrate that's in a lot of alcohol, but from the alcohol itself. Alcohol has seven calories per gram. So even if you're having a shot of vodka, for example, it's still like 60 some, 60, 70 calories. And so some people will go out, party, and they're like, well, I'm just having, you know, straight vodka and water. I had five of them. Well, that's well over 300 calories. And if you're not accounting for that, that's a significant amount of calories. Now, if you guys are confused about a lot of this stuff, that's where Carbon Diet Coach can really help. Not only do we help with the tracking portion side of things and getting your estimates of food intake correct, it also has a coaching feature that adjusts your nutrition based on how you respond, your specific goals, and individual metabolism. And this is an algorithm-based coaching platform that I help write the algorithm for.