 I talk about the importance of sleep all the time, because it is one of the biggest levers you can pull for improving your health and body composition. Now how is that so? Well, we know that sleep affects recovery, big time. We see this in sleep's effects on testosterone levels, we see it in its effects on body composition and weight loss. For example, there was a study that showed that getting five hours of sleep a night versus getting over eight hours of sleep a night, lost almost 100% of the weight loss almost 100% of the weight loss of the weight loss of the calorie deficit from fat mass, but the other group that was getting less than five hours lost about half from fat mass and about half from lean mass. And we also see it affect exercise performance. And finally, we see it impact the risk of injury. People who sleep less than four hours a night versus people who slept more than eight hours a night, there was a 236% increased risk of injury. In people who were sleeping less than four hours. So on the exercise side, lack of sleep can impact recovery, and it can impact your ability to lose fat on the appetite side, lack of sleep can drastically increase appetite. In fact, we see just one night of sleep restriction can increase spontaneous calorie intake by 500 calories in a day. Now, what's the difference in the when it comes to this? If you've gotten a bad night of sleep? Should you exercise? Should you not? It really just boils down to your individual call. If taking time off from the gym, if taking a day off from the gym allows you to catch up on some sleep, it might be the right call. But if you feel okay, it may be still okay to go into the gym. Again, it's more about what you've done over the course of a month when it comes to sleep than it is about the one night, especially when it comes to your recovery status, the risk of injury, just one night, of low sleep is not going to spontaneously increase your risk of injury. That's not how it works. But it can increase your appetite. So in that case, maybe you can use the calorie planner to pull your calories up a little bit more help satisfy that. And then on days when you feel less hungry, you can recoup those calories because the calorie planner allows you to modify your calories on one day, and then it automatically modifies your remaining days calories so that you still hit your weekly calorie budget, and you can still make progress towards your goals.