 running low on protein, signs to look that you might be not eating enough this summer. Now guys, if you've been following me for any period of time, you know that I'm big on protein. Protein is beneficial for helping to build lean mass and also help maintain lean mass when you're on a fat loss diet. But a lot of people don't know that protein actually helps with satiety and increases your calories out or your energy expenditure. So protein, unlike some of the other macronutrients, because it activates muscle protein synthesis, because it increases the turnover of muscle proteins, that process is energetically expensive and costs energy. And thus, when you eat more protein, you have to burn more calories as part of kind of this futile cycle of protein turnover. So let's take a real quick stat check. Protein, good for lean mass, protein, good for satiety, protein, good for energy expenditure and burning calories. Sounds like a win. But something you guys might not be eating enough. If you're feeling hungry, if you're not being able to make progress in the gym or you feel like it's slower than it should be, you might not be eating enough protein. And the best way to know if you're eating enough protein is to track your protein intake, which is why using a tool like Carbon Diet Coach can be super helpful, because Carbon Diet Coach will show you how much protein you're taking in, and we are protein muscle centric, meaning carbon not only helps you track your nutrition, but it also coaches you. So we don't just give you a random protein number, we don't give you the RDA protein, we give you an amount of protein that has been shown to optimize building lean tissue, help with fat loss, and to help with satiety. So we're going to make sure you're getting enough protein to optimize your fat loss. And you may not care about being super jacked, but if you want to lose the maximum amount of fat, if you want to get to a nice lean summer physique, protein is still something you should be focusing on. So with carbon, we make it easy because we make sure you're getting in the right amount of protein for not just building muscle or maintaining muscle, but also for fat loss and satiety. So if you guys are interested, make sure you sign up and subscribe at the link in my bio.