 so you gave up because the scale didn't drop in a couple days. That's not lack of progress. That's just unrealistic expectations. There's a lot of people out there who struggle losing weight. This is something we already know, and I think the problem is motivation, and really the problem is lack of follow-through. Unfortunately, we live in a society where, if I'm hungry, I can door-dash something to my house in 20 minutes. I can get things done very quickly. Unfortunately, when it comes to changing our bodies, it's still pretty slow. We're still dealing with the human system, which has been formed through evolution over the course of a few million years. So you can be in a rush, but guess what? Evolution? Not so much. Motivation is not going to be enough. Most people are motivated very sporadically, and if you are only relying on motivation to make change, you will never see lasting change. What you have to rely on is, regardless of how you feel, you show up and you do the things you need to do each day in order to get to where you want to get to. It becomes an identity issue, not a motivation issue. You don't go work out or exercise because you're motivated. You do it because I am someone who trains. I am someone who takes care of my body. I am someone who eats a healthy diet. What you do 90% of the time matters a hell of a lot more than what you get wrong 5% or 10% of the time. So the consistency is the biggest portion of it. But I will tell you that many people get discouraged by weight fluctuations and they really don't understand that day-to-day changes in body weight are far more dictated by fluid dynamics than they are actual changes in body mass. You really need to look at how changes happen over the course of weeks and months and that tells you about what's happening with body mass. And a lot of people don't even realize that, hey, you weigh less than the morning versus at night. Yeah, when you eat food and drink water, that has mass and it has weight. You put it in your system and you weigh more. Unfortunately, people will weigh like really sporadically a couple of times a week or once a week or the way at sporadic times and they'll see, oh my gosh, I started a diet this week and I gained half a pound. No, you weigh in sporadically in the afternoon when the previous week you weighed in in the morning after a day where you'd ate a little bit more or had more salt or who knows or drank more water or whatever it is and your body weight was up. What you may not realize and what likely is happening if you were really in a calorie deficit is that your average body weight is probably going down. You were losing weight. You just happened to weigh in on a day where you weighed in high. That's why our app Carbon Diet Coach, if you weigh in every day, it's going to integrate all those weights in. Look at the overall arc of your progress rather than just responding to random fluctuations. The more you weigh in in terms of weighing in once per day, preferably, right after you wake up and go to the bathroom, the more data it has, the more accurate the recommendations. As somebody who has weighed in most mornings for the last, I don't know, 10, 15 years, I can tell you that even weighing in the same time every single morning, my body weight will fluctuate up to one or two percent per day. I might weigh in three pounds more tomorrow. That is very, very normal. Once again, that's why it's important to look at the average arc of what your body weight's doing and don't let day-to-day fluctuations discourage you. Continue doing the things you need to do to get to your goal. Because I promise you, if you are eating in a calorie deficit, if you're tracking your food, if you are being consistent and fat loss is your goal, you will achieve it. If you're interested in Carbon Diet Coach, make sure to follow them at CarbonDietCoach and you can hit the link in my bio to download and subscribe today.