 does your diet always seem to backfire? Are you always yoyoing up and down? You feel like you're on an endless roller coaster or merry-go-round where you just wind up back in the same place? Hi, I'm Carbon Co-Founder Lane Norton, a PhD in Nutritional Science, and I want to talk about yoyo dieting. Now, the reason most people struggle with this is because they diet in a way that is not sustainable for them over the long term. If you are going to lose weight and keep it off, it has to become a lifestyle. Whenever dietary strategy or intervention you used to lose the weight, you have to be able to maintain that in order to keep it off. If you go back to how you were doing things before, then the weight will come back on and there's actually some evidence that you'll put on more when you yoyo back compared to where you started. It actually be worse off because when you diet, you lose some parts fat and some parts lean. When you regain it quickly, you regain mostly fat. So over time, if you yoyo this way, you are going to be losing lean mass and adding more fat mass even if you stay at the same weight. So you want to avoid that. You want to try to find some sort of dietary intervention that is sustainable for you, not your brother, not your best friend, not your cousin. What works for you? And everyone's different when it comes to that. Some people can lose weight pretty aggressively and they're able to keep that pace up and keep it off. That's great. But for a lot of people, the implementation they have to use to lose weight quickly is so extreme that they simply can't maintain it. So again, whatever way you are trying to diet, ask yourself, can I see myself continuing to eat this way in three, six, 12 months, two years, 10 years? If it is not sustainable, you will not have success. And that is why Carbon Diet Coach is so great because not only does it give you customized nutrition recommendations, it also bases them off your dietary preference. And there is research data to show that if you can craft a diet that is of higher dietary preference for somebody who wants to lose weight, that they are better at adhering to it. And that is the main function of Carbon. We're going to give you maximum flexibility so that you can create a diet that is easier for you to adhere to and sustain so that you can get results and maintain them. Because we don't just want a before and after photo. We want our before and after photo look great. And we want the after, after photo to look great as well. We want you to be able to keep your results. And that comes from making sure that we give people sustainable interventions. So if you're interested in Carbon Diet Coach, you can follow them here. Or you can click the link in my bio to download and subscribe today.