 Hey, what's up guys, welcome back to the weekly workout series. Today we have a 15 minute total body workout consisting of five exercises. We're going to do each exercise for 45 seconds, take a 15 second break and we're going to complete three rounds. Now, of course, if you want to have multiple dumbbells at your disposal, whether you want to go up and weight or down and weight, it's highly recommended. And if you need more dumbbells or maybe even a timer to do your own home workouts, go to Gronk Fitness Products. Use my code Scott5 and you'll get a discount across the entire website. Now let's get started. Alright guys, let's get started with the first exercise. 45 seconds, 3, 2, 1. Let's hit it. Push up, shoulder tap, shoulder tap, toe, toe, and then back down for a push up again. We're doing this for 45 seconds and then we're going to take a 15 second break and get into the next exercise. And I want you guys to push yourself as hard as you can while you do this workout. The goal isn't to keep up with me. The goal is to go at your own pace or even surpass me depending on your fitness level. And if you have a hard time doing the exercises, you can always do modifiers as well. So for example, if you're having a hard time doing the push up, it's okay after you touch your toes to drop to your knees, do a push up. Come back up and tap your shoulders. All right. We've got a 15 second break. Catch your breath. Get a sip of water. And the next exercise is going to be a side to side squat. So we're going to stand up and go step to the side down, step to the side down. And the goal here is to go all the way down and all the way up with every single repetition guys. Okay, so don't do half squats if you don't have to, but if you're starting to get tired and your quad's not giving out, it's okay to go halfway down. I just want to see movement, but push your limits. We're only doing this for 45 seconds. Keep going. 17 seconds left. Don't stop. 11 seconds. Keep going. And five, four, three, two, one. Good. Now on the ground, Janda sit-ups are next. You guys will notice I structure my workouts to that. When we do the abs, it's kind of like a break. They give your upper body and lower body a little bit of a rest. So on the ground, Janda sit-up. Now when doing these, the goal here is to keep your hands close to the ground like this and reach for your toes as you get to the top of the movement. All the way up, all the way back, and on the way back, make sure you get your shoulders to touch the ground. Go as fast as you can. If you're having a hard time, if you want to stick your feet underneath a chair or your couch or something around you to stabilize your feet, you can do that as well. As you get better at this exercise, you won't have to do that. Two, one. Good. Now we're going to stay on the ground, on our knees. Grab your pair of dumbbells. And if you have multiple pairs of dumbbells, if you want to increase the intensity of your exercises, that's fine too. I have tens. Now we're going to go curl, press, just like this. If it feels too light, grab a heavier pair of dumbbells. If throughout the 45 seconds you get tired, you can slow down or grab a lighter pair of dumbbells. You don't have to stick with the same pair of dumbbells throughout the entire 45 seconds. There's no rule that says you can't switch it up. But the goal here is to push your limits. All right, almost done. 15 seconds left. Biceps, shoulders down. Biceps, shoulders down. And after this we have one more exercise and that completes round one. Awesome. 15 second rest. Now you can put your dumbbells off to the side or you can hold them in your hands if you want to for the next exercise. For the first round, let's toss our dumbbells to the side and we'll go a little more intense in the second round. Hands in the air. Alternating elbow to knee crunch. Cutting through your abs. Getting some good core work in. Hitting your obliques. And when you do these guys, breathe out as you crunch and flex your core. Keep going. 24 seconds left. 15 seconds. 10 seconds. Keep moving. Keep moving. 10 seconds. Keep moving. Keep moving. 10 seconds left. 10 seconds left. 10 seconds left. and rest 15 second rest back to the first exercise you just completed your first round so again push-up shoulder tap shoulder tap toe toe if you get tired drop to your knees on the push-up three two one push-up shoulder shoulder toe toe push-up shoulder shoulder toe toe getting a full body workout with this one exercise keep moving don't stop moving that's my only rule during the 45 seconds make sure you're doing the work again if you have to drop to your knees on that push-up back on your toes touch your shoulders toe toe push-up 10 seconds keep moving keep moving keep it going guys last one good all right next exercise again side to side squat however this time let's take those dumbbells and hold them in our hand the entire time here we go three two one step squat step squat and even if you want to challenge yourself on this exercise guys right let's say your legs are super tired they're starting to feel like jelly and you can only squat halfway but you want to push yourself a little bit with an extra weight that's okay too just keep moving don't be surprised if you feel a lot of fatigue in your shoulders if you want to take the dumbbells and rest them on your shoulders like this if you need to save your arms for the next exercise keep going three two one and rest all right guys back on the floor John the sit-ups on your butts keep it moving guys you're doing good you're doing great three two one and up and up keep going and up let your fingers almost touch the ground here we go all the way down all the way up and if you're having a hard time just find a place to lock your feet in so you can focus solely on the sit-up in fact you can even take your dumbbell if you need to and you can place them on your toes to help you weigh yourself down to do the exercise correctly and last one and we're up all right curl to press challenge yourself guys go heavier with the dumbbells go faster through the movement or just don't stop and push through the pain and go curl press curl press curl press curl press keep moving curl press 30 seconds left keep moving I know those shoulders are on fire but you're doing a great job if you forgot and you haven't already grab some water as soon as you're done this exercise keep going you guys more than likely won't see me drinking water during these workouts because I'm a freak like that but I guarantee you I'll be drinking water when I'm done keep moving keep moving keep moving two one and that's it all right next exercise alternating elbow to knees here we go get into the air let's make this one hurt hold those dumbbells this is gonna suck here we go here we go cross your body elbow to knee crunch oh yeah this hurts a lot especially after doing the last exercise shoulders are on fire but that's okay we got one round left so why not make it hurt and push a little higher keep moving guys don't stop moving 15 seconds 15 seconds Keep moving guys Don't stop moving 15 seconds Come on five four three two one Whoo I Felt that one. I'm sure you did too. All right last round Push yourselves guys push yourselves Here we go three two one push up tap tap toe toe push up tap tap toe toe Push up tap tap toe Toe keep moving guys. Don't stop Remember if you get tired after the toe taps drop to your knees Do a push up back on your toes Whoo Keep it going 15 seconds left Push up tap tap toe toe push up three one! Step squat Squat Step Squat Here we go Here we go! Here we go! All the way down All the way down All the way up You know I go all the way down on my squats guys Chest up Make sure you're sitting back on your heels You're not pushing through your toes Side Down Side Down Side Down Down Side Down Side Down Side Down Five seconds Come on Two One Boom You know what time it is John does sit ups Here we go! Get down on the ground and again Keep one of your dumbbells Throw it on your feet Lock yourselves in place Two One All the way up One All the way up As you come down Your lower back hits the ground first And then your shoulders And then you come back up All the way down All the way up All the way down All the way up Here we go! Here we go! here we go 20 seconds here we go here we go come on guys come on keep pushing till 12 seconds four three two one all right curl to press two exercises left you're doing great guys drink some water if you have it three two one curl press down curl press down remember the goal here it's not to do as many reps as me the goal is to push yourselves as hot as you can during these 45 seconds that's what makes these follow-along workouts so great is we can do them together it doesn't matter what fitness level you're at you guys can use any size dumbbells you want as long as you move the entire 45 seconds that's all I care about keep going keep going four three two one awesome here we go last exercise last exercise I'm gonna take no dumbbells this time I want to focus on getting my knees really high so keep my arms in the air just like this and go I noticed the last round with the dumbbells in my hands I wasn't raising my knee as high and I don't want to take away from my abs just to get more shoulder activation cut through the core if you're anything like me during round one your back probably cracked a million times and it felt amazing come on 15 seconds keep moving keep moving keep moving four three two one and that's it we're sweating now that was a really good workout congratulations if you made it all the way to the end and if you didn't just know that the more you do these workouts the stronger you're going to get now as far as how many times a week you can do this workout you can do it once a day every day if you want to you can do it twice in a row if you want to do a 30 minute workout and you could even split it and do this once in the morning and once at night these total body workouts can be due anytime and doing them in real time with me means that you'll get the motivation you need to make it into the end now this is weekly workout number 34 which means there's 33 other workouts on my website that you guys can take advantage of that are in real time some of those workouts are full body like this some are upper only some are lower only some are core and abs only and there's also body weight and dumbbell variations so make sure you guys have a look and I'll see you in the next workout recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept recept