 It's not that I want to pick on Alpha-M for talking about creatine. Creatine is a great supplement. But for a guy who's been in the game as long as me, if not longer, who's owned a supplement shop, who's competed on stage, you should know better than when making a video talking about supplements and the results it gave you, that you should not be photoshopping your bicep in the before and after photo. My guy, I watched the whole video. At no point did you say this photo was photoshopped. There's no way that your bicep was indented like this, and then all of a sudden, 30 to 60 days later, your arm looks like that. And guys, I mean, it's the same exact photo on the left and the right. I mean, look at the shadowing here, the shadowing there, right? This movement, this lighting over the trap. Even the hair on his chin, it's like the same exact white hairs in the same exact angle on both sides. It's a photoshopped photo. You should not be doing that, my guy. Like, literally, you did the experiment. Why didn't you just take, like, you knew you were going to make the video. Why didn't you just take the before photo and the after photo and compare them like you did here? But even this photo, a lot of people are kind of making fun of it in the comments section. In fact, it's the most viewed part of the entire video. You can see the spike right here. And a lot of people are saying, oh my gosh, I guess creatine gives you a tan because that's the main difference between both of these photos is you went from pasty white to tan. Like, my guy, these are methods that you should not be doing in 2025, almost 2026, when talking about a supplement. Like, there's so much information, so much good information out there, you could have made a really good video. And also, when you start talking about getting into taking creatine, because I did watch the entire video, you led with the same point that I feel like Jeff Nippard led with, which also irritated me, where you just said, like, you know, your workouts weren't feeling the best, your body wasn't looking the best, and you decided to lock in and started taking creatine at the point of locking in. If you're going to do a study on yourself, and you're going to test a new workout program, you're going to test a new supplement, you need to already be locked in. You need to already have had two or three months of HOD training, where you were locked in and pushing yourself as hard as you can. And then after those two to three months, you introduced the supplement. And then at that point decided whether or not it made a difference for you, right? Like, you can't go from kind of training like shit, not really into your workouts, not really feeling your best or your strongest. And then all of a sudden, you go to a really good workout, you stick to it, you focus on it, train as hard as you can, and you also introduce creatine. And then just say it was creatine that did all the work, because that's not what happened. What happened was you locked in, you got excited about working out again. And at one point, you know, you even talked about how it was maybe a placebo effect in the first couple of weeks, which it was because it takes three to four weeks for your body to be saturated with creatine when you first start taking it. And that was another point that you missed that you could have talked about. But I mean, I don't know if I'm really that surprised. I did a video on Alpha M like five years ago, this is hilarious. It was lose your flat or flabby butt in 30 days, seven ways to get a nicer looking butt. And bro is literally out here saying that you can get a more firm toned butt by flexing your glutes at the top of a squat. Like that's going to do anything extra when you're just standing there holding the weight on your shoulders. He talks about doing it with air squats. And let me just play this for you guys because it was hilarious. You know, squeeze your glutes, you'll know you're squeezing because your pelvis boom, it will pop forward right just like boom exactly down one squeeze to down one three. And me and Ricky actually just did a training session like this the other day, which will when I watched Alpha M's video is like, dude, we just did that. I wish Ricky didn't move because we would have so much more fun filming our skits. But unfortunately he did. And one day when he comes back to visit, we'll bring him back on the channel. But then it gets into kind of the science as to why creatine works. I'm going to play this clip for you guys. He mentioned he was on the right track. He mentioned ATP, but then absolutely didn't explain it correctly or in a way that makes sense. Let me play this clip for you. So week number one, I go to the gym, I'm taking my creatine and I'm getting great workouts. I think that a lot of it was placebo effect because it is because if you just literally Google it, it says that it takes three to four weeks for your skeletal muscle tissue to be saturated with the creatine in order for it to actually work. And when I explained to you guys ATP and ADP here in a second, you'll understand why as well. I knew that I was taking something. And so I wanted to work out harder. I wanted to go a little bit heavier. I wasn't necessarily seeing the gains though in terms of my strength or my endurance. But week number two, that started the change. I started to get more reps. And what I'm talking about is a good example. So if I am working out with bench, I'll work out with 185 pounds. 185, I could do for about six reps before I started the creatine. Week number two, I got eight reps. So I got two more reps than I did. And again, this is literally what's just happening because you are now locked into your workout. If you weren't feeling your best and you were kind of training like crap and you locked in instead of training Hada, this would happen like this would happen without the creatine. Two weeks before getting two more reps at that weight for me was significant because I've been working out with 185 for a long time. And so for me to basically be able to pretty easily get an additional two reps, that was, I don't understand why showing a chest fly. What he's talking about benching 185, like why didn't you just film you benching 185? Like all the workout footage that you're showing, it's like stock footage from years ago. You can tell by how gray his beard is here versus the footage that he's showing. Like if this video was, if you planned on making a video showing your progress, taking a supplement for 30 to 60 days, like, and you're working out consistently and training hard, why are you just not filming that? To me, proof that this stuff is doing something. Fast forward two more weeks. I'm actually doing it for 10 reps. So I was basically in the span of four weeks, I went from six reps to 10 reps. All right. I almost doubled the amount of reps I was doing at 185. And so basically, let's get into the explanation of ATP, your muscular, all right. It's muscle energy, ATP. And so basically when you take it, it's allowing your muscles to retain and hydrate your fibers more and retain and hydrate your fibers more. Like this is the scientific explanation that he's giving to how creatine works. And it was seen by 140,000 people. My God could have done just a little bit more research to explain this properly. The whole idea is that it's going to increase your ability to work out. It's going to increase your ability to work out longer to recover faster because your muscles have more energy, the more hydrated, but it also, and this is the part of the video that really triggered me to want to make this video because it's a really simple explanation. Adenosine triphosphate ATP. Okay. This is the main energy currency of the cell, a molecule that stores and transfers energy to power nearly all cellular activities from muscle contraction and nerve signals to building DNA, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, you guys can all read it here. What this really means is that as you're working out and you're starting to fatigue, the ATP is losing a molecule, it's losing a creatine molecule and becomes a DP, adenosine diphosphate. Dime means two, triphosphate means three. So what happens when you take creatine and the reason why it takes three to four weeks for you to start noticing a difference is because in that time, as long as you're taking the recommended dose, which is usually around five grams, there are studies coming out where some people are actually seeing more benefits depending on their training and their height and the weight and everything else where they're actually taking 15 to 20 grams a day and seeing tremendous progress. It's not going to be for everybody, but as long as you're taking, let's say five to 10 grams a day, every single day, by the end of the first month, your skeletal muscle tissue, so all the muscles that you basically can see are now saturated with creatine. So now when you're in the gym and you're training and you're going to fatigue and you stop your set during your rest period, because there is more creatine molecules available in your skeletal muscle tissue, you can now re-synthesize that ADP back into ATP much faster and for a longer period of time because you have more creatine stored. That's all that's happening. So the strength gains that you're feeling, the harder workouts that you're able to do, it's because you are able to recover faster. That's breaking it down to the most basic understanding of what's happening and you completely missed the mock there. I thought I was very disappointed in that. So now let's see what happens after his two months of training bringing creatine into his supplementation. Strength once again jumped up again. All right, I'm now working out this morning. I did chest, all right, and that's one of the ways that I can kind of measure this is my bench press. I've never been like a super like awesome bench press. Again, like bro, just film yourself benching. You're bragging about your bench and you're bragging about all this weight that you're able to lift now. Like, and you didn't once think to film it. Like, come on, dude. This footage is so old. This beard's not even gray yet. This footage is from like seven years ago. I do consistently that I can basically measure. And so this morning I did 185 for 12 reps. The next set, 225. I did it for four reps. All right, two months ago, I don't know that I could have lifted 225 one time. I don't know. I wasn't ever trying. I wasn't ever like maxing out, but today I did it for four reps. And again, I'm sure the creatine is helping with him recovering faster between sets and being able to train harder longer. But again, you can't just lock in on a program at a supplement and then say all the benefits are because of the supplement. A large portion of these benefits is simply because you locked in on your training. And the reason why I'm homing in on this point so hard guys is because if most of you just locked in on your training and trained harder to quote Greg, trained harder than last time, every time you go to the gym, whether you're doing more sets or more reps or super sets or drop sets, whatever it might be, you will see steady progress and you will feel your best. That's just how it works. And then as far as like when you take creatine guys, okay, it doesn't matter when you take creatine. And I was very surprised to hear him say this. So for the next 30 days, I continued on my five gram creatine program two and a half grams in the morning to an half grams at night. It doesn't matter when you take creatine. I just got done explaining to you guys why it takes three to four weeks for you to start noticing the effects of creatine is because that's how long it takes for the creatine that you're ingesting to saturate all the skeletal muscle tissue, right? Like if even if you're three months in the creatine you're taking today, isn't the creatine that's resynthesizing ADP and ATP tomorrow. All right. It's just, it doesn't matter when you take it. Just take it all at once. All that does matter is that you take it every single day and you stay consistent. Now, speaking of consistency, I have been creating more educational content like you guys have been asking for. I said I would create it. However, once the YouTube AI algorithm realizes that there's no drama in the biceps top 10 STR exercises, guess what? It doesn't hit your notifications and the video doesn't do well. But that doesn't matter because whether the video does well or not, I'm here to educate. So I actually created a new series. I'm starting with biceps basically going over all the best exercises, sticking mostly to dumbbells and barbells and a little bit of cables. I'm trying to focus on exercises that everybody has available to them no matter what gym you're in. But basically, the best exercise is to target each muscle group and how you can interchange them and switch them out. So if you haven't seen this video yet, make sure you guys go and check it out. I'll post a link down in the info section below. At the end of the day, guys, all that matters when it comes to training is consistency. Create team is an amazing supplement. You should definitely try it, right? But you're not going to outpace a bad workout in a bad diet. And if your workout is boring and you don't feel like you're locking in anymore and you're just not having fun, you can scan the QR code here, go to my website musculos strength.com and try any of my programs for free. My absolute favorite program, and I say it every time, is my five day bodybuilding split. And I'm actually revamping this program. You're going to see it hopefully in the beginning of January next year, where I'm basically taking all of the knowledge and all the experience that I've gathered since creating this one. And I'm going to put out the best five day bodybuilding split you've ever seen. So in the meantime, get familiar with it by trying this program. Again, just scan the QR code. And if you guys are ready to make 2026, the absolute best year of your life, whether you're 20 years old, 40 years old, or 52 years old, it doesn't matter. All that matters is you put the work in and you stay focused.