 every other biceps exercise is second tier compared to these 10. And these first few exercises hit both heads of the biceps really hard. So keep your focus here if you're new to training and go as heavy as you can for three to four sets of eight to ten repetitions. First up is the Bob L curl. Make sure when doing this exercise that you're using a shoulder width grip, and if a cable machine is available, you can perform the exercise there as well. Next is the alternating dumbbell curl. Just make sure when doing this exercise that your palms stay facing forward the entire range of motion, and that your elbows stay in line with or slightly in front of your hips. I would also bring in dumbbell hammer curls or reverse curls if new to training, because while they do target both heads of the biceps, they place a bit more emphasis on the brachialis and the brachioradialis. For the hammer curls, you can do them standing or seated, or you can do them my favorite way, which is seated with your hands together. Trust me, you're gonna love this variation. As for reverse curls, try doing these while slightly leaning forward. Absolutely diabolical. And so the goal here is guys, if you're new to training, stick with those exercises first until you start seeing results. And then we can start moving into exercises that place a bit more emphasis on either the long head or the short head of the biceps. Let's start with the long head or the peak of your biceps first. And once again, you're gonna go as heavy as you can for three to four sets of eight to ten repetitions. First up is the incline dumbbell curl. Make sure when doing this exercise that the incline isn't too low, and make sure your elbows stay behind your back throughout the entire range of motion. And if you have access to a cable machine, you can try doing a Bayesian curl instead. Another great exercise to target the long head is the Bob L drag curl. But don't be surprised if you have to go a lot lighter here than a traditional Bob L curl. The goal with this exercise is to drive your elbows back as you curl the Bob L up as high as you can. And the last exercise I'm gonna share that targets the long head is the close grip curl. And you can do this exercise using an easy curl bar or a cable machine. But no matter which way you decide to do it, make sure you're getting full range of motion. You're keeping your elbows in front of your hips and you're actually flexing your triceps at the bottom of the movement. This is going to ensure full range of motion on every single repetition. Now before we move on, if you would like more in-depth tutorials on these exercises, check out the exercise database on my website musculosstrength.com. It's as easy as clicking biceps and all my tutorials pop up in one place. Just scan the QR code on the screen to get started and you'll also gain access to all my muscle building programs as well. Alright, for the final four exercises, we're gonna go over movements that place more emphasis on the short head of the biceps. And once again, three to four sets of eight to ten repetitions. First up is the wide grip Bob L curl. This exercise can actually feel quite awkward when you first start doing it. So make sure you go light and also really pay attention to ensure that your elbows stay in line or slightly in front of your hips throughout the entire range of motion. Spider curls are another great exercise to target the short head of the biceps. And you can do these on an incline bench or standing up and slightly hunched over. Just make sure your upper arm stays vertical throughout the entire range of motion. Preacher curls would be a good alternate if you don't like spider curls. But I don't have a preacher curl station in my gym. So here's me doing the exercise on my Gronk fitness leg curl extension machine. And I got to admit it actually actually worked out pretty good. And speaking of preacher curls, the next exercise is a single arm dumbbell preacher curl. And for this movement, all you need is an incline bench. And if you're worried about the dumbbell hitting the bench on the way down, you can place a mat underneath your upper arm. And the final exercise is a dumbbell curl with internal rotation. Now I'm not saying this is the absolute best exercise to target the short head, but it's worth mentioning because it's one of the staple movements I mentioned at the beginning of the video. And if you want to place a bit more emphasis on your short head while doing this exercise, all you have to do is hold the dumbbell closer to the outside of the handle. Then as you curl the weight up, internally rotate your hand and squeeze your biceps as hot as you can at the top of the movement. And now here's some key tips to keep in mind when doing all of these exercises. Flex your glutes and your core, especially when standing, because that's going to help provide stability so you can lift as much weight as possible. Also, make sure you squeeze the absolute crap out of anything you happen to be holding performing these exercises. It makes no sense to leave easy strength gains on the table just because you're training biceps. So if you've got an omde coming up, here's what I want you to do. Pick either a barbell curl or dumbbell curl from list one and pair it with the hammer curls. And then go ahead and pick one exercise from list two and one exercise from list three and experiment. Try three sets for exercise. Try four sets for exercise. Do eight to ten reps. Do six to eight reps. Do four to six reps. Do supersets. Do drop sets. Do heavy negatives. Do forced reps. Do whatever you can to make the routines more intense as you start to get stronger. And if you want more quick and information packed videos like this, be sure to subscribe and help pump the YouTube algorithm by dropping a like below and leaving a comment on which muscle group you'd like me to cover next. And if you're looking to beef up your home gym with some new equipment or more weight for your barbells, or maybe you really liked that leg curling extension machine I did my preacher curls on, you can use my code scott5 for a discount across the entire website at grogfitnessproducts.com. And as always, more good stuff coming soon. See you guys.