 I've experienced tension headaches before, from doing some heavy-ass deadlift, and they suck, they last for weeks, and you can't even lift heavy, but never in my life have I seen or experienced literally making it rain, because blood is pissing from your eye sockets, while doing a heavy-ass deadlift, and that's what happened to this guy here, his name is Logan, I was just scrolling through my Instagram feed last night, I came across this video that he posted of what happened to him, and I literally, stopped, stopped, stopped, stopped, just to ask him if he was just stopped, just to ask him if he was okay, and to see what happened, and so, I've been chatting with Logan, he's allowing me to share this story, so any of the DMs I'm showing you guys, I have permission to share those, I'm not just gonna share DMs without asking, but, he really wants his story to be a wake-up call to a lot of these young guys out there, he's only 23, 24 years old, literally almost died, because he's running so many PEDs, way more than he should've been, while also being on high-emotional, and this is what happened, it's actually called a bilateral subconjunctable hemorrhage, so a bright red spot on both the white parts of both eyes, caused by bleeding from tiny blood vessels, often triggered by increased pressure from activities like coughing, sneezing, vomiting, or heavy-ass dead lifting, they were just missing a few words in there, haha, but let me play this video for you, because it, it quite literally, stopped me in my tracks, I only made it like, into the first 10 seconds, and then I reached out to Logan, super nice guy by the way, but let's play the video. So this is day two of me popping every blood vessel in my eyes after dead lifting, working out too hard, being stupid, um, to kind of give you guys a synopsis on what happened, I had taken probably 400 milligrams of caffeine, and 25 milligrams of clannin right before this dead lift, it was very early in the morning, um, maybe 4 or 5 o'clock, I threw in a 12 milligrams in, so it was on a bunch of stimulants, go inside, do a quick little warm-up set or two, um, I get to my six plates, and I go to pick it up, I'm all energized, I have a compression strap on, a full jacket, full sweats, and a weight lifting belt, and as soon as I get it about halfway up, I didn't stop because I couldn't pull the weight up, I stopped because I was violently erupting blood from my face, violently. So I'll keep you guys updated and let you know how it's doing, we can see okay, and I hope it stays that way, but don't do what I did. Dude, like, that's insane, my wife wouldn't even look at the photo, I showed her like a glimpse of the photo, and she's like, I can't look at that, it's crazy, and it is, and he's so lucky that this is the only thing that happened, because it could have been way, way, way, way worse, right? And Logan's a good-looking dude, and guys, I would encourage you, I like it when people want to share their stories to help others learn from their mistakes, and that's basically the conversation we had last night, is he was giving me all the details of what happened at the time of the deadlift, I think he said it was like 188 pounds, which is super strong, he's a few weeks out from his show that he obviously still competed in, right? And we talked about things, I'm like, dude, you should not be maxing out a deadlift when you're getting ready for a show, like your body's under so much stress already, but, you know, he still went on stage, he still did his show, he still looked great, but now he's literally scared Natty. And this guy, man, I mean, if anything can be said after dealing with that, still a trooper, still getting ready for the show, you can see in this video here that he sent me, that his face, like, he looks like he got his eyes tattooed, black, that's how bad it was, luckily a lot of it cleared up for the show, and in our DMs, he actually told me that it's like 95% gone now, but this just could have been so, so, so much worse, and it was the scare that he needed to realize that he's only 23, about to be 24 years old, he still has his entire life ahead of him, and I tell you guys, and you know what, on my channel, I constantly preach about staying natural, right? And at the end of the day, and there was some controversy on my last video with that dude who, like, called me out for having a shitty body at 41 years old, which actually, he got so much backlash, he wasn't expecting that, guys, so thank you for sticking up for me. You can do whatever you want with your body, right? Like, it's up to you, like, I have friends that are on gear, like, I don't care, right? You have to make sure you do these things the right way, there are a right and wrong way to do these things, but there are still risks that can happen, and you really have to figure out what you want your future to be when you're older, right? Like, you don't think about how you're going to look and feel when you're 40, when you're 23 years old, and you think you're unstoppable, and nothing can kill you, right? And that's basically kind of the wake-up call that Logan had here, so I want to share with you guys some of these messages we had going back and forth, because he's just a really chill, nice dude, and he wants people to know his story, and so this was me. I asked him, like, hey, can I, like, share these DMs, and he said, sure. He goes, absolutely, man. The main reason I posted this was to spread awareness of how lucky I was and the cost of being dumb, mixing stimulants, pushing yourself too hot, etc. If you want to, I can send over any other pics and videos I have, which he sent me. The redness is virtually gone now, but I have a good amount of pics saved. I said, yeah, that would be great, and then I said to him, like, dude, like, I've gotten tension headaches before, but I've never seen or experienced anything like this. Dude, look what he says. He says, me too, as well as bloody noses and stuff like that, starry vision, but this time, easily, absolutely crazy. I had 585 on the bar, and the combination of that, the stimulants, the stress I already had on my body, all the lifting equipment caused this. And he said, it was like the craziest bloody nose you have ever seen that was so bad, it ended up pooling and leaking into my eyes. At least that's how I would describe it. I felt myself get the bloody nose, and as I was halfway through the rep, but it wasn't a normal bloody nose. It was like someone turned on a faucet on my face, so I stopped and ran to the bathroom and saw my eyes. And I was just like, bro, that's scary, and I kind of joked with him. I'm like, scared you natty, huh? And he's like, yeah, definitely scared me natty. And so I wanted to ask him, like, more about his health and where he's at right now, now that his show is over. And so I said, are you going back to natural now, focusing on overall health? And he says, yeah, 200 milligrams of TRT max. And this is really important, guys, and I think this is a big part of his message that he wants all of you young guys to also see, because he screwed up his hormones. Let's get into it. 200 milligrams of TRT max, maybe if I'm prepping for a show. I've ruined my hormones, unfortunately, through preps and abusing PEDs. And I know gearheads are going to come in here and be like, there's a right and wrong way to do things. Because, yeah, there is, okay? But the risks are still there. And what was basically happening with Logan, as you can see down here, he's going to say, like, he just felt unstoppable. So he kept pushing the limit. And that's what happens with a lot of young guys. When they start jumping on PEDs, you start to feel invincible. You start training through injuries, making injuries worse because you don't even really feel them, right? And you start pushing those boundaries. It's an addiction. It happens. So don't come in here and be like, you can do it the right and wrong way. It's an addiction. You end up pushing the limits. Not everybody, but a lot of people do. Logan being one of them, and he's realized that. So he says, I do use TRT, but I have kept it at 160 weekly coming back from the show to rebalance everything like my liver, kidneys, other organs, etc. Not cold turkey quite yet, but being as smart as I can. I also know it's going to be a big change to my quality of life once I stop TRT. I'm just not prepared for this at the moment with work and life and stuff. But being at least as smart as I can about it now, blood work every eight weeks, and not abusing stimulants or my body, to be honest. I want to be completely honest, you know, especially with my physique looking better now. People should know anything slash everything I'm doing, at least in my opinion, because he wants to share his story. But thank you so much, man. You do too. Definitely goals one day. I aspire to be like you in numerous ways. Well, he was being very nice. Like, we had a really great conversation. So, Logan, thank you. And it was such a pleasure to chat with you. And actually, I reached out to him this morning because I asked if he was running anything than just Klen. Because in that video that he did right here, he talked about, you know, some of the stimulants and things that he was on. And so I said, I was like, hey, like, you know, don't feel like you have to tell me if you don't want to. I'm just trying to add some context for those of you who might be interested. And so he said, yeah, absolutely. It was stupid at some point at the time of injury. Test 500, Anovar 50, Klen 25, Winstrel 25, Proviron 25, Osterine 20. I mean, guys, I'm natural. Like, a lot of this stuff is like a second language to me. Maybe if Greg or somebody else sees this video and they can talk more about this, it might be more of an eye-opener. I'm not the guy to do it. But he listed everything that he was on there. And he says, I even think I tried a couple other SARMs at the time, like Osterine and YK and MK and Carderine, to see what they could do to my prep physique. Literally so stupid, man. Would never advise this as a coach. And even the person helping me in my show was like, bro, why? That's a lot. Seriously so dumb. My liver was slightly elevated from this. So I thought, oh, wow, my body can just handle it. Literally stupid thinking. And that's kind of like the part here I want to show you guys, right? Where I thought my body could just handle it, dot, dot, dot. And then obviously it couldn't. So like he really learned his lesson. I was joking with him. I was like, did you just order everything on the menu? And he's like, yeah, I was so beyond wrong. Basically, bro. Or I had on hand that was just adding in more and more and more. Ugh, I really wish I had a time machine. Would go about everything so much differently. And you know what? Logan doesn't have a time machine. But he does have his story that he wanted to share with all the other young guys out there that are in the process of or thinking of doing something as dumb as he did. And it happens all the time, guys, right? Like, you know, you're not going to see everybody posting their L's on the internet. Because why would you, right? Like in my last video, I said, if you really had erectile dysfunction and hundreds of thousands of followers on Instagram, are you going to post about that? Or are you going to secretly try to get it fixed while trying to maintain your physique and your appearance online, right? Like, people don't usually post their L's. And I think that when people do post their L's, we should give them their flowers. And you guys should totally go to Logan's page, you know, and give him a follow and give him your support. This is the last thing I wanted to show you. It was from our conversation today. He said, basically, off all stimulants, anything excessive. Again, I'm stupid. Ha ha. So I stuck to my cycle aside from all stimulants into my show. So still not worth it looking back now in my mind. But now focusing on health and longevity. Thank you, man. Me too. It could have been a few inches back as an aneurysm or even something like a heart attack. And I'm so lucky that's what burst and not a more serious area. So guys, this could have ended very badly for Logan. And I'm so happy that it didn't. And I'm also happy that he was willing to share the story with all of you. So guys, like, you know, fitness is a lifestyle. Okay. And again, I don't expect every single one of you guys to stay natural your entire life. It's your body. You can do whatever you want. But my thought process has always been this. I want to have a lifestyle that I can maintain in and outside of the gym. My entire life doesn't revolve around the gym. I have a lot of other interests. I have a family. I like to travel. I like to do all of these other things. You have to be really careful because you're not trying to live a in my teens and 20s style. And then everything goes downhill from there because you didn't learn how to properly adjust to living the fitness lifestyle. Right. You just kind of had all this extra time. You abused PEDs. You did stupid things in your teens and 20s. And then you get into your 30s, your 40s. You get a job. You get a family. You have promotions at work. And all these other things are getting in the way. And all of a sudden now you just can't maintain your physique anymore. Right. I never want that to happen to you guys. I want you guys to always try to find a way to make sure that everything you're doing is for longevity. So with that being said, if you guys are looking for a new program to get you in the gym that's effective, that's going to help you build muscle, just scan the QR code on the screen here. It'll give you access to my website. You can try any of my programs for free. I have everything from full body to five-day bodybuilding split to push-pull legs to upper-lower. Every workout program comes with a full tutorial video on how to do all the exercises, downloadable PDFs, Excel spreadsheets, calendars, all of that stuff. It's ready and available for you here. And you can try them all for free for seven days just by scanning this link and logging in. And while you're here, you can also get access to my exercise database, which funny enough, I'm starting to see a lot more people viewing those videos. And you guys have been telling me about it. There's so much information online now. It's hard to just simply find new exercises. And on my website, once you're logged in, you can literally click biceps, do filter by body pot. And every single video how-to I've ever done on a biceps exercise will show up right here organized by intermediate and advanced, right, beginner. Actually, I met a fan in my gym yesterday. And he came over to me. And he's like, dude, I'm a huge fan of yours. I had no idea you went to this gym. I'm literally doing Mercy 30s right now. And I was so happy. This is an exercise that I made up to basically replace 21s. If you've never done it before, it'll absolutely destroy you. I suggest you give it a shot. But regardless, guys, everything you need is on my site. It's super easy to navigate. So if you guys want to support me in any way, just join my website. It's a huge help. And it allows me to continue to do what I love to do, which is teaching fitness to the world. Hope you guys have a great day. And, Logan, thank you again so much for sharing your story. Shabby.