 I'm being healthy, I stopped doing math, I stopped doing math, I'm just doing cocaine. Wow bro, you are so freaking cool! And just in case the sarcasm wasn't obvious, The kid is a L-7 weenie! Since John Bravo made his video on Clavicular about a week ago, he has been the talk of the town. I even made a video on him a couple days ago, and some people were calling me out in the comment section. They were saying things like, somewhere a sub-5 hears just be confident one last time right before he ropes. Basically comment saying that if you're not tall, your life is over, you can't get chicks and you won't be successful. Which is, couldn't be anything further from the truth, and we'll get into that. And then there were a couple other comments that basically said things like this. Are you retatted or something? He has! Ten times more girls hanging out at his house and around him that you couldn't even comprehend. What kind of misleading title are you working with here, bud? Because I said no girls in my title. Which was true. And then this one, no chicks dude. Anyone can go to Kik and shoot up any of Clav's IRL streams to debunk any of these false accusations. And so, I went to Kik after, I said, you know what? Maybe I was wrong. Maybe I should go to Kik and I should really see what's going on with Clav. And maybe that $50 a month that all these kids are paying him is actually paying off. And so, the first video I saw was actually this one right here. It said, Yap Potty with Ed, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And so, I actually skimmed through that entire four hours, which I don't recommend you do. Just watch my video because I have a lot of clips I'm going to show you guys. And they're funny! But, you know, last night, because I filmed all the clips yesterday and then I'm filming this video today. But last night, someone posted a clip from this video right here where he was doing some late night gambling. And basically, you know, insinuated that he was getting a BJ in the middle of his stream. Yeah, okay, cup him. I'll play this for you. Yeah, you wish. You wish, buddy. Like, the dude is so cringe. You don't have to do that anymore. You don't have to do that anymore. You don't have to do that anymore. You don't have to do that anymore. But the reason why I'm showing you this clip is because he probably thinks he's so cool right here. And if you read the comments, everyone's just making fun of him. Like, everyone's literally just making fun of him. It's actually kind of hilarious. So, this was the video right here. But before we dive into all the hilarious clips from the Yacht Party, I just want to play this clip really quick from Greg Bouset. Because what he said here makes a lot of sense. And what this kid is doing, this 19-year-old kid, is extremely dangerous. And unfortunately, a lot of young guys are falling for his BS. And they're paying him $50 a month to do shit that I would say is incredibly dangerous. So, let me play this clip from Greg's video from a couple days ago. Just to kind of set the tone if you don't even know who Clavicular is. So you understand why we're even talking about this. I'm not afraid to go where others won't. While every other looks maxing coach is telling you to drink more water and do facial exercises, I'm willing to push you to do the methods that actually work. Is it really good for children, remember, underage children, to listen to an adult on how to do things that are illegal to improve their appearance? Illegal. As in breaking the law. Last I checked, steroids in the United States, they're not legal. And so is teaching kids how to get and use steroids, keeping it a secret from their parents, really something that we think should be allowed on the internet? Steroids, pharmacology, extreme protocols. I'm just looking at his account here. This pot right here. And it's saying ages 14 to 15 and it says minor. And it says 518 people in common. The next age demographic says 16 to 17 and then it goes to 18 plus. And so imagine selling a program that involves drugs and having any inclusion of people under 18. It's bad enough that people are doing this who are over the age of 18. Everyone, and I do mean every single person in the world, has something that they don't like about their bodies. Maybe it's their height, their hair color, their skin color, their teeth, the size of their nose. But do you really want to then focus on that problem and give it even more attention and say, you know what, you're not good enough because of that. The main reason I wanted to play that clip from Greg also is because Clavicular is out here saying that everything has to do with looks. That's why he's like the looks maxing king. And if you buy his program, he's going to show you how to do all the crazy things that he does in order to look the best and score more girls. In my video, I talk about how confidence is everything. Okay? Confidence gets you in the door. It is then up to you to have an actual personality and charisma to take it even further. Whether it comes to business or girls or life in general, that's it. And in his IRL stream, which we're going to go over, I'm going to show you clips, Ro has the looks. He's a good looking dude, but he has zero personality and zero charisma. And despite having girls on the boat, they want absolutely nothing to do with him and his gooner friends. It's actually quite hilarious. And I think this George Carlin quote pretty much describes anyone who thinks that what Clavicular is saying is actually good advice. And I'm going to read it to you right now. Think of how stupid the average person is and realize half of them are stupider than that. Let that sink in and let's dive into this IRL stream. This clip right here pretty much sets the tone for the entire stream. There are girls present, but they want absolutely nothing to do with the boys. That's it. Oh, it's the British guy. It's the British guy. Mmm. So awkward. So awkward. Look at the body language, right? Like these girls are just like they're they they look like they're just like they don't want to be there, but they also want to be there because they're on a boat. Oh, they're on their phone. They don't care. Oh wait, I can't do it. My phone is so bad. So no more shot. And what's even funnier is shortly after they actually admit that they're the problem and that they're boring. Who bad at these girls by the way? They're so boring. I don't know if it's because there's no music, no alcohol, but like what the fuck is that? We're kind of boring. Yeah, we're going to yeah, yeah. Always take accountability is what I was about. You're right guys. So the looks maxing is there. You know, we've hit ourselves in the face with hammers. We've injected ourselves with stuff. We took our testosterone. What's his face cloud probably did a few bumps of his favorite drug, right? But the girls want nothing to do with them because looks aren't everything. You need an actual personality. You need actual charisma. You need to actually know how to talk to girls. Getting them to the potty is great. Dude, if you go up to any group of girls and you say, hey, I have a yacht potty. Do you want to come? Of course, they're going to say yes. But there's a reason why they go in a group. It's for safety. There's safety in numbers when it comes to girls. That's why they are always at least four or five of them together when they go on a boat because they know that if they want nothing to do with the weird guys that have the boat, but they still want to go on the boat so they can dance and drink and take photos together without the guys. Again, there's safety in numbers. I feel like I'm dropping some life lessons for a lot of the younger audience that for some reason they just don't know yet. But guys, this is how the world works when it comes to women in boats. Every chick wants to go on a boat. Every girl wants to potty on a boat, but they don't necessarily want to potty with the people who own the boat or rented it. I titled this clip Mr. Steal Your Girl because what he says here is just, dude, it's too funny. Every girl single just depends on who's asking, right? Facts bro, facts. Wait Marky, go test that too. Even if you've been with your girl for years bro, it's the right man ass time. Look, look, let's listen. If me, Ed, Sweater, Marky ass, they're, bro, I'm telling you, your girl's cooked. I love how while they're saying that, there's literally like eight or nine girls in the room next door that never come outside to hang out with them. So they're like, we can steal your girl, we can steal your girl. By the way, the girls that came on our boat want nothing to do with us. Your girl, us, four ass. That's how you gotta work out the mindset, yeah? If your girl has you, yeah? Girls always look for the next best thing and that's just how they're programmed. So if she knows she has you, what are you gonna do, yeah? You drive her for it, yeah? You drive her fucking full. There is a little bit of truth to what he's saying and I said this in my last video. Girls want a confident man, right? You can still treat women with respect and you can still be nice, but if you're their lapdog, you're no longer a challenge for them and they most likely will not be loyal to you. It's just the way it works. Women want strong, confident men and you can be a strong, confident man without doing 99% of the crap that these guys are saying you need to do, right? Like you don't have to treat women badly to be strong and confident, but let's let them continue. Someone pulls out of the club in a fucking Lambo. They got money, they can offer your girl their dream life. You think your girl's saying no? I would say to that point, if you're with your girl for like two or three years and some random dude rolls up in a Lambo and offers them money and they leave, that guy just did you a favor. Like why would you want to marry someone or be with someone who's just gonna leave you if a better opportunity comes along? Also, it just goes to show you how much experience these guys have dating actual women and not young girls. Because when you're dating an actual woman that has more going on in their life than just like what you can provide for them, what's important to them also changes. So maybe this is good advice if you're just dating young girls that don't know their ass from their elbow. But when you start dating actual women, the game changes a little bit. And I don't think these guys are going to be dating actual women for a very long time. This Pat was super funny. Clav totally makes his friend like feel super bad about being short. It's amazing. There's like more for guys to gain than girls. When you're in a business meeting and you're six foot tall or whatever, however tall you are, you're fucking six, six even, whatever. And you're able to dominate just simply because of that. Alright, now we're getting into high. Alright. Well, I'm just talking about looks, whatever. You get what I mean? Alright, mate. You know what? You think I should get, you think I should get... He gets so mad. The um... No, no, no, it doesn't matter. And then he goes on to say it doesn't matter. So like, he's literally selling courses, telling, you know, all these young kids to do all these crazy things. You know, talks about getting surgery to get taller, talks about jaw surgery. And then as soon as he makes his friend feel bad, he's like, actually, it doesn't matter. Okay, bro. Make up your mind. It gets to a point where, um, you're just like, so high on like the status, the money, the looks already. It's hard for you to think about like, the average guy, you know, going through life. This is the 19 year old giving this, you know, life advice. How, how shit off they're doing. You know what I'm saying? So, you might think, oh, looks maxing is retarded. I'm getting all these girls. Yes. Like, you take your normal guy who's working a shit job, who might not have any money, they're not getting any girls. Like, it's hard. You got to empathize with that. And they say that a lot too. Like, it's a reoccurring theme in the entire four hours where they always just kind of go back to, look at me, I'm amazing, I'm looks maxing. Wouldn't you rather be with me than like some random dude with a shit job making no money and getting no girls? Like, they always just say that. Like, that's like their tagline. Shit job, no money, getting no girls. Like, that's all they keep saying. And as far as like the looks and the height and walking into a board meeting, again, it comes down to confidence. You want to know a good example of that? This man right here, probably the one of the biggest fraudsters of all time, Mr. SBF, Sam Bankman-Fried from FTX. You guys all know what went down here. He raised over $200 million from Sequoia while playing League of Legends on his computer to the tune that I only know the story because the guy straight up said that Sam was distracted on his computer. And they asked him during the meeting where they're about to give him all this money. What are you doing right now? And he's like, I'm playing League of Legends on my computer. And the guy's like, you know what? You have balls. And then they invested in them. They lost all their money, by the way, because it was a huge scam. But this guy's 5'10". You think he's the most attractive guy? You think he has the best hairline? The best haircut? Like, this is the dude who scored $200 million from Sequoia while playing League of Legends on his laptop because he acted like he didn't give a shit. Like, confidence is everything. And that's a wild story. You guys should check that out. And before we get into more clips, I just want to let you guys know, I posted a video last week about how to get rid of tennis. I've been having, like, insane pain in my elbow for years. And it started affecting my bicep and my shoulder. And I said, enough is enough. I got this lacrosse ball. And I show, like, five different stretches and exercises that I did for two weeks. It hurt like crazy. But the pain is finally gone. And I was actually reading through the comments on this video. And legit, like, there's so many comments from people saying, I have tried everything. I tried what you showed in your video once. And I already feel better after years of suffering. So, if you're watching this video, you're going to the gym, you're having some pain, you know, in your elbows and lifting. A lot of the times, it's not just this area. And it's not your forearm. It could actually be tightness and knots in your back that's affecting other parts of your body. So, if you haven't seen this video yet, make sure you check it out. But let's continue with this gem right here. So, this is a hilarious one. You can see I labeled it because it's actually three parts to it. But the clip was really long, so I cut them all up. This is... So much cope. It's actually embarrassing. It's hilarious for us. It's embarrassing for them. We're trying to do like a group mog pictures. Really? Yeah. You want us to get the other girls? You want us to get the other girls? Because they are never leaving their cluster. They are never with the boys. They're always inside doing their own thing, drinking the free booze, texting their friends, probably texting guys that are way cooler than these guys, and they're just partying and having a good time. That's what girls do on boats. I think they might be upstairs, but... And everyone's coming after me, they're like... Bro, like I look... I think that's so funny. He like... You see, as soon as he starts to see the girl come, he gets like really quiet, right? And his confidence plunders... And everyone's coming after me, they're like... They're like, oh no, girls, no... Bro, like I look... You know what I'm... That's the way... Look... Uh, bro, you know... I look... Oh, let me see that... Yeah. And everyone's coming after me, they're like... They're like, oh no, girls, no... Bro, like... Bro, like, you have girls. You just don't talk to them and they don't want to hang out with you. You know what? That's the way. Can I see that? Yeah. All right. Here's the third part. Okay, but here's the thing that I don't understand. So you do marketing. You're with Clavicular and Ed Matthews and no TikToks are being posted. We can make TikToks. That should have been your idea. Okay, but here's the thing that I don't understand. So you do marketing. These guys are so disconnected from reality that they can't understand why these girls aren't filming videos with them the entire time they're on the boat, right? They're so disconnected from reality that they can't even feel the vibe that these girls are giving off, that they want to be on the boat and want absolutely nothing to do with them. Like, I could feel the vibe through watching the live stream, right? How can you not feel the vibe? You want to hear an interesting story. Back when my daughter was dating before she met her boyfriend, I think when she was 20, she went on a date with a dude. She, like, kind of liked him or whatever, right? And the second date was going to be her and the dude, his friend, and another girl that they had been dating for a while. And they were going to go on a boat and a lake. And my daughter asked me, she goes, do you think I should go? And I'm very blunt when it comes to advice, when it comes to my daughter, because I think that's the best way to be as a parent. And I said, well, Crystal, do you want to hook up with this dude on the boat? And she's like, no, I just met him. I said, okay, well, it's going to be his friend and his girlfriend, basically. And then he's going to be all along with you. What do you think he wants to do on the boat? And she's like, but I really want to go on the boat. She didn't say, I really want to hang out with him. She's like, I just, I really want to go on this boat and have a good time. And I said, well, you're going to be stuck out in the middle of the lake with a dude who's going to be coming after you the entire time for some action. And you're going to want nothing to do with him. So maybe you shouldn't go. And she's like, yeah, you know what? You're right. So she didn't go on the boat. But that's what happens, okay? These kids rented a yacht. Super cool. They have free drinks. They invited a bunch of girls to come on the boat. And because they came in a group, okay, life lesson, they want nothing to do with you. They stay together in this group cluster. That's just the way it goes. And you can tell these two, their egos are like super hurt because now they're just trying to keep giving this girl like more and more advice and trying to tell her what to do to be good at marketing. But yeah, no. So like, just take the information that you got, really. They like, if you have an opportunity to do well in marketing, you're with two fucking big influencers. All right, what are you saying? You're with two big influencers. So like, you know, you're like the luckiest girl in the world. And what's the five? Fifth time. Lennon. Lennon. Yeah. Lennon. I actually thought she said her name was Eleven. And I thought she did look like Eleven from Stranger Things. And so when I saw that pot, I was like, wait, what is her name? But it's not Eleven. It's like, Levin? Eleven? I couldn't really understand it. How would you market this situation right now? Yeah. Right now. Let's see. What would you do to maximize your exposure? Make TikToks. But you're on a stream right now with thousands of people watching. Oh, same like TikToks. I kind of thought they were insinuating that like, maybe she should like, be hanging all over them and kissing them and stuff. I could be wrong, but that's what I kind of thought they were insinuating at first. But then they kind of just went down this rabbit hole of trying to tell her she should like, you know, do something crazy like jump off the boat. No, no, not even that. Just like, oh, no, I think it's going to go viral. Yeah. So like, if I were you, quite frankly, and I wanted to blow up on TikTok, I would do something ridiculous to basically take advantage of an opportunity. Like what? Jump off the boat? I would. I would. If I were you, I'm not suggesting you do this. I would literally jump off the boat. No, I can't. Be sure that's fucking done. I can't. I'm not suggesting you do it. But if I were you, I would literally just jump off the boat. This is where things started to get really weird. Again, right? Like these guys are marketing themselves as like these alpha chads who mog on everyone, who are like the looks maxing kings. They're better looking than everyone. They get so many chicks, right? Like they just can't handle all the girls they get. They're Mr. Steal Your Girl, right? You show up in like your shitty car. They roll up in their Lambos and your girl like drops her panties, gets out of your car and jumps in their car, right? Like that's how these guys mock it themselves. And then you'll notice the entire video, they barely talk to the girls. They're always awkward when they're around the girls. And then they just do weird stuff like this. Like this was the weirdest part of this entire video. This is for me right now, yeah? Yeah. Totally honest. I'm not going to take offense. Give me a fucking sniff and tell me if I'll speak of you. So he's telling her to sniff his armpits. Watch her face. Give me a sniff, girl. Dude, gross! No more armpits. No, because I don't know. I've got nose, man. I sniff my armpits. Slow keep, slow keep. Like I don't even, he's trying to say like, oh my nose isn't working, I can't smell my armpits. So can you smell my armpits and tell me if I smell? I feel bad. I don't know if I stink, I'll be over. You don't want to jump, sir? Yeah. I feel like you're in front. Sniff the armpits. The fight's pretty funny. I don't know. Come around, come around that way. Come around that way. She escapes. She doesn't actually sniff his armpits, so she actually gets out of there. But like this dude, the whole video, he's wired. His eyes are always wide. And then this clip is super funny too. Like the girl, the girls are just not interested. So you know what? Like anyone can go to kick and shoot up any of Clab's IRL streams to debunk any of these false accusations. And he's right. But the girls just are never interested. He looks... Looks like he's come off fucking death. Girls off in a corner doing their own thing, as you can see once again. I'm all fucking death row right now, I'm saying. But he needs to be putting him in. It's like a cringe high school dance. He's on the strippers pole. That was not in the fucking plans. Did you see this girl right here? Like leave her spot and come around? This is what's called a save. When your girlfriends are like, hey, if these guys are weird, let's save each other from having to talk to them. That's what that is. That's called a save. Swinging on the fucking stripper pole. It's not in the fucking plans, boys. I can't lie. They're like, oh, I gotta go. Sorry. That was not in the fucking plans. It looks like he's recovering it right now. Leopard Prince put the hoodie on. That's no good. He's down to the red dress. The commentary from his friend is actually funny. And then it gets like insanely cringe right here, guys. Like this is probably one of the hottest parts of the video to watch. There's a lot of hot parts to watch. Well, this one's actually not really had to watch. It's just hilarious. It basically turns into them not being able to score any attention from the chicks. And then all the dudes just start like taking off their shirts and doing push-up contests. Yeah, I gotta show my physique. Come press the chicks are down here too, by the way. Oh, shit! Yeah? And I'm gonna just aura farm. Just no, no, no, no, no, no. Listen. Bro, don't do that. Just tell me which one. Just tell me which thing looks over. Tell me which one looks over. I'm gonna aura farm. Tell me which girl looks at me is what he basically just said. Oh, boy. Yo, Ed. Dude, there's a meme for that. It's this one right here. Oh, my God, dude. I'm gonna subscribe to Clavicular, man. These streams are freaking hilarious. Yo, Ed. We gotta bang out that push-up competition. Look at all these beautiful girls sitting here. Bro's like, hey, man. We gotta bang out that push-up competition. Oh, we're fucked up. Fuck. What the fuck? Where the fuck is Marky? Don't tell Marky to come in the fucking front, right? At least get one of the girls to be a judge, bro. Like, what are you doing? Tell Marky to come in the fucking front. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Boys, honestly, let's just get gay in here. Come on, sweater. Let's lay down with sweat. Let's get gay in here. You'll notice, like, this is one of two times I actually saw him happy and smiling, by the way. For God's sake, mate. I mean, we might as well, bro. We're gonna be gay. Fuck! We might as well just get gay and leave the girls inside. What's this come to? Dude, the funny thing is that you don't have to leave the girls inside. They never came out once the entire four hours. Fucking flexing off. Fucking bunch of men in the back flexing off, bro. What the fuck is going on? Dude. So he eventually does go back inside. And before I play the clip, just take a look. Gap. Gap over here. Hunched over. Arms crossed. Is that how you sit when you're Mr. Confident and you score chicks every single day? Do you sit hunched over, almost in, like, the fetal position in between girls? Without your arms around them? Or with, like, a one-foot gap in between you and them? Like, again, it's all about the body language. Sit in the trash can. In the trash can? No. Honey, we do drugs. Oh, wait. Fuck. What are we doing now? Wait. Did you see her face? Did you see her face? Yeah. Yeah, we're on live. And I labeled this clip kind of good advice, but it's misled advice. Let me just play it for you. Yeah, I think she'd be more than lucky to be with a guy like me. But again, sitting next to the girls, look at their knees, like, they're all kind of, like, leaning away from him. He's hunched over. He has his arm crossed. Zero confidence. These girls want absolutely nothing to do with him. So, yes, Clab, you get girls. They just want nothing to do with you. That's what I'll tell you. You know, it's a... Looks isn't going to save. Looks isn't going to save? Okay, but when you get to the top of the top in a hypergamous dating market, that's kind of what you're going to get. And I, like, he keeps saying that, too, top of the top. So, I'm pretty sure he assumes he's at the top of the top of the dating market with all this body land. That is a woman. You can either have more than redeeming qualities. I don't think any, like... Well, so, you think she'd rather date some Discord mod that's a virgin? Yeah, exactly. Like, where do they even come up with these examples of dudes that they're mogging on? Some Discord virgin. Like, what? She could just find a better... What would you rather? Ladies, would you rather a Discord mod, virgin, completely fucked, making no money, or would you rather a top mogger? A good guy. That's what I think we don't rather. A good guy. A good guy. A good guy. And do you think in this era, a good guy who's good looking, who's making a lot of money, is ever going to be a virgin? Why would they ever do that? What does it matter if you're a virgin or not? I mean, like, most people nowadays, when they start dating, even if you meet the love of your life, like, 99% of the time, they aren't going to be a virgin. So, I don't know why he keeps saying that. Really? No, you haven't. Then why are you not with them right now? Why are you on the yacht with me? Because not everyone is trusting you. Exactly. Because I'm just your friend. Right, yeah. They're on the yacht with you. Again, right? They're on the yacht with you because they wanted to go on a boat with their friends. And they're like, oh, these stupid guys are going to, you know, basically provide alcohol and they're going to rent this boat. We don't have to really interact with them or talk to them or hook up with them. We can just go and have fun on our own. That's why they're there. They're just not saying the quiet pad out loud. She's here to support you. Okay, yeah. You see what I'm saying? So, women say a lot of things, but they do the complete fucking opposite. So, never listen to what a woman says. So, like, that part of the bit that he said I think is kind of true. But, again, it comes down to being a confident man, right? When it comes to dating women, you don't have to be an asshole. You don't have to treat them like shit. But women are attracted to confidence. Confidence gets you through the door. At that point, you need to have a personality. You need to have charisma. Women want to feel like they're protected, like they're being taken care of. So, yeah, they do want a guy that has a good job, that does make money, that can take care of them. Like, these are all valid arguments that I guess he can make. He's just very misled with a lot of the statements and beliefs that he has. Probably because he's 19 years old and he spends more time in the mirror putting on eyeliner and curling his eyelashes than actually getting out there and getting some real world experience under his belt, right? And there's one more clip I want to show you guys just because I thought it was super funny. This is like the only other time I saw Clav smile really big other than when he had his shirt off with the boys after the push-up contest was this clip right here. Yeah, I was supposed to give him a kiss on the cheek. What the fuck? Wait, you're looking at Seabird. That was the only instance in the entire four hours where there was anything mentioned of anyone kissing anyone was this clip right here. So, I want to end this video on a few notes. There's a couple other comments that I had on my video that I wanted to share with you guys. This one right here. Bro, I have to tell you I had more luck with girls when I was a 120kg fatty who was fun and enjoyable in the life of the potty. And that's it right there, man. When you're the life of the potty and you're fun to be around, women will gravitate towards you. And the foundation of this is having confidence. I got laid every weekend and I had this guy with model-tier looks, but he was kind of autistic. And then later he said girls don't like him because he's Asian. Bro, you're 6'2 with perfect looks. Girls drool over you. Always ask me about you and you just don't have the confidence to talk to them. I once introduced him to this cute girl and he immediately spilled the spaghetti. It was super sad because he wasn't just good looking. He was also athletic and a top biochemist from a very prestigious university. He had it all, but he just couldn't muster up the guts to talk normally to girls. And that's the difference, right? I'm 41 years old. This kid is 19 years old. I've lived double your lifetime on this planet. I've experienced a lot. I grew up in a small town and then I was literally thrown in front of millions of people when I went on MTV The Real World Brooklyn back in 2009. And then from there I started YouTube, was the first fitness influencer. And then from there I was the head trainer for Lionsgate for a couple years. Did all their videos. Did all their movie integrations, right? I've gone from being super introverted, having a hard time dating women to basically being paid $3,000 to $5,000 just to show up at a club to drink booze and talk to chicks because I was on reality TV. I've been on both ends of the spectrum. And because of that I've been able to fall right in the middle and understand what's most important in life and how to get there. Which is the main reason why I'm making this video. You guys might be thinking, Scott, this is a fitness channel. Why are you making videos like this? Well, for me, fitness was a big part of my life. And it was like the catalyst that helped me start to build my confidence when I was a kid. I was very introverted. I was picked on. I was bullied just because I was very introverted and very quiet. And so fitness allowed me to find this outlet that helped me, you know, get stronger and improve myself. And I really looked up to like all the superheroes in my comic books when I was a kid. And I was like, maybe I can get, you know, really strong and big and people will respect me more, be nicer to me. But also because my friends were in the same boat as me, kind of bullied a little bit. I thought maybe if I get big and strong like Captain America, I can actually protect my friends too. And then what happens as you get more into sports and more into fitness and you start being surrounded by more people, you open up a bit. You start to, you know, realize that there's a lot more to life than just being really, really ridiculously good looking. Did you ever think that maybe there's more to life than being really, really, really ridiculously good looking? There's a lot more to life than that. You actually, you know, want to develop a personality, have charisma, get business sense and get real world experience. Because the more you can experience in life at a young age, the more successful you're going to be later in life. And I want to end this video with one more comment that I want to read to you because I feel like this really hit the nail on the head. Real confidence comes from belief in yourself and life experience. Something this generation doesn't understand. It's like that scene from Avengers where Tony tells Captain America everything about him came out of a bottle. The super soldier serum. That's not true. Steve Rogers was chosen because he always had the heart of courage and was humbled. His transformation just further enhanced who he is. Blasting gear and acting like an insecure clown is not the answer. I get it that there's a lot of pressure amongst the new generation, but there is a time for everything. Put in the work and do it the real way. Results will come. This can be applied to anything. And for those of you who haven't seen the Captain America movie that came out a long time ago, that's basically what happened. The Red Skull was evil. Hooked the super soldier serum and it made him more evil. Captain America was good at heart. Hooked the super soldier serum and became Captain America. Just in case you guys aren't up to date with Marvel and the lore there. So, you gotta make a choice. Do you wanna smash all the bones in your face and break your legs to be taller? Or do you wanna just go out into the real world, train hard, study, actually talk to people, have a personality, have charisma, and be successful that way? You can do that or you can give Clab $50 and he'll tell you how to inject, test, and break the bones in your face. So, we're gonna get so far. Shabbyu