 you guys are f***ing disgusting. Every single one of you that's bringing Clavicular on your podcast, on your live stream, every single one of you that is just trying to jump on him for reviews because of the wild things he says and does, you're giving him a platform to push this message, which maybe to people like me that have an IQ above 10, think is hilarious and would never do it, but this young and impressionable generation is listening to the things that he is saying, they're quickly adopting Lux Maxing, and the more of a platform that you give him, the more damage he is gonna do to these young kids. He is creating a level of body dysmorphia that I never thought we would see. In fact, I would much rather go back to the times where kids just took steroids and lied about it and said they were on creatine. It was much simpler times back then, but the message that Clavicular is saying to all these young and impressionable kids is disgusting. Like if there was a fitness Jesus, he would be the antichrist of fitness. He doesn't like working out. He's been on testosterone since he was 14 years old and still has a mid average physique of someone who just went to the gym and trained regularly, right? He doesn't look anything special like that. He's smashing his face with a hammer to accentuate his cheekbones. He's putting on makeup, which I guess, you know, tweets their own with the makeup stuff. He talks about, you know, getting laser eye surgery if your eye color isn't the right way. Like he is just letting people know that they should never, ever, ever be happy with what they were given at birth. They should always be improving, creating this like snowball effect of depression and never being happy. There's no end in sight because you can always ascend and do more. You can get limb lengthening surgery. You can smash your cheekbones. You can do all this wild stuff and then he'll come up with something new because he needs more of you. Again, you think it's funny. I think it's funny. It's stupid. I did a video on him a couple of weeks ago on the yacht potty that he did, right? Remember he was on a boat with all these girls. The girls wanted absolutely nothing to do with him to the point where one of them actually DM me on Instagram. I blocked her face in her name. She says, as one of the girls from clav stream on the boat, we all watched your YouTube video because someone said to us, and you were pretty much 100% right about everything on the boat. We were all so uncomfortable. We didn't know who clav was before the stream and the whole thing was a mess. And my point was during the entire yacht potty, all him and his friends said, if your girl meets us, it's over. We can get any girl that we want to get, blah, blah, blah, blah. We're so awesome because we're looks maxers. Not one of these girls wanted to hang out with them. They were just nowhere to be seen. So I know in interviews, and the reason why I bring this up is because I've seen him in interviews say that looks maxing is more about maximizing and ascending and being the best looking possible male. It's not about getting girls, but clearly it's about getting girls because this whole yacht potty was them trying to get with the girls and the girls wanted nothing to do with him. So now we have young kids taking their dad's hammer out of the garage. Dad probably went downstairs to build some shit. Notice he couldn't find his hammer and was like, oh my God, my son is finally taking up the hammer and he's going to do some man shit around the house. He's going to experiment. He's going to build something. And then he goes upstairs to the bathroom, notices the door is closed, opens it, and then he finds his son smashing his face instead to try to create micro fractures. Let me let me play this for you because it's disgusting. Two areas right here. Uh, I'm just going to start hammering. I just I'm just going to be doing a shorter version. He's a good looking kid. He's a young kid. He still hasn't fully matured, but he thinks that he has to do this shit because everything that clavicular is doing has gotten so crazy and so popular, especially after you ran over that duvet of cyber truck. We're seeing more and more of this. It needs to stop. Person. Normally I do it five minutes on each side. So 10 minutes in total. I'm just going to do a short. Yeah, you gotta brace your head. I mean, dude, like you sign up for boxing and let let dudes wail on your face with no headgear and we'll see how big your cheekbones get. I don't know. You know, the whole makeup thing, right? To each their own with the makeup, I'm not going to pick on this. But again, if the goal is to get girls, I don't know. Oh, the girls at least I grew up around didn't like dudes that were wearing makeup like this unless they were goth or something. Right. Again, that could just be a generational thing. I don't get it. This was wild too. So right now I am infertile infertile at 19 years old because he's been on testosterone since he is 14. And yeah, the stuff that you can do. HCG, right? To try to reverse it. Why would you risk being infertile at 19 years old just to have a mid physique? This is an easily obtainable physique and I threw myself up there just to have, I don't know, so you guys can't talk shit and say that. I don't work out if you don't know who I am. This is me today. I haven't worked out in a month because of December and my daughter graduated college. It was wild. Look great. They don't need to don't need testosterone. Just go to the gym and exercise, make gains and maintain them. But this is how you look. You're infertile. You smoke math as a pre-workout. You smash your face with a hammer. What is your goal in life? Are you really looks maxing? Are you really being the best possible version of yourself? Doing all that wild stuff? Because I would think that if you spent less time smashing your face with a hammer and less time applying makeup every time you went out and just put the work in at the gym. You're a good looking kid, Claf. You just put the work in the gym. You would probably look better than you do right now and you would feel better and be a lot healthier. But you have, you've convinced yourself, like this, you have this mental disorder. You've convinced yourself that you have to do all of this other crazy stuff. And partly because it got you popular in social media. And so you have to roll with it because if you stop the looks maxing, what else are you going to do? You said you got kicked out of college. I don't know what your schooling is like, but to me, it looks like looks maxing has now taken over your life because at this point, there's no going back. So now you're just all in to the point where you're going on podcasts with Nick Fuentes, Talon, him to get double Joss, Eradri, like extension looks maxing to aromasin as much as possible as a white man. Like, dude, you are frigging insane. You're out of your mind. This interview was wild too. Let me play. That's not really what I advocate for because again, with all these complexities, you could wind up being yourself over and how so? Well, you know, take testosterone, for example, you could deal with hair loss issues. You could deal with acne. You could deal with gynecostasia. You have to really carefully manage a ton of different hormones and a ton of different interactions inside your body. You have to. It kind of sounds like to me in that interview that you don't want to be doing it. But like I said, you're kind of stuck doing it now because it's your your entire identity is the look maxing stuff. In this interview, everyone's talking about this. Let me hit play. This next election cycle, who's going to win? It's going to be Gavin Newsom against JD Vance because JD Vance is subhuman and Gavin Newsom ox. He's getting JD Vance a subhuman. Yeah. What makes you say that? He's got a very short total facial width to height ratio. He's obese. Very recessed side profile, whereas Newsom is like 6'3 Chad. So JD is very tall. JD's got to be 6'3, 6'3. Gavin Newsom obviously mocks him to death. So you're a Newsom head. You prefer Newsom to the vice president. I'm just telling you who's going to win. Do you prefer him though? Honestly, it's hard to say. But Newsom being that much more of a mauger and like having a president who's you guys lose like all your brain cells watching this because my brain cells have left the building. Again, this isn't to be political. Right. That's not why I'm playing this clip. I'm playing the clip because they don't care or Kalevicular doesn't care about intelligence. Right. He is just basing what he thinks of every single person that he meets solely on their looks. And that's just something that at least my generation, we grew up. We were told to never judge a book by its cover. This next generation is like the cover is the only thing that matters. It doesn't matter what's in the book. And if that's how you're making your life decisions, like you're going to go get your calf fixed and you just keep going from mechanic shop to mechanic shop to mechanic shop because you're looking for the best looking mechanic to get your calf fixed. Doesn't matter that they have the worst reviews online. But the dude mobs. So I'm going to go to him to fix my cat. Like this, this stuff is wild to me and more and more people are giving him a platform because they want to leech off him for views. And I get it. This video ironically is leaching off him for views as well. But my message is he needs to be stopped. This is not somebody that we should be putting on a pedestal because these young and pressural kids believe the things that are coming out of his mouth and they want to be like him. This guy is crazy. I found this post that somebody posted of him where he was trying to get a dating photo for a dating app, right? Because I don't have access to the beach since it's cold. And if I coat max for a pic, I'll lose my body halo. So basically what he's saying here, and I've heard him talk about this before, the better looking you are, you get a halo over you because you look so good that I don't know, it helps you better in life. He actually said that Charlie Kirk wouldn't have been, I have to say, unaligned, so stupid, wouldn't have been unalived if he was better looking. That's literally something that he said and that young and pressural kids are listening to when they watch his kick streams. So he said, I had the pose in front of my grandma's art. She took the pic, by the way. I have my fake mustache from eyebrow pencil for the daddy halo. Girls like a dad. Interesting background environment. This kid is crazy. He is out of his mind and he's not somebody that all of these top podcasts and these top streamers should be bringing on just because they want the views. Like it's just, it's something that they should not do. There should be a line drawn in the sand at some point where you say, you know what, the message that this kid has is extremely harmful and we shouldn't be giving it a larger voice. Looks maxing is just a fad, guys. Okay. And it's being taken to the extreme for likes and views. In fact, the only looks maxing that I would approve of is maybe get braces to fix your teeth because that's something that I had to do when I was a kid. My God, look at these teeth. They were all over the place. But you know what? You can put braces on and then take them off a few years later and you won't be infertile. You'll just have a nice smile. And you know what, clav? Unfortunately for you, you are so deep into the looks maxing that I guarantee it's going to continue to get worse because you're going to never be happy and you're going to always continue to want to do the next thing for views and the next thing for views and the next thing for views. And in 10 years, my guy, you're not even going to recognize yourself.