 for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for Goal to rule number one is to use a close grip. This means placing your hands on the barbell about shoulder width so that you can keep your elbows as close to your torso as possible throughout the entire range of motion. In fact, during the pressing portion of the movement, this should simulate what a close grip bench press looks like. Goal to rule number two is to pack your shoulders. And that's because there's a lot of shoulder movement with heavy weight during this exercise. So don't just roll back and get started. What you want to do first is retract and depress your shoulders before laying back on the bench and an added tip. What I like to do is lay on the bench a bit short and then slide up and use the friction of the pad to make sure that my shoulders are packed as tightly as possible. Now, before we get to the final golden rule, be sure to check out the exercise database on my website, muscularstrength.com. It's the easiest way to find new exercises complete with how to videos just like this to help take your workouts to the next level. Just click the muscle group you want to train. And now you've got hundreds of exercises to choose from scan the QR code to get a free trial to my website. And while you're there, you'll also get access to all of my 12 week programs. And if you're interested in pushing your limits, I recommend starting out with my five day bodybuilding split. And now for the final golden rule, feel the stretch. Don't just fling the barbell behind your head guys. The entire point of this added movement is for you to feel a deep stretch in the long head of your triceps. So when you do your repetitions, bring the weight back a bit slower, feel the stretch and then pull the barbell back over your torso and press it up. Now, typically when training triceps, I like to stop my workout with a heavy power bomb or a weighted dip first, and then bring this exercise in as my second or third movement. Now you're also going to notice a lot of activation in your chest, lats, and shoulders. So although the main focus here is triceps, don't be alarmed when you feel fatigue in those areas as well. For more quick tips, be sure to like subscribe and leave a comment below for the algorithm. And as always more good stuff coming soon. See you guys.