 and the most frustrating thing about this entire video is that there is nobody on set from men's health that knows anything about training. It's a bold strategy, Cotton. Let's see if it pays off for them. I think it's really unfortunate that whenever we see a celebrity workout posted in something like a men's health magazine, and we see a video about a celebrity workout, we know there's a really good chance that it's gonna be bad. It's gonna be garbage. And that's exactly what we just got with Hudson Williams' full-body workout for a heated rivalry. It's a TV show whose name I can't pronounce properly for some reason. I was practicing before making the video. I can't say rivalry fast without messing it up, but it's a really popular TV show. Hudson is all over the place, one of the most talked about actors. He was just at the Milan Fashion Week doing the runway. Really good for him, good-looking dude. And you can see he has more of an average build. He's not a bodybuilder. He's not trying to be super shredded on stage, but in the video he does talk about how he wants to put on 10 pounds of muscle so he looks a little bit better when compared to his co-star right here, Connor Story. And how I found the workout is actually through my wife. One of my wife's fans, my wife is really big in the fashion world on TikTok, luxury fashion. She makes all kinds of fun videos. A lot of her fans reach out to her for workout advice to reach out to me to get an answer. So one of her fans said, hey, what do you think of Hudson's workout? I like his build. I want to have the same kind of physique as him. And so I took a look at the workout and unfortunately I wasn't impressed. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to hit play on this video and we're going to take a look at the workout. I'm going to point out reasons why the exercise selection is not good, but then I'm also going to provide alternatives so that anybody who wants to do a full body workout to basically do the same workout as Hudson. And if Hudson is watching, I hope you make these adjustments too, because if you want to gain 10 pounds of muscle, it's just not going to happen with this workout, my friend. Like it's just not. So let's hit play and let's dive right in. My dad always kept me in the gym since I was like six. There's like videos of him trying to put weights in my hand. Which seems very irresponsible. I think that's actually awesome. But it's also the guy who left me alone with lighters and like plastic bottles. So it's not out of character. He's a great father. Good dad. I didn't mean to tarnish his character, but yeah, I've been in the gym for a long time. Hi guys, I'm Hudson Williams from Heated Rivalry and today I'm going to take you through my workout. My workout is always total body just because depending on when or when I can't get into the gym, I just like to know I've hit everything. And it's usually an hour, 45 minutes, ideally five times a week. But oftentimes when I'm traveling or I'm too busy three times. Yeah. And guys, I mean, he's an actor, right? So he's traveling, he's studying his lines, he's on set. So doing a total body workout is probably the best workout for him. I would even argue that maybe an upper lower split would work too, depending on what's available, whether there's a gym nearby or he's working out in his hotel. So the split is fine. Total body is great, especially if you only want to be in the gym for 45 minutes to an hour, you can get a really good workout. I want to get bigger, juicier, thicker. I'm going to get some bigger legs. I want to get some big ass shoulders and put on 10 pounds of muscle unless a roll is like you have to be skinny. And see, it was this part of the video at a minute and 30 where he's talking about how he wants to get bigger, he wants to get thicker, right? So then I mean, what I'm expecting for a workout is a workout that would actually help him reach that goal. And you're going to see that that's not the case. And I'll get skinny and I won't eat. Today's workout is just going to be a full body. It's going to be a hypertrophic focused workout. So I'm just going to do things that will rip me and tear me better than he did, or he ever did. All right, let's get to it. Okay, so these are dumbbell flies. What I like to focus on with these is not going too low. So I don't rip my shoulder out of my sockets. I do these just because I want a wider chest. And sometimes I just find pushing, pressing movements don't build it the same way. So right out of the gate, so misinformed, right out of the gate, you're never going to build a big chest comparatively doing a dumbbell fly versus doing a barbell or a dumbbell press. And he talks about he actually talks quite a bit in the video about feeling like a twinge in his shoulder. And he's careful of that. What that says to me is that when he is doing any sort of pressing movement, if you're not feeling a dumbbell or a barbell press in your chest, it is because you are not retracting into pressing your shoulder blades enough, which is also known as packing your shoulders. If you're not packing your shoulders properly, you're not going to feel the exercise basically ripping and tearing through your chest like you're supposed to. And the reason why I know he's probably not packing his shoulders when he's doing his pressing movement, which is the reason why he's probably feeling those more in his shoulders versus in his chest, is that right here in doing the dumbbell flies, I can tell that his shoulders aren't packed. They're not packed properly. So dumbbell flies, guys, dumbbell flies are an exercise you do like at the end of your chest workout just to get a bit more volume in. If he wants to get a bigger and wider chest, just because you're extending your arms out to the side, it doesn't mean that you're widening your chest. Whether you're doing a fly or press, you're still working the entire area. It's just that you're going to be able to overload with a lot more weight doing a pressing movement. And that's why it should be your go to. So the next workout are lying dumbbell curls. Don't do these if you're ever feel like a twinge in your shoulder. Don't do these ever. See, this is the whole like science-based community bringing their bullshit into workouts. Like, sure, can it be a good exercise? Yes, it can be a good exercise. Should it be your go to exercise if you're only hitting your biceps once or twice a week? Absolutely not. Whatever, but if your shoulders feel healthy to go for them, because I don't feel anything else for my biceps that feel like they're tearing the shit up as good. So I feel like, again, like he's having a hard time with mind-muscle connection. He has poor mind-muscle connection when it comes to his chest. And that's why he's doing the flies, because he's not packing your shoulders correctly. As far as dumbbells curls, what he should be doing is, I mean, he's going to go to the cable machine later. I would much rather see him do a cable curl over there, or literally take these dumbbells, lean forward slightly, push his elbows forward a bit, and do his curls that way. Might help him isolate his biceps a bit better. But this is a very limiting exercise. And again, if he's trying to put on 10 pounds of muscle, he needs to be doing exercises where he can gradually increase the weight and lift as heavy as possible for six to eight repetitions. We're going to be going into Bulgarian split squats, because men's health doesn't have a leg press, but it's okay. Basically with these, I don't like raising my leg too much, or else it's just a balancing act. You're literally doing a totally different exercise. You're just doing a lunge, a lunge where you're leaning forward slightly. For a Bulgarian split squat, the reason why that exercise works for quads or glutes, if you want it to be more of a quad dominant exercise, you do the exercise with your front foot closer to the bench. If you want it to be an exercise that targets your glutes, and that's what you're trying to do here, it's much more than just leaning forward. You actually want to have your front foot pretty far away from the bench, so that when you go down, when you descend, your rear leg, your rear knee, is behind your glutes. That's how you're activating the area. The exercise that you're doing right here is literally just a variation of a lunge, with a tiny bit more activation in your glutes from leaning forward. And the most frustrating thing about this entire video is that there is nobody on set from men's health that knows anything about training. You guys know back in the day, I got my stat in fitness from doing men's health. I won the best abs on the East Coast for men's health magazine in 2008, and then I used that for my audition video, and that's what got me on the real world Brooklyn back in 2009. But every single photo shoot I did, I did tons of pull out posters, big book of exercises for men's health. Every single shoot I was on, there was always a trainer there. Even though I was a trainer, there was always a trainer there to make sure that the things I was doing and saying were correct, and I just don't understand why that's not the case anymore, and it's been like this for a while. So we're going to be doing seated cable rows. Even if they don't have this dual thing, I like to just do one arm focus, just so I can really focus on a lat at a time. See, this is like another exercise that's just like one of the cute things you see on TikTok or Instagram, and then everyone just started throwing it into their workout routine. Again, if Hudson's goal is he wants to gain 10 pounds of muscle, he needs to be lifting heavy weight, he should be doing a standing barbell bent over row, and even if the barbell bent over row is not available, and he's just using a cable machine, he shouldn't be doing single arm. He should be getting a straight bar and doing an underhand grip row here to target his lats with as much weight as possible. These exercises, these single arm pulls for your compound movements, guys, these are things you do later. Maybe once you're already tired, maybe you're pre-exhausted, that's when they're going to be the most effective. But if he's only doing one exercise for his back, he wants to, he needs to make sure that one exercise is one where he can overload with as much weight as possible for six to eight repetitions, and this exercise just ain't it. So this is going to be a super set with tricep extensions and lateral raise in a gym where you can be waiting to get a machine for a while. I like to just steal it for a long time and just blast out everything I can. So first up is tricep extensions. See, now this is an exercise that I can actually agree with. One of my favorite exercises is the overhead extension, and the way that he's doing these with the rope is totally good. In fact, he'll be able to overload quite heavy for six to eight reps. The only thing I don't agree with is supersetting this movement with a lateral raise. You're better off just doing them separately. You really don't want to be fatiguing your shoulders while also trying to lift heavy weight above your head. I mean, you can do it if you want to. It just kind of looks like to me, men's health probably just suggested a superset because it sounds cool and there's nobody on set that actually knows what the hell they're doing. But let's continue. For these ones, you're just going to bend over a little bit, try to lead with your elbows. And sometimes I find if I actually touch the muscle group, it's just a little easier to connect like with the mind muscle connection. That's actually not a bad tip for mind muscle connection. I find myself doing that a lot in the very beginning of my lifting career. My only other suggestion would be to lower the cable all the way down, then actually pull through the middle of your legs. It'll help you with your balance and you'll be able to lift a bit heavier when doing the movement. And then when I get too fatigued for full reps, what I'll do is just go from here to here. If I get really tired, just to finish them out. Not a bad tip either. This workout is from my hero Bruce Lee. If you can't do it, maybe just do like a leg raise. But I just am lazy. So I want to do something that'll just rip me in half, but in a short amount of time. See, dragon flags are not a bad exercise. My only concern is that he's not doing any abdominal movements that involve spinal flexion or extension. Like just like if you want your arms to get bigger, right? You have to do bicep curls. If you're trying to work on your abs and you want block your abs, you want to do exercises that involve a crunching motion that you're actually working those muscles, where this is more of an overall core exercise. It's not bad. It's not wrong, but depending on what his overall goal is with his core, it would be nice to see an abdominal movement where he's getting spinal extension and flexion in there. So guys, not an absolutely terrible workout. It's better than nothing. But it's definitely not optimal. So here's what I would do if I wanted to take the same exact workout and tweak the exercises. Instead of doing a dumbbell fly for exercise one, I would switch to a dumbbell bench press. I would focus on really retracting and depressing the shoulder blades so that you can go as heavy as possible and feel all the tension on your chest. And I would do three sets of six to eight repetitions. We're exercise number two, get up off the bench and just do a straight up alternating dumbbell curl. Lean forward slightly with your elbows in front of your hips if you're having a hard time feeling the movement in your biceps. But this is going to allow you to overload with more weight, a lot more than you would if you were doing a laying curl. As for the Bulgarian split squats, I would keep that in the workout program. I would just do them correctly. The form that you're using is not targeting your glutes the way you think. Get your rear foot up on a bench. Make sure you're stepped further away from the bench so that your front knee hits about a 90 degree angle on the way down. And as you descend, your rear knee should be behind your glutes. As far as a single arm seated cable row, just completely scrap that exercise. Go find a barbell and do a barbell bent over row as heavy as you can for six to eight repetitions. Now, if you're limited by the hotel gym or wherever you're at, and you still want to use the cable variation, that's fine. Just get a straight bar, use an underhand grip, and go as heavy as you can for six to eight repetitions. The overhead tricep extension, like I said, that exercise is great. In fact, one of my absolute favorite exercises is doing it seated with a dumbbell, which I actually prefer because you have more control over how much weight that you can use. Sometimes it gets a bit awkward getting into place when using a cable machine. But if you want to keep the cable variation, that's totally fine. As far as the lateral raise is concerned, sure, keep doing that exercise. My only suggestion would be to lower the cable all the way down and then step through so you're pulling the cable actually between your legs. You're going to find that you're going to be able to go a little bit heavier with the exercise, and you're going to have a bit more control on where you're feeling it in your delts. And for abs, if you want to do dragon flags because you really like them, you totally can, I would first, however, suggest you do an exercise where you're getting spinal flexion and extension so you're working the abdominal area. If you want to do an exercise that places a bit more emphasis on the upper abs, I would have you go over to the cable machine and do ab pull downs. This is one of the absolute best weighted ab exercises that you can do that really targets the entire rectus abdominis, but places a bit more emphasis on the upper area. And if you want to target a bit more of the lower abs, you can do a hanging leg lift. Just make sure that you're bringing your knees all the way up to your chest and you're not stopping halfway. These are two great exercises. And if you really wanted to, you could actually super set them and that'll totally obliterate your core. You'll love it. And if you want a 12 week program that's a bit more dialed in, scan the QR code on the screen. This program is 100% free. It's on my website and it's an upper lower split. So essentially you're training anywhere from two to three to four days a week. There's options depending on your schedule. And we're doing a variation of a full body, but we're splitting it in half. So day one is upper, day two is lower, day three is upper, day four is lower. And I have proper form for every single exercise in this video selection down here. These are actually all YouTube videos. I just have them all on one page to keep everything together for you guys to make it as easy as possible to go to the gym and make the gains that you want to make. I appreciate you tuning in and Hudson, if you happen to watch my video and you want a better workout program, hit me up on Instagram. I'd be more than happy to write one out for you. Have a great day guys.