 imagine wasting an entire year and $40,000 just to come to the conclusion that if you want to maximize your gains in the gym, you should be lifting heavyweight in full range of motion. And that's exactly what Jeremy Ethier did in this video titled, The Muscle Building Myth Everyone Fell For. Well, not if you're subscribed here. You've always been training in full range of motion with heavyweight. New study. Just another video from the scientific base community glazing themselves with studies that pretty much prove nothing. It's just a fluff piece. And so what he basically did in this video and what he was trying to figure out was whether or not you built more muscle if you focused on the stretch portion of an exercise or the contraction portion of an exercise. And he had this specialized equipment donated to him for the study. He got 20 people who were considered newbies to the gym to participate in the study for a year. And utilizing this equipment, he was able to split their bodies in half and have them train one side where the heaviest pot or the hottest pot of each exercise was during the stretch. And on the other side of their body, they were able to train where the hottest pot of each exercise was during the contraction. And at the end of one year came to the conclusion that it really didn't matter. Now I have some issues with this study right out of the gate and Jeremy even talks about this towards the end of his video. So I'm not going to fault him completely, but he discusses how everyone in the study was a newbie lifter and they all could just made their newbie gains, right? So how would you figure out whether or not the study is 100% accurate? Well, I guess you'd have to spend another year and another $40,000 with seasoned athletes do the same exact thing and then compare to see whether or not they gain more muscle, focusing more on the stretch or the contraction. My bet is it would probably end up the same and it wouldn't make a difference because at the end of the day, all that really matters is that you're training in full range of motion. And these people, whether or not they were focusing on the stretch or the contraction, were still training with full range of motion. But what really disappointed me the most was just the lack of further explanation on the bullshit. Sorry, the scientific research that was presented throughout the entire video. But before we get into that, really quick guys, right? Can we just discuss why the stretch can be very important and why people do focus on it? In my opinion, it's for two very important reasons. Number one, any range of motion that you do not train in, you will always have weakness in. A very good example that you all can relate to is something like a dumbbell preacher curl or a barbell preacher curl. Most people will skip the bottom range of motion of this exercise because it's the hottest part of the movement. The stretch portion on any biceps exercise will always be the hottest part. So what you get is a lot of half reps. But what happens after a few years of training with heavy weight and you work yourself up to 30 pounds, 40 pounds, 50 pounds, right? Well, that one day when you decide to finally go all the way down with the weight and then curl up, you're either number one, gonna get stuck. Number two, you're gonna injure bicep or number three, you're gonna tear it right off the bone. And I've seen it happen way too many videos on Instagram. Any range of motion you avoid, you will have weakness in. But the stretch can also utilize to your benefit. If you have a really hard time with mind muscle connection, spending a few extra seconds in the stretch portion of any exercise can help you better establish that mind muscle connection, making the rest of the repetitions that you're doing throughout your set feel much better. Alright, so let's just dive in at the two minute mark because for me, the video went downhill pretty much out of the gate. I'll explain to you what I mean. We transfer these odd stretch benefits into normal training. One way they tested this was by comparing tricep push downs to overhead tricep extensions, which places the long head of your triceps into a deeper stretch. That deep stretch led to 1.4 times the growth. That's all he says about comparing a triceps push down to an overhead extension. And the reason why I think this is misleading is because in the context it's presented here, he's only talking about the stretch. He's not going into detail that first of all, these are two separate exercises that are utilized for different goals when training in the gym. If you're doing a triceps push down and you can Google it yourself guys, right? Like literally just go, what do tricep push downs target? They place more emphasis on the lateral head and the medial head. The exercise that places the most emphasis on the long head of your triceps, which by the way is two thirds of your arm is the overhead tricep extension. So when he says that the study showed more growth when utilizing the overhead extension and the stretched position and the tricep being in a more stretched position, he's leaving out the fact that it's also placing more emphasis on the pot of your triceps. That's two thirds of your arm. Like, are you understanding why this is the reason why scientific studies irritate me? Because they cherry pick the information they want to present in order to prove whatever point they're trying to prove. Let's continue. To test this, researchers would have people hold a max contraction with their legs fixed at different angles. When their leg was more. So right now they're trying to see what builds more muscle, right? Holding the weight with your legs extended or holding the weight with your legs down. So it doesn't look like there's any movement happening here, but he's still extending his legs as hard as he can with max weight. Bent, which challenges the quads in a more stretched position, their muscles would grow up to twice as much as when their leg was straighter and the quads not as stretched. But they didn't stop there. They tested it again using real reps, comparing the bottom half of a leg extension to the top half. And again, the version that hit the stretch harder led to way more growth. And that is when the trend exploded. And that is where the trend exploded. Like, am I taking crazy pills here? Am I the only one who is looking at this study, which is absolutely ridiculous for the reason I'm about to point out? Of course, you're going to see more muscle growth on the exercise where you're able to put the most amount of tension on the muscle. Like in the bottom position of a leg extension, of course, you're going to be able to generate more force on your quads for a longer period of time. It's a lot easier to hold, let's say, 200 pounds in this position than it is to probably hold even 100 pounds in this position for the same amount of time. And then moving on to the repetitions. For any of you who've ever done this exercise before and you've done partial reps, of course, you're going to see more muscle growth. If you're doing these baby reps here at the bottom, because you're going to be able to lift probably a double the amount of weight that you could lift. If you were fully extending here at the top and just doing the top range of motion. So again, studies like this are just flawed out of the gate for common sense reasons and they're not even worth mentioning. Let's continue. For example, preacher curls versus incline curls. Okay, first of all, two different exercises. Preacher curls, place more emphasis on the short head of the biceps. Incline dumbbell curls, place more emphasis on the long head of the biceps. Just some context for you that Jeremy should have given preacher curls hit the biceps hardest in the stretch and they did show more growth in one study, but they also lock your arm in place, making it hard as a cheat. So was the extra growth from the stretch challenge or the extra stability or both or was the extra growth because the person in the study never really did exercises that place more emphasis on the short head of their biceps and the little bit of growth that they probably saw in the study. The first thing that was in the study was just from that head of the biceps being activated more than it ever had been in any previous routines that the person in the study might have done. Right? Like just think about it. How many times do you go to the gym and not only do you see people doing preacher curls with full range of motion? Kind of like the example I gave earlier, but even doing something like a wide grip barbell curl, which also places more emphasis on the inside head of the biceps. The question is most people don't. In fact, most people will do exercises where they're hitting both heads pretty much equally like a standard biceps curl or they'll do exercises that focus on the long head or the peak of their biceps because they want a bigger peak. Right? It's just that simple. So again, context that wasn't added. But when someone who doesn't know better watches this video, they go, I can gain bigger. I can get bigger biceps if I do a preacher curl over an incline curl. There are two different exercises placing emphasis on two different separate heads of the biceps. It's not the same thing. Don't worry. There's more as long as you're training hard and you're not cutting your range of motion short. There's actually a wide range of exercises that can be very effective for growth. Hip thrust, for example, can be just as good as squats for your glutes. What do you mean just as good as squats? If I were to have someone come up to me and say, I want to focus on growing my glutes, the first exercise that comes to mind isn't a squat. It's going to be a hip thrust or a barbell glute bridge. Like the information that you are presenting here, it's just not optimal. And chest flies might just build your chest as much as the bench press. In what world as a personal trainer, someone giving fitness advice to the masses, would you ever imply that a chest fly, an isolation movement for your chest, is going to help you build a bigger chest when compared to a compound movement like a dumbbell or a barbell bench press? Jeremy, show me the data where you've seen people build a bigger chest just focusing on fly variations versus progressively overloading with a barbell or dumbbell bench press. Let's keep it moving. So right now he's going to show exercises that do benefit from the extra stretch, right? And these are the exercises that researchers found grows them best. So I would highly recommend making sure these are. And again, he has the overhead extension here, right? But, and I can get into the other exercises too. But again, where is the added context for the overhead extension compared to doing a push down? You're targeting and placing emphasis on different heads of the triceps, which is why someone might want to do an overhead extension versus a pull down or versus a push down or vice versa. The LATs also might be another exception, but we just don't have the data yet. The LATs might also be another exception to benefiting from the stretch, but we don't have the data yet. Well, Jeremy, I have the data for you right here. Here's a video that I did eight years ago. Pull up hack for wider and thicker LATs, no reps needed. And I basically in my video show people how to do heavy ass dead hangs in order to help them build up their strength in order to do more pull ups. There in fact have been studies where just hanging with a heavy load between your legs like this, you can use a dip belt has shown to increase growth in your back. In fact, if you've been training clients for as long as I have, I'm actually kind of surprised that for your clients that haven't been able to do a pull up, yet you haven't directed them over to doing something like a dead hang to help them build up their strength so they can start doing pull ups on their own. And there's one more pot in this video that I want to share with you guys. And if I'm being honest, it was literally the straw that broke the camel's back and determining whether or not I was going to make this video. Let me play the clip for you. That is exactly why we're running our first ever MRI study on back growth. Comparing rows versus pull downs. You're going to do an MRI study comparing rows, a horizontal pull movement to pull downs, a vertical pull movement, exercises that are complementary to each other, not substitutes. Right. You know they work different. Your muscles in a different way. They train your back in a different way. And if you want to have a balanced back workout, you should probably have at least one of each right. Like you, you know this as a personal trainer that's been on YouTube for seven or eight years. This is not information that's new. So when you follow the app's workout routines, you know that you're doing what's truly most effective. What's truly most effective. My guy, let me help you out here. I already typed it in the search box. Horizontal pull exercises versus pull down. Horizontal pull exercises versus vertical pull exercises for back horizontal and vertical pull exercises are complimentary not substitutes and should both be included for a balanced back. Why though? Well, because horizontal pulls, for example, rows prioritize mid back thickness, targeting the traps and rhomboids while vertical pulls, for example, pull ups and pull downs, target more of the lats with a complete back workout includes both for optimal posture and strength. So is your app really going to determine someone's back workout and only pick one of the two? Like it's only going to include either a horizontal pull or a vertical pull, right? Like I'm not exactly sure what you're saying at the end of your video, but it seems like to me you're trying to compare two exercises that have different functions are complimentary to each other, but you're going to say whichever one is best or not, right? Like you're confusing people. There's so much confusing data in this entire video for reasons that I pointed out that you should have taken the initiative and pointed out yourself. Now don't get me wrong guys. Jeremy has a lot of great content on his YouTube channel. He's a great creator. I just wish guys like him that dive into these scientific studies and want to create these videos around these sensationalized ideas like can you build more muscle focusing on the stretch versus the contraction? When the script is done, just take a moment to step out of that scientific bubble that you're in and use a little common sense and throw that at your video because if you did, you wouldn't be confusing people by showcasing studies like this where, oh, we saw more growth in our triceps doing an overhead extension versus a push down. Well, yeah, it's obvious to someone like me because an overhead extension places a lot more emphasis on the long head of your triceps, which makes up two thirds of your triceps. It's the largest muscle out of all three heads and it's not targeted as well when doing the push down. That's why you have two separate exercises depending on which muscles you're trying to place the most emphasis on. So that's all I'm asking for guys. Don't confuse your audience. You know, you know the stuff. I know Jeremy knows this stuff. But if he went into explaining all of these things, it just kind of showcases that most of the studies these guys are referring to are kind of pointless out of the game. But one thing that isn't pointless is your supplementation. So if you guys are low on protein, pre-workout, creatine, whatever it might be, head over to bfsubst.com or scan the QR code here on the screen and just make sure you use my code scott15 at checkout for a 15% discount. And if you're looking for a new pre-workout guys, seriously right here, the pump pre-workout, it's been a long time since a pre-workout has done anything for me other than just taste like different flavored fruit juice. Okay. This stuff is strong and it's really good. And I know the quality is there because believe it or not, this is actually a family owned brand. The family that I've worked for since I was 14 years old, right? All of my original videos that said answers fitness and the gym was empty. Well, he's since rebranded and now he owns I think like 11 clubs now and they're called best fitness gyms. If you live in the northeast area of the United States, you've probably seen them or you might even be going to them right now. But it's a family owned brand. It's my family and I'm able to get you guys some pretty sweet deals. So head over here, stock up, use my code Scott 15 and guys, let's keep training simple. Okay. Go to the gym, train full range of motion, progressively overload and don't be afraid of the stretch or the contraction when it comes to training.