 and never really started filming a video before feeling just kind of like, confused on what to even say about the subject. A lot of you guys reached out to me and, you know, asked me in DMs like, hey, have you seen all this stuff at Larry Wheels? What's your take on the Larry Wheels situation? And so, I thought what I was gonna do was I was gonna sit down and I was gonna do a reaction video to, like, what Greg Dusset said and what Johnny Bravo said. Johnny Bravo has a few videos on what's happening and I did film the videos. I just, it hit me in such a way where I just kind of found myself speechless the entire time. I don't, I just, I don't recognize the YouTube fitness landscape anymore. It's not educational. It's not about bringing each other up. It's not about, you know, new ways to target your chest or better ways to grow muscle. It's like drama and PEDs. And now what we're seeing is the result of all of these years of not only abusing PEDs more and more, but because everything is on such a grand scale and for everyone to see, because live streaming is very popular, doing day to day behind the scene stuff is very popular, we're finding more about people's lives, especially in the last like seven to 10 years, right? That's become the most popular thing. And honestly, like, all I really knew about Larry Wills was that the guy was incredibly strong. Before today, my recent memories of Larry Wills was just seeing videos like this pop up on my YouTube or my Instagram of all these insane lifts that he would do. And honestly, I found this stuff inspiring. You guys probably found this stuff inspiring as well. That's 220.5 pounds per hand for reps with half door spotting you. Like this is most adrenaline fueled video probably on the internet, right? It's insane. And it keeps going, it keeps showing more of his lifts. He has this log lift, I think it's like 400 and like 58 pounds or something like that, that he presses over his head, which is crazy. And then one of the coolest things that I ever seen Larry Wills do was the double Bob L press. And these videos pop up on Instagram a lot to 45 per side. Take benching out of the equation, just balancing the Bob Ls in each hand is insane. And it's just so sad that my mindset now of watching Larry Wills do this and only thinking like, you know, motivation wise, how I can push myself hotter in the gym. I found myself today Google searching something that I never thought I would Google search and it's can taking trend, make you gay. Like I never in my life, why would I Google search this? But I was just watching this video from Greg Dusset. And he was brought it up and he was talking about it and how bodybuilders have said that weird things happen to your brain. I guess Derek Moore, Platesmore, Dates has talked about it, Mike Israel has talked about it. And we're seeing a lot of weird stuff happening with Larry Wills. And so Greg talks about a little bit in this video. And so I did, I Google searched it and it says it's a myth, but it says why the myth exists. And it has some reasons down here, extreme sex drive, you know, wanting to have sex with anything with legs phenomenon, fixation on muscularity, increased confidence, right? Like there's a lot of things underlying things that are happening when you're taking PEDs, you know, whether it's steroids or trend or whatever you want. And so it's just wild to me. Like, guys, I make videos on how to bench press. And now instead of watching dudes lift heavy ass weight, this is the shit that's popping up in my feed. And you know, the video that Greg did obviously, because he took some things very personal, Larry was saying something Larry and his wife are saying things about Greg and his girlfriend, which honestly, if your girlfriend has nothing to do with the situation and you're an online personality, you know, if you are a real man, you wouldn't be talking about Greg's girlfriend. Like Greg and I get along, you know, but there's been times where he didn't. I would never talk about his girlfriend. Like why would I do that? As a man, you handle your shit, you get over it, and you become friends and you move on, right? Like that's just how life works. And so I thought for this video, I was going to do a full reaction on what John Bravo brought to the table. This video is a couple of days old, you guys, I'm sure have seen it. And again, like I knew recently, because I saw some videos I knew about Larry with like borrowing the $50,000 from his friend, not paying the money back, not paying any of the money from the income coming in from his business, that poor guy, you know, his life, you know, is pretty much destroyed. And he's, you know, doing Uber Eats to make ends meet for his family. It's very sad. John talks about it in this video. I knew about the cam girl thing, five to $10,000 a day is absolutely insane. And I'm just wondering because Larry is surrounding himself. Again, this is my true reaction to all of this, right? Larry is surrounding himself by all of these people. And I think a lot of these people know what's going on with Larry, what's going on in his life, how crazy he is behind the scenes. And a big part of what John Bravo shows in his video too is all this weird, like, you know, sexual tension going on where Larry keeps making all these jokes about rampage, Jackson getting what his wife and rampage is like, no, no, no, and doing a sled, I think, with his eyes. Like, it seems like to me, everybody around Larry knows that the guy has problems. And of course, like, you can't force someone to go to rehab and get help. The same thing with that clavicular dude, right? Like the clavicular guy, you know, almost had to go to jail for like eight years, he got the charges dropped. But like, we've seen him progressively deteriorate more and more and more as he's getting more famous. And it's like, the more fame he's getting, the crazier he has to get. And it's sad to look like now because the bro is smoking so much meth, his skin is starting to look crazy. Let me pull this video up for you guys real quick. This was the clip that I saw. Yeah, I think that should be good. Like, look, this is, look at his face, his face. Yeah, I do like what's wrong with your skin, you look terrible. And you'll notice the same thing happening with clavicular. He got so popular that he's on every single podcast, all the top streamers on kick want him to be a part of their thing. You know, he's doing all these interviews, doing all this stuff. Everybody just wants to leech on to his 15 minutes of fame with this look maxing stuff and all the crazy things that he says. How many people are reaching out to want to help him? Nobody. Well, me, I don't know, maybe some people are, I don't know, but like, people just want to latch on to make themselves more famous versus trying to actually help somebody who's clearly crashing. Larry wheels has apparently been crashing for a while. Clavicular, you know, rose up fast and he's already crashing pretty hard. We saw the whole thing with them, you know, them singing the hail Hitler song in Miami, he just got arrested, he ran somebody over. My response, my reaction to this Larry wheels thing is unfortunately for the YouTube fitness community. I'm going to do my best to keep things educational. I'm going to do my best to post inspiring content. But I think we're just going to start to see a lot more of this type of stuff. And the amount of information you get from YouTube fitness that's actually going to help you, you know, that percentage is going to get smaller and smaller and smaller. Because as much as people say they don't want videos like this, the views don't lie, the amount of likes to dislikes don't lie. And that's what you guys keep asking for more of. Keep watching the videos, you keep leaving likes, you keep dropping comments. So you're getting exactly what you wanted at the end of the day.