 I mean, Scott, people should know by now, dude, they never learn from each other, not the f*** with me. Like, I do not make videos, bro, or make statements or comments unless I have f***ing shit that's like FBI authenticated. Like that's not me, that's just the person I am, dude, I don't f*** around. That's why he's the goat! The goat! There's two things that you don't do in the YouTube fitness space. Actually there's three things. Number one, don't make educational content because no one's gonna really watch it. I mean, I'm still gonna make it, but I expect the views to be low. It is what it is. Number two, you don't lie about being a fake natural. If you're on gear, just say you're on gear, no one's cared since like before 2020. And number three, you don't call Greg Dusset a liar in the midst of one of the hottest topics that everyone is talking about in the YouTube fitness space because that's what Larry Wills did and unfortunately for Larry, he turned what was probably gonna be like a three to four video series from Greg into like a mini movie series where it's gonna probably have like eight, nine, ten videos and go on and on and on and on until Larry just comes clean. And that's really what everyone was getting at and that's what John Bravo was getting at too. In fact, I have a voice note from John Bravo that I'm gonna play for you guys because Larry called John Bravo a liar and if there was a fourth thing that you don't do in the YouTube fitness space which could technically be the number one thing, you don't call a guy like John Bravo a liar because John doesn't post any videos unless he knows he has all the receipts to back up what he's saying. And he told me some additional receipts that he has to back these combos and I'm sure he's working on his second video right now and he gave me permission to play this voice note for you guys. So I'm gonna play it for you here in a second. But this situation just exploded. And the reason why I think that people get so attached to this drama type stuff that's happening in the fitness space, I think it's a lot deeper than people think. I think people in general are just sick and tired of seeing all their favorite influencers behind closed doors and what they're really like and it's not what they expected. And I talked about this in my last video that all I knew of Larry Wills was that he trains like a madman, he's insanely strong, his lifts are mega impressive. And now like that was his legacy. Now when I think of Larry Wills, all I think about is everyone calling him a cuck. Whether it's true or not, again, John says he has receipts, Greg says he knows things, whether it's true or not, I'm not saying because I don't know, I don't have those receipts. I'm just reporting on what's happening right now. But that's just that's just where it's at. And I didn't define what the actual issue was in my last video. And for those of you who don't know what a cuck is, the more modern term is basically it refers to a man who derives sexual pleasure from watching his partner engage with someone else or a person who tolerates their partner's infidelity. And that's all the stuff that John was talking about in his video, showing all these text messages from previous relationships that Larry had, because all of this like weird sexual tension was happening in all those videos where Larry was with his wife and Rampage Jackson. And it got worse because Greg made a response video and then Larry responded and here's how he handled it on a scale of one to 10, one being handling it the best way just coming clean. If you if you have weird fetishes, no one cares. People just get pissed because they're tired of being lied to people just tired of being lied to so on a scale of one to 10, one being the best option that you could do 10 being the worst. I think Larry just hit a 15 because he pissed off two guys who get the most views reporting on drama like this in the fitness space. So desperate. Yes, it literally makes it up. I'm not going to go into depth about what he's talking about. If somebody's lying about you deliberately on purpose, you know what you would do? You would sue them. And so if you think I'm a liar, let's see me in court. I think his neck veins stuck out larger than mine in that one clip. I'm just going to play like 30 seconds. Today's video, Larry responds to the wheelsteen files. Is he going to admit it? Is he going to address all the rumors and say, you know what, I'm a man and that is what I want. If you're not ashamed, you're not embarrassed. Well, you own it or will. And that's exactly what I was saying. Like if it's if you have a weird fetish and you like it, the situation loses power. If you just admit that it's true. If it is true, I'm not saying I know for a hundred percent if it is, but like these situations, they just lose all credibility and interest. Credibility is not the right word. People just lose interest in these types of things. If you just come clean, like sure, it'll probably still, you know, be annoying for a couple of weeks, but the internet moves so fast now that if you just admit to shit, that's true, that people have proof that they're saying is true. The whole world just moves on. Well, he just say it's a lie. Stay tuned to find out. Listen, I see a few messages about reactor John and Greg and listen, my response is they see that we're trending the one to capitalize on it. I know that some of you might think that I'm a liar, that I make shit up, that I just create things out of thin air in order to get views. Some of you think that it's not true. It's a lie. I don't make shit up. I'm not lying when I make any of my videos. But are you going to tell me that John Bravo, that he simply made this all up after all the videos we've seen when he only will post a video if he knows for certain that what he's saying is true? How many of you think that he made all that shit up that somehow John told me these things, these screenshots and that he had staged all of it in order to fool Coach Greg and fool Larry wheels, fool Larry wheels is why fool the entirety of the world. Does anyone believe that? Basically, that's what we were talking about at the beginning of the video. I tried to find this clip. I couldn't figure out where it was. But then while I was searching, I went to Larry wheels is kick page. I just find it so ironic that in my video yesterday, I was talking about how clavicular was rising and crashing mega had. We talked about that just to find clavicular on kick with Larry wheels the next day. It's hilarious. And they started talking about the same situation. And this actually John posted this on his Instagram for those of you who follow him. This is what set John Bravo off. Larry is revealing to her that we could skip any of this stuff. I don't know what this is. Yeah, this guy made a video about me basically saying I'm a cock and Greg, another creator that like to talk about drama controversy, the same thing. But Greg is to set Greg Dushat. Exactly. He's made about 12 on me. Yeah, you know, it brings in views. I get it. Like between John and Greg, like our videos that are on their page get the most views. So I get why they're coming after us. Getting it back for them. And I deny this because it didn't happen. And it was 2026. Anyone can fabricate a conversation with between two people. No, yeah. So basically Larry saying that John Bravo fabricated the whole thing. And so I was texting with John earlier today about the situation if he's going to make a reaction. And I asked him, I can play the voice clip that he sent me. Let me play it for you guys because I think that a whole world of hurt is about to hit Larry, unfortunately. I mean, Scott, people should know by now, dude, they never learn from each other, not the fuck with me. Like I do not make videos, bro, or make statements or comments unless I have shit. That's like FBI authenticated. Like that's not me. That's just the person I am. Dude, I don't around. And so and there's a reason you guys will notice whenever you watch any of John Bravo's videos on his channel because he covers some stuff that he can get in a lot of trouble for if he lies, especially with all the things happening with Wes Watson and his court case, starting from when, you know, the seven foot monster went to the gym to fight him. And then Wes and his boys attacked him, right? You'll notice on all of John Bravo's footage, even when Jeff Nippard got in trouble at the gym and got choked, slammed even that video clip because John was the one who went and got it and paid for it. You notice there's a watermark on all of the content that John gets because, again, John doesn't just make videos without having the receipts to back it up. And because he does take the time and he does spend the money to get all the information that he needs before he puts his videos together, you'll see his watermark on everything. So if anybody reuses any of his content, he's still getting credit for it. And so I did talk to John a little bit today and I asked him, I'm like, are you going to do a follow up video? And he said, yes. And he said, Scott, I have the receipts. And so we're going to be probably seeing another video. He's probably editing it right now. His editing is amazing. I wish I could edit as good as John. It's absolutely insane. And I think the situation is going to be going on for a while, guys. So strap in. And if you're having a hard time dealing with, you know, all the things that are happening in the YouTube fitness space and you need someone to talk to, well, you know, Clavicular is now Theramaxing. Let me play this clip for you. Clavicular tells Larry Wills that his wife is manipulating him. It's like clavicular therapy. Maybe you kind of feel this as well, that she's kind of telling you how you feel and telling you that you're okay with things. And just it feels a little bit like almost manipulative. Do you get that vibe ever? I don't get that vibe. I'll let you guys watch the clip on your own. But we now have Clavicular going from Lux Maxing to Theramaxing, which I think is absolutely hilarious. And, you know, if you want a little break and you want to go to the gym and you want to train super hard, try my cheat and recover program on my website. Just scan the QR code on screen. These programs, every single program here, you can try for free of access to my routine database. You have access to my exercise database over like 800 videos. They all come with PDF downloads, descriptions, photos. And so you're looking to switch up your workout, switch up your program, or maybe you just need some help with form and you don't want to go on YouTube and have to sift through hundreds of pages of videos. You guys know my form videos. They're right to the point. So go to my website musculoshrink.com, join seven days free, try all my programs, hit all the exercises, and stop making some gains. And get yourself incredibly tired because when you're done working out, I'm sure there's going to be at least one video from John Bravo showing their receipts and about 30 from Greg. So maybe just jump on the treadmill and start watching.