 If you guys ever want a lesson in what not to do, if you find yourself at the center of a controversy like Mike Isratel, just continue to watch the horrible damage control that he's been doing over the last couple weeks, and take notes, and do the exact opposite, okay? I'm sure by now all of you have watched the first video, pot one of Dr. Mike addresses his PhD controversy, which although I'm going to go out on a limb here and say most of you probably haven't watched it because it's been clipped so many times by ugly people, YouTubers talking about the controversy and the reactions to this podcast. And it's funny because the reaction videos are getting more views than the actual podcast. Of course, Greg Doucette did his video 210,000 views as of yesterday. Zerk Fitness has done about three or four videos on the entire controversy, averaging 20,000 to 30,000 views on his videos. And this is a problem that's not going away. And a really good way to tell that this problem isn't going away from Mike, number one, he still has not addressed it on his own on his YouTube channel, which should have been the first thing that he did. If Mike Izretel went on his YouTube channel to his almost 4 million subscribers and just said, hey, you know what? 12 years ago, I did my dissertation. It wasn't the greatest. Okay. There were some spelling errors. There were some table errors. But look how far we've come since then. We're a great community and we focus on helping people reach their fitness goals. It's not a big deal. I've done better since then and I'll continue to do better. Right? Straight up, just apologize for it and it would have been a done deal. Okay. Because you can't ignore the fact that the video that Solomon Nelson did on the dissertation now has 1.3 million views in two weeks. And so what are the ramifications of this video getting so many views and all the bullshit that Mike's been doing to try to like finagle his way out of having a bad dissertation, the stuff that went down with Milo, the re-uploads, the edits, what is the actual impact of that across his channel? Well, if you scroll down from his recent videos, 95,000 views, 119,000 views, 148,000 views, and you get down to two weeks, three weeks ago from before the Solomon Nelson video hit. Average video views, 260,000, 672,000, 800,000, 542,000, 290,000. We're starting to see a pattern of less views on the Renaissance Periodization channel. And I know they're feeling the hurt from this, right? And if you go to some of the most recent videos, so this one, low versus high reps for fat, loss, one is better. 3.9,000 likes to 2.5,000 dislikes. And if you scroll down to the comment section, you're going to notice there's only 500 comments here. And if you're not a YouTuber or a creator, you might not understand like the ramifications of the dislike ratio to like ratio, as well as the comments. Well, let's go back in time to a video from Mike from before the Solomon Nelson video hit. 10,000 likes to 292,000 views, 2,622 comments. That is a lot. That's five times more comments than this video has right here. Okay. Let's go to another video. The most dangerous supplements people still take. This was also a recent video, uh, 1,000 dislikes to 2.9,000 likes scroll down only 400 comments. Even Alex, where, where are all the comments either deleting or filtering them? So these guys, his team, they are on a huge damage control right now, guys, deleting comments. Imagine having to delete 2,000 comments off of your videos in order to try to do damage control. That is absolutely insane. It's just Mr. Mike now. Summer's still here 13 days ago, right? This is what Mike is dealing with behind the scenes. He's trying to come off all cool and collected and joking about the whole situation. But what he did to Solomon Nelson, he did him dirty and people are pissed because if you took the time to watch the Solomon Nelson video and exactly how he laid out all the information, everything that he said made sense. So what Mike decided to go on the just kidding news and have a conversation with these chuckle heads. First of all, why didn't Mike say, Hey guys, you know, before we sit down and we have this conversation, right? I think it would be a really good idea. If y'all actually just, I don't know, watch the video we're going to talk about so that we can actually have a conversation about it. But see, that's because you're an educated man and I'm not because this was literally 16 minutes of these guys just kissing Mike's ass. I'm surprised this guy right here didn't stand up and start licking the top of Mike's head by the end of this video. Like it was such a cringe video to watch and they just tried to downplay everything. It was in fact, it was very annoying. It was very annoying. So let me just show you how not funny these guys are. If I took Solomon's work 12 years ago and looked for typos, people would rightfully consider it the fucking scuzzy. I'm going to get ahold of my Santa letters. I'm fucked, dude. Oh yeah. Dear Santa, why do you never come to my family? That's how I feel. Do you think Kim Kardashian should go back and remake her sex tape now? Cause she's so big. Let's go look at your original work. So literally comparing your Santa letters from when you were a kid in Kim Kardashian's sex video to a dissertation that gave you a PhD. So you could call yourself Dr. Mike and tell everybody how much smarter you are than they are because they don't in fact have a PhD, right? Like that is the amount of idiocracy. Is idiocracy the word I want to use? Let's just call them morons. By the way, idiocracy is an awesome movie. It just came back to Netflix, but let's stay on topic. These guys are morons. Like this is kind of like their reactions their entire time, literally just sitting on the couch, waiting to say their sound bites because that's all they're good for. So again, they didn't watch the video and this right here made it very clear. Like this was another clip that after I saw it, I'm just like, why, why was, what was the entire point of this podcast? Just to let Mike talk. If all Mike wanted to do was talk, he could have went to his channel with 4 million subscribers and talked and got out everything that he had to say, but no, he wanted to go on this podcast so they could continue to make it like this one big joke and try to downplay the credibility of Solomon Nelson. Watch this, this part where he really pissed me off. essentially he miscaricatured what a PhD is supposed to be and misunderstood the deeper implications of my, but he has a PhD. He does not. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Like dude, shut your mouth. I think we're talking about the Milo guy. No, no, he's talking about, I'm talking about following. Milo's, Milo's on my defensive side. Yeah. Yeah. That's to do with the black beard. Yeah. Also, I shouldn't have said, fuck you to that guy. He was on, I just said anyone that would have. These guys are so out of the loop on what's going on. Why are they even doing this podcast? He doesn't even know that Milo is someone who Mike paid for his education, right? These guys have absolutely no idea what they're even here to talk about. They were probably just told to show up, let Mike talk and agree with the things he says and try to be funny and goofy and laid back so that people watching this podcast will think, Oh, that's Solomon Nelson video that I'm not going to watch because it's 70 minutes and I don't really feel like it. It probably was a nothing burger. Cause look how relaxed and chill everybody is here talking about the entire situation. How does serious face? Fuck you. I was just like, fuck you, dude. So at the same time that Solomon is not credentialed to my knowledge, credentials are kind of bullshit to begin with. And right there, right there's the golden egg. These guys are talking about not being credentialed. And now Mike is like, actually it's kind of bullshit anyways. So what, where's the reaction from, you know, the moron crew to that comment? Oh, well then I guess maybe what Solomon Nelson said could be good because you know, it's not impossible for someone without a PhD to do research and put a video together. Anyways, let's move on to another reason why these guys are morons. I had like 200 typos and spelling errors and shit. Um, and defense is oral. So it's oral defense. Yeah. So like these guys, again, you can tell they haven't watched Solomon's video cause they thought they still think it was just typos. That's what they think it was just typos. You also high when you wrote it. That was before I've ever, yeah, see it's all, it's all comedy relief. Oh, you were high. Okay, cool. I really ever did a edible marijuana. So no, I know he likes to get high. That's why no. Yeah. I can't, I can't write shit when I'm high, bro. I, yeah, no, but I, apparently you can't write shit when you're not high either. That was actually kind of funny. That was actually probably the funniest part of a whole video, but there's one clip I want to play from Zerk and I'm going to link to his video down in the info section below. I I'm really enjoying Zerk Fitness's videos. If you guys haven't subbed to him, make sure you do. But this one clip from Zerk pretty much explains why this is such an issue. And my main take on the dissertation that Mike did is that he picked a subject that was kind of easy and then over complicated it. And that's why it fell apart, right? Basically did his dissertation on fat athletes are slower than athletes that are in shape and leaner, right? That's what we're saying. If you have muscles, you're actually stronger. That's kind of like the basic breakdown of the 125 pages. And Zerk does a really good job of explaining that. Your PhD level research is too basic for educated people, but too advanced for the uneducated coaches is supposed to help. That's not a niche, bro. That's a problem. Mike's essentially saying my dissertation exists in this magical zone where smart people think it's remedial and dumb people need it explained differently. That's not groundbreaking research. That's a YouTube video. My guy wrote 125 page dissertation to teach coaches that fat makes you slower. That's a tweet. Like just like Zerk explained it to a T in why it's such an issue, right? Like, dude, we've all done this middle school, high school, all those electoral classes you had to take in college that you really didn't give a shit about. And the teacher's like, Hey, I want you to do a 25 page book report on the great Gatsby and have it turned in by next week. Okay, bro, you're going to get 25 pages of slop, but it'll be 25 pages. So that's my take on the situation. I'm sure it's going to continue to get worse because Mike has still failed to address it on his main channel. But the point of me making this video is guys, this is a much bigger deal for Mike's career than everyone's making it out to be. Because even in that Zerk video, he keeps talking about how people are just going to forget and no one's going to care and everyone's going to move on. People aren't just forgetting about what's going on here. I just showed you guys, if you go to Mike's channel and you look at his recent videos and you look at the like to dislike ratio, you look at the amount of comments that are there compared to all of his content before Solomon dropped his piece. There is a lot of comments getting deleted. The views are down massively. And if he wants to get his reputation back and he wants to start gaining the trust back from his subscribers, all he needed needs to do is just, just come out and come clean and just be like, you know what? It sucked. And I'm going to move on. And then let literally let that be the end of it. But a part of me feels like these guys are enjoying all the attention. They like seeing all these videos being made about them. And what they truly don't understand is that you're gaining attention, but you're losing respect.