 sƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮƮ The outcome of that poll is probably going to be. It's pretty black and white. Looking at the physiques of Mike Mentzer and Mike Isretel, who had the better physique. But according to Mike Isretel, he's bigger and he's stronger. And the ego on this guy. Oh my gosh. I had no idea it was this bad. I was watching this video from Zerk Fitness going over this interview that Johnny Streaves was doing with Mike. I couldn't even believe that Johnny was just sitting here letting Mike say all this shit and kind of just laughing about it. But he was. I mean, they're friends. But, you know, best friends usually are harder on each other. There was no pushback. It was literally letting Mike say whatever he thought. Pumping up his own ego. And in his mind, Mike Isretel truly believes that he has a better physique than Mike Mentzer. Let's hear what he had to say. The reason people are getting Mike Mentzer as far as I can tell is a few things. One, he had a cool mustache. Oh, it's the mustache guys, right? That's the only reason why people like Mike Mentzer's physique better than Mike Isretel's. It is the lack of mustache on Mike Isretel's face. If he only had a mustache, he would have his pro card by now. It has nothing to do with the chiseled chest, the tight waist, the lat spread, the big arms, the proportions, the Greek statue physique that Mike Mentzer was able to build on his outdated information, according to Mike Isretel. It has nothing to do with any of that. It's quite literally if we had this photo and we stuck a mustache on Mike Isretel, that pull that I had you guys do earlier would instantly shift to everybody wanting to take fitness advice from the guy on the left versus the guy on the right. I mean, come on, dude. How insane is your ego? Your ego is out of control. It's okay to look in a mirror and recognize that people are bigger than you and stronger than you and more ripped than you. In fact, no matter how big and ripped and strong you are, there will always be someone else that comes out being bigger, more ripped and stronger than you. That's just life. But that's the part of life that keeps us competitive. That's the part of life that helps us push our limits, recognizing that other people are in better shape than us and stronger than us. So we go to the gym to train harder to become better than them. It's called having a rival and it's a good thing. But in your head, like the wires are so crossed, bro. Even Dorian Yates had to come out and talk about the subject. Let's hear what he had to say. Okay. I guess I'm Mike's friend. He's not here. So, Dr. Mike, first of all, I hope that you're being like tongue in cheek, kind of humorous. Otherwise, I fear either for your eyesight or your mental health. Because obviously, your physique's nowhere near, Mike Mensah, even with all the PEDs that you're taking, that you estimate will take 10 years off your life. First of all, that's insane. And we're going to talk about that later. 10 years off your life, you estimate? Like, are you joking around when you say that's the amount of drugs that you've taken, my guy? Like, that's just insane to me. Well, maybe you need to ask yourself whether it's worth it, mate. Because a bag of shit that gets bigger is just a bigger bag of shit. Still a bag of shit. You know what I mean, mate? I mean, guys, when a six-time Mr. Olympia calls you out, you know you're not coming back from that, right? Even my boy John Bravo, his video, if you guys haven't seen it yet, he posted yesterday. Make sure you check it out. But there's this clip right here I'm going to play for you at the 306 Mach. Well, this asshole started talking shit about Mike Mensah, saying he looks better than him. He's smarter than him. And I'm like, you know, what mirror is this asshole looking into? Whatever it is, send it to me. Because then maybe I'll look into it and think I look like Elvis, you asshole. I want that mirror too. I'm going to hang that shit on my wall in my bedroom. Guys, when did fitness get so complicated? Do you remember what it was like back in the day going to the gym before social media? We watched Dragon Ball Z anime music videos. We ate everything that was in the fridge at our parents' house. And then we'd go to the gym with our friends, train like shit for two to three hours with insane intensity, horrible form, lots of ego lifting. And we would make the best gains. It almost seems like today people are taking science-based lifting to such an extreme that they're spending more time online researching the best ways to train versus just going to the gym and training as hard as they can. And these videos right here, guys, my original videos of my workouts, by the way, rest in peace to Tom here. Tom passed away about eight years ago. Was a huge part of starting my channel in 2009 with his pot and a cliff. But the videos that I posted way back 15 years ago, this is my bicep workout. I have my bicep workout, my tricep workout, my chest workout, my back workout, my leg workout. They're all there, right? The reason why I posted those was just to show people how intensely I trained. And since here, I've obviously learned a lot. And I've adjusted my training and it's gotten better. But at the end of the day, the gains that I was able to make back then were purely from just having the want and need to train with as much intensity as possible in the gym. Not worrying about whether or not I was doing what a scientific study said was the most optimal way to make gains. Motherfucker was around in 1982. I don't give a fuck what someone from 1982 said about diet. I'm sorry. Because what he said about diet was already absorbed and processed by everyone by 1988, by 1996, 2012, 2023. I'm this motherfucker, man. Next you're going to tell me what Elvis ate for breakfast. I mean, I feel like whatever he was eating back in the 80s was probably better than what Mike is eating now. But guys, let me just say this. Here's the main takeaway when it comes to fitness. And this is what's gotten me so irritated lately and why I've been going so hot on my YouTube channel. Because I feel like everything that I tried to start doing here back in 2009 has gotten perverted for views. Okay? Back in the early days of YouTube fitness, it was all about education and helping each other. Now it's about whatever's going to trick the algorithm to getting the most views. And it seems like science-based is the key word in order to do that. Guys, of course there's fundamentals on how you should be training to build muscle. How you should be eating to build muscle. How you should be recovering to build muscle. Okay? There's fundamentals. And those should be staples in your workout program. From there, you are going to branch off. And you're going to eat different ways. You're going to train different ways. You're going to have different thoughts on recovery. Do I want to sleep more? Do I want to do an ice bath? Like there's a lot of different things out there that you're going to have to experiment with to see what works best for you. Now, speaking of Mike Mencer's diet, he talks about how he ate a lot of carbs. It was like 60% carbs in his diet. A lot of you aren't training like bodybuilders like Mike Mencer. So having 60% carbs in your diet might be a little bit too much. I know for me, when I was earlier in my lifting journey, I was much more active. I was in the gym a lot more. I was playing sports at the time. I ate a ton of carbohydrates. Now, I actually focus more on a high protein diet because I'm just not as active. So sure, a lot of things that he said, it was for his way of training on top of his own experiences. And you need to start relating fitness to your experience and your lifestyle. An example of different ways to train is my drop set training. And this was my staple. In fact, I literally went to the Arnold and the Olympia shows for 13 years straight. And I raised an entire generation on doing heavy ass drop sets as a part of their training. And this was a staple for me. This is how I trained my entire life. It's still how I even train now and how I get the best results and feel my strongest when I go to the gym. But not everybody likes doing drop set training. Not everybody likes pushing through that burning sensation that comes when you drop the weight from hundreds to 75s and then to 45s and then to 15s for a set of 15. It's not for everyone. But it is for me. I enjoy the muscle growth benefits I got from it. I enjoyed the muscle endurance benefits I got from it. And it fits my lifestyle. And on top of that, the best way to train, of course, once you have the fundamentals down, is the way that's going to get you in the gym day after day, week after week, with the most intensity and excitement to go in and do that type of training. For example, if you told me that for the next six months I had to do a push-pull leg routine, I would not be excited about that. I would hate training that way. I have trained that way in the past. I've made programs around push-pull legs. I've taught myself the benefits of those programs. I just do not enjoy training that way. If you said, hey, Scott, for the next six months you have to do an upper-lower split, I would not enjoy that training. I would do it. I would still see results. But I would not have fun doing it. And I probably wouldn't see the same kind of results that I would have if I just went back to the way that I enjoy training, which is doing drop sets on the first set of every exercise that I do. And I prefer bro splits. I like training one body part a week. And if I feel like I have a lagging body part, then I'll train that body part twice a week to try to advance my gains in that area. It's not complicated, but we've made it complicated to get more views on YouTube. And one last thing before I end this video, Mike, if you want to compare physiques, I had no idea that you and I were the same age. I thought you were much older than me. But when I posted this photo on my birthday last week, quite a few people commented that you and I are the same age. And if this is what abusing PEDs is going to give you in terms of results, and I'm not a dick. So I took a more recent photo of how you look now because obviously you've been training pretty hard and you've been getting pretty lean, right? But if you can only go from here to here by abusing PEDs to the point where it's going to take 10 years off your life, you might want to stop rethinking the scientific research that you're doing to maximize your gains.