 agekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekekek matter anymore. Or that's at least what these people would want you to believe that I'm going to talk about right now. So I posted this video on my birthday, October 18th last month. And for those of you who wished me a happy birthday, if I didn't get back to you, and there was a lot of comments, this video had almost like 185,000 views. I'm sorry. I got to as many as I could, but thank you for the birthday wishes. But this video right here, it's a trend. And you guys have probably seen this trend where you basically wake up in the morning where you're feeling kind of flat. You don't put any kind of special lighting or anything like that. And you do a 360 and you talk about how old you are, how long you've been training. And then if you want to put some other stuff on the screen, you can. I put things on the screen like I still have all my hair, which I'm very happy about. My penis still works, which I'm very happy about. Erica's pretty happy about that too, actually. Let's get back to the video. And I said things like I still train heavy. I don't have any pain in my joints, no serious injuries and things like that. And you guys have known me for the past 16 years on YouTube. I always preach staying natural. Stay natural as long as you can, guys. It's not worth the risk. But of course, if you want to hop on gear, that's totally fine. I have been helping people get started in the gym for almost two decades. And I have seen plenty of guys that have taken my advice to get started and continue to progress, eventually jump on gear and next level and even go and compete. And they're so happy that I was able to teach them the basics to get them started in the gym that they tell me their story. And I absolutely love it. My goal, and I think this is the most important part about this video, and I'm going to get to the guy who called me out here in a second, but this is a really important message that I feel like you guys need to focus on. And this is what you should tell your friends that are also in the gym or just getting started. You need to focus on your goals and be competing with yourself or else you're going to get lost. You're going to get off track and you're probably at some point going to develop a pretty bad body dysmorphia. All right. Pretty bad case of body dysmorphia because then you're never going to be happy with how you look. Now, granted, there is a piece in all of us that is never truly happy with how we look, right? If anything, that's a motivation factor for a lot of us. I know it is for me. I know I'm never going to be as big as my gymspiration, Broly from Dragon Ball Z, obviously. But seeing how big he is and how powerful he is has always been motivating to me when I go to the gym and train as hard as I can to see how big I can get my physique. And so you're always going to be judged by others and criticism is okay. I don't mind the criticism. I dish it out just as much. But you have to make sure that you know exactly what your goals are so that you can be happy as you continue to make fitness a part of your lifestyle. And that's also the most important thing here, right? Not everybody's a bodybuilder. I don't bodybuild. I don't compete on stage. I train in fitness to feel my best, to look my best, and to also be functional outside of the gym. So figure out what your goal is. And if that goal leads you to eventually wanting to hop on PEDs, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. Just make sure you do it the right way. So this guy did a video on me. And what's interesting about this is that RunVoost Coaching, I almost put a couple of his videos in my last video I did on the science-based training with all the kids doing the weird exercises because he does a lot of commentary on those kids and a few popped up. And the only reason why his videos didn't make it into mine is because I had literally had like 30 videos. I had like 30 tabs open that I was going to show you guys in that. And I didn't want to show them all. So I had to cut it down to like five or six. But it's funny because Jordan, my friend Jordan, was like, hey, didn't you say you really like this guy's content because of those videos? I was like, yeah. He's like, well, he just did a video on you basically talking shit. It's like, oh boy. And before I hit play here, guys, right? He's been training for about, I don't know how long he's been training, but I guess after three and a half years, he hopped on gear and this is his transformation. Incredible transformation. I'm not going to say anything bad about it, right? This video, like I said, was meant to be filmed in bad lighting, just woke up, no pump, nothing like that, right? Well, here's a better photo of me from like two days after I posted that video side by side with him. I'm pretty sure he's taller and weighs a bit more than me, but like obviously with better lighting, getting some food in and a nice pump. I mean, both physiques look incredible, right? If you're, if you're going to leave a comment down below and say, you would not want to have the same physique that I have naturally at 41 years old, you're full of shit. Like I just, just the way it is, like you literally full of shit, but you know, most of his fans don't follow me, don't know much about me, but I would still say the comment section was split 50, 50. In fact, uh, my friend here at Atlas Power Shrug, he's like, nah, dude, you don't get to be a part of this conversation after hopping on gear. What's possible naturally is important to you. You had the option to demonstrate it, but chose to go a different route, not your conversation anymore. And I agree with it. And by the way, Atlas, I've been, um, stealing some of your, your workout tips for traps. Yeah, they're really good. If you guys aren't following Atlas, make sure you follow him, but let me play this video for you guys. So right now it's basically just going over my video and showing everything that I just said. And he's going to go over all the, the tips himself and leave some commentary. And we're going to comment back. All right. This is the most like natty cell cope video that I've seen so far. So I'm going to attack these points one by one here. And that's kind of the thing I noticed too, right? Is that guys on gear take it so personally. When we talk about how proud we are of being natural or a lifetime natural, it is a badge of honor. It's not easy to avoid that temptation, especially when you see your friends jumping on and they're getting bigger than you and they're getting stronger than you. But that's why, like I said earlier, it's important to focus on what your goals are. Let's let run continue. First. I'll just start off by saying 41. You look great for 41, dude. There's no denying that at all. This is not great for 27 years of consistent training though. And again, the video, as it stated in the beginning is made to look flat. It's made to not look your best, right? But if you go back to the side by side, well, if he thinks that I look like garbage, I guess he's kind of saying he looks like garbage because I mean, I would argue that I look better than him here, but Hey, that's just me. Get back to the video. He says at the end, I'll get to it. He's 175. That's, it's not good. I don't know why they fixate so much on weight, right? I don't want to be like, I was 200 pounds. I showed you guys in my fasting video. I hated being 200 pounds. I was big. I was benching a 275 incline and that was cool and all, but I looked like the stay puff marshmallow man. Like I just didn't like how I felt. I enjoy running outside, right? That's part of my fitness lifestyle. I like to run outside. I felt like I was running with like a hundred pounds sack on my back, right? My face was puffy. I just didn't like it. And what's interesting too, is if you guys scroll through his comments, there are people in there, you know, kind of talking smack and they're like, yeah, you know, back in 2015 when, you know, Scott looked a lot bigger and a lot better because he was bigger back then. 2015 boys, I was 165 pounds, right? That's the difference between being super lean and putting on body fat. So again, every, like you have to stick to your own goals. And my goal is to get back to how I looked in 2015. And I've been slowly shaving the fat off to get back down to that 165 shredded look that I was known for back then. Anyways, let's continue. This is not good for 27 years of constant training. I think that it's good if you want to be like above average in a room full of people that don't really work out. Okay. So again, in a room full of people that don't really work out, that is slightly above average, tiny, slightly a little bit above average. Okay guys, just keep that in mind. But it's not good if you want to be above average in a room full of people that take this seriously. I don't think that it is. 100% lifetime natural. We can tell. Good job. No pump natural lighting. Okay. Congrats. This is good, I guess. Still. So he kind of like just kind of runs through that point because he doesn't quite understand it or just chose not to train heavy. You should, everybody should train heavy capitalized. Yeah. 100%. Everyone should train heavy. And that's the whole point of me making all those videos on the Jeff Nippard min max program is like bro just discovered how to lift heavy and push his limits. Right. So something we've always talked about here on my channel, have all my hair. That's fantastic. But again, hair transplants exist. Why would you want to go down the road of getting a hair transplant and having to deal with that? Why would you want to increase the risk, especially if you're not a competitive bodybuilder? Why would you want to do all of these things, hopping on PEDs that, and have these risks of things that could happen to you? One of them being hair loss. If you, if you knew eventually you probably were going to jump off gear and not do it anymore. Right. And that's kind of what I've always talked about and why I talk about being natural, because there is a point in your life where you're probably going to hit the gym as hard as you can for five to 10 years, like in your teens to mid twenties. And that's like your entire life. And then you move out of your mom's basement, you get a job, you get a husband or wife, you have kids, you get promotions at work, and you're not going to be able to hit the gym as much as you want to. And you're not going to run gear like you did before, because there are health risks that go along with it. And you're going to be like, damn, I'd probably still have more hair in my head. If I just trained consistently and didn't hop on PEDs because I don't even have those gains anymore because I've been off for so long. Let's continue. Losing your hair isn't exclusive to doing PEDs either. Yeah, it will accelerate that. But if you lose your hair on PEDs, you were going to lose it anyway. Right. It just, but why would you want to lose your hair in your twenties if you weren't going to lose it until like your late forties or fifties? Right. And then deal with hair plants and stuff like that. That's again, but that's my opinion. That's my, that's my goal, not his. And that's fine. And he he's allowed to think the way he wants to think if it fits his goals, it's fine. It happens faster. So you can't really blame the being natty for that. Like if you have this much hair at 41, naturally, you probably wouldn't have lost any of your hair on PEDs. Everything still works, implying that he does not have erectile dysfunction. You don't just get that when you start taking steroids. But it is a risk. Why would you want to risk your dick not working? Why would you want to risk even if you do post post psychotherapy that your balls and your penis do not work anymore? If anything, out of all of the risks that come along with jumping on PEDs, that has probably been the number one thing that I have been like, you know what? It's just not worth it. And also, do you really think a guy like this, and I'm not saying he does, but if he was having problems in the bedroom, do you think that he's really going to make a video about that and talk about it to his 88,000 subscribers that he has here on Instagram? Of course not guys. Now, granted, it doesn't happen to everyone, but you know what? If you're that one out of 100 person that does one cycle, jump off, do post-cycle therapy, but your dick still doesn't work after, it's not a risk that I'm willing to take, my guy. Like, everybody's dick can still work on PEDs. If you just do them right, this is clueless. Again, you can still do them right, but the risk is still there. Again, it's not going to happen to everyone, like he said, but even if you do them right, the risk is still there. Doing them right doesn't mean all the risks go away. There are still risks, but you can have less of a risk in getting, you know, and having to deal with a lot of these side effects if you jump on PEDs the right way, okay? Brain dead take on PEDs. No roid gut. What does that mean? I mean, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Bubble gut, right? Like, you know what I'm talking about, but he's just trying to, I guess, make the video be a bit more exciting by pretending like he doesn't. You got, you all know what I mean when I say that. What is roid gut? Do you mean HGH gut? That's not even from HGH. Again, you just don't know what you're talking about. Again, like, go watch any professional bodybuilding show and look at the dudes on stage and look at their guts. I would never want to look like that, which is why I'm 100% natural. I would never want to have a protruding roid gut because it just doesn't look good. Look at Mike Isretel. His gut is terrible. ...about and you're trying to talk down on people. I talk down on people because I know what I'm talking about. No saggy chest. I'm assuming what he means by that is gyno. And again, gyno is not exclusive to PEDs. I had gyno before I started. But it is a risk. It is a risk, right? He's trying so hard to justify the use of PEDs and that's fine, but like, it's still a risk. It's a risk that I would never want to take. ...started taking steroids. Also, you don't have to get gyno on steroids. You can prevent it. And also, you can just get gyno surgery. Again, I don't want hair implant surgery. I don't want gyno surgery, right? Like, you're building the case as to why you shouldn't jump on PEDs for anyone watching my video that's thinking about doing it. Like, imagine me sitting you down and be like, listen, you're going to take these PEDs. You're going to get jacked. You're going to get shredded. Your hair might fall out a bit earlier, but don't worry. We got hair implants for that. We can put you in surgery. You might get some gyno around your nipples and get some man titties, but don't worry. We have ways to hopefully try to avoid that. But if we can't, we can still put you in the operating room and get you surgery for that. Also, it's not that it will happen. It might happen. We know what we can do to avoid it, but your dick might not work. It's very fixable. Like, very fixable. 5'10 at 175. After 27 years of consistent training, 5'10, 175 is not good, buddy. Again, like, they're always so fixated on how much you weigh, right? For me, it hasn't really been about how much I weigh. It's been about how lean I look and how strong I am. Also, it's almost like these guys don't live. Maybe they're like, I couldn't find his age. I'm assuming he's a lot younger than me, right? 27 years of lifting consistently, all right? I wasn't in the hyperbolic time chamber where the only thing I could do was lift weights, okay? Life also happened in those 27 years. I started when I was 14 years old, right? And I trained about 27 years straight. But when you're younger, you don't have as many responsibilities. So in my early teens, throughout my 20s, I could be in the gym every single day, two to three hours a day. I could just be there shooting the shit because I was single. And I did whatever the hell I wanted to. And I was also a YouTuber. In fact, the first fitness influencer. I worked in a gym as a general manager. I was in the gym all day, every day for almost half of my life. And I was able to dedicate a lot more time to training. Then as you get into your 30s and now into your 40s, you have a family, you have kids, you have all these other responsibilities. You have to mow the lawn. You have to fix the car. You have to go on vacation. All your friends are getting married. They're having kids. You have to be their godparent. You have to go to all these events, right? Like life happens. And so I think it's because he's young that he doesn't really understand why 27 years of consistent training is such an important number. To be able to literally look the way I look at 41 years old and have abs my entire life is not an easy thing to do. And you guys know this because I talked about it. The last five years haven't been the easiest for me because I've been building my gaming franchise. And it's like 15 hours a day sitting at the computer working on that. Now, granted, it's totally worth it because now my game is live in the app stores and we have an anime and we have all these other things, right? But I couldn't dedicate the same kind of time to training like I could before that. And since February, as you guys know, I've been fasting and I've been re-locked in on my workouts. I've been going back to my five-day bodybuilding split, which I'll come back to this later. And I'm pretty happy with my progress, but I just kind of wanted to dive a bit more into that number, 27 years, because I just feel like a lot of his audience is young and they literally think for 27 years, I just went to the gym every day for two hours. And then this is the result. And by the way, the result is actually still pretty damn good. This is not something that you should be like trying to stunt on unnatural lifters with. Next goal is... And unfortunately, yeah, I mean, I know a lot of unnatural lifters that were pretty hardcore for like four or five years, maybe like eight to 10 max, and then hopped off and light hit and they couldn't maintain their look and they lost all of their gains. Some died also too due to complications of steroids, right? But again, those are the risks. Those 165 shredded. 165 shredded after 27 years of lifting is bad for pretty much everyone. Again, it's really not because I look incredible at 165 and I have great strength. My joints feel great. I can run outside. I can do a Tough Mudder. I can do a spot and race. I can even still work on my car and put my arms in the engine bay and get to what I need to, to also enjoy that hobby. And again, that's why I said in the beginning, guys, fitness needs to fit your lifestyle, right? How big you get, how shredded you are, all those things. It has to fit into your lifestyle in a place where you are happy with the results. And I'm very happy with the results. This is why I made this video. Especially somebody that's fucking 5'10". So like you're trying to use this video as a way to talk down on people for taking PEDs. Like you're just this fucking... I was actually more or less using the video to talk up my fellow natural athletes and to talk up my fellow males that are in their 30s and 40s that have been training consistently. That was actually the point of the video. But I can understand why he felt the way he did. And I don't mind his opinion. Like I don't want you guys to go on his video and leave nasty comments or anything like that. Not at all. That's not why I'm doing this. But it just goes to show you how you can come from this side, the all natural side, the PED side, and look at a video like I did here and have a very different opinion on it. Genetic specimen. Look at me. I did this all natural. We believe you, buddy. We believe you did this naturally. If you did this on PEDs, you'd be getting clowned even fucking harder. Again, right? Like he has such harsh words, but let's look at the side by side. They both, both physiques look great, bro. You look great. I look great. We both look great. Your transformation was really good. I mean, I don't know why you needed to hop on gear to get your transformation. I was able to do mine naturally, but we both look phenomenal. Nobody cares. I care. All right. And I guess that's the point. I care. And I care about all of my subscribers that watch my content because number one, there's a lot of misinformation out there. Number two, there's a lot more dudes out there hopping on gear, making content, and it is causing more body dysmorphia in the fitness space. And I think that's a big reason as to why the fitness space has become so damn toxic. It's just that no one knows who to believe anymore. Right? And again, do not go to his page and leave any nasty comments or anything like that. I actually left a comment a little while ago before I started my video. I'll read it to you guys really quick. I said, I don't mind the criticism. It's to be expected, especially from guys on gear. If anything, I found the commentary funny and motivating. And I did like when I saw the video last night, I always just like, I expected something like that. Right? It's important to stay focused on your own personal goals, especially as you age and life gets busier. I'm sure most of you commenting here don't follow me. So for context, I spent the last five years building a gaming franchise, lots of work, lots of stress, and less gym time since February decided to lock back in and lean down only up from here. So like, I was very nice on my comment because I'm sure a guy like him, we would get along great if we trained in a gym together. And most people, I mean, I don't do in gym training videos anymore. I should, a lot of you have been asking and I probably will. They're just a pain in the ass to film and a pain in the ass to edit and things have been just really busy lately. But you know what? That's no excuse. I can just throw it all together and not do really any editing and it should be just fine. But until then, if you guys are going to the gym and you would like a new workout program, you can try any of the programs on my website. You can try cheat and recover my most advanced program. It's really intense. Or you can jump on the split that I'm doing, which is my five day bodybuilding split where you lift heavy as hard as you can and you enjoy the workouts. Because if you're like me and you like focusing on one to two body parts every day at the gym and you're hitting the gym four to five days a week, it means each of those four to five days you have something different to do. So I hope you guys enjoyed this video. And if you did drop a like and a comment down below and I'll see you in the next one.