 guys, everything is oversaturated. YouTube, Instagram, TikTok, there's so many creators, so much fitness content, and I hate to admit it, but it seems like X is probably the final frontier when it comes to making money, getting monetized on a social media platform. And I'm like you, I never, ever, ever used X up until recently. I made my profile back in 2009 when Twitter first came out, back when it was called Twitter, like literally my season of MTV, the real world Brooklyn came out, was on TV, and Twitter dropped, and then we all joined Twitter, like that was the thing. And then I never touched it again until I started my gaming studio. And then I only really used it for my gaming studio, and then commenting on pop culture, stranger things, season five is huge on X right now, I've actually had a few posts do like three, four million views, which is wild, especially now with conformity gate happening, right? But my point is, I got monetized on X because I had some friends tell me they're making like two to three grand. And the way you make the most amount of money getting monetized on X is by posting video content. You can be a reply guy and reply to a lot of people, but you're not gonna make much money. Like X actually takes a look at what you're doing, where the impressions are coming from, and that's where the income comes from, right? That's how the ads get displayed. So YouTube is so oversaturated, Instagram is oversaturated, TikTok is oversaturated, X has really not a big footprint for fitness. And a lot of the stuff that you're gonna see is gonna be a combination of a few things that we're gonna go over today. Random weird shit, just a seller product, like, you know, content that just kind of catches your attention and it's weird, it doesn't matter what it is, people will share it. AI slop, and then stolen content, where if you're watching my video right now, and you're a fitness creator on YouTube, or Instagram, or TikTok, there's probably accounts that are monetized on Twitter that are stealing your content and reposting it and getting paid for it. It's the Wild Wild West, just the way it is right now. So you either get upset, or get on the platform, and start establishing your own presence, and when you see people stealing your content, of course you can report it, and it can get taken down. This just started popping up for me, randomly, Kegel exercises for men to boost testosterone. And this is one of those videos that I'm talking about that's weird, but people watch. Like, ain't nobody doing these Kegel exercises to raise their testosterone, right? You wanna raise your testosterone, you go to the gym, you train, you eat right, you get enough sleep, you get enough rest, there's a lot of other things that you can do besides these exercises to raise your testosterone. But it's weird, and it has over half a million views, and a ton of likes, and a ton of shares, and a ton of bookmarks, they're getting paid. Whether you like it or not, this isn't an emotional game, it's a game to get paid. That's how it operates on X. I'm just telling you guys how it is. And usually they try to sell like a supplement too, when it's exercises like this. Here's another one that popped up. You know what's interesting? I never even knew this was a thing until I watched that movie, Ready Player One. Did you guys ever watch that movie? Such a great movie. But when the girl is sitting in the chair of the main bad guy, and she's looking at the screen, it says Kegel exercises for Med. The complete Nancy Drew. Kegel exercises for Med. Yeah, no one's doing this, but you know what? 151,000 views. When's the last time you got 151,000 views on a video? It happens all the time on X, guys. And then over here, Ninja Wisdom, five exercises to increase stamina, strength, testosterone, and cure ED. Like all this stuff pops up all the time, half a million views, all these posts, likes, and retweets. And look, the information is trash. And I guess that's the other point I'm trying to make. These people are posting content on X. It's such an unutilized platform for fitness. A lot of the content being posted is straight up garbage. And that's where the opportunity lies, especially for someone like me, that actually enjoys educating, and enjoys putting together workouts. Sure, the drama videos are fun. I would much rather just focus on education and get monetized and paid that way. That would be much better, because that would actually bring it back to the golden age of YouTube, where it was all about education. So over here, lying butterfly, same stupid exercises, bridge, hip abduction, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, right, to raise your testosterone. And then at the end, you can buy this book, The Chad Mindset, which I don't think anybody with The Chad Mindset is doing this garbage here. Now, as far as the AI slop, I will say the video production is cool, but there's a lot of things that get missed when you're putting together a 26 second AI video on how to do something like a deadlift, a squat, and a bench press, right? Like these are complicated exercises that get tweaked over time as you get better at them. And so it's kind of misleading to be like, oh, just bend over, grab the bar, and then lift up. Let me play it for you real quick. Deadlift is almost perfect. Here's what to do. Feet hip width, bar over midfoot, hips back, core tight, grip just outside the legs. Don't pull with your arms. Think your arms is two ropes with hooks. Push the floor away, bar stays close, hips back first, bar slides down the thighs, then bend the knees, lift clean, stay strong, train safe, and smart with Photonomy Coach. So like if you wanted a super basic breakdown on how to do a deadlift, sure, this video would work. But what are some of the things that you would say if you had an actual trainer teaching you? That yeah, you're gonna stand there with the barbell across your midfoot, but you're also gonna probably slightly turn your toes out. And if your toes slightly turn out, your knees need to track the same direction that your toes are facing. Also, when you reach down to get the barbell, when are you taking in the breath to make your core tight? How are you sitting back? What does that feel like? Before you pulled the bar up, even though it had a pretty good animation, like I thought this animation was cool, where it said imagine that your arms are hooks. What about pulling the slack out of the bar? What about maintaining a neutral spine? Like there's all these other small details that you're not gonna get, at least right now, and there's opportunity here on X from these AI slop vids. Let's watch the one on squats. This is why your legs aren't growing from squats. Watch this. And that's true, but like right out of the gate, where is that barbell being held? Most people do squats wrong because they don't know where to place the barbell or why. This, even from this image right here, people are gonna think that bar needs to go across your neck. And a lot of people place the bar across their neck, which is why they have problem squatting and they get injured. There's actually a shelf across your shoulders, right? You wanna tuck that bar into the shelf of your shoulders before you start the exercise, because that barbell placement is gonna affect your center of gravity as you go up and down. But I'll let the video keep playing. So this is good, push your knees out, right? Make sure your heel is on the ground, also another good tip. And then move the bar back so it's in line, right? But again, this only works if the bar is not on your neck. It needs to be down on the shelf. You're not just holding the bar in place, you're actively pulling it down into the shelf of your shoulders. So there's all these other tips that are missing just because this is quick content. This is a 60,000 views video. This one has 64,000 views. The bench press one, 75,000 views, right? Like this could be me. This could be you if you're a content creator, showing people how to do this stuff the right way. And we can still get this done in under a minute. All my original how-to videos are under a minute or one to two minutes long. Are you making these common bench press mistakes? Let's find out. What I don't like about this video is the most important thing when benching isn't talked about. Okay, so like shoulders down, straight arm, and then tuck your elbows in, right? The most important thing that wasn't shown here, and this is the number one thing that I fix on every single person in my gym on their bench press is it's more than just bringing your shoulders down. You have to depress and retract your shoulders to get a little bit of an arch in your back as well. It's not taught here. So even if you follow all of these tips and you lay down and start benching, you're probably still gonna feel tension in your shoulder because you haven't properly packed your shoulders by depressing them and retracting them. So just little things like that. It's not quite there yet. Again, I see it as an opportunity. And then this video, this is why you can never go to the peck deck. Want a bigger chest? These peck fly variations are the key. Like if you wanna build a big chest, do these peck deck variations. Like you're never gonna build a big chest doing the peck deck. You get a stat with your compounds first. But anyways, like this is the kind of AI stuff you're seeing. Although this AI video was an anime AI video, I actually tried this. It works pretty good. So there is some good stuff out there. It was a really nice stretch. For a lot of you guys, you probably have tight lats and that's what's causing a lot of your issues. I certainly do. I could not get my chest to the wall at all, but it did feel nice. Now moving on to the stolen content. Well actually one more thing. Again, do these exercises for bigger biceps start with a waiter curl. Like no, no, not one person with big biceps is starting with a waiter curl. But the reason why they're putting it there is because why? Cause it looks interesting. It's different. Almost 300,000 views guys. Again, like it's slop and it's getting so many views and these guys are getting paid and you're not. So this is where they're starting to steal content. I've seen this guy, I forget his name. I've seen him all over Instagram. His video on how to get bigger traps. This isn't his page. This right here, Thunder Philosopher, posting this guy's chest workout. And you'll see with the chest workout, instead of it being one video to maximize views, it's this video gets 17,000 views. It's eight seconds of an exercise. This video is again, 13 seconds of an exercise. This video is again, 10 seconds of an exercise. So they're posting the whole workout as a thread. Threads get a lot of attention on X. This person's making money off of this guy's content. Again, same poster, Thunder Philosopher. That's not him. Stole the content, reposted it for themselves. Thunder Philosopher again, stealing content, reposting it for himself. Just grabs all the videos probably off Instagram and reposts them. And then again, another guy, motivate mode, stealing content, showing how to do a chest workout. And another thing too guys, these home chest workouts, I'd like to hear your thoughts on it. I always kind of get irritated when I see a home chest workout with heavy dumbbells. And then they literally just show how to do all this stuff on the floor. Like this is a very common trend. You'll see like a decline bench press by lifting your butt in the air. If you have dumbbells heavy enough to get any sort of bench press work done, chances are you have a bench to lay on, right? Like buying a bench to lay on is a lot cheaper than buying 80 pound dumbbells. Just throwing that out there. And same thing here. This isn't him, this guy's Asian. That's not an Asian guy, athletic workout, stealing content, almost 250,000 views here, right? And he's not getting any action. He's not even tagged. The original poster's not even tagged here. So again, X, it's the final frontier. It's probably still considered like the wild, wild West. And if you're not posting your content there, somebody else is probably posting it there. But I see it as an opportunity to educate people that aren't normally on TikTok, on Instagram, on YouTube. So you're probably gonna start seeing more of my content popping up here. And then one more video I wanna show you guys, just because it's absolutely hilarious. And again, this is why there's opportunity. Because it's dumb stuff like this that's getting close to 170,000 views. Like 163,000 views right here. Look at all the retweets, the likes, the bookmarks, right? And then just listen to the tips. If you can do 60 chest flies every day, your chest shape, standing chest fly, by the way, will become more lifted and defined. If you can do 60 lateral raises every day, you'll have beautifully shaped, creative, straight shoulders. If you can do 60, 90 degree arm openings every day, rounded shoulders and a hunched back will stay away from you. If you can do 60 by... Rounded shoulders and a hunched back will stay away from you. Except curls every day. The lines of your arms will become more defined. And this is my favorite, listen to what he says. If you can do 60 up and down extensions every day, a wide face and double chin will stay away from you. Never knew that was an exercise for a wide face and double chin. But I guess you learn new things on X every single day. And before you take off, if you are in need of a new 12 week program, check out Guaranteed Gains. It's absolutely free on my website, MuscularStrength.com. It's an upper lower split consisting of four workouts that you cycle throughout the week. And each workout comes with its own video, downloadable PDF, everything that you need to just go to the gym and follow along. And if for some reason you don't know proper form for any of the exercises, there's a series that I did called the Only Two Exercises You Need to get bigger shoulders, to get bigger chest, to get bigger biceps, to get bigger legs. All of those videos are linked down here on the bottom. So there's absolutely no excuse and there's no trying to find the right videos to learn proper form on how to do any of the exercises in my program. It's a really, for a free program guys, even for a paid program, it's pretty badass. I hope you guys check it out and share it with your friends. And I'll see you in the next one. (*hehe*)