jsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjsjs That can be interpreted a lot of different ways to a lot of different people. And this video came across my feed. And now that I've made videos about it, I see it nonstop because it went viral. This video has like 7 million views or something crazy. I mean, just look at the likes. 179,000 likes has like 80,000 shares. And it's a garbage exercise, guys. It is not a good exercise. Now, is it an exercise you should never do? I wouldn't go that far. But thinking of the arsenal of exercises that you can do either on machines or on a bench or on the floor, I would still rank this one at the very bottom. And let me hit play for you so you can just see what the exercise movement actually is. And it's literally just sitting at a cable machine and doing crunches. And so what irritated me wasn't the exercise itself. What irritated me was the fact that it says POV, you try an ab exercise. You saw her on TikTok. And it's the best contraction you've ever felt. And the title is S-tier ab exercise. Stable can easily be progressed. I see no flaws. And I see a lot of flaws out of the gate. And it's these definitive statements that this is the best abs exercise that you are not doing that gets under my skin because it's not the best. There's way better options out there. In fact, the ab pulldown is the best cable exercise for abs that you can probably do in your gym. And I'm going to demonstrate for you guys in my gym downstairs after I get through these posts I want to share with you. But I did a response. I said, nah, bro, this ain't it at all. TikTok slop, no spinal extension at the top, and an incomplete flex at the bottom. I mean, it's obvious. When you get to the bottom, this pad is in the way, so you can't go all the way down. And then when you get to the top, the tension kind of stops here, and you can't get that extension. And a few people responded differently here. Because, again, I did make a rebuttal video. My video is actually doing really well. It has over 100,000 views, a lot of likes, a lot of shares. And I go over a lot of the things that I'm saying right now. But I know my YouTube audience doesn't always go to my Instagram. But somebody responded to me, and they said, I was thinking about trash talking the shit out of you. But here we go. Abs function is not to extend the spine. Because in my video, I talk about spinal extension. And it's like everyone in, you know, trying to be a science-based lifter, they research the function of the abs. And, yeah, the function of the abs is to flex the spine. Right here, flex the lumbar spine by pulling the ribcage. So they immediately assume that the extension doesn't matter. Well, just spend, like, another two seconds on Google and just type, why is spinal extension good for abs training? Well, spinal extension is essential for abs training. Essential because it acts as the antagonist movement to spinal flexion. And crunches, balancing core strength, improving posture, preventing lower back injuries. And by strengthening the posterior chain, it enables greater abdominal engagement. And that's what I was saying. That's why I said this is a bad exercise. You are not able to fully extend at the top. If you want to do the exercise, sure, you can do it. But just understand it's not S tier. And it's not going to be the best contraction ever because you're missing out on half the movement. And when an exercise like this goes viral, and that's why I mentioned the views. 7 million views is a lot of views for an exercise. You see all the copycats start to come out because they all want to get a piece of those views. Again, they're not here specifically. Maybe their hat's in the right place, but they're not here specifically to help you with your goals. Everybody wants to just go viral. I want to go viral, but I do my best to make sure that when I'm teaching exercises and workouts, that they're effective exercises and effective movements. And something that other people also said, because I had an issue with the spinal extension, and they're like, well, why don't you just turn around and face the other way? Well, because when you turn around and face the other way, if you guys zoom in over here, you can see that he's lifting like 25 pounds. And everybody's showing the exercise facing the other way are lifting weights that are so light. I don't even know how you can consider it a proper contraction on the abs. Look, she's doing it too. She's barely lifting one or two plates on the exercise because there's nothing holding your legs in place. The abs are very strong. And if you want to build blocky abs, then you have to do exercises that allow you to overload with a lot of weight on your abs. And that's where the ab pulldown comes in. But therein lies another issue. Because like 90% of the ab pulldown videos that you see online are just taught wrong. Like this guy, for example, he discredits the exercise completely because he doesn't know how to do it. I'm going to play his video. This right here, dumbest ab exercise I've ever done. Guilty as charged. I used to do it. But now, do it on the lob. Pulldown way better. Give these a shot. Set to 8 to 12. If you don't feel your abs screaming, you're doing something wrong. Look at the range of motion that he's doing here. Even when he tries to go heavy, you can kind of see the weight stack here that he's lifting, probably like 40, 50 pounds. There's very little range of motion. Why? Because the weight is literally pulling you out of the seat. And you're still not getting full extension. And you're still not getting the best flexion at the bottom of the movement here. Dumbest ab exercise I've ever done. And I wanted to read you guys the entire comment. But for whatever reason, because this kid actually DM'd me too, being very insulting. And then I kind of just responded. And then he deleted his account. So I couldn't show you guys the full comment. Sorry about that. But now let's go in the gym. Because I'm going to take this even further with actual proper exercise form. All right, so just for a recap, let me quickly point out what's wrong over here. If you're trying to do the exercise facing forward, there's no spinal extension. Because if you extend your spine and come forward like this, there's no load on the spinal extension portion of the exercise, right? Just because of the way you're positioning. And so a lot of people said, well, just turn around. Because if you turn around, then you can kind of lean forward a little bit. And now your abs are under load while in spinal extension. And you can keep that load throughout the entire range of motion. And then that's where I pointed out to you guys that mostly everybody doing the exercise facing this way, because there's nothing holding them in place, they're barely lifting any weight. There's like two plates going up and down. So it's not a good exercise. In fact, you're much better off if you're coming over to here to do abs, put the pads all the way up and do some deep crunches where you can come all the way down like this, extend the spine and then crunch on the way up. And when you start to get really strong, you can even grab a plate and come down and go all the way up. This is called a deep crunch. And I've been teaching this exercise for about 15 years. And the other exercise I've been teaching for just as long is the ab pulldown. The best exercise that you can do on a cable machine to target your abs. And the best part is if you're at the gym doing this stupid exercise, you can just stop and walk over here and do the ab pulldowns because it's on the same machine. And so here's a couple of quick tips. If you want to do the ab pulldown, number one, you can use a rope. If you want to, I said, don't use a rope. I don't like using the rope. I think it's very limiting, especially as you start lifting much heavier weights. I prefer using an easy curl bar or straight bar. Secondly, do not put the cable all the way up. Put it at the same height as your head. A lot of times when the cable is too far up, it changes the angle so much that you have a really hard time getting full flexion at the bottom of the movement. Next, hold the bar with your palms facing your face, just like this. And then when you start to get really strong and you guys are going to see this, you can actually pin more weight. I have a 35 pound plate pinned to the stack right here. So overloading a lot more than you could have done on that other exercise with full range of motion. And this is what it looks like. You're going to grab the bar, palms facing in. You're going to sit back like this. You're going to spread your knees wide. You're going to lock the bar behind your neck. You're going to make sure you start with spinal extension at the top to fully lengthen the abs. And then from here, you're going to crunch down. And then come back up. Try to keep your hips in one spot. They might move a little bit, but as long as you're staying in one spot, for the most part, you're able to fully execute the exercise. And that's why ab pulldowns are the superior movement. And guys, if you're tired of having to scroll through hundreds of videos to find the correct exercises and then having to scroll through hundreds more videos to find the ones that are going to actually teach you how to properly do the movements, just go to my website, muscularstrength.com, scan the QR code on the screen. You can obviously go to my programs, try all my programs for one week free, right? But go to the gains library, click on exercise tutorials, and just literally click the muscle group you want to train. You want some new exercises for chest? Click chest, hit find exercises. All my exercises will pop up and then literally click the exercise that you want to get better form on and add into your workout. Let's say you're not sure about your incline barbell bench press. So we click on this. The video pops up here. There's photos down here. If you're viewing on your phone, you don't want to watch the whole video. Then there's also a description down here. So literally everything you need in one place, whether it's exercises, whether it's complete routines, or maybe you just want a new muscle building program. You get access to everything. I just showed you on my website and you can try it for free right now by scanning the QR code. I'll see you there.