 I've never made a video on Wes Watson, even though I have been keeping up with his shenanigans because my boy Johnny Bravo drops the best videos on what's going on with this guy. He's the gift that keeps on giving for a content creator like John Bravo, and Johnny makes awesome videos, so I'm going to be using some content from his video in mine today. But the main reason why I want to make this video is because of something that's very important, okay? You shouldn't be losing 30 to 40 pounds of muscle mass over the course of a few weeks just because you stopped working out. And Wes is going on this tangent, and I'm going to show some video clips where he's like, are you obsessed, gym people, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and I hate that messaging, and I've hated it my entire life. You don't have to be obsessed with the gym to maintain and keep fitness a permanent part of your lifestyle. You don't have to miss out on family events, you don't have to bring Tupperware out with you when your friends are having dinner and you want to join them. You can eat regular food, right? Like, I hate the extreme that people try to put on fitness when they fall off, because you know, the real reason why most people fall off is because when you're not disciplined enough to not only train consistently, but hard with intensity without PEDs or steroids, what happens is when you stop taking them, which is what I'm assuming happened with Wes, because he's probably going to jail soon, when you stop taking them and you have bad training habits and you train like shit and you relied too much on the PEDs, this is what ends up happening to you. Like, bro, you just do not have what it takes to train consistently hard because you haven't had to do that for a very long time because you relied on the PEDs too much. Now I'm not saying you have to be natural. You guys know me, I'm a lifetime natural, I stick by what I say and that's fine. I look pretty good for 41 years old and I've been able to keep fitness as a permanent part of my lifestyle, still enjoy life, go on reality TV shows, stat this business, head trainer for Lionsgate, I have a gaming studio been building last four years, right? I go out all time with my family, we go on vacations, I hang out with my friends, I've never had to sacrifice time doing the things I love with the people I love just because I like to work out and that's because when I go to the gym, I have a very set schedule of what I'm training and I know how to train hard. It's not complicated. I don't throw in a bunch of random weird exercises, do you guys see all over TikTok, Instagram, I stick to the basics because the basics always work and I just throw in techniques like drop sets and super sets and buddy curls, pyramid sets, whatever it takes to push myself as high as I can for that 60 to 90 minutes that I'm in the gym. This transformation right here with our boy Wes, this is literally due to the fact that he's probably jumped off whatever PEDs he was on and he trains like shit. Scott does not know how to work out, it's very obvious from the workout footage that I've seen, just goes in, gets a little pump, looks in the mirror, flexes his biceps, takes his shirt off and then when he's done, he leaves. This is not the physique you should have just because you didn't work out for a couple of weeks. You should still be able to maintain quite a bit of mass and the overall look and feel of the body type that you had as long as you stayed consistent. Bro is not consistent with his training, he's losing all of his gains and now he's trying to go on this tangent of, oh I just want to spend more time with my people which I think is absolutely BS. I want to play this clip from John Bravo because it's friggin awesome so let me just let Johnny do the talking. Literally shrinking, it seems by the day in a couple weeks this guy looks 40-50 pounds less than what he was you know and we all know behind the scenes what this asshole is doing right and I said karma's. And there's also a video of him where he's just like, oh it's the angle, it's the angle, that's why it looks so small. Like bro we just saw like 17 angles as you came out of the car and you were twisting sideways like you don't look good, you fell off. The bitch this asshole has been bullying and picking on people for years saying listen, you're not a real man if you have 10 inch arms and tits and now when you look at this little bitch who's the one with the 10 inch arms and tits? If you look in the mirror would you guys say this? This right here, this Fresh and Fit podcast or whatever it was, this was the first experience I ever had even knowing who this guy was and this video made me so mad because all of these people on stage with a well not all of them but like majority of them on stage in the crowd they're talking about what it means to be an alpha and then West just pops off. I'll play it for you guys have probably seen this before. Like that's just absolutely like how are you trying to show that you're a man right and that you're this like alpha and that's how you treat other people just because they don't work out. It's clear you don't understand the fit lifestyle because you've never lived it. You just use it as a way to look good to pedal whatever you were trying to pedal and now that you can't pedal it anymore you're backtracking with everything that you're saying. I'm going to play this clip before I do congratulations to Bubba and Mrs. Bubba on the pregnancy. I saw that in the beginning of your video so congratulations man but listen to what West says right here. A lot of these fitness people think it's all about just the weight loss this and that and the habits and that shit. That shit's boring as fuck. It's stupid as fuck basically. You have to do that to get in good shape and kill it but don't you want to live a good life. Don't you want to go hang out with people. Don't you want to be more social have better relationships. That's what I learned lady is that I was disconnecting from the people and I love the people so all my people that are part of my program we roll together we're family and we go enjoy our life. And the reason why this irritated me is because yeah of course like there has to be balance in your life right and there are people out there that do make fitness their entire life and a lot of those people go into competitive bodybuilding or you don't even have to be a competitive bodybuilder to make fitness your entire life. That's fine it's their decision but just because you fell off and now you can't look the way you used to look you now have to put everyone else down. I just think it's dumb and that messaging just really pissed me off because it goes against everything that I've been saying and I've been teaching on this platform since 2009 and it's to make fitness a pot of your lifestyle. If you can't go to the gym this workouts that you can do at home you don't have to eat clean all the time but you should be focusing on eating good food good foods as much as you can. I've recently done some videos on fasting and how that's actually helped me now that I sit in front of a computer a lot more than I used to with all the other things I'm doing with my life and my business right but to completely try to just say that fitness people are so obsessed and the reason why you know you look the way you look and you're bigger than me is because you don't spend time with the people that matter. I just think it's pathetic and with January around the corner and everybody likes to just restart things even if you're already training everybody just likes to kick it up a notch in January I do as well new year new me and I want to make sure that when you guys start going to the gym that you have the discipline and the training intensity that it takes to be able to go to the gym get the results you need and be able to maintain throughout the entire year because there will be ups and downs in your life and you won't be able to focus as hard but if you know how to do the things that you need to do in the gym and you know how to train with the intensity just because you're stuck working out for a few weeks even if you were on gear right you're not going to just deflate at the rate that he did so he was doing something incredibly wrong and for those of you who like training at home I have home workouts they actually follow along home workouts upper body lower body total body body weight light pair of dumbbells right and the way these workouts go is I explain what you're doing in the beginning and then we train together for 10 minutes 15 minutes 20 minutes and there's literally 33 here and I'm actually going to start producing more of these one a week starting in January so if you guys want to train at home or you're traveling and you need something to do you go to my website you can scan this QR code over here and you can try any of these workouts for free right just jump on and start training at home you can do these workouts at the gym too if you want to their full body workouts and for those of you want to get a bit more serious with a program jump on one of my programs like a plan choose from upper body lower body split push pull legs of of course my favorite the five day bodybuilding split my absolute favorite program in fact I am remastering this program to be released hopefully in January so if you want to get a jump start on that you can jump in here and try my five day bodybuilding split but at the end of the day guys fitness needs to be something that you work at yeah it's a way to better yourself it's a way to look better it's a way to lose weight to weight of muscle right but also it's a way to accomplish goals and build confidence and a lot of us I'll admit myself at times we go to the gym we put ourselves down because we're not making progress as fast as we wanted to or you know maybe we're not as lean as we want to be right but these are things that everybody thinks about like we all have some sort of body dysmorphia so there is some truth to what Wes was saying like you know checking your angles in the mirror and all that stuff but that's fine because if you channel it the right way it can also be used as motivation so I know this video might seem a little random but I've been seeing you know Wes and his clavicular kid popping up all over my feed because of all the BS they've been doing for the last couple days couple weeks and I just think that there's so much negativity out there around looking a certain way and putting other people down for not looking that way I need to remind you guys that with January Around the Corner it's all about you versus you focus on your goals train as hard as you can and then hold yourself to those standards okay don't hold yourself to my standards or Wes's standards or anybody else's focus on your own goals and I guarantee you fitness will always be a big part of your lifestyle