Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, and welcome to this special live conversation on the pandemic agreement. I'm Mikail Santos, communications officer at the World Health Organization, and I'm honored to be the moderator today for this um special session from the 78th World Health Assembly. Just yesterday, countries adopted the pandemic agreement, a truly historic moment that allows us to move forward towards a safer world. It strengthens the way we prevent, respond to and protect from pandemics. Uh this process was done through the intergovernmental negotiating body or IMB. And today we have three experts that will help us unpack what it is, why it is important and what are the next steps. Joining me are Miss Pressure Matsoso, co-chair of the IMB uh bureau, Dr. Joad Majour, head of the WHO Secretariat for the IMB and the International Health Regulations Amendment, and Mr. Steve Solomon, WHO principal legal uh principal legal officer. So, thank you all for joining. Uh and to all of those watching, please remember to post your questions in the comments as we'll be answering as many as we can. Um so, without further ado, let's start the conversation and let's begin with the big picture. Um I this is a question for all of you and uh would be good to get your thoughts on why is this accord of historic significance. So why don't we start with you precious thank you so much for inviting us and of course this is historic. It's a story because it is the second time that WHO comes up with a legal instrument that is adopted by the World Health Assembly. But it's historic also because it is going to change the course of history in that we now have a legal instrument that's going to be implemented by who member states to prevent as you said pandemics and to ensure that countries can be better prepared and also to respond effectively. As you know, we come from a pandmic that caused devastation. We come from a pandemic that cost people's lives, that ravaged communities, that uh cost economic shocks. And this is one legal instrument that is going to prevent this from happening in future. That's going to make the world safer and that is also going to make sure that there's equity. We don't have any public health related instrument. We don't have any global health instrument that has provisions that can give these guarantees guarantees that we are safe h from these devastations. Uh guarantees that equity is a reality. As you know, there was inequitable access and in this particular case, we're going to have something that is intergenerational. Um, if implemented, the world will be much safer than we experienced during CO. Thank you so much. And that is truly historic because we've just lifted uh and we cannot forget uh what we what we all went through. So, um maybe over to you Jo. Yeah, as said and as coach Matuso said, this is historic moment for public health and for global health security for many reason. Dr. Matus mentioned some of them but I think the most important issue to remind is this is members member state le process. member state went through a huge pandemic and they discovered that the world is not really well prepared for uh dealing with this kind of pandemic and they agree collectively to work as a sovereign country to agree on what they should do together to prevent prepare for and respond to future pandemic. I think there is a lot of issues that uh why this is historic but in my opinion this is the big important issue that member state without external influence decide to come together to learn from the covid and to prepare themsel for the future and this is I think the most important issue in my humble opinion. Absolutely. Thank you so much. And these countries coming together and showing how collaboration and multilateralism has impact is absolutely key. So thank you for that Jad. And over to you Steve. I can only compliment these explanations which really capture it with maybe an explanation from a lawyer as I'm a lawyer because what the pandemic agreement is is an international treaty and international treaties have historically worked to solve international problems in ways that work for every country. So when you look at other international treaties that have really helped things like the framework convention on tobacco control, the other international treaty adopted by WHO that has had a marked impact on improving lives all around the world. The Paris agreement on climate change is helping to reduce the impacts of climate change. And the little known treaty called the Montreal Protocol on the ozone layer has solved a problem which many of your listeners may remember from 20 years ago a hole in the ozone layer solved by a treaty. So treaties when they are developed the way this one has been developed led by member states accounting for the needs of member states driven by the principles of sovereignty and cooperation can solve problems and this is an international treaty which will solve the problems that we faced when we dealt with co absolutely thank you so much and I really like this international cooperation concept because it brings us back to this idea that it really cannot be done some things cannot really be done in silos. they cannot be done alone and there it requires cooperation. It requires countries coming together as you said. So um thank you so much for that and I'll I'll come u I'm coming back to you Joawad. Um can you give us a quick summary of the process that took place for this accord um to come about? uh I think when members say decided to to look at their experience on the COVID and come up with solutions, they decided to call for uh a special world health assembly uh and this is the second time in the in the history of WH that we have a special session of assembly to collectively come and to decide on how to do it and they agreed during the assembly to establish the INV the intergovernmental negotiation body and the INB elected six bureau members and the DG established a small team that I have the pleasure to facilitate to support the bureau in their work and the bureau under the guidance of the bureau we came up with several steps. The first one is to say what we learned from the COVID. what are the key issues that we need to fix because this is the most important thing and they agreed on several issues that show they are that are where at least weaknesses during the COVID response and then they agreed how to collect ideas uh and from from member states and uh the bureau asked for member state to make contribution what they want to see in this future instrument what are the issue they want to insist on And while we were discussing an idea an idea another idea came why we don't consult the public because the public also suffered from the covid of course it's important to consult governments because they are leading the process but consulting the public is equally important and under the guidance of the bureau we organized two public hearings where people individuals or civil society represented from the whole world contribute uted given ideas about do we need or we need instrument but also what if we need instrument what could be done in the streaming and all this work was taken together by the bureau supported by the secretariat and the ILV started its work first with an an outline but what could be and this outline was debated discussed and agreed on and then the bureau came up with several eration of the draft that was uh negotiating have been negotiated from member state article by article line by line and come up uh gradually uh to to a consensus on on on it. Of course during all this process things were not always easy. Sometimes the word complicated but I think the wisdom of countries guided by the whole bureau uh allow countries to come and on a text that uh was presented to the assembly and approved. Of course this is very very short summary on the process but uh it will take me too long time to explain all the details but other colleagues may may compliment that I forgot. Let me end I I I think this summary is is actually accurate. But what is what stands out for me um with regard to this process is that in most treaty making processes that Steve will probably know much better. You you actually pull the best legal minds, the best experts. they start the preliminary work and so on. But in this particular case, which is what Jawad is describing, we had to start on a clean sheet. There was no document that was written that we pulled from somewhere. It was clean sheet and a pen. So what Joad was describing is member states based on their experiences based on what they went through during CO had to reflect and determine the elements that had to be included. And even though we went a a through a you know a a a scientific way in collecting ideas of member states, they also had to reflect because they had gone through this very difficult experience. They had lost loved ones. They their livelihoods were ravaged. So, so because of that the the the whatever they included had to be reflective of their lived experiences and and I think Dr. Jad captures that very well. Thank you so much for that. And uh you're you're talking a lot a lot about how the experiences of people were taken into account also to draft this and how it is important that this um that different stakeholders were involved and actually that's a reminder to all of our of our viewers to post question. We have the expert who the experts who were leading this process and you can you have the opportunity to ask questions on how that impacts you. anything you you'd like to to know more about the pandemic agreement and perhaps maybe just to add and based on what Jawad was saying about the fact that it was led by member states themselves you know there's a misunderstanding about who and I think Dr. will explain how WHO works and so on. The sovereignty of member states is extremely important and nobody instructs member states what to do. Nobody tells them what to do. So even within what we did as the bureau with the support of the secretariat there was no instruction coming from above or from elsewhere. It was all determined by them collectively and and and it's a it's a very important principle. It's extremely important that people understand that no particular country was bullied by anyone into this process. No country was forced into any process. They all did this work collectively, voluntarily and also within the confines of their national laws. Perfect. Thank you so much. And I think that's absolutely important to to highlight how sovereign countries came together and come about with this with this agreement in their in their capacity of sovereign member states. Right? So, um, thank you so much for that. And, uh, actually, I'm I'm going to go to you, Steve, uh, with one question on what were some of the most contentious issues during the negotiations and how did parties reach consensus? Big question. Obviously, you can have a whole separate seminar on this subject, but I think some of the big questions were just finding overall finding balance. This remember a treaty is a contract. It's a contract between countries. Countries are exchanging commitments with each other. And so they need to find balance in those commitments. But where they were able to find balance in very difficult areas were on issues like the sharing of pathogens and the sharing of the benefits that come from those pathogens. This means vaccines and countermeasures, therapeutics, diagnostics will be shared equitably, fairly based on need and this is a very important area where balance was found. More work needs to be done on that on the areas of intellectual property difficult area but balance was found in that area and on many many other areas and I'm sure my colleagues can go into it but really it is a process of finding balance and striking that balance in a way that works for all countries is not easy. What was remarkable about this achievement led by precious and the other members the other officers bureau was that balance was achieved in each of the most sensitive areas. Maybe just to add that I think the these agreement were about how to do things not about the what but the about the how. If you take some an example of tech transfer since day one in the outline they agreed that should be in in in the text but how to do it this is where we had the different views but on the what there was no disagreement in general the same in the access and benefit sharing nobody says no but how to do it the sometime member state default on how to do it. So the what was the reason why the intergovernmental negotiating body came together. The how is what you were challenged to come uh come up with and that's uh and that's why it's a it's such an important process that took uh I think over three years of negotiations meetings and which you've summarized pretty well but that's the importance and that's how inclusive how relevant it is for people. Um, and in fact, that's that's the next question that I wanna that I want to put forward to the three of you as well. And that is if if as a regular individual that's not involved in um health diplomacy, how is this going to affect me in the future or what is the impact that a pandemic agreement has on me? Uh, we can start with uh you Steve maybe. No, I think I think it's very important to say at the outset um that um what what this agreement won't do. This agreement does not make WHO the boss of anyone or any country. WHO is not the boss. Countries are their own boss if you will. WHO only makes recommendations. It gives advice. That advice doesn't bind any country, doesn't bind any individual. So, countries will work together to figure out how to develop all these areas that we've been talking based on the agreements in the in the uh pandemic agreement. Um, and this point I think is really fundamental that it is WH supporting member states. WHO and it's written into the agreement does not order. It only makes recommendations. Thank you so much. Well, as AI mean, as a citizen, I would want to know that my safety is guaranteed. If if there's an outbreak in in my country, I'll be safe. And and I think this is what is intended that in the event there's an outbreak I should be able to travel I should be able to uh uh you know interact with others as you know there was social distancing. So, so these things much as they they are global issues there there are certain things that apply to individuals directly and and it's the those guarantees actually that people must feel safe. This is what it guarantees that in the we need to be ensured that we are safe in the event that the next pandemic happens at least we'll be much safer more safer than we were before. I also want to ensure that I will not have to wait long for a vaccine. Yeah. You know, I I I I shouldn't be told that, hey, we're not sure when these vaccines are going to come. If if disaster strikes, I should at least know that it will not take long for me to get whether vaccines or therapeutics and that I'll be told what I suffer from. So, so those kind of tools must be available. But I also want to ensure that the health workers that look after us are also protected because if they are not you know who's going to look after us so so those things are extremely important and I think this agreement to a certain extent deals with those issues and I'm simplifying them so that people can see that it's not something that is too complex technical it also relates to our daytoday lives Maybe just one small things. I think what's happened yesterday is historic in nature because is bring countries to work together and agree on on a global framework to prevent, prepare for and response to pandemic. And next step when the signature starts and the ratification starts, the same debate that happened two years ago will happen in the country level and at the country level through the parliament and the representative institution. Not this this dialogue will happen and individuals either directly or through their communities through their representatives with the government with the private sector will agree on what is the best way to implement this agreement. What are the national priorities and everybody will have a say how to implement prevention preparedness and response for pandemic. In my humble opinion, this is the most important part because we all of us agree that the world will not prepare if there is only one country who will not prepare and this national debate will allow individuals to contribute to their priorities and select what is good for their country taking consideration their national priorities and circumstances. Thank you so much for that and I I will continue with some of these questions but I want to um add also some of the comments that we're getting on social media and through through our viewers. Uh some of them saying happy to see a woman in power representing and giving insightful and in fact in impactful contributions. Um there are there are a few questions. Um I'm going to go for one uh on uh I noticed there is a section devoted to material acquisition for pandemic resources. Is there any sort of oversight in regards to what those resources are and any safeguards to prevent abuse of the system? This is from team Harbison. Anyone that could take this is any sort of oversight in regards to material acquisition. um uh and and oversight to what those resources are uh and safeguard to prevent the abuse of the system in terms of material acquisition. No, I think one of the element that the agreement uh with member state agree in the agreement is to establish a global global uh network to for supply and logistic issues. The role of this uh uh mechanism is to help countries to get access to control measures either to diagnostic to vaccine medicines uh PPEs or other issues because some countries they don't have capacity to do it and they agree to come together to establish mechanism that can do it on their behalf but the good news is this mechanism is operating under the oversight and the control of member state themselves. Nobody has uh any oversight on on them. If I understood very well the question, this is my response. But uh I can probably add I mean if if if you look at how the pandemic argument has been put together in the preamble, it actually states some of the broader principles about of accountability, transparency, but it also states what the obligations of member states are. But what what I like is that with the establishment of some institutional arrangements in a form of the um conference of parties there is some reporting framework so that in in that process of reporting we can also or state h what is it that countries are doing because it's it's not about the use of resources and it's also about implementation. one the countries themselves through the conference of parties must at least ensure there's some accountability mechanisms to ensure there's implementation but also resources are accounted for and there's a proposal for establishment of coordinating a a financial mechanism and and that comes with a procedural elements especially of accounting you know you don't just get a system where money is allocated and there's no system of accountability. You don't get a system where you make supplies available and nobody accounts for them. So I think those safeguards will be threshed out again when the conference of parties is established but the key elements and broader thematic areas are enshrined in this document. Thank you so much. Uh just one more comment from online and then I'll come back hopefully to a couple of questions. So from Hannah Mandol, as an individual who is not involved in health policy, I'm pleased to hear that WHO does not play as the boss in the pandemic agreement, but rather the body that gives recommendations. Do you have any any reaction to this comment? Well, I'm I'm we really appreciate the comment because um uh your your listener, your viewer has understood really well what how operates. We're an organization of countries and countries make the decisions and countries make their own laws and countries will consider this as Jawad has said uh because uh the first step in the process is what happened here at the health assembly. The representatives of the countries adopted it but after soon it will go back to the countries and each country will decide. It further underscores how WH is not the boss. WH is there for advice and by the way I would say for advice that we try as hard as possible to make impartial neutral and based on science and based on evidence and that's what we who are here for and then member states take that and they make the decisions. Thank you so much. And I think that's key uh and one of the of the areas what we really need to highlight is that WHO uh is uh fulfilling its mandate given by member states, given by countries and that is uh to provide recommendations. It's not the other way around. It's not WHO telling countries what to do but uh countries coming together through WHO. So um that is uh that is uh very very helpful. Yeah, please. The decision that was taken by member state during the special assembly to establish the intergovernmental negotiating body include a request to the DG. Member state themselves asked the DG what to do to support this process and this what they find in term of supporting the member state in meeting providing technical advice and that even the role of the DG or the of the organization was was defined by member state themselves. Well that's uh I think that's very helpful and hope that that clarifies the questions from the questions and the comments uh online. So um you've spoken a little bit of the next steps uh now that the that the assembly has adopted the pandemic agreement. So now it goes to countries. But is there any any other nuance that our that our viewers would benefit from in terms of what's next? I think everyone's looking at you precious. Well, I I think the first thing is you'll realize that there's been a recognition that there's some work that is quite intensive that had to be undertaken but the first step was the adoption and which has happened. Member states have adopted the pandemic agreement. But then the other piece of work that has to unfold is that of developing an instrument that goes hand in glove with the pandemic agreement and that instrument is established in terms of article 12 and it is about pathogen access and beneficiary. This is one aspect. Now the actual coming into force of this pandemic government will not happen until this work on the instrument is completed. The second is that preparatory work has to happen. So before signature because you need a threshold of countries there must be about 60 of them that sign and say yes before that happens you must do preparatory work and preparatory work means all the procedural requirements administrative issues need to be put together ready so that when the conference of party is established must hit the ground running. Mhm. Now all of that work must unfold. Of course there are a few other technical areas which I'll hand over to Dr. J to explain better. Yeah, I think I agree with with precious uh agreeing on the the PP system is a key and uh after this agreement adoption in the assembly the signature verification will start and this is what member state agreed to do but uh also they agreed also that uh member state themselves should start putting the the element to be ready when when the signature and start they can be ready. Also the yesterday member state in the resolution they adopted they they they requested the DG to start helping countries based on the request to be prepared for the for the the ratification of the process. I think these are key element. One element that maybe is also important to highlight here. Yesterday member state agreed that if a pandemic happened before the interior enforcement of this agreement, they they urged member state to implement the provision of this agreement on voluntary basis to face the pandemic. Of course, we we we hope that we'll not have a pandemic that soon, but I think uh uh we need always to prepare for the worst. And member state in their wisdom agreed yesterday to voluntarily implement the provision of the treaty if a pandemic happened before them to reinforce anything. All right. Well, um, this is, uh, I'm going to take this kind of a closing statement from each one of you, but, uh, specifically addressing young people who are watching us today. Um, so in in a few sentences, what what should the next generation hope for from this agreement success? So, we can maybe start with you, Steve. Really, I really like the question because it really goes to what uh this agreement really is, which is a uh a promise to future generations especially to be safer. And I think I would take away this that you know if during co if the vaccines and the therapeutics and the diagnostics of co were distributed based on health needs on health risks. Many many many lives would have been saved. Many many illnesses would have been avoided and more limited. Um if instead those health those those necessary important medicines are distributed based on issues of profit and geopolitics, we're going to repeat the same problems we had with COVID. What this what this agreement does especially is it says that future access and future distribution of medicines to deal with the next pandemic are going to be distributed based on public health risk and need. And that's an critical element to ensuring the safety of everyone, whether they're young people or young parents or they have older parents. This is for families for everyone. The uh the guarantee that there'll be better access, better distribution, more fair, more equitable in the future. What? I think uh for those who attended the adoption yesterday, they heard the youth speaking about what they want. I think uh my humble advice is to go to the statement and look within them and we have uh clear road map how to implement this and my hope is that the youth are consulted during the national processes because they they know what they want and they know what they expect for their future. And really to be frank yesterday I was humbled by these uh youth interventions. It was great to hear those youth voices coming and reacting to this great historic moment. Right Precious. Well this agreement is a seed that is planted for a tree that will serve as a shade for youth. They will use this today. It's a seed is planted. It will be a tree. It will grow. But you won't be there to enjoy the shade. It will be youth that will be enjoying the shade. So it is for that reason that is important that they should be part of this. They should be the ones bringing the fertilizer to the seeds. they are the ones who water the seeds and and and it's for that reason that their involvement and I agree with Joah that you know it's humbling to hear a youth saying we want it and and and saying they want it is because it is about them. they are the ones who are going to establish whether it works or not and it's better if they are part of this process now not later. Thank you so much and uh thank you for for being part of this conversation first of all but also for all the work that has gone through and congratulations really for such a such a milestone uh in in global health. Um and thank you also to all our viewers uh who have joined us today who have sent us questions. Uh to me this conversation has made one thing clear and that is that uh the pandemic agreement is a victory for global health, is a victory for equity, is a victory for sovereignty and uh it is now in our hands to continue to be engaged and so we invite you all to be engaged in your in your national processes in the next steps as it as has been shared by our experts here today. Thank you so much again for joining us and uh we'll see you soon.