Hello and welcome to the WH social media talk show here at the 78th World Health Assembly. I'm Tonga Namja Surin. I head the WHO's work on health information and advocacy. So today we will be discussing one of the most common and concerning issues for all of us about falsified medicines. We will be talking about why the problem exists, what may be the key causes and what are the solutions we are coming up with. Studies show that in some places up to 90% of the medicines that people are buying may be falsified or substandard. This is a major issue. So I have a number of um uh guests here. So let me introduce my guests. Dr. Rudenda Kuana is team lead for WHO incidents and substandard and falsified medical products. Professor Oxanna Fijic, associate professor of pharmacy practice and policy at the University College London. And she also chairs an international coalition of organizations called Fight the Fakes Alliance. And we also have Dr. Oai Dullah who is chief executive officer of the drug regulatory authority of Pakistan. Welcome to the show. So I would like to welcome our uh global audience also uh your thoughts, opinions and questions. Please um type your questions with ask who hashtag on X and enter your questions in comments section on all of the other platforms on LinkedIn, Facebook, YouTube from wherever you are watching us. So let's start the show. So let me start with Dr. Kuana I would like to uh share with the audience what are we talking about when we say falsified and sub substandard medicines. Thank you Tonga. Well I think uh maybe substandard is much easier to to understand because it's a product which does not meet its standards of quality. Um but when we're talking about falsified, it's really we're talking about a medical product or a medicine um which is misleading in terms of what it contains, who manufactures it and also uh maybe the quality part as well. So the source and identity of the product is misleading. So some people will call them fake, some people call them uh counterfeit. So it's really the same the the the the way we say uh falsified is really in a legal term uh for the purpose of professional and understanding globally but otherwise it would mean the same as counterfeit and fake products. So can we say just simply fake drugs? Yes we can. Thank you. So as I mentioned in the intro um in some places up to 90% of the medicines that could belong to this category which is really worrying and it is also a question about people really having that confidence and trust in ouries and health services because people are buying these medicines with their own money. What is the extent of the problem globally and in some of the regions as well? It is a big problem. Um, and in some instances, just like what you're saying, uh, we estimate that one in 10, for example, for every 10 products, maybe one of them is either substandard or falsified, especially to those countries where they the low-income countries. And we estimate also that maybe about 30 billion US dollars is actually wasted on buying these products which are substandard or falsified. So it's really a waste of the very finite resources that we have. Okay. So I'm going to turn to you um uh Professor Oxana Fijic. Um I I know you work to raise awareness and also safeguard public health. Could you please explain why this is a public safety issue and what are the clear examples that we can think of when we are talking about this problem? So I'll start with um an example of substandard products uh which over the last few years there have been tragic mass poisonings within children's cough syrup as the story of Urfan who was just two months old in the Himalayan region in India his family went walked 10 kilometers to get to the closest pharmacy and pick up some cough syrup. Inside that cough syrup was something called deethylene glycol or DEG. This is an industrial solvent and it's used in um things like brake fluid um antifreeze solutions and it definitely does not belong in pediatric cough syrup. Over the years, we've had repeated cases of such tragedies where this child ended up in hospital not uh being able to breathe and eventually passing away from kidney failure. Um and this tragedy has still not been resolved. Children like an there have been cases in the Gambia, in Usbekiststan, in Iraq, in Indonesia and 15 other countries that WHO has investigated. Unfortunately, there are probably many more cases, but they're hard to find and hard to prove. So, that is an example of how medicines can have either exipients or the active pharmaceutical ingredient that are not up to quality that are contaminating the product and it costs human life. We heard that statistic. One in 10 medicines on average can either be substandard or falsified. That's one in 10 times that we gamble with human life. Now that type of story is more common in lowincome settings but in high income settings what we're seeing a different type of trend with falsified medicines and the way to distinguish that is sometimes criminal intent. There is no legal manufacturer creating it. We don't know who's even making it. And this is a prime example of people going online to get medicines from illegalarmacies. So, we've heard a lot in the media about things like Ompic or the weight loss jab and a very sad story in the UK. So, that's where I work. And um a lady had purchased a weight loss jab on a social media website, but it didn't contain semaglutide, which is the active ingredient. It had insulin. She collapsed in front of her children and was rushed to hospital via ambulance where she had such severe hypoglycemia that she almost died. Luckily, she did survive, but she is now warning everyone in the UK that you should not be buying any type of medicines off of social media or you if you're going to a online pharmacy, you need to check that it is legitimate. It's a legal online pharmacy with a prescription. So, those I think can help us distinguish between the problems and it's everywhere. It's not just in low-income countries. We have different types of problems but still causing patient harm all over the world. Thank you. I mean this is an incredibly serious issue. We are really talking about human loss of life and a major I'm sure uh business there. But I'd like to turn to you Dr. Odullah. You lead you are the chief executive officer of the Pakistani Drug Regulatory Authority. And this is the type of government agency everywhere uh in all of the countries people really put their trust in so that you can protect us the populations to access safe and quality medicines and I also realize uh the dimension of the contaminated syrup outbreaks in multiple countries also involved Pakistan. So from the real ground from the country experience what are the key reasons that they are really having these problems? Uh thank you very much Tonga for having me in this live session. Uh in fact uh the problem of SF medicine it's not the localized problem because medicine is a international commodity. uh if any medicine is being manufactured in any country, it is not being manufactured in for that very country it is exported and the examples which have been shared by our colleague these are not the medicines which were manufactured in that very country where it was used and it was manufactured in some other country and then exported. So international harmonized legislations and regulations are very much integrally important to combat this issue of SF product. As far as my country is concerned over the past 10 years uh there was a tremendous improvement in the regulatory system. We have been transformed from the conventional system to international harmonized regulations and if we see that we are working for the majority level three of the global benchmarking tool and out of nine regulatory functions there are two functions we specifically talk about this one and that is the market control and lab testing procedure. So by and large these are the problems if any country want to overcome the issue of SF product. it is the right approach to have the um internationally harmonized legislation on the terms of the benchmarking tool so that it's a structured mechanism can be done and it can be adopted for the resolution of the issue and it is the solution and if my country is concerned now we have transformed our system from the conventional to all these components of indicators of all these components now we improved our testing uh out of our 11 public sector laboratories six are pre-qualified and rest are being done at the same time the specifically talking about this very issue of DEG and EG Pakistan was the first country who issued the rapid alert advisory and all these thing and at the same times followed by the four other advisories and at the same time we made it mandatory that all the DEG and EG to be used in pharmaceutical product should be tested by government lab and by all these actions uh Pakistan was successful that not a single case of any death has been reported not inside Pakistan but other for the exported products as well. So these were the regulatory mechanisms which we adopted and by virtue of which uh Pakistan has we have done very efforts so that we can't any any product which we can say that it is the DEG or EG uh have been contaminated for that sounds very promising but I also want to uh just go back to one of the uh statistics that you both mentioned that it's a huge amount of money that is spent. Uh you mentioned that there are uh there's at least $30 billion US dollars that these medicines cost just in low and middle middle income countries. So in terms of you know just money size especially here at the setting of the WHA where we are discussing the WHO budget that is already sevenfold of the budget that the entire WHO is uh spending on. So there's a massive amount of business and I really want to go into a little bit of the commercial determinance side of it. What kind of business is this and what are the key players? Uh my question to you uh professor Fijik. Yes. So you mentioned that it cost the health sector over 30 billion to respond to all the the um healthcare needs as a result of substandard falsified medical products. But it's also um very lucrative to uh the whole falsified sector. Uh it's sometimes described as the perfect crime because there's it's a high profit with very low risk be because we don't have that harmonized international legislation to apply um tougher penalties disincentivizing the profit. It's a over $200 billion market uh in terms of financial reward. That's more than um elicit drugs. So if you look at it from the organized criminal perspective with falsified medicines, this is um a lot of money to be made and countries haven't caught up with each other in terms of how to appropriately respond to it. So wherever we see um falsified medicines, usually this is because there's a big demand, right? So the market drives it. So during COVID, what did we see? Lots of falsified COVID related products. everything from diagnostics, PPE, even falsified vaccines. Um now because there is such an interest and probably unprecedented media hype around weight loss jabs, this is another um area where there's a lot of falsification. Any environment in which there are medicines are very expensive or there is a shortage due to natural disasters, conflict, um all of these things mean that there's higher risk for penetration within the legal supply chain of falsified medical products. And this is where um the organized criminal groups target because that's where the money is to be made. You both mentioned that there is really a need and um also opportunity to generate global scale regulation and I'd like to turn to you uh uh Rutendo Kubana what is who doing what are the key priorities for who in this uh area of work? So as WHO we work in two different main ways. Uh we of course being the World Health Organization we coordinate and we convene member states so that they can collaborate as mentioned by my colleagues here. So we have a member state mechanism um which was established in 2012 which is really um the countries coming together to talk about it to try and identify what are the causes, what can be done to prevent uh what can be done to detect and also how member states or countries can actually respond proportionately to this uh continuing situation of substandard and falsified medical products. In addition to that, we also have a reporting system which we manage which we call the global surveillance and monitoring system. So in each country uh we have at least one representative which we call focal points. They report to WH and we help them to investigate if they don't have the resources and on the basis of what they would have reported we also then share this information with the countries especially those countries that are impacted. you mentioned several countries and um also when we're working with our colleagues for example from Pakistan whenever they report to us products that are in uh international commerce they tell us that we have this product we bought it from there it has been distributed to these countries our job as who to make sure that we provide that information to the countries and also of course to help them with the regulatory systems to improve the regulatory system so that they can actually adequately have the the oversight. So who collects the information whenever there is uh and wherever there is an incident of um unsafe medicines to generate this alert so that globally in different territories peoplearmacies doctors are informed about what might be a potential outbreak which is really great but I also want to understand from you Dr. Bdulla there is a major role for internet. A lot of people buy medicines online and uh it was mentioned that uh many of these medicines also uh are encouraged the sales of those medicines are encouraged by this uh medicines and sales uh through the new technology. How do you see the problem in your country? It's very uh in fact it's a very important problem which is now emerging because uh when on one side technology has a good aspect and beneficial aspect so everything every technology has some bad impact as well and internet sale of drug is one of the component where we really want to work not only for the on the level of our any national government rather at international level. It is a very important problem which is being spread across the globe and most of the cases rather on all cases of internet sales are not being regulated by any country because still legislation is in is to be done by every country for the internet sale and I was just discussing with Rutando that in the next World Health Assembly we must have some resolution to curb this thing and Pakistan can be one of the sponsor for this resolution as well because it is an area where not only developed countries rather LMIC's they are still struggling for this thing and all the drugs which professor has just shared omp and so many other drugs the major source of these falsified medicine is the internet medicine and it's not restricted to this one uh falsified medicine this internet sale is one of the biggest source for the for the addiction and for the those drugs which have been banned by their countries as So we must think all member country should think uh who should take the lead and should take member state as well on confidence to legislate the component of internet sales and for all those countries which are not developed yet they should ban all the internet sales and it is not the regulatory authority alone because it is a cross cross border sale. So custom authorities are also part of that and enforcement to be done by some law enforcement agency. So it is tripartite um action legislation in any country national regulatory authority custom authority and law enforcement authority there should be the part of this internet s and I think there should be some model legislation by NWHO or UCL or some other institutes can take lead for this one thank you for that so I'm going to remind our viewers from wherever you're watching you can participate in our discussion you can um type your questions with Ask WH hashtag on X and on all of the other channels, LinkedIn, YouTube, and Facebook. You can enter your questions in the comments section. So, let me read out a question from uh a viewer. Gake Gatito is asking the following. What are the most pressing global health challenges the WHO is focusing right now to deal with this problem? and how can individuals help support public health initiatives and uh related with uh fighting the fake medicines or the substandard and contaminated medicines. Your thoughts? So maybe I could speak on behalf of who is happening is um especially this issue of the contaminated syrups in children. The problem starts from the raw materials that are used and that's where the contamination was. Um so we are working with the with the governments and we're also working with industry to make sure that there's adequate control of the raw materials because bad material coming in you get a bad product which can be very dangerous. Uh as well the other thing which uh Dr. Bullah mentioned is the the issue of um narcotics those hard drugs that you find on the street. We have recent evidence this is a worrying development that medicines that are on the street your ecstasy your mandrs that people are used to fentanil and so forth we have found recent instances where they are being adulterated with other very very potent highly toxic uh narcotics as well that have no medicinal value. This is an emerging trend and it's now not only low to middle inome countries but also the wellto-do countries are impacted. Recently in Switzerland we had a a case which we also uh listed on our medical product alert. So a lot is emerging and we really need to take this seriously and and the other thing which I want to mention is with regards to um the users of the products. If you demand quality you will get quality. If you do not demand for good quality product, you'll get bad quality product. So, it depends on the users of the products, you know, you have to ask for it. And that's one thing that I would I would urge uh the the viewers, uh the public in general to make sure that we do that. So as a academic and pharmacist, I would say that if you're unsure, if you're um looking because there are lots of legitimate digital health sites that offer um services that speak to your pharmacist first and they can help guide you in terms of getting um online services. So that would be one and also if you hear from your friends or other people who are going to social media sites to purchase that will never be a legitimate product. Um you have to understand that social media does not have licenses to sell medicines. A you need a prescription and if you're unsure about where to go then definitely speak to your pharmacist and um join the fight the fakes alliance. So, uh, we're on Twitter, LinkedIn, all the platforms. Share our message that, um, to fight the fakes and get your medicine safely. We're not going to escape the consumer trends in terms of, um, people getting care online. And there's many benefits to that in terms of places that are remote, but you need to be doing that safely. And even our health care professionals don't always know how to verify. So, that's where the education and the awareness comes in. Thank you. Any thoughts? Uh I will continue from my two other colleagues. I will have two perspective being national regulatory authority chief. One perspective is from definitely from the public perspective and definitely I will go by the comments of my other colleagues as well that public should go and buy the medicine only and only from the licensed pharmacies. That is the only source of having the quality drug. uh no online sale, no internet sale or if any any for any anywhere for any consumer or patient find that any pharmacy is giving some higher discounts of any medicine it means there is the problem. So inform the national regulatory authority it is the perspective of the patient. I have another perspective as well and that is for the manufacturers, pharmaceutical manufacturers. As per the guidelines, every manufacturer is supposed to have three major sources, three sources of any active pharmaceutical ingredient or exipients to be legitimate supply. But in some cases, we also found that that recipients are being purchased online as well. And that is the typical example for the glycerine and glycol as well that was contaminated with the deeg and eg. So it's not only the patient who should comply and should not go for internet other pharmaceutical manufacturers are also supposed to have uh purchased the medicine ingredients both active pharmaceutical and exipients from their approved vendor. In fact, Pakistan has conducted a study as well with the help of the WHO and we we found some cases and we then banned those cases and now we are publishing that one and that is not the problem of our country. It is an international problem. So it's not only just the medicines that exist online but also the the producers in some cases they buy their raw materials on online which could be the source of the problem. Uh that is really interesting. I have another uh question from Ami Ahmed. Uh I think he's uh she's from Sudan. Uh how Sudan is full of falsified medicines due to ongoing war. Uh now Sudan, sorry, not how um and what kind of campaigns and measures would be possible in this very challenging setting. as as WH we actually did some campaigns and I think Oxana did mention the issue that for people to do something about anything they need to be aware about the scope the scale and the harm that can be caused by whatever it is that you want to prevent. So we did some awareness campaigns uh in in some countries in Africa and what was important was to be able to share the message that uh substandard and falsified medical products or medicines are real. They are harmful and also what you can do about it. You know and my colleagues have mentioned speak to the pharmacist manufacturers what should they do? So awareness campaigns at community level uh radios um and what we are doing now these are the things that we can uh we would recommend and also for those people that are now aware or are aware we ask them to spread the message join fight the fakes and I think you know that in that context in particular Sudan has been a region that has seen a lot of conflict and that's why it's more vulnerable which means there needs to be even more investment in supply chain chain security and as my other colleague has highlighted it's um at every point in the supply chain there has to be that education and training. So the public needs to be aware but border control needs to be aware, law enforcement needs to be aware knowing that you can trust the wholesalers, knowing that you can trust the people who are uh supplying the exipients. So, not to go to the heavily discounted uh unknown vendor because you don't know what you're get getting. And already an excellent point was made by my colleague that if the discount is too good to be true, you're probably going to be getting something that isn't safe. So, at the end of the day, we have to be even more vigilant when it's in a conflict setting where medicine supply is disrupted. often in those situations you have um foreign aid playing a huge role but the local supply chain also needs to be protected. So I have a question from Asuchismita Roy and I will try to summarize her question. It's a little bit long. Uh but she's asking uh what is WHO doing to convince Asian national governments with uh with large populations to allow quality medicines. Um because she thinks that uh um through the trending system in some of the South Asian countries uh only lowpriced medicines are prescribed. um and she feels that in doing so um a majority of the or large uh a proportion of the population is not really getting access to high quality uh uh medicines. So she's basically asking about the tendering process that many of the governments uh use and how can the quality uh be assured. I I think uh to a certain extent my colleague Dr. Aloula also mentioned this with regards to the procurement. Um when you are procuring medicine price should not be the only determined. You should also consider the quality of the product. You should demand for quality. It must be one of the requirements that the product must come from an appropriately registered manufacturer who complies with the international standards for manufacturer and also um that the the the quality is assured uh testing is adequately conducted and the product is approved by a competent uh national regulatory authority. So the tendering process is really to take advantage of economies of scale. So it does not mean that because the price is low that the product is poor quality. Um and some people use the word the name generic. Generic medicines are not substandard or falsified products. They are just um copies of maybe the original uh products and by the nature of uh the the products they tend to be manufactured at a lower cost and therefore they they become available not necessarily because uh being generic they of substandard uh quality. I mean I'll jump in by just saying that we have both generic and uh branded medications that are falsified. So, so really both can be targeted. Um, and we shouldn't operate under the assumption that generic um is low quality. That's not the case. You can get an excellent price point. Um, India being one of the umarmacies of the world if you will and also a leader in generics manufacturing. That's really important in terms of medicine's access. If we look one of the root causes of this problem is again when medicines are not affordable um it becomes this is where the the falsification occurs uh because people cannot afford them and another actor steps in to try and provide that. So we need to have access to affordable and quality medicines. And in if you operate in an environment where generics have the appropriate inspections policy in place and the regulatory um bodies are doing their job and checking that that standard is met, that's actually a really wonderful um achievement for public health and is able to um provide access to medicines to many more people in the world. It's a very important point that the generic medicines is a type of medicine that could be at a at a lower price but is of good quality if it's properly uh you know supplied and regulated. So it's not exactly the same thing. I mean it's actually completely different thing from substandard and falsified medicines. Um so uh I think it's a very important point because in a lot of public health programs actually generic medicines are the provide the backbones to uh improve the the the coverage of the of the services. So an interesting uh just uh comment somebody uh put actually it's Mi Oras put uh on X that falsified medicines are like bad movie sequels. Uh so it is good uh that that that's an interesting comment but um it's probably uh not exactly directly related with falsified medicines but uh Obedola Avan is also saying there's a problem with people using antibiotics and lots of other prescription drugs even without much counseling. So there is really this communication with pharmacists uh not only just uh about quality but also the how to use um and treatment schedules and such is a problem. So what's your opinion on that? In fact antimicrobial resistance is very big issue and it is not the again it's not a localized issue. It is a international phenomena which is being prevailed and sale of drug on prescription is very important for all the drugs in general and antibiotics in specific. So in my understanding every national regulatory authority should legislate and should implement that prescription should be followed and drugs should be sold on prescription. For that purpose, WHO has an aware list. Excess war reserve. Antibiotics have been divided into three categories and for that purpose legislation should be on this background. Every government should take steps so that drugs should antibiotics should not be sold without the prescription because this these are not candies. antibiotics and drugs. These are the prescription drugs which should be sold under the supervision of pharmacist and on the prescription of registered medical practitioners. And it is a very big issue again in LMICS. It's a really important point uh about antibiotics. It's not necessarily on the falsified nature which is a slightly different issue but just generally antibiotics are not supposed to be taken without prescription. And I think this is a message that really needs to travel far and wider uh you know um uh everywhere. So um there is a question from Aayun Aluk who's asking um and it's really raising the major issue that is the really kind of a root problem in the health services which is how can we trust our pharmacists because we go to our pharmacist to pharmacies and they give us medicines and we take them but if the medicines are not genuine um which is happening a lot in a lot of the African countries what can we do so I think that's really the key uh problem that we are discussing here in fact uh every country has national regulatory authority and every national regulatory authority has offices in their every city almost so it is required that to inform that very localized office it is one way but now with the advancement of technology it's very important to use the technology interventions for reporting of any falsified medicines. By the way, we are working on that forum as well and soon Pakistan is introducing 2D barcode with a QR code systems so that every person who is purchasing the medicine they will scan the product finished product and if that is genuine they will get the medicine message. But if the product is falsified then message will be conveyed to the national regulatory authority with geotagging that this product is available at such a place which is falsified and national regulatory authority can take the action. It is one of the point where we can work and with the endorsement of technology. So I'm going to um raise this point that the falsified medicine is actually not really some kind of theoretical or conceptual problem. It's really about everyone who's taking medication today which is happening which is all of us. So if somebody has uh an issue or a question about uh a possibility of falsified or substandard type of medicine, what should the person do? So again I will say that you should bring it up with your pharmacists. um they're we're actually helping train um individuals to be able to report to their national regulatory authorities so that we get um more reporting that also helps us understand the picture better. But anything from it could be that it looks um it's dissolving more easily. It's not as crumbly usually this tablet something like that. Bring that up with your pharmacist. Have the conversation because then they can help you um to check where has it come from? Is this batch been recalled? Uh, and even if it's not a substant or falsified issue, sometimes you even just have things like recalls. So, I would say if there's any suspicion at all, damage to the packaging, if the color of the tablet is different, if there's spelling errors on the product itself, these are all clues. So, you should be examining, particularly if you're in a region where there's a higher burden of substantive falsified medicines. You need to be alert. you need to be aware checking those products and if you're unsure, do not take it. Bring it to your pharmacist. They will help to verify um and that's the the beauty of the technology that we have these days for tracking and tracing um for GS1 standards to be able to ensure that we know everywhere that this medicine has been moved and to verify the authenticity of the product. So um in that instance I would say right away have a conversation with your prescriber. So this is great because uh it actually the main message is that you can do something. So you do not have to sit idly and do nothing. You can actually think about it and start having conversations maybe learn about the national regulatory authority as well now that you know that this um might be a problem in many of the many of the places. So now here at the WHA um we have this topic on the agenda right at this instance and from Monday onwards the countries will be discussing this topic. So I'd like to maybe wrap up just hearing your opinion about um what should be the priority and why this is important right at this very instance as WH I think one of the major things is collaboration and sharing information between the countries improving awareness and embracing technology the track andress uh technologies that have been mentioned also the technologies on the field to be able to detect these medicines. Um so this I think should be the priorities going forward. So I would encourage all member states to collaborate with um the Fight the Fakes Alliance to help achieve the WHO's mission on prevention, detection and um improving response and reporting of of these products and also that we get the general public involved aware making sure that they're not going to uh social media sites and if they do find them that they report them. Uh I would urge that uh member states and countries also um put some pressure on the technology companies that platform the sale of some of these falsified products. They have an accountability in this piece too and like I'd like to see them to be part of the solution. Uh and we so education awareness and from a legislative point of view we need to disincentivize this. This is a serious crime. uh even with substandard products, there's uh when it's so when the contamination is to the extent of mass poisoning, there's a legal argument around criminal negligence and we need to have accountability that the victims deserve a recourse for justice for the loved ones that they have lost. This affects real people, real lives and fake medicines can cause real harm. uh in fact uh SF product is a real threat to the public health and it is one of the priority area where is working since long and that's why it is in the agenda of world health assembly. Uh being a national regulatory authority it's my pledge that WH should work for the regulatory system strengthening of the member countries. It is the only solution by which we can work together. we can eliminate the component of this SF product and we can strengthen our regulatory system and another thing is which is very important it is a regional coordination and this regional coordination should be done by who field regional offices for the strengthening of their regulatory system in those member country it's not essentially required that if any country which is developed that doesn't require regulatory system strengthening because it's a continuous improvement process and it should be done, strengthening should be done, good governance in medicine should be done and collaboration should be done to eliminate the this problem of SF product. Thank you to our viewers from Cameroon, India, Sagal, Qatar, Ethiopia, Brazil, Godir, Ireland, Sudan, South Sudan, United Arab Emirates, Somaliand, Ghana and lots of other places. And thank you to my guests today, Rotenda Kovana, Oxana Fitzik, and Dr. Odullah. Um, we wish you a very good day and till next time. Goodbye.