Hello and welcome to the 78th World Health Assembly. I'm Vismita Gupta Smith and we are coming to you live from Geneva, Switzerland. Behind me at the World Health Assembly, delegates from your country countries are uh setting up uh setting the agenda for global health. Today we are going to talk about a set of diseases. Heart disease, cancer, diabetes, diseases of the upper respiratory tract. These diseases together are called non-communicable diseases. That's because they are not communicable. They're not infectious. And perhaps that's why they may sometimes not get as much attention as an outbreak or an emergency. Often people may not even know that they have these diseases uh in advance. Uh however, they actually cause 75% of the deaths globally. So on our panel today uh to discuss this I'm I'm really pleased to introduce you to Dr. Guy phones Dr. Guy uh is the director acting director of our department of comm non-communicable diseases in the WHO headquarters. Dr. Albert Domingo welcome. Dr. Domingo is the assistant secretary in the department of health of the Philippines. and Orya James. Oria works with us on the WHO Global Diabetes Compact and Orya also has lived experience. She's living with type 1 diabetes. So before we get started though, you can ask your questions uh to our panel on Twitter uh uh use WH otherwise you can put our your comments on our timelines on LinkedIn, Facebook and YouTube. So let's get started. Ora, let me start with you. Uh you are living with type 1 diabetes. When did you find out about that and how did that impact your life? Thank you very much, Miss Vita. My journey with type 1 diabetes, it actually started off my diagnosis story was supposed to be a holiday. I was on a hiking trip with my family in Canada where I'm from, where I'm born, and I was so tired and so fatigued that I couldn't do the hikes. In fact, I remember I sat down on the ground and I cried because I felt so tired. And then in addition to that, I was drinking a huge amount of liquid, liters and liters every day, water, juice, pop, whatever I could find. And as a result of of that huge amount of hydration, I was going to the washroom consistently, you know, kind of every 20 to 30 minutes. And so on this vacation, my parents clocked. Something is not quite right. I came back. I went to the hospital and almost immediately I was taken to the pediatric intensive care unit. I was very sick. I was quite unwell. And it's at that moment that I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. And I was 10 years old when this happened. Um, and we came to learn that these were classic symptoms of type 1 diabetes. The fatigue, the extreme thirst, the the frequent urination. Um, and literally overnight my life changed. Type 1 diabetes, it's a chronic autoimmune disease and it's a non-communical disease as you've shared. Um, and it requires as it happens a huge amount of management. People with type 1 diabetes, their bodies don't produce insulin. And so we need to inject it manually. And to do so, to do those calculations, we need to take into account everything that we eat, count the carbohydrates, we need to check our blood sugars, and we need to dose insulin. So, as you can imagine, it's quite involved. It impacts almost every section of your life, your physical health, you know, your mental and emotional health, your social health. And I do want to share off the bat that my life with type 1 diabetes, it is characterized by privilege and by access and by stability. My life with type one is not representative. I come from a high income country and I've never had challenges accessing things like insulin and blood like glucose monitoring supplies. But unfortunately that is not the case for many many many people living with type 1 diabetes. Um and that is actually a part of the work that I do today with the global diabetes compact. One of our big goals that we're hoping to achieve by the year 2030 is to make sure that 100% of people living with type 1 diabetes have access to insulin as well as blood glucose monitoring supplies. Thank you for going to talk a little more about that, but first uh share with us when you uh tell people about your type 1 diabetes, what are the kind of reactions you usually get? You know that's it's an interesting question and one that I almost feel a bit sad to share but when I talk to people about my diagnosis of diabetes of type 1 diabetes often the responses that I get are filled with misinformation and filled with stigma actually. So misinformation referring to incorrect information and then stigma being those negative attitudes and beliefs that are held. Um and I I want to take a moment as well to shine light on type two diabetes. I live with type 1 diabetes. It's a chronic autoimmune condition. But most people living with diabetes, more than 90% of the global diabetes population are living with type 2 diabetes, which is different. Type two diabetes is more of a metabolic condition. And type two diabetes, your risk of getting type two diabetes is influenced by things like your nutrition, you know, your dietary habits and your level of physical activity. And because type two diabetes is related to what we often call lifestyle factors, there's a lot of assumptions that people make about people living with type two diabetes. And sometimes these assumptions sound like, you know, people with type two diabetes, they don't care about their health. You know, they're unwilling to make changes. You know, perhaps they don't want to be healthy. Perhaps they're lazy. Sometimes there's an assumption that everyone with type two diabetes is living with overweight or obese. And these are simply not grounded in fact. And these assumptions as well, they don't take into consideration the really kind of incredibly direct ways that our systems and our environment impact our risk of diabetes. You know, thinking about the food that is available, how accessible is it? How fresh is it? Uh, you know, do you live in a safe neighborhood? Are you able to walk places? Is physical activity accessible? Do you have the privilege of health education? Do you have the resources to act on that health education? And this stigma and this um misinformation that is often related to type two diabetes, it actually radiates outwards and it impacts everybody living with diabetes. And one of the things that this misinformation and stigma does is that it acts as a concrete barrier, a barrier to sharing, a barrier to seeking resources, a barrier to going to health care. And this is another thing that we try to address with the WHO global diabetes compact. We are really passionate about trying to address this misinformation and this stigma so that people living with diabetes feel confident in asking for what they need. Feel confident in seeking out the information and the resources to empower themselves and can live a life that is full of fulfillment and confidence rather than internal shame. Thank you for sharing that Ora. Stay with us. We'll come back to you to our audience. uh tell us about your experience with diabetes and other non-communicable diseases, cancer, heart disease, diseases of the upper respiratory tract. Um share that on our timelines if you would like to like us to also share it with others. Um let us now zoom out a little and come to the global picture. guy uh tell us about this moment at uh about this moment in non-communicable diseases right it's quite a critical moment because we're discussing it at the world health assembly later in the year we will discuss it at the UN general assembly talk to us about why the world needs to focus on these diseases thank you and and uh good day to all that are joining us and uh what what Great uh great message there, Odia. I I think I can I can build on what you've just said, but let's let's take that zoom out, then I'll come back to some of your great great comments and insights. Yes. Um it's a critical moment for NCDS. We're in the leadup to the fourth UN United Nations high level meeting on NCDS and the promotion of mental health and well-being. It's critical. And I think what the the main point there is the fourth meeting. This certainly points to a opportunity but also a challenge. The opportunity is we get the fourth the fourth chance to bring together heads of state and government, key UN partners across the UN system, civil society, people with lived experience of NCDS and mental health conditions, development partners, finance partners, bring together to discuss the opportunity to address once and for all the NCDs and mental health. draw attention to the huge gaps of those living with NCDS and mental health that are being left behind of health and development of the sustainable development goals. That's the opportunity. The challenge is that we're here for the fourth time and we still don't get it right. We still don't see the implementation progress as it should be at at country level. Currently, the numbers are very clear. Currently, as you just mentioned, NCDs account for 75% of all deaths currently. And and just to to put that in the other way around is all of the other health conditions that you can think of beyond cancers, diabetes, chronic respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease, and adding mental health. All of the other conditions account for just 25% of global deaths. We need to address huge huge impact on societies, economies, health systems. Every two seconds someone dies from NCDS. 86% of premature mortality from these diseases which are uh attack impact those less than 70 years of age occur in low and middle inome countries. They are the countries the populations of the countries are the most most impacted by the lack of the systems to protect them first and foremost to provide the pre preventive measures to protect them from uh the diseases but then also the health systems strong and resilient health systems to treat them and it's really not necessarily only about mortality and I think we do focus a lot on mortality and premature mortality because if we can address those preventable controllable premature death. We can do much to advance global STGS, especially SDG 3.4 and really ensure health and well-being for our populations. But it's not only about premature mortality. It is about those living with NCDS. We know we know we know we can treat NCDs at the primary healthcare level and referral systems. But it we are crippling health systems by the amount the growing overburing amount of people living with NCDS which need care essential health care services that are not available. Um and and we know that it's not about treating the disease the most cost-effective interventions. This is what our member states are discussing now and we were discussing in um in New York is about the prevent we need to prevent density. That is the that is the the good investment and we know what causes them. We know what we need to prevent. We need to prevent alcohol use, tobacco use, unhealthy diets, physical inactivity, air pollution. Those are the causes and I would challenge what you say that we are talking about non-communical non-transmissible diseases. Actually they are being transmitted through these risk factors through the social environmental and commercial determinance that are infecting our societies infecting our populations driving them into NCDS driving them into premature mortality driving them into out-ofpocket and financial hardship out of pocket expenditures financial hardship um impacting families tearing families apart impacting communities individuals that is what we need to prevent and address and we are discussing that coincidentally while We sit here there's a session ongoing here at the World Health Assembly discussing exactly that progress from member states how they can showcase what is actually working at country level and it is about the preventive measures. It is about accessing the risk factors. It is about about channeling better financing more costefficient financing for NCDS and mental health health taxes. We can get come to some of these solutions. One of those very important is um additional fiscal space for health and NCDS through health taxes. They're discussing how to then move forward, scale that at country level and provide the necessary frameworks to do that. We take all of those learnings to New York and ensure that the highest level, political level, heads of state and government, presidents, prime ministers take the responsibility for these cross- sectoral interventions. It is no longer the responsibility of health sector alone. Health sectors are crippling under a burden that is driven by sectors and intersections of of of influencers uh beyond the health sector. We need health of state to come together with the accountability across these sectors, engage other UN systems, finding finding the financial solutions, finding the the the attention to those detrimental commercial determinants of health that are really um undermining health and and well-being across the globe. And that is very important. It is it is not gender it is not gender specific. It is not geographical specific. It is not development specific. It it's affecting all communities, ages um and geographies across globe. That's right. If uh because if nine out of 10 people are breathing polluted air then it's everybody that's pretty much everybody that's uh at risk. Right. And so we all also know people who have these risk factors, right? Hypertension, uh high cholesterol, high blood sugar levels and these condition and these diseases. Um someone with cancer, we we have people like that in our family among our family and friends. But when you talk about the factors that are driving these diseases, it seems almost like it's out of control for individuals. uh you're talking about at the prime ministerial or a head of state level you have to take uh action and have to have political will um and also you mentioned that uh not much action we're not seeing that much action perhaps as much as as is needed on the ground so let's come to a country experience and and look at for instance in the Philippines Albert what is the scale of the these diseases and How are you tackling this challenge? Thank you, Vismita, and uh thank you uh to WHO for having us here on this uh panel. In the Philippines, which is a middle inome country in Southeast Asia with a population of around 110 million, as many as 70% of deaths are caused by non-communicable diseases. At least the four major non-communicable diseases, cardiovascular diseases, chronic respiratory diseases, uh diabetes and cancer. And under cancer there are many types of cancers. The scale is so large uh that if you do it in absolute numbers around 868 for every 100,000 Filipinos can die of non-communicable diseases. the probability the chances of someone aged 30 to 70 that includes me 30 to 70 uh passing away due to diabetes um uh CVDs cardiovascular diseases or other non-communicable diseases is around 32%. So it really is a problem and I'm just uh speaking of the health side. Never have we been um as closely working with the ministry of finance the department of finance until now and in the recent years because even from an economic perspective the country the leaders our president our congress our senate they all realize that this is not a health sector issue alone. The Ministry of Finance is looking at it because for example um earlier we're we heard about type two diabetes melatus in Philippine terms and something which our population can relate to. A lot of people undergo hemmoiialysis or dialysis simply stated. It is a very uh touchy topic for good reason because almost all families have at least one member who undergo dialysis three times a week and it doesn't have to be someone old. As a guy mentioned here, the ages are becoming younger. The package of essential NCD services used to say I I think it still does say around start testing at 40, but now we're finding out there are heart attacks younger than 40. Strokes are happening in the 20s uh 30s. So the burden is there. The economic cost is also there. And um this uh push I heard you also mention something about individual responsibility. You're right. It doesn't cut it anymore. passing the responsibility or as Oraha mentioned the blame to individuals is definitely not just a matter of stigma but also the wrong scientific attribution because it's the very environment it's the very setup in the country that affects how individuals behave we talk about risk factors which in simple terms is choices are choices do I eat something healthy even if I wanted to can I pay for it even if I could pay for it is around in the neighborhood. Is it available at the local groceryer or at the local market? Even if I wanted to breathe in clean air or wear masks, what if I have no other choice because in the capital city the air quality is just so bad that I'm I'm forced to breathe the air which can affect my cardiovascular system. So this whole push for a higher level action at the level not just of a country but even of the United Nations is but right because um even I'm I'm not scaling up now. So if you look at air travel which also contributes to air pollution to some extent to a great extent that is something that not just a single country can manage. So there's a lot of problems yes but we also see at least from the Philippines we see that there's a lot of opportunity for action and multilateralism is the way to go because one final point at least for this intervention when we talk about NCDS in the classic epidemiologic triad we use epidemiology classically for communicable diseases the host the pathogen and the environment it becomes tricky when it comes to non-communicable diseases I don't want to blame anyone as the pathogen but let's get it out They are commercial determinants of health do affect the host and also the environment and when those three interact you get non-communicable diseases by commercial determinance of health you mean can you can we afford healthy uh a healthy lifestyle that is one can we afford a healthy lifestyle another aspect of commercial determinance of health is if you look at corporations or uh market actors the private sector when they do their activities Not necessarily for prices but for other market activities. They do have impacts on the environment and even the very health system or the national system where individuals are living in and it can affect the risk factors that can lead to non-communicable diseases. So let me on on that note let me take a few comments from our guests. We have Alf al Khan uh on LinkedIn uh commenting that early detection and accurate diagnosis are the main ways for better health management and Aisha Abbas saying that most families uh most of the families here in Pakistan have one or more person suffering from diabetes. We know that it is a it is a big issue in in Southeast Asia. I know even amongst when I look around in my peer group in India and in the US I see this uh uh Chhaturika Kumar Chandra uh is commenting how can we help care for people living with these diseases. So let me open that up uh to any of you who would like to take this chime in on that's a very good point on early detection and how we can care for them. When we say we, we can talk of the family of the individual patient or the person living with a non-communicable diseases and we can also talk about the health system which involves the government and other actors there. Let me begin with the family. The services uh for someone who lives with non-communicable diseases are not always um something that you can get from a formal health care institution or a hospital or a clinic. Sometimes it's as simple as someone checking your feet. Remember um when I say checking your feet, I'm speaking of diabetics who might have a loss of sensation in their extremities, in their hands, in their feet. And just the simple caring act of having a family member or household member checking if you can still feel at the soles of your foot, that can help early detection because the moment you notice something is off, maybe we need to see a healthcare provider. Then that healthcare provider can catch you early in the stage of the disease and slow down the progress. Which brings me to how the systems of a country are structured. Primary care or primary health care as the two terms they are related. But let me explain. Primary care is the first formal contact which means if we do find out that you're losing sensation in your feet, can you go to a health care worker or a health and care worker who can address your concern? And then when you go primary health care, even if you have access to that particular health care worker, when the health worker advises you to go back home and eat healthy, move more, are you able to do it? Is your is your country um supportive of such initiatives. Again, we go back to the prices of uh food which will be healthy. We go back to the way that your transportation system is structured. Does it promote active uh transportation? Do you walk around? I've been walking around a lot here in Geneva. My step count has uh gone up from the usual three or 4 thousand in Manila to around 8,000 which I think is good. So those are the things that we have to consider. Yeah, exactly. Guy, you wanted to say something. I was actually going to bring it back uh from this experience to the World Health Assembly and what we are discussing what we what outcomes we can expect and how that will impact the lives of let's say uh people that Aisha Abbas from Pakistan uh you know where she's seeing it all around her. Absolutely. I think I can link to what I was going to add to what Albert just said and end of the question that was posed. I think it's such an important question because it really is about how do we understand efficient effective uh people centered primary health care and health services and yes attention to early diagn diagnostic and treatment. This has to be very well inserted and this is the challenge in many many kind of context well inserted into the continuum of care. Yes. What we call the continuum of care. You cannot only diagnose more and and treat more. You have to ensure that that treatment is making it being making making a difference and impact on that individual that individual is being controlled. But before before even the diagnostic that same individual has the necessary promotion and preventive measures that the their neighborly environment in their community in their context in their local very local environment in many cases is supportive of of these healthy choices and and a healthy environment. uh the correct promotive measures, the correct diagnostic measures, then the correct control and and palative care inclusive rehabilitation and palative care services. We need to understand uh the broad continuum of the services that need to be provided and this really includes uh multiple stakeholders cross- sectoral attention. includes bringing understanding with the drivers of ill health and understanding how do we ensure that the community has the knowledge and and and the access to these services. I I just this is a very important poll we did a few years ago where actually in six countries we had a poll more more than 40% of people in these countries thought that there was nothing they could do uh to prevent cancer or strokes. 30% thought that we could not prevent heart and lung disease. So also understanding the the community, understanding those individuals that are accessing or need to access to empower them to understand what is needed, where they can go to get it and also request or or claim for the correct solutions at the country level. This sort of intersection of different interventions and policy are being discussed here are being discussed is how do we bring this together in comprehensive packages. They're being they're discussing here how can we enhance the understanding what we call a package of essential NCD interventions at the primary healthcare level. These are peacemealed at most in many cases and they're not being sustained funded and and integrated through a life course approach. How do these how do these management and control strategies connect with the prevention and promotion? How do we bring into community level not necessarily at the national level? How do we in community level stakeholders uh private sector partners that can enhance the availability, accessibility, pricing and and financing of some of these solutions that is being discussed that'll be then forwarded to the high level meeting. So we have clear commitments again from a higher level super health levels to really move the needle forward on these uh on on on on this matrix of management of diseases and management and of mitigating the risk factors and the social and commercial determinist. So from that level I want to come to lived experience people with lived experience and how they feed into these decisions uh that we are discussing here. But first let me take another comment from our audience Helen Adambo from Kenya. Hello, my name is Helen joining from Kenya, a cickle cell advocate and I believe that prevention and management begins with awareness NCD financing and community-led monitoring through the use of digital tools to track progress and fill gaps. So on the community and us making sure that the community feeds into these disease these diseases and decisions feeds into these decisions about the diseases. um uh tell us about the processes that are in place so that people who are living with these diseases are able to contribute to the these decisions. Thanks Anita. And if you don't mind, I'm just going to loop back to one of the previous audience questions because I I just have something very quick to say about it. It was the one about what we can do as you know as a friend, a loved one, maybe a family member of someone living with NCDs. When I get asked the question, you know, what is the best thing that I can do to support a loved one or a colleague living with an NCD? My advice is always to ask, to not assume. Of course, it's always good to do a bit of research on the side to feel well informed about NCDS, maybe the condition that they're living with. But I believe really truly one of the best things that you can do is ask how you can provide support. Sometimes the best meaning people with the best intentions, we come in and we try to fix, right? We think we know what's best. We try to identify the gaps. We plug the holes. In my life, sometimes this has looked like people dictating what I eat or telling me the best uh you know action that I should take next in a difficult situation. And although this is, you know, this is kind and I understand that people care for me, often what I really need is for them to offer their capacity, their resources or a listening ear. It's not for them to do something on my behalf, but rather for them to ask what gap can I help fill that you have identified. And then I suppose to to come to your new question about the ways that people living with NCDS can engage. I want to highlight a WHO document very quickly. It's the WHO framework for the meaningful engagement of people living with NCDS and mental health conditions. It's a mouthful. I'll just call it the framework. And in fact, I know that Guy has been intimately involved in the the development and the championing of this document. But at WHO, we believe really deeply that people with lived experience, you know, the impacted communities, the end individual should be involved in the development, the implementation, the evaluation of policies and programs. And you know, I like to say you don't know what you don't know and you can't address what you don't know. And unless you have meaningful continuous dialogue and feedback from the impacted communities, we're not really going to be able to create programs and policies that are sustainable and effective. And I really want to emphasize that this meaningful engagement shouldn't be tokenistic. It's not a check mark on a list. Ah, we talked to one person with diabetes. We have their approval. We can go ahead. They should be involved in the development. So with diabetes for instance, when I think about the nutrition education that I received as a child, some of the advice that they gave wasn't relevant to me because I came from a Chinese household and my cultural food wasn't potatoes and it wasn't bread. And so the suggestions that I was given to eat, they didn't really align with my daily norms or my culture. And the same goes for implementation. Let's say that you know the nutrition education program is actually perfect, but if you if the facilitators of that program don't have good trust and rapport with the impacted community, that policy or that program isn't going to be nearly as effective. And then finally, evaluation as well. I know that sometimes this isn't as highly prioritized when we think about meaningful engagement, but if a policy or a program has indicators evaluating success, you know, that are quite rigid, we're not able to see the other ways that this policy or program might be contributing to really, you know, success successful sustainable change. If we're looking at diabetes, one of the classic indicators, what are your blood sugars? What's your A1c? And that is a big determinant of success if you will. But when we're thinking about nutrition again, are you also maybe looking at how much more they cook now? How many more family meals they might have? Those are also indicators of success that you might not think to look at unless you have these, you know, these ongoing authentic conversations about what the best way forward is. So we have questions from the audience um connected to what you're saying. Ora Himmanshu Tama uh is saying that how can we meaningfully engage with the youth in global fight in the global fight against non-communicable diseases and what early life interventions are most effective in reducing their lifelong risk. Let me take a couple of other comments and then open it up and you can uh all comment as well. Mushtak Ali, if a person wants to avoid di getting diabetes in the future, what steps should they take, especially if their parents uh are diabetics, are living with diabetes, right? Elas Ahmed, uh nice to hear from Ora. uh want to know about the most updated treatment with brand medicine of type 1 diabetes recently with statistical figures. All right, I'm going to open this up. Who wants to go first? Um your last intervention or was spot on. Um and it also goes to what are we discussing here at the assembly? What will we discuss in New York and what will make the change? And I said earlier that we're at the fourth discussion of this in New York. The three previous have been successful in a sense that we have had very very clear policy successes. We have developed policies. We have developed the the NCD framework and we know where to focus our resources and our attention. We mentioned cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, cancer, diabetes and mental health. We know where to focus and we then we started building the interventions to support that. So it's been a policy discussion and a policy uh success in that sense. But we're reaching to the fourth with implementation failures across the board and very severe in some countries. What will what will build that connection between the the the be the known policies the best buys that we call who best buys the cost effective high impact interventions across management across risk factors across the the matrix that we are we're trying to address. um how do we bridge that with more implementation more scale and more context and this is where a comment was so important that the the meaningful engagement in those with lived experience of diseases in the design it's not a it's not a nice to have I'll be even strong you know we have to underline it's a mustave how do we engage how do we understand what is what are the bottlenecks on the ground why are we not having implementation successes with the known best buys the cost-effective interventions we know they work we We know they are cost efficient. We know that if you invest for every dollar you invest in these interventions on the ground, you will get $7 of return of of of reduced health care costs. That reduced health care cost can then triggered and channeled into other supportive measures especially in the preventive side. So uh to better understand those bottlenecks, it is the the expertise from those who know what works and what doesn't work. what is the the the the the pathways to care that are that are failing them and I think that is what we also need to discuss in in in New York. So really bringing full force the voice, the expertise and the leadership from youth. You mentioned youth in one of your questions. Absolutely. We've got great partners and great youth networks that are already they're active. So it's not that what we can do to bring them on. They are very active. they are pushing us actually at this stage uh to to do better to do faster to do more with what we know works but we're not getting we're not understanding and Ori is helping us understand what are those gaps on the ground and I hope many of you online who are listening uh who have the experience the expertise of of of of the challenges of navigating health systems in your communities in your context speak up step up we have platforms we have mechanisms to bring in your voice to have your voice, drive policy, drive programs, and reshape, refocus our programs. That's that's so important. So, I wanted to touch more on the youth voices and link it to the Best Buys. Interestingly, in the Philippines, one of the strongest voices pushing for health taxes, something you you would not expect be something that the youth would like to talk about. But before you go, explain health tax. Yes. So, so health taxes. So uh for example when it comes to uh tobacco to cigarettes or even to the more recent vapes um the legislature is imposing taxes or keeping taxes on so that the prices will not be so low so that the youth are able to access these harmful products tobacco, alcohol uh this uh vape. Now the youth are also the one who are very vocal and uh who are partners uh with the department of health in the Philippines to remind that we don't want cheap cigarettes. We want to keep them expensive so that not less and less women and children will be able to access these products. So we discovered that if you are with the youth, if you empower the youth, if you give them a voice, you always have a recipe for success because uh it it is a classic I would even say it's a universal concept across all countries and all cultures that we care for our children. We care for our women also. So it is something that we should look at and we should also um I guess everyone all of the young people who are listening to us today uh this very moment and the fact that we're using social media is a very effective channel to give them that voice and that access and well we have other comments uh before I come to you uh Ora to talk about to respond to some of the previous comments let me just say uh thank you everyone for letting us know where you're joining us from. So we have people from Cameroon, UK, Sweden, Oman, Sri Lanka, Poland, India, Sri Sri Lanka again, uh Ethiopia, Nigeria, Seneagal, Pakistan, Kivoir and many other countries, Ghana uh for instance. So back to you. Thank you very much. Now I' I've heard a lot of questions here. We have one about the meaningful engagement of youth. We have another about the actions that we can take to avoid potentially developing type 2 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes unfortunately at present we don't know how to prevent it. There are no known actions but there are actions that we can take that are within our power for type two diabetes. You know we we had a question about branding and statistics regarding diabetes. And before I dive into any one answer I want to quickly take a moment to say that the World Health Organization Global Diabetes Compact we have a wonderful newsletter that covers upcoming events. So ways to get meaningfully engaged with who's work in diabetes. It um highlights our our technical products and our publications related to the management to the prevention of diabetes to diabetes in different settings. For instance, diabetes related to TB, diabetes related to pregnancy. And uh I don't have time nor do I have the stats in front of me today to really get into the details of some of these questions. But our newsletter is a one-stop shop and there is an email there that you can connect to us with if you have questions related to diabetes. And I I really do want to highlight that. Um as I I don't have all the time today, but I do want to say one or two sentences about what we can do to help prevent type 2 diabetes. As I mentioned, type one, the type that I have, unfortunately not preventable at the moment. But when it comes to type two diabetes, the advice that I like to give is to think about one action you can take to empower yourself to make a healthy choice. Sometimes when we think about living a really healthy life, it becomes overwhelming. You know what what is the food relationship that I need to change, the the purchasing relationship, the the sport that I need to start, the health system that I need to connect to, etc., etc. But this is also I think it's a what is it a benefit in disguise. There are so many things that we can do to work towards achieving better health, stronger health, sustainable health. And if you identify one area of your life that you feel you have power over, that is the best way to get started. If you've identified that your diet perhaps isn't so balanced and you commit to having more protein and more vegetable at a meal, that's wonderful. If you feel that, you know, changing your food diet right now is a little bit out of reach, maybe you can increase your step count every day. Maybe there's a commute that you can do. Maybe, you know, there's a a class or an area in your community that you can go to to engage in exercise. I really want to preach kind of slow and steady wins the race here. When we try and completely revolutionize our lives, we can get burnout. It feels unsustainable. But when we have a goal in mind like the the prevention of type two diabetes, identifying one thing that you can change today, this week, I think is the best way to get started. And I'll leave it there. That's great. I'm going to end by asking all of you one thing that you do that uh is helping you prevent or manage any of these diseases. So for me, I'm working on my sleep. I'm trying to improve my sleep because that was one thing I realized I'm not getting enough of. And I think that that that helps me uh just stay more focused, healthier. How about you, Albert? For me, this meetup, by the way, I also have hypertension. I've had it since the age of 24. And no matter how busy it gets, the one thing that I still try to do and so far still winning is to keep on exercising because physical activity is important. I actually teach a bike class back in the Philippines when I'm not at work. So, that's something you don't need to do everything all at the same time. just choose one thing. That's really great. Very impressive guy. I'm also hypertensive uh in and control um because my health system works from treatment from diagnostic to treatment to control which I I stressed uh and I've really learned how to pivot my my my health my diets sorry my healthy choices of diets. Uh it's not always easy for some for some context. That's why well I can do it here I also what I'm also active in as a person as an individual is really fighting the fight with policy makers to change that environment because it is not about individual choice really it is the ability to make the right choice and many don't have the ability to make the healthy choice so my my also my contribution is really pushing policy makers pushing these discussions at the world health assembly pushing ministers of health but then going to New York and pushing other ministries and other UN systems to really take on the challenge, the task of making a difference, changing the tide for so many we are we are leaving behind. So I think that's it's a dual it's a dual purpose. I know that many of you online may not say well what what can I do with policy makers? What can I do to change healthy environments? But you can you can you can have a strong voice. You can join movements. You can you can you can talk to your community leaders. You can talk to your religious leaders. You can talk to your school environment. to ensure that your environment, your context is enabling you to make the healthy choices and to live a a healthy life. And know that who experts recognize that it's not all all on you. We do our bit working with the policy makers with governments as well. So on that note, let me ask you to uh I'll give you the last word on your personal action that's helping you. Sure. Well, you know, I as I've mentioned, I live with type 1 diabetes. I also live with hypertension. We have real good hypertension visibility at the table today. But I might actually take this opportunity to talk a little bit about the work that I do with the global diabetes compact. Really, my my real passion piece in the work that I do in advocacy has to relate to misinformation and stigma. As I mentioned earlier, although these are kind of almost psychosocial concepts, they represent real life barriers to education, to getting the care that you need, to feeling, you know, fulfilled and socially connected. And I suppose maybe the one action that I feel that I'm doing, I'm trying my best via advocacy, via communications, via education to address the misinformation and the stigma so that people feel more confident and maybe more more comfortable in seeking out the care that they need both in the arena of prevention and management. Thank you very much to all of you. We will end this live here today, but stay tuned on all social media channels with WH to get the latest from the World Health Assembly. Until next time then, bye-bye.