Hello everybody and welcome to this WHO social media live. My name is Nika Alexander. I'm joined from with three colleagues. I'm joined by three colleagues from WHO. I'll introduce them in a second. Our topic today is facing the health aid crisis. But don't log off. Stay tuned in and I think you'll see that we can make this topic quite interesting and that it actually matters to everybody. So I'll start off by introducing Aliyia to my left. Aliyia Eliasir is the director for gender equity, diversity and rights for health at the World Health Organization. Next to her we have Abu Salam Ge. He's our regional emergency director for Africa for the region of Africa. We have emergency directors for each region that works in. Welcome Salam. And then we have Meg Doerty. Meg is the director of the department of global HIV, hepatitis and sexually transmitted infections. Welcome Meg. So today we're chatting about the topic of the health aid crisis. What does it mean when we say that? You may have heard some headlines recently. Um my colleague Anka brought up some headlines so we can put you in context. So um headlines from the Associated Press for example that cuts could cost lives. South Africa says its budget can't cover for the deep cuts in foreign aid. Uh, children die as aid cuts snap a lifeline for the world's most malnourished. In HIV and tuberculosis, Health Policy Watch said cuts to South Africa will cause global loss of TB and HIV research capacity. So, what does that mean and why do we want to talk about that? Um, maybe I'll start with you, Meg. What's going on? Basically, why are people talking about money suddenly having disappeared from projects around the world? What does it mean? Well to be honest we should put it in the broader context that for many years we have had a sort of a golden age of funding for HIV TB malaria under this sustainable development goal plans and especially for PEP for HIV there is the PEPAR program the president's emergency fund for scaling up HIV treatment and care that's been now going for 20 years saved 25 million lives and so but for many years we've been talking about we need to be moving towards a more sustainable um plan where there would be integration of HIV into primary health care or TB and malaria. But what happened over the last three months is not just US government money cuts. It's cuts across all ODA or funds that go into development. And that means that many programs that had not yet started to shift over to a more sustainable primary health care approach were left without enough funds to keep people employed to keep the clinics open and to move anti-retroviral medicines, life-saving medicines around the world, around their countries. So that's why we're hearing about these news um titles, these news medias um and because there is concern that there are people who may not have received their antiretrovirals. There are people who may not be able to continue their important clinical trials and research and that means that we're potentially going to have slippage in our um ability to cover people with life-saving treatment. Can I summarize it another way and please correct me if I'm wrong. So in some countries they don't have enough money in their own budgets to cover everything that needs to be done for the population. And since we're the World Health Organization, we'd be talking about funding for health programs. Um and the US government and other governments um traditionally have given money to countries to help them out in some areas and that money is not as available now from the US as you mentioned but from other countries as well. There are domestic issues that countries need to focus on. Their economies may not be doing so well. Um many countries are increasing their funding for defense. So for their preparedness in case they need to fight a war or help another country fight a war. So basically there's less money for the kind of work we do. Is that another way of putting it? And so you work in in HIV, AIDS, tuberculosis and so on. So that's a particular concern whether people who have those diseases can get the medication, the testing and the support they need. Absolutely. And then Salam, you work in emergency. So what where are you concerned? Where have you seen the impact of this money not being as available as it used to be? Thank you very much. I think I will start like me said it has to be put in a global context. Um we just came from the coid9 pandemic where after initial uh reluctance to uh cooperation and also to support others. There were a lot of donors whether in the public sector or in the private sector that were very generous for emergency program uh prevention, preparedness, response and resilience. And uh we start uh having a little habit of that. um start having a higher ambition, higher target and working with countries and want to solve a lot of issue at the same time. At the end of the period where co was helping us get money um uh it was decreasing and we were adjusting and there is a sudden cut of uh funding from the US government but it is not only the US government all the government also has shown little reluctance to provide funding. So we had now some issues first that are internal. For example, the flexible fund we have which is the only fund eligible to fund salaries for long-term staff um become a little bit less and uh we have some difficulties paying all the stuff and also some program uh activities that used to be done and renew sometime on a yearly basis or two years or 3 years. We have now some information that it may not be renewed. So even if the money is available today, we don't know for the next bayium how it will be. And finally um we have what we call the appeal. Each time that there is an emergency that show up, there is a Ebola in Uganda, a Marbor in Rwanda or a scholera in South Sudan, we make an appeal to the international community say here is a problem. here is a opportunity to invest on humanity and people was responding very favorably and we were able to respond to it and now when we do that um usually it is coming for 30% it depend to the topic for example if it is hemorrhagic fever often it is higher around 80% but it is some topic like kolera it is sometime even zero we have launched some appeal recently where we did not have a single dollar although that has happened other years as well I I know is a hard a hard disease to raise money on for for some reason it can be it can be a challenge. Absolutely na this is not new um we are on the system it is a cycle um where we do not have money on the global health in general before 2003 um uh it was a lot I was clinician at that time and uh literally we were watching HIV patient dying on the ws and it is pepfar that came with a generous initiative from uh Josh Bush second the president with pepar and that's where a lot was solved and it extended to malaria with PMI the global fund and at that point we had a lot on those uh area of intervention and it went down and after we adapted and it's crisis is an opportunity for innovation. So that's we're going to get to that because we don't want to be the Debbie Downers that that only have bad news. Um, my colleagues who are monitoring our social media feeds tell me that you're dropping in what countries you're visiting us from, which is terrific. And I'll be reading a summary of those in a little bit. But right now, I wanted to remind you that this is Social Media Live because we want your questions. We want to know what you want to know. We know what we think you want to know, but we'd like to know what you would like to hear us talk about. So, this is how you do it. If you're on X, you write and give us your question. If you're on LinkedIn, YouTube or Facebook, just drop a question in the comments and we have a whole team of people who are following your questions and will let us know uh through my phone what you'd like to hear about. So, please let us know. Um, all right. So, I said that we didn't want to be depressing the whole time. So, you just said Salam that there's an opportunity in every crisis and I will pivot to you Aliyah. Can you tell us what you see as the opportunity at this time? When there's less money coming from international donors, where else can money be found? Well, I'm not sure I can answer, you know, like how there's no magic solution to where money can be found. And if I can just touch on some a conversation we were having actually before we went live about how important global cooperation really is. I mean, we exist as an organization. and we're part of the larger UN system because there is this intent to continue global cooperation. So just to underscore that that is really critical and needs to continue and and that's very relevant to the areas of work that I am advancing when we come and talk about health equity advancing gender equality addressing discrimination and human rights violations because there is a global understanding that however good countries are in their health systems in their education system across the development um sphere there are people that tend to get left behind because there are blind spots. And so what I would want to say is even if we shift the focus from where the money is coming from, we do have to look at how we're investing whatever resources are available to us. National budgets are key and have always been key in terms of supporting health systems. But how do we um assign the spending in a national budget so that it is driving health outcomes equitably? And that's where we need to look at the way that we are designing those budgets. So of course there's opportunities. There may be uh a sense of we need to contract and centralize but actually that would probably be the wrong way to look at it. You need to look at the community level because actually your communities are the ones who are going to be stepping in and supporting you in time of crisis. We know this from previous crisis. So there's an opportunity to act differently. There's an opportunity to look at what data is going to tell us about who is being left behind, who is feel being discriminated against and excluded. We know that from our colleagues across the globe that at least in 25% of the countries out of pocket spending is increasing. So out of pocket is where you have if you have a health condition or you have to go to the hospital for something you have to pay more for it yourself. There's not a health insurance that helps you pay for it. Okay. Exactly. And that's where the community level is really important that it comes in because they can help to identify who is most vulnerable. Exactly. And where health systems need to uh kick in because choices about who gets access to health care or which type of health care are going to be decided based on how um how much money uh members in a household have. So I think that's a really important angle and I so you need to have community ownership and leadership when you're doing your uh looking at your financing as well as national leadership and uh ownership. You can see there was a big event yesterday which was looking at data and financing and you see incredible uh examples where countries are sharing. You can have you have some countries I think Barbados has a health levy. Um you have in Liberia they've set up a health equity fund to support those in response to the cuts not in response to the cuts but understanding and so these are mechanisms that can be put in place and scaled up to weather a crisis. So I'll stop there but I can say more. We have a couple of questions and I will uh put this one to you Meg. Um this is Jasmine Zhan who's asking could you share your vision on how the current crisis will provide a chance for TB diagnosis in a global context. So I guess she means how do we increase access to diagnosis so people can test whether or not they have tuberculosis. No I think I would take the same term you know in a crisis there's opportunities. So part of the work that we're doing in infectious diseases, those that have been supported by PEPFAR global fund is looking at what can be prioritized, rep prioritized, what are lifesaving interventions and certainly as Jasmine is bringing up testing is the entrance way entry way to any kind of knowledge about a disease. And so test we don't want to have testing and diagnostics to to actually slow down. So there are many innovations that are coming out around self- testing in HIV. We already have a very wellestablished program of self- testing taking it home doing that as well for syphilis testing for hepatitis C testing. So I think more and more we are going to be looking at what are the innovations around tuberculosis testing which is often done in a lab to bring that closer to home closer to communities and it's absolutely more privacy privacy reduce stigma you can decide when and where and how to test who you want around and I think in some ways most people for example for HIV might test one two three times before they decide to get treatment and care. So for tuberculosis, I think there's some innovations on the horizon that will make testing cheaper and closer to home. And I think those are some of the innovations we need to bring. And also HIV has some learnings where we put testing kits and treatment and pharmacies. So actually taking it a bit outside of the health sector so that there are greater availability increasing equity as AIA is speaking about because right now it will be the people who are potentially most marginalized those who are stigmatized who may be left behind as we move forward. It's just one step easier if you can get the testing kit at your local pharmacy rather than having to make an appointment with your healthare worker and so on. Um we have a comment so I hope that answered your question Jasmine. Um these are all on LinkedIn so far. Um there's a comment from Mah Farad who says he hopes funding is raised more in the future on health issues which are critical for the lives of many people especially for children. Um so we maybe we'll talk a little bit about that. Salam um I just want to remind everyone that um you can ask your question on LinkedIn on YouTube and on Facebook just by dropping your question in the comments. And if you're following us on X, use ask who and then we'll pop up and we'll be able to ask your question. So we always say that women and children are the most affected when there are emergencies. We also always say, as you did, that the communities are the first people responding. They're already there when an emergency strikes and they're the last people responding because they live there. So they're not going to go away. They don't pack their bags when when things are finished. But tell me in your own experience and I'll I just want to summarize here what an emergency means when at WHO what we mean. So a disaster a flood or an earthquake like there was recently in Myanmar outbreak such as Ebola and Kalera with which Salam mentioned already or a war uh has a huge impact on health. Sudan, Ukraine, Gaza, those are some of the ones that WHO is following and working on. We have colleagues in all of those countries. Um but when you've responded through all these years to an emergency, where do you see the impact on women and children? Why do we always say women and children are more vulnerable in emergencies? Um thank you very much. The notion of vulnerability when you try to understand it in the field is a group of individual that are closer to the disaster to get arrived for example to die or to have some uh uh pain because of the uh emergency. the emergency being a disaster being an outbreak or something else. Um women and children often in many society they do not have a lot of resources or sometime enough protection to protect themsel or there is a unwillingness also to from the authority to provide them the extra mile protection they need. So when there is the emergency often they are the first victim. Um in this context where we do not have all the resources we need. Um usually we tend to uh prioritize saying that how much should I invest and how much life I how many life I should uh save. If people are often not protected at all at the beginning you have to invest more to save them. And uh if you are going into only a rational calculation, you may say I better save this person doing a little effort than doing the extra effort to save the ch the child or the woman. That's where it come and equity and uh we work uh in real collaboration with our colleague that uh make sure that we are offering a chance to everyone. Uh another issue that is really important also it is minorities. I'm uh beyond woman and children every group you see there is some minority that may even not be aware of what's happening they are the last to know and also when uh it happened usually they may be the source in outbreak often people would say that it came from the minority even misinformation yeah misinformation and all those W tries to really bring back the reality with data with evidence and also trying to make sure that people are not held to something that are not respons they are not responsible of. I have another question here. This is from Anetta Wilson Barnett on LinkedIn. She's basically asking us for for a response. She says she agrees or or she agrees. I'm not sure that we said that, but she says that who took for granted that funding would always be available and the WHO could invest more in local medicine and personnel development at the regional level. And I assume you would agree as well, Anetta, at the the country and community level which has been mentioned now as well. I believe they have the knowledge and expertise um uh to work to invest in developing solutions including pharmaceuticals, personnel development to solve local problems and decrease dependence on aid from different countries. I just want to add a comment. I was at an event this morning about community protection uh with who UNICEF and the Red Cross and one of the health workers there spoke exactly about that. She was a community health worker and her ask was to invest more in her, help her have more information, have more medical kits because the communities trust her. She's from the community. when she tells them this is what EMPO is, if you remember EMPOX used to be called monkey pox. When she says this is emphas to do if you have it, they really listen to her much more than they would somebody else coming in from outside. So, what are your thoughts? And I'll throw this open to any of you. What are your thoughts on how important it is to for the money to really be used where the rubber hits the road, as they say, where the first responders are, where the communities are. I think it already is. I mean, I think uh there is maybe conflation between what money is going to WH versus what money is going towards health and it is you know what is coming to WHO is a drop in the ocean compared to the larger health investment. So I think as it should be of of course and it's always been like that and it should always be like that. I don't think that there is any understanding that it isn't that way. I think she touched also on a point in terms of indigenous knowledge, traditional knowledge and it's I mean that's the kind of issue that is actually being discussed here in the assembly. Sometimes these kinds of convenings may seem to so far removed from realities on the ground, but it is actually in this space where member states can come together and agree to put value on this type of knowledge um as a collective and that then drives countries to implement these agreements. So that there is this this is the what we mean by kind of a standard that is agreed between countries that can then get implemented within a particular country. So in fact in this assembly there is a a strategy on traditional medicine. Um and so I think that that is definitely part of the thinking of WH. Um thanks thanks for putting that in perspective. I just want to um add something. Oh actually we have a question. We have a lot of questions. We almost have more questions than we can answer. our director general, Dr. Tedros, he often makes the point that WHO's budget is the size of a a hospital in a midsize city. So sometimes when you hear the millions of dollars that go to WHO, you think, well, that's a huge amount of money, but it isn't considering how much work is is done and how many people you need to do that work and to, you know, we're not keeping it all to ourselves. Our money goes towards the people who do the work in the field. Um so this question is from Herve Ird Natali and he's asking what emergency funding mechanisms exist for countries facing acute health system collapse and how can we access them? So how do you help countries where their health system is in collapse? I've seen for example right now we know that in Gaza um it's very hard for the health system to keep going under the attacks. It's very difficult for who to bring in supplies. There are supplies waiting at the border, but we haven't been allowed to bring in very many supplies recently. So, that's one place where the health system is facing collapse. But maybe to talk more about a place where the funding shock has brought a health system closer to collapse. I think uh I may start that uh uh question and you may add what you um the health system may be collapsed on several way. There is some sudden collapse where it is a big crisis. It is a disaster. there is a war and suddenly overnight the system is not working. It may also be something progressive or longer term very there is a protractic crisis that have been in the country for a while and that uh country is not able anymore to make the health system work and uh sometime also both of them may be combined. Just to give an example on north and southern Cubo recently there is a war and uh at uh a moment the government was not able anymore to be present and play the role of the government and the health system that was maintained by government workers where the supplies was coming from the government start having problem. So Davies at that time was able to pitch in and uh we were able to negotiate with the neighboring country to less up in. When we arrive uh three thing was our objective. The first is to find out where the supplies are ourself. We have our uh medical uh storage where we have over 30 ton of medicine. We took out those terms of medicine, gave it to the public services, gave it to NOS's and all the volunteers that were providing primary healthcare in the field. We also asked to all the partners if they have some stockout stock of supplies and we were able to identify around 11 million value of supply that was close somewhere but uh the partners that was in charge of distributing did not have access or did not have the immunity or at least the protection necessary to do it. and they gave the possibility for WO to distribute it. There is another part where WO also was working an important role is the coordination because there is so many partners working there. They want to uh know where they are needed the most. If they are they are providing surgery where the people that need surgery are they are providing maternal and child health or pediatric they are pediatrician where then they are needed and who can coordinate tell them go there otherwise they all may go in one site and the rest will be left over and uh uh in addition to the uh supply and uh the coordination there is another aspect where also in time of crisis very very contradictory information coming from all parties and WSO has the credibility to provide the right information and so people can use it for decision making whether internal decision making or outside decision making. So our first teams that arrived to GMA for over six weeks WSO was kind of playing an important role on those three part but also we were also delivering some uh primary health care through our rapid response teams. I've worked I've been in many deployments and responded to many emergencies and I'm always um really proud of who and to see the work we do and it's not a cookie cutter approach depending on what the country needs we adapt to what they want just as you're saying if they need coordination more um if they want us to help with the emergency medical team offers that have come from foreign countries other times we even speak to emergency medical teams and say can you help on this we see there's a gap we see this hospital's collapsed they need a temporary hospital Turkey can to build a hospital um a field hospital and so on. So that's the kind of it really depends on what the need is and that's where the expertise is. That's why you pay to have people um sitting in these positions that can be sent out to multiple multiple emergencies and they know each time they can bring their experience from previous ones to the latest ones and help things move more quickly in support of the local people. And here's a comment from Gabriella Ramos. She says, "As a community outreach officer for more than one decade, I completely agree. more funding for health promotion and prevention in the community. Um, I wanted to add something as well. If you're curious on what is who doing to help countries respond in this time when there's less money for them, um, who has done a survey of countries asking them what kind of support they need and has made a four-prong suggestion or four points for how they suggest countries respond. Number one is to prioritize the poorest people. Spend money to protect health budgets. That donor money that does come in should go into the national budget and not to the priorities that the donors might have themselves. And fourth to avoid cutting services or closing facilities. And Meg, you might have something to add there as well. Can you put that in um if you're thinking about HIV AIDS? Actually, I want to push you a little bit. This is something we talked about before the camera started rolling. Some people think a country like South Africa which was receiving a lot of funding shouldn't have to receive external funding should be able to fund everything themselves. So and you explained that actually they do care for do a lot of the HIV and AIDS care themselves. So can you unravel that a little bit and and help explain? Yeah. No, it is true that um South Africa has the largest burden of HIV around the world with 8 million people living with HIV and about 6.2 or more on antiretroviral therapy. So that's a huge burden. Um but they've been funding the mo the lion share of their anti-retrovirals already. They purchase them, they develop them as welding country. I think what has happened with uh the the reduction in funding is that certain programs that were set up from community organizations or to supplement to be able to have services that were for what we call key populations or vulnerable populations, populations who might be stigmatized against. Those programs suffered quite a bit and those were the ones that were shut down because they were actually being funded by an external source of money coming in from the United States. There also was extra support for the health care workforce for a period of time. Maybe 2,000 or so healthcare workers lost their job, but that's a small comparison to the large number of healthcare workers who are working in South Africa that the government supports themselves. So I think it's a balance and um it we know that they're suffering right now but that we also know that there's a commitment from the government from the ministry of health to put extra money towards this to continue the testing programs and they even have a um an an agenda initiative right now to put a million more people on antiretroviral this therapy this year. So I think it's it's incumbent upon us. It's part of our job to see how can we help South Africa or other countries achieve their targets and goals while noting that they're going to have to come up with different approaches to fund some of these special programs and if they are seeing vulnerable populations in the public sector how do we protect them make sure they're not stigmatized or help with uh ensuring that everyone has the opportunity for a healthy life. Yeah. And I'll come to you next, Aliyia, because the we're talking about equity and I think we want to explain a little bit. We use equity all the time. We know what it means, but I think that would be a nice one to explain, but I'm just going to just say again, we're getting a lot of questions. So, thank you very much for that. We won't be able to get to all of them, but I suggest you read each other's questions as well because you'll get a sense of what people are interested in. Um, but the way to send us questions is to use ask um on uh X and then simply put your question in the comments on LinkedIn, YouTube, and Facebook. But we we're going to have to wrap without asking all of your questions. Um, and so I'm going to ask you to explain what equity means. But with this in mind, so this is a a question from Ronald Robinson who says, "Why is it so difficult to get funding when the healthiness of people should be top priority?" And actually, when you do surveys, when you ask people during election times and so on, what's your top priority? They'll say health. Or when you people talk to each other, they say, "I hope you're well." Um yet some yet governments don't seem to prioritize it the same way. Sometimes you know the minister of health is not necessarily the most powerful person in cabinet and that's always been a mystery for me as well as a human level. We all know how important health is yet somehow it's not the priority. So that was a good a good question Ronald. Um so what are your thoughts on that? It's a big one right? No big deal. I mean no it is a it is a big one. Um I think in my previous uh life, you know, we were working with the governments on budgeting and I think there's always these really difficult tradeoffs um when you're um de you know designing a national budget in terms of what the priorities in the country are and there's and you see it even in the sustainable development goals where we say these are indivisible they are all connected because then you see okay education is also a prior priority eradicating poverty is very important and it's force related. Um so I think there's always the these tensions. Um but I think that's where we need also this kind of cooperation and advocacy where you know this is why at at WHO we also talk about social participation or this concept of social participation where people are engaged where they are speaking up and they are informing local and national plans and budgets so that whatever you know the investments mirror what it is that people are uh prioritizing And you know people will know that there are tradeoffs and it's it's really important to do that but economic development is you know still the defining kind of uh priority for many countries. Um but now defense spending I mean it's very difficult to make these decisions but I think as uh people become more involved then the decisions about the plans and budgets become better informed you know and I just wanted to touch on equity because it is actually this kind of uh process helps you to be more equitable which means more fair which means it's it's about fairness but it's also about understanding that there are barriers barriers um that and not all people experience the same barriers in the same way. There are some which are tangible which we can see you know so your socioeconomic status you know how much money you have to spend is something that is a bit more tangible sometimes legal frameworks whether you live in a remote uh area in a small island state or on the top of a mountain will affect your um ability to access services but there are also things that are less um you you don't see but you also have to address so um social capital like the power that an individual has within a community. Norms u so societal norms that put per you know men and boys men and boys at an advantage over women and girls. It's not so tangible, but it really becomes entrenched in systems. And so, you have to address them if you're going to be more equitable and more fair and ensure that everyone has access to all the health that they need over their life course. So, this is what we would be advocating for. And just one thing we always would like to mention is that for who health means uh physical and mental health as well. Um, I'm going to we're wrapping up and I'm going to ask each of our panelists to think of just a couple of words of what gives you hope. So, not full sentences, but just say a couple of words and I'll come back to you in a second. So, I'll give you a chance to think about that. Before we wrap and before we get the final words from our panel, I just want to run through the list of countries where you have joined us from today. So, England, Mexico, Egypt, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Spain, Uganda, Ivory Coast, Tanzania, the US, India, Zambia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Ethiopia, I'm halfway through, Afghanistan, Ghana, Indonesia, Pakistan, Colombia, Switzerland, where we are now, Bangladesh, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, Sudan, and Cambodia, and maybe even a couple more that we didn't capture. So, thank you so much for joining. We do these regularly at the moment and Aliyia has mentioned this. We are in um we're not in WHO. We're at the UN's headquarters here in Geneva, Switzerland, where we have our annual assembly where the ministers of health and other policy makers get together and talk about what they want who's priorities to be for the year ahead, how much money they think we should spend, where they think we should spend it. So that's how that's how is organized. Um but during this time, we're making we always make ourselves extra visible. You can follow all those sessions. Some of them are really interesting, quite gripping. Um the session where we who member states where the countries agreed that we should have an agreement, a pandemic agreement that will help us be better ready for the next pandemic. That was actually a really emotional session. That was Monday night. So just keep your eye on all of our platforms. Everything is highlighted in all those platforms so you can be part of it. You can watch yourself. So as I close, I'd like to come back to each of you and just tell me what gives you hope in this climate where there is less money, where we see more conflict, we see more disasters, um climate change is driving more outbreaks and so on. What what are a few things that that give you hope and not full sentences, just a few words? start what gives me hope is um civil society is very active in holding us accountable making stories available and innovation will take us further for HIV we have a great innovation in Lennaper prep it's a long word but is a new prevention tool that will help us we hope get to the end of AIDS is a public health threat um what gives me hope is that we are talking about humanity and uh our greatest asset That is human being and uh it is not only money that motivate human being to work and we had that experience in emergency recently a lot of people are volunteering to have a zero dollar contract with WO and response to emergencies. It effectively happened on the marble respond in Rwanda and work very well. Whereas Ugandan people, Sierra Le, Liberia that volunteered over 50 people work and respond for Z contract. So it means that this crisis will create again more commitment instead of reducing it. No, I mean people power. No, I mean uh where there's a will, there is a way. And uh it's from the grassroots, from the community level all the way up to the politicians who are here. You really hear it. There is a real commitment to do better, to do the best that is possible with what we have. So, civil society, innovation, humanity, human beings, volunteering, um commitment, people power, having the will and having the way. Thank you very much for joining us today. Thank you to the panel and as I said stay tuned uh across all our platforms. Our crack social media team is doing content about this week and also sharing things live so you can follow along. Thank you for joining us today. Thank you for all your questions and see you next time.