Hello everybody and welcome to this Facebook live with WH in Geneva. I apologize it's a social media live because we're coming to you from a range of platforms. Important to know that you can ask your questions if you're on Twitter at ask on the other platforms ask in the comments section. Uh we're having this Facebook live on research and development vaccines and diagnostics and we are crossing to Dr. Sumia Swaminatan in India our chief scientist who's been overseeing our research and development program the extraordinary program bringing together scientists from all over the world and she's here to answer all your questions. Uh we've got a huge number of questions. So we'll start with one of the the most uh asked question that we've had overnight and that is uh Dr. Swaminatan can you tell us uh where we are with the vaccines? What have we got? We've heard that there are some candidates coming up into human trials. Can you tell us where we are with the latest update on the vaccines? Thank you Margaret and uh greetings to all the viewers. We've been involved with the vaccine development efforts as well as efforts overall on research and development uh on all aspects of the corona virus right from the beginning of the pandemic in January and um one of the really extraordinary things that I've observed is the speed at which the science is moving the speed at which we are learning new things about this virus and the speed at which people are developing vaccines. As of today, we have over 200 candidates at some stage of development. As you know, vaccine development is normally quite a lengthy, complex and laborious process. It starts with first developing what we call a candidate vaccine which can be of many different types. You can have an inactivated virus where you inactivate you take the whole virus and inactivate it by by using some chemical so that it's dead and it cannot replicate and that is then purified and made into a a vaccine candidate. Or you can take just part of the virus the protein in this case the spike protein that is supposed to induce the immunity and the spike protein can also be created in different ways. You can use re combinant technology to create it. You can extract it from the virus. You can create virus like particles. Then you have another form where you use another virus as a vector. So you can use a measles virus. You can use a varicella virus. You can use an adenino virus. Many of these viruses have been used in the past. They cause no disease. So they're harmless to human beings. And you can put the genetic sequence of this virus of interest in this case the SARS KB2 onto that viral platform and then inject that. So that takes a genetic material into the body. And most excitingly this time around we have two completely new platforms that have never been used in humans before. RNA uh vaccines where you're you're straight away taking the messenger RNA or an RNA of the virus and injecting that into the body that then has to go into the to the cell in the human body and then the messenger RNA gives the message to the human cell to actually start making the protein of the uh virus which then induces the immune response. And then we also have DNA vaccines. So these are two novel platforms. The others have been used before for different diseases. And so what scientists were able to do as soon as they they saw the genetic sequence of the SARS KB2 virus which was made available by Chinese scientists on January 11th through public platform called Gade. They took the genetic and started creating these vaccines first in the lab. Then it goes to small animals like mice and hamsters um and guinea pigs. Then normally it goes into larger animals and non-human primates like monkeys before it comes to human beings. In this case, of course, a lot of these steps have been accelerated. And if you're working with a vaccine platform that you've used before for other disease vaccines, then it's relatively straightforward to move into human trials because you've had experiences before. And so the first phase one trial actually started within about 8 to 10 weeks of the genetic sequence of the virus actually being made public. And so today we have about vaccines in human clinical trials at some phase or the other. So we go through phase one, two and three. And as I said overall over 150 which are at some stages of preclinical development, many of them approaching clinical development in the later part of this year. So we have a very robust pipeline of vaccine candidates which is excellent because normally the success rate of a vaccine is 10%. And so the more candidates we have the more opportunities we have have for success. Thank you very much Dr. Dr. Swaminatan. Uh another question has come in about the phases because we've heard phase 1, phase 2, phase three. Uh and we've heard that some vaccine candidates are moving to phase three. Can you explain particularly what phase three is or just tell us the difference between these different phases and why they all matter? Sure. So phase one is the phase which is the first in human testing. So what's normally done is that healthy adult volunteers are selected and then this vaccine is given uh sometimes in different doses to about usually between 30 to 50 people and the idea in the phase one is really to look at the safety of the vaccine and to make sure that there's nothing unexpected that goes wrong. Then you go into phase two which is usually several hundred people could be up to a thousand or so where you're you're looking at safety in a larger group of people but you're also now starting to look at immunogenicity. Immunogenicity means the capacity of the vaccine to elicit a strong immune response. So you're drawing blood from these volunteers at different time points and studying the imunogenity as well as the safety. This is very critical because then once you've established safety in several hundred volunteers, you go into what's called the phase three. The phase three is the most important trial because that's the one that gives you the answer about whether or not a vaccine protects you from that disease or not. And in this phase in the phase three normally the there are tens of thousands of volunteers that are needed. These are people who are otherwise healthy but who are at risk of contracting this infection. Half of them are given the the new vaccine. Half of them are given either a placebo injection or a standard vaccine. It could be a hepatitis vaccine or menitis vaccine or some other vaccine that's already used in humans. and and then these people have to be followed over a period of months to see how many develop uh covid-19 and then you compare how many in the vaccine group developed covid-19 how many in the placebo group or the control group and look at the difference and of course you expect if the vaccine is effective that you'll have far fewer infections in the vaccinated group and that's what we call the efficacy of the vaccine And we would like to see as high protection as possible, as high an efficacy as possible. 80%, 90%. Would be fantastic. The the minimum would be say 70%. The FDA has said that the the minimum absolutely bare minimum efficacy of a vaccine should be 50%. And then of course you also have the opportunity to study safety uh in in much larger groups of people. These are tens of thousands of people. So relatively rare side effects could could also be picked up. You also monitor them by taking blood at periodic intervals. So you're also studying the antibbody responses and the follow-up usually continues for a couple of years because you want to see how long this vaccine will uh will protect you. So the phase three vaccines usually take time. They are done in large numbers of people. They need a lot of followup. They are complex. In this case, because the world is in a hurry. This is a pandemic. It's possible that if you get an answer uh within say 6 months that you would be satisfied. Um, if you if you knew about protection, if you knew about safety, you would still continue to follow up these people who were enrolled in the vaccine trial over a period of time, usually two years or maybe even longer. But you could look at six at at a time point of 6 months, and say, is that good enough for me to move ahead? And this is something the regulators around the world are already discussing and thinking about what should be those criteria that will enable a regulator to say yes I'm satisfied this vaccine is protecting people it is safe I can now use it in the population and and then there's something called a phase 4 which is even after a vaccine is licensed and it's being used in the population you still monitor and follow up that population number of period of time till you're absolutely certain that the vaccine is safe and it's doing what it's supposed to do. Margaret, thank you very much Dr. Swaminatan. So, uh that leads me to another question that we've had. Is it WH that will will license the vaccine? We have a pre-qualification process. Does that mean we will license a vaccine or is this going to be up to the different regulatory bodies around the world? That's a really good question and that's why I mentioned why the regulators are playing such an important role here because they are already discussing they have regulatory networks around the world and they they meet regularly and we have of course a regulatory department in WHO that's very much involved in these discussions about setting those criteria that would enable regulators to uh for most of them to agree that this vaccine has met those criteria Now who as you mentioned does something called pre-qualification of vaccines and this actually is a sort of a quality benchmark that WHO provides to vaccine manufacturers based on which many global procurement agencies like GVI UNICEF the global fund etc would then purchase vaccines for mass distribution uh or donation to to countries Um but normally every country relies on their own regulator to license products for their country whether it's drugs or or vaccines. So it would still have to go through that process but I think again in this case because of the urgency because of the pandemic that there is going to be a fair amount of harmonization so that this process can move quite fast. Normally these things take a long time and sometimes it can take years before a vaccine is developed and when it's being licensed and used in countries. So it's really important that this step as well be be compressed so that you're saving time without compromising on the safety aspects or the efficacy aspects of the vaccine. Thank you Dr. Swaminatan. We now have another question about how many um of the candidate vaccines you mentioned 24 in human trials but how many are in this last phase phase three at the moment. So we know of at least three that are going into phase three perhaps a fourth one. So and the three that we know about are the Astroenica vaccine which was developed by the Jenner Institute in Oxford. It's a chimp chimpanzeee adinoirus um candidate. It's we've just seen the results from the phase one uh stroke 2 study does seem to be safe. Does seem to elicit both antibodies and T- cell responses. So that's very encouraging. We've also seen results from the mRNA Mona phase 1 vaccine as well as from the Chinese vaccine made by a company canino that have also published phase 2 results um which show that the uh the volunteers developed antibodies against the virus. So we know that all three of these are going into phase three trials um all beginning in the month of July and we we are also aware that there's a Russian candidate vaccine that may also be entering uh phase three trials. There are several others which are in phase one stroke 2 which will enter phase three trials in the next um two or three months. Uh we have another question. Several people asking the same question. Terry Maynard and Chitrita Mukaji are both asking about the populations. Will they specifically be testing in older populations, the populations that are considered more vulnerable? We're seeing in some countries that people of a different genetic group may be more vulnerable. Will the testing be looking at that as well? Yes. So that's a really good question because of course u we know that covid-19 particularly has a worse clinical outcome in uh older people and those who have co-orbidities and we also know that the older an individual the less the immune system you know is able to recover recuperate and react and so many vaccines actually um don't elicit the same kind of immune response in older people as it does in younger people. So it's really important to test that group and I think most of the vaccine candidates in development there is a plan. Usually usually the testing starts off with adults 18 to 55 or so. Uh but many of these vaccine candidates are going down to test children from 5 years on and also to test adults between the ages of 55 and 70. So I think there's definitely the need and also the plan to collect data in these different age groups and I think there will also be a need to include people who have say diabetes or hypertension or other kinds of chronic diseases to see how how they um respond. It's also important to to do the clinical trial in places where you can answer the question you set out. As I mentioned earlier, you need natural infection to occur in both these groups, the vaccinated group and the control group in order to compare. So if a vaccine trial is being done in a country which has successfully controlled infection, it might happen that you don't get enough infections and that you don't answer the question. So this is why you see that many companies are looking at doing their trials in different countries uh or in different parts of the same country so that you also take um advantage of the the epidemiological movement of this of this virus. So much Dr. Sumia now we've got a lot of questions based on what you've already said and of course we've got the timeline question the question everybody wants answered. If you mentioned it would take quite a few months, probably 6 months to get an answer to the question uh about efficacy, but what how long will it take for the regulators to decide to go ahead and for the scale up of manufacturing? What sort of timeline are we looking at if indeed a vaccine candidate proves to be efficacious? Yes. So, so there are all of these uh different steps as you mentioned and normally these would all happen sequentially. So a company would first develop the vaccine and then they would go through the phase one then the phase 2 then the phase three depending on the disease you know phase 3es can take a long time and then once they had the result from the trials they would start scaling up manufacturing apply for licensing in different countries and then start supplying um the vaccine. This can take years sometimes. So again, one of the things that we have set out to do along with our partners Seppy and Gary who are all working together on the vaccines pillar of the um accelerator, the ACT accelerator that I can say a little bit about later. The idea is not only to to fasttrack the research and development of the vaccine, but also to invest in manufacturing up front. So making companies actually set up those manufacturing plants uh in different parts of the world so that you can also scale up very quickly. Now this of course is a risky proposition for companies because they don't know when they set out to do the trial whether or not their vaccine is going to be effective and whether or not they're going to need that manufacturing plant. But because we can't afford to wait, uh it's absolutely imperative that many of these candidates have that manufacturing capacity built now and if it's not used for this vaccine, perhaps it could be repurposed for another vaccine. So that's on the manufacturing side and the scaling up and the scaling out. But then as you said, there's also the preparation that countries need to do. The regulators need to be prepared for the dossias that are going to be coming in and the ministries of health um that are actually going to undertake the vaccination programs also need to prepare. They need to have a clear plan, a strategy, a policy. They need to have their their logistics in place, the cold chains um and other supplies. You need needles and syringes. Uh you need refrigerators. Um and you need uh an engagement plan uh depending on on which segments of the population you're going to uh vaccinate. And as you know u Margaret this vaccine we're going to be targeting adults. Most countries have a vaccination program that targets children. So it it is uh very unusual to be vaccinating large uh adult populations. So no country does that at the moment. So for every country this is going to be a challenge. How are we going to reach these people? How are these vaccination campaigns going to be carried out successfully? And how do we get communities and people also to start understanding and learning and be accept accepting of this vaccine when it does become available? So thank you so much. You've just answered another question that Chay on LinkedIn asked exactly that. How do you get buy in engagement from the community where we often struggle even with our child vaccination programs to get uptake and we also have um some in some communities people who are very nervous and anxious about vaccines and that leads me to a question from Vicki on LinkedIn. She said I'm very nervous about the speed with which this is being developed. How can we be sure it's safe? Yeah, I mean I think that's that's a good question and that's why I think communication is very important and um I did say that while speed is important, it cannot be at the cost of compromising on the safety or the efficacy standards that one is setting for oneself. And so it's not the case that the first vaccine is going to be rushed through into uh injecting millions of people without having established the fact of whether it's really protecting you and whether it's safe enough for use in large populations. So there are clear protocols, there are clear criteria to um to test those against and um and the regulators are watching also very carefully. So I think people can be confident that when um regulators the WHO etc say that a vaccine can be used uh for people to protect against COVID 19 that we would be sufficiently we would have seen sufficient data to be confident that this is the case. Now having said that you can always have a very rare side effect that is not observed during the initial clinical trials even even in tens of thousands of people. It could be so rare that you only start seeing it when you're vaccinating when you vaccinated millions of people. Right? And so that's why we continue what's called the postlicure monitoring, what's sometimes called the phase 4 uh trial where even when you're you've been fairly confident the regulators have licensed a vaccine for use, you're still following up for a couple of years to make sure that there's nothing that goes wrong or there's nothing very something that's rare and and that can only be picked up, you know, when you uh when you vaccinate large numbers of people and um this could happen and we have to be aware but it also means that we look at the safety benefit uh ratio of anything whether it's a drug or a vaccine you always have to consider the benefits and potential risks and and take a call. So everything will be done exactly according to the way it's supposed to be done when a new vaccine or drug is developed. there will be no corners cut and the only way that we accelerate this whole process is by these overlapping phases. I talked about you know overlapping phase one and two, phase two and three and preparing ahead for regulatory um harmonization licensing and preparing ahead for manufacturing preparing ahead for the policy and the delivery. So you can do all all that planning in advance to cut the time but not cut the time for the trial that's needed to establish the safety profile. Thank you very much Dr. Sumia and it was good to really clarify what that phase 4 is and that's much of the work of public health uh scientists around the world is to keep following any intervention to ensure that we keep understanding what the effect it has on the population is and to ensure that we maintain at all all stages the safety and the health for all people. And we've got a really amazing audience today. We're getting a lot of really really good and strong questions. The one that's coming through a lot and I I'll just sorry I single out Dr. Visham uh a doctor in India who's asking about immunity. We've learning more and more that the there are a lot of studies suggesting that the immunity doesn't last very long after natural infection. So will we be can we be confident that a vaccine could stimulate the level of immunity that will give protection? I think that's a great question and the the the simple answer is that we're learning about immunity um on a daily basis. What we do know and what's very encouraging is the fact that people are most people who recover from COVID 19 develop neutralizing antibodies. the vast majority of them which means that a vaccine has a good chance of eliciting uh protective immunity also by you know generating neutralizing antibodies. The vaccines that have been tested so far have also shown that they stimulate the the cellular immune response. So you know we have two main types of immune response. what we call cellular immunity which are the T- cells and then what we call hummeral immunity which are the antibodies that are produced by B cells and normally when the body sees a particular type of bacteria or virus it could stimulate one or both um of these arms of the immune system in this case it seems to be stimulating both and both these types of cells the T- cells and B cells they initially of course come out and react against the virus or the bacteria they do their job they have to you know they're supposed to kill this pathogen which has come into the body and get rid of it. But then having seen this virus they also develop uh a memory of of this virus of its proteins. And so these memory cells they live in the bone marrow for a long long time. And so what should happen normally is when you get exposed again to the same virus then these memory cells come out of hiding and are able to again get activated and start producing antibodies and the T- cell response. Now there are some diseases for which you can develop longlasting immunity. Measles is a good example where you have your measles immunization as a child and then you're more or less protected throughout your life. Now in this case, influenza is different uh because of course the virus mutates and so you need a a new formulation of a vaccine every year to restimulate the immune system. Now this is a virus. It does mutate. It hasn't mutated to the extent um that we think it'll be a problem for the vaccine, but we need the follow-up studies to actually be confident. So at this point, you know, we're only 6 months into this pandemic. We're following people. There are scientists around the world who are following people who had the infection over a period of time to see how long these antibodies last. And I think the read the person who asked the question must have seen the reports saying these antibodies seem not to last very long. Uh they have a halflife of about 75 days. But that doesn't mean that those people you know are not protected because of what I said because of the memory that is retained in the immune system. And so unless the same people are exposed again to the virus um we will not know whether they're protected and for how long they're protected. For the other corona viruses, MS and SARS, we know that antibodies can last a couple of years and that they remain protected from the same infection for a couple of years. In this particular case, the SARS KB2, we need to wait and see. Thank you very much, Dr. Sumia. I've had an interesting question asking why we're not wearing masks. The reason we're not wearing masks is I'm all alone in the studio and Dr. assum all alone in the room she is in in India. So uh we do not say you have to wear masks when you are not exposed to other people. If we were sitting right next to each other um talking closely in an enclosed space, yes, we would be wearing masks. So I hope that that clarifies that for the audience. Uh we've got another interesting and important question. I'm going to move to therapeutics. A number of people have said where are we on are there any drug treatments that are working? Where are we on that? Yeah, that's very important because while we wait for a vaccine, what is really important is to take care of those who are getting sick now and of course to prevent more people from getting the infection. So I think we have to be very optimistic and and hopeful for a vaccine which may be the ultimate way out of this pandemic but till then we need to keep doing the things that we know how to do and one of the things we learn we've learned a lot uh on on how to do better is take care of people who are sick. We know the vast majority of people who get COVID 19 have mild or moderate symptoms. In fact a large number don't even have any symptoms that they recognize. the so-called asymptomatic people and they all recover. We are learning that some people who recover have you know longer term problems uh that need followup but a small proportion 10 to 15% develop more severe symptoms breathlessness uh you know signs of sepsis or cardiac problems and they need to be admitted in the hospital. They need oxygen. They need other kinds of supportive care and sometimes they need respiratory support like uh ventilators. Um what have we learned about therapeutics? Now there are two or three kinds of therapeutics that one could use. First are the antivirals. The drugs that would directly kill the virus. Now we started testing a large number of drugs which people thought might have potential kill this virus. So there were drugs like um anti-influenza drugs people were testing selmavir fabir linavir rator hydroxychloroquin and chloroquin and remmes all of these are what we call repurposed drugs which means they were developed for some other disease but because some lab studies or some early human studies showed they might be effective they were also tested for this. So it's easy to test repurposed drugs because they're already being used in humans. So you don't have to start with the phase one and the phase two and all that. Now most of these drugs have now been shown in clinical trials not to be effective except rem deseed that shows a modest reduction in the duration of hospitalization um but a non-significant impact on mortality. So there are more trials going on now looking at rem desave including the solidarity trial that's run by who the other uh advance has been in managing the immune response because we know many people who get sick is because a virus has stimulated such a strong immune response that that actually starts affecting the lungs and affecting the blood vessels. uh and and so to shut that down it's it's called a cytoine storm sometimes with so many cytoines produced in the body that they're harming the body and we know now that dexamethasone given at a dose of 6 milligrams a day for 10 days either orally or introvenously is quite helpful in reducing mortality in people who are quite ill so who are either on oxygen or on ventilation. Um so that's definitely something we've learned through well-designed randomized trials. And then we also know that there's some amount of thrombosis going on and the anti-thrombotic uh drugs are also quite helpful sometimes given in prevention or in treatment. We now have a new class of drugs called monoconal antibodies. Uh these are very specific antibodies which will prevent the virus from binding to the cell and entering the cell. These are now going into clinical trials and we should know in a couple of months um which of these how many of these are effective and are they effective in prevention or are they also effective in treatment. One thing we've learned Margaret about this disease is there are different phases of this disease and the treatment really needs to be tailored to the stage. So in the earlier stages uh antivirals might have a better effect. In the later stages once there's already lung damage you probably need to you know damp down the inflammatory response use anti-throotics and good supportive care. Thank you very much Dr. Sumia that's a really great and comprehensive answer. Uh the there is another excellent question coming from Wal on LinkedIn. Should a lot of people seem to be waiting for the vaccine as if that's the only answer. But what if should we be putting all our eggs in one basket? What if we never get a vaccine? If it's if it's too becomes impossible, what do we do? Do we just learn to live with this virus? You know, we have to entertain that possibility. Uh and right now it seems frightening. Uh what will we do if we don't have a vaccine? But it is a possibility. um it's not a 100% guarantee that we'll have one. Let's hope we do. But we know now what are the measures that we can take to minimize the spread of this infection. We know that um maintaining distance because we know it spreads mostly person to person and it needs people to be close together to spread. So the moment you separate physically and do not give an opportunity for the virus to to transmit from person to person, infection rates go down. We've seen that in country after country. Then the handashing, the respiratory hygiene, the wearing of masks. Um all of these can to a large extent prevent uh transmission and also I think governments are learning how they can safely reopen buildings, reopen shops and offices, public transport and so on. It does require a huge amount of public cooperation. And we've seen in countries where the public has cooperated, where there's been strong leadership, clear messaging that things have come under control. So I think we have our public health measures and we over a period of time we people will start developing natural immunity. We know now from the studies that have been done in many of the affected countries that usually between 5 to 10% of the population has developed antibodies. In some places it's been higher than that. it's been up to 20%. Um, so you know as there are waves of this infection going through uh countries, people are going to develop antibodies and those people will be hopefully immune for some time and so they will also act as barriers and breaks to the spread of this infection. But then we come back to this concept of herd immunity. You need 50 to 60% of the population to have this immunity to be actually able to break those chains of transmission. That's much easier to do with a vaccine. You can achieve it faster. You can achieve it without people getting sick uh and people dying. So it would be much better to do it that way. Um to achieve her immunity through natural uh infection, you would have several waves and you would unfortunately also have to have you know you will see the morbidity and the mortality that that we see now. Um but I think for the next foreseeable future I think it's important to be focused on doing the right thing on doing the public health measures that that we know work individuals communities and governments need to do everything possible while we wait for a vaccine because we know that even if the clinical trials are successful and we have a couple of vaccines let's say by the end of this year that announce that you know they have successful results then they We still need the the hundreds of millions of doses, the billions of doses to go around the world to vaccinate everyone. And that's going to take a little bit of time. So that's why I say for the next year, year and a half, we need to be geared up. We need to be geared up to do everything that we can to keep this virus at bay while, you know, scientists are working on on vaccines. And meanwhile, like I said, we'll have therapeutics. We will have uh other options that hopefully will will keep the death rates low and um allow people to get on with their life, allow health systems also to function, not be overwhelmed because we do have all these other health problems that people suffer from, right? Infectious diseases and chronic diseases, non-communicable diseases that need attention. And so it's a it's been a challenge for health systems to cope. So the idea is to keep the level of infection at a low rate where the health system is able to manage both this virus like we do with other viruses. We have influenza every year and you know we have other viral infections that happen every year in India where I live. You have deni you have uh you know seasonal viral infections u but the health system is still manage managed to do that and do everything else. So I think that's the stage that that equilibrium that we need to get to. Thank you very much Dr. Sumia. And just adding to that um I think it would be good to clarify to people that the research program that Dr. Sumia oversees covers much more than simply drugs and therapeutics and vaccines. It also looks at the natural history of the disease um the management of the disease, the behaviors in society. Would would you like to say a few more words about that Dr. Sumia? Sure. That's very important. Yes, because quite often we get fixated on product development. uh so we do have the vaccines, the diagnostics and the therapeutics uh as very strong components and the WHO has been leading efforts to bring scientists together to bring researchers together to to work together on developing these products and as I mentioned the solidarity trial for example is something that that we initiated to get answers to those questions but we also uh focus on a lot of other things like um epidemiology and transmission. There are so many important questions on transmission that we still need to answer. Um the question of how, where and when the virus transmits most easily from one person to another. What is the role of children? What's the role of people who are asymptomatic or presymptomatic? How long can you be infectious? How long does the immunity last? All of these questions are being addressed through uh research studies. Similarly, we are looking at the um on the one health side uh we have veterinarians and uh public health specialists working together to try to identify which species this this virus could have come from. How did it make the jump from say the bat or wherever it came from into humans? When did that happen? Is was that one spillover or multiple spillover events? And this is very important to understand in order to prevent other such uh episodes from from happening where viruses jump from animals to to humans. Then we have a whole um lot of research going on on infection prevention and control and in fact a lot of work that's been done on masks particularly on fabric masks and how best to make these uh effective fabric masks you know how to use them how to wear them uh etc. And then in the hospital setting what kind of infection prevention and control works best. Then we have a whole stream of work on ethics and that's they've done some extraordinary work. So this international group of bioethicists uh have been thinking about things like the use of contact tracing apps and what ethical issues might arise from the data that's being collected uh through these apps. uh they've thought about human challenge studies for vaccines and they've laid out an ethical framework of what scientists need to be aware of if they want to consider human challenge uh studies uh instead of phase three uh clinical trials. Um they're also thinking about allocation of scarce resources when you have a limited number of vaccines or or drugs. What's the ethical way of of looking at a fair and equitable distribution mechanism? So this bioeththics group has come out with some excellent guidance and then we also have a social and behavioral science group also extremely important because we are talking about a disease where human behavior is central to the spread of this infection. And so the social and behavioral science group has been looking at um you know how these public health measures can be made more effective and also looking at things like how people are reacting what have been their uh emotions during this period you know mental health issues and and this is where um we try to encourage also a lot of interdisciplinary research and so what we've done is to try to cross fertilize the social science group with some of the other groups because I think everything ultimately to have an impact. You need to have that uh that behavioral insights into what you know what helps people change change behavior whether it's um quitting uh smoking or or you know washing your hands regularly. How do you actually get to change behavior? So we've had all of these working groups and as you know we had a research forum in February uh to develop a research road map. We had these nine working groups that have continued to meet since then and discuss these issues. And then uh early in July we we reconvened all of these working groups. We had over,300 people join online to take stock of what have we learned in the last 3 to four months. Where do we stand now? What are the urgent research questions that we need to answer in the coming weeks and months? And yesterday I was uh speaking with a group of global funders of infectious diseases. They are called globidar. So there are 29 research agencies around the world which have formed a consortium of funders who fund infectious disease research. And they were also discussing with us how they can support the WHO research roadmap and how best they can coordinate their efforts to fund the most high priority research questions. So there's a huge amount of global collaboration and solidarity I've seen in the scientific field. Uh something I haven't seen before and um it's it's very very encouraging to see how how open and willing people are to share information, share data, not hold anything back. And we've tried to get uh data pooling so that we can do poolled analysis to inform countries because everyone learns to need to learn from each other. People should not be repeating and duplicating things uh rather learn from that and move on. Uh and that's one of who roles I think is to bring that knowledge and research and data and try to synthesize it and make uh make guidelines which uh which countries can then adopt. Thank you so much Dr. Dr. Sumia Swaminatan WHO chief scientist. There's so much there and and you more questions are coming in. I'd really like to thank everyone who's been watching us from Australia, Rwanda, USA, UK, Uganda, India, Nigeria, Spain, Turkey, uh, Indonesia, Thailand, France, Spain, Italy, Mexico, Nepal, Bangladesh, Somalia, South Africa, Philippines, and many others. There's so much there. We'll have more of these social lives because you you clearly have many questions, many brilliant questions. And we look forward to speaking with you all in the world at another at a future date. Goodbye everybody.