Good morning everyone from the World Health Organization headquarters in Geneva. Uh my name is Alexander Kusmanovich and this morning I have a great pleasure to talk to our chief scientist Dr. Sumia Swaminatan and our assistant uh director assistant director general for access to medicines vaccines and pharmaceuticals Dr. Maria Angela Simo. Uh good morning Dr. Sumia and good morning Dr. Maria Angela. Uh we are eighth months in the co 19 pandemic and who has put strong efforts in convening uh countries and partners within the act accelerator initiative. Can you please explain to our viewers what is the act accelerator? Dr. Sumia, do we hear you or Dr. Marangala? We are connecting remotely today. Here we here we are. We have good morning Dr. Marangala. How are you? Good morning, good afternoon for those who are already on another time zone and it's it's a pleasure to be talking to you today and we'll try to to make uh a lively conversation and try to bring some information to you that will help to understand the context that we are living in. I can't hear you. Can you hear me? There is who? Just that they can't hear me. [laughter] I'm sorry. Okay. I can't hear anything. Okay. Uh we Dr. Sunna cannot hear anything. So there's some glitch on on our site. So I'll continue. Right. Okay. Okay. Can I continue? Yes, please. Yes. Yes. So apologies for the interruption and we we are learning still learning to live with this virtual interactions and we are getting better and the platforms are getting better too but it's still not the same thing right so what what is the act accelerator in April this year you know where it was very very clear since the beginning of this pandemic that the world need a much more collaborative space to make sure that we could speed up the research and development of of tools that would help to to conquer to to address this pandemic to address the SARS COVID 2 virus and the huge impact is having in the world but at the same time that it would ensure that we have what we call an endto-end process that whatever you you put on the pipeline of the research and development that these tools at the end of the day when they are ready they are available for real people at country level you know that's what we call the end to end so the this act accelerator was formed by through a coalition of global international organizations global and international organiz putting this together who today hosts hosts the coordination hub. There are several organizations that are partners with us depending on the each area. And one of the questions that would come up is what does it do actually, right? We we say we are working with four pillars, right? One is focusing on vaccines and we can speak a little bit about each one of them, right? on and like I said vaccines from the research and development part until uh we have the regulatory issues and the the acceptance at country level and that in due time we'll have immunizations campaign happening at country level there's another pillar on the therapeutics that what which are the the drugs because there are lots you know more than 1,700 trials going on with around 200 uh drugs medicines to some old and some new to treat uh this virus. Uh so there's the therapeutics pillar and the diagnostics pillar which is also because it's a new virus we need the first test that was available is a test that's very complicated because it has to to use the swab you know it's a it's a PCR test it has to be done in a specialized lab right so it's not an easy to scale up and we needed to invest a lot on the research and development of tests that are easier to to be used by health workers be at a hospital or at a at a health center level. And then there's a fourth pillar that's called the health system connector. Because in order to have all these pieces working when it comes to to them being available at the at the local level, you need at national level. You need to have a health systems that can work uh with these products and that have the the the for example the the the necessary inputs regarding like protective equipment that we call PPE for health workers that you have masks that you have all the gowns that everything that the health worker needs to protect himself and also has the ventilator meters and oxygen and oxygen meters to uh address patients who are hospitalized. So this is in a nutshell how this act accelerator is organized with four pillars. NWGO plays a role across all of these pillars. Back over maybe Dr. Sumia wants to compliment. Good morning Dr. Sumia. We're glad that we got you connected as well. Thank you for joining. Good morning. Would you maybe like to to to add what is the objective of of this act accelerator initiative and how it will help us to to save lives from COVID 19? I think Mary Angela has talked a little bit about the accelerator and how it's set up and who the partners are. You know the idea was that uh in April when this was um conceptualized was that you need to come together essentially if every organization and every country tries to do this on their own it's going to be long and hard and difficult because there are strengths and weaknesses and this challenge basically is a global challenge and so you need the public sector you need the private sector you need the scientists and the academics you need civil society right And you need of course the resources and um as Mary Angela said you know you the immediate needs are to be able to detect people. So you need diagnostics to be able to treat people so that you can save lives. And then in the in the medium term you want a vaccine so that you can bring an end to this uh reduce transmission you know make it much more manageable. And so this is when you know the concept of the the act is a basically a a global coalition of of uh institutions and countries coming together with you know who of course leading as a global health agency but you have SEPI which you know was set up basically to develop vaccines for diseases like this. You have GI the vaccine alliance that has a long history of providing hundreds of millions of doses of vaccine to children all over the world. You have the global fund that's had a fantastic impact uh in reducing deaths due to HIV, TB and malaria. You have unit which which basically focuses on scaling up innovations. Um you have the World Bank and then you have the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation that have been funding innovations and scaling manufacturing for a long time. So bringing all of these uh organizations together with of course the support of all our member states and and the other stakeholders I mentioned the private sector is very important. We cannot scale anything whether it's a drug or a vaccine without the private sector and so you have the associations of the manufacturers of vaccines and drugs also you know joining in to this coalition and and there are two goals. The first one is to accelerate research and development, make it as fast as possible. Unprecedented speed um and scale is what we're looking at, but also access. And I think it's we are very very clear right from the beginning of this initiative. There is no point in developing new products and tools if you cannot distribute it around the world to people who need it regardless of their ability to pay. And so really these are the two goals and that's really the mission of of this whole uh enterprise. Um and we're now about four months into this. We've made tremendous progress in all these uh areas in therapeutics and diagnostics and as well as in vaccines where things are really moving along very very well. Uh and so we hope that this would actually result in very concrete things that that will benefit people. It's a it's a very practical and a pragmatic exercise, not something which is just talk or or theory. Thank you very much Dr. Sumia. I see that we're already receiving a lot of questions but for those who are not sure how to ask their questions on Twitter, please use the hash ask on LinkedIn or Facebook uh leave your question via comment section. Um Dr. Sumia, you just mentioned that um we are we are trying to speed up the process um in developing these these vital tools and also to ensure access and one of our viewers just left a comment um if we if we do this process in in a very fast way. Are we missing to uh see some long-term effects or long-term side effects from these products? Yeah, that's a great question and this is something that you know I think everyone must understand that just because we talk about speed and scale it doesn't mean that we start compromising or cutting corners on what would normally be you know assess the process still has to follow follow the rules of the game which is that you go through the process of clinical trials and here particularly I'm talking about drugs and vaccines diagnostics has evaluation methodology ology. But for drugs and vaccines which are given to people, you have to test their safety first and foremost most important and the efficacy. That is how effective is the drug. If it's a drug in in trying to reduce death or a drug which is trying to um reduce the need for oxygen or ventilation, that's what you need to test in a clinical trial. If it's a vaccine, you're looking at can the vaccine really prevent people from getting the infection or prevent people from getting seriously ill if they get the infection compared to those who don't have the vaccine. And these clinical trials progress in stages. You start with a few people, usually a dozen or two to test safety. Then you go into a few hundred people to look at both safety in a larger group and imunogenicity which means the um how good is the immune response and then you get into a phase three trial which uh is done in tens of thousands of people where you're really looking at how good is a protective response and you're also looking for safety signals rarer side effects and then even after the vaccine has met the benchmarks that have been set and it's been licensed you still do something called postmarketing surveillance, phiccobigilance or safety monitoring which is you continue to collect data on the safety of a new vaccine or a new drug for at least a couple of years after it's introduced. So there is a system in place has been in place for a long time. This is what regulatory agencies follow and this will be followed for these products as well. The way we try to shorten the timelines is by anticipating doing things quickly, trying to harmonize efforts especially between the regulators and also putting lots of investment into manufacturing well ahead of the results of the trial. So normally a company would wait see the results of the trial then start scaling up. But here you're investing in advance uh what's called at risk investment uh so that there are places around the world that can start manufacturing this uh as soon as the you know even before the results are available actually and if the results are not good well that resource can be turned to doing something else. So that's how the timelines are being shortened not by cutting short the the u the actual testing of safety or efficacy. Thank you very much Dr. Sunuma Dr. Dr. Marang Angela, you explained that ACT accelerator has a few pillars. So, Kovac is a pillar focusing on vaccines. How many countries are part of of um uh this pillar and how can they join to to be part of Kovac and AC act act accelerator? You see because one of the big challenges we have especially in the developing world and we have the history of past pandemics like the age one and one showed that the world didn't have access to the vaccine for against the age one and one on a timely f fashion. Okay. We had the the high inome countries, rich countries getting the vaccine first and then when it came to distribute the vaccine to lower and middle inome countries, the the pandemic had already gone. The difference we had this time is that this pandemic is not going to go away anytime soon. That's uh that's what we have been seeing so far. You know, even you try to say no, it's going to end now. It's not going to end soon. It will end one day that it will it needs help and we need to work towards it. I'm saying this why because uh we we have WHO with Gavi and other partners are making a huge effort to ensure what we call equitable access to the a vaccine let's say or therapeutics or diagnostics might but we're focusing in this moment an equitable access to a vaccine. What do we mean by that? We mean that countries in the north and the south you know all countries who join an initiative that that's the Kovac facility and now right now we have I think 172 countries that have joined they would have access to the vaccine on a timely manner everybody would you know that next year we have a a vaccine that has proven like Dr. is that that's both safe and that it works against the virus, right? That we call efficacious or effective. [gasps] Once we have that vaccine, one or two vaccines, uh there won't be enough to vaccinate entire world. So what we are aiming at organizing with countries joining a a global facility that's hosted by the Gab the vaccine alliance is that countries will have access to the vaccines as they come into up to 20% of the population until the end of next year on a very timely basis. So we wouldn't have like rich countries just getting it first and poorer countries getting after. We are working very hard like I said 172 countries have joined uh this facility trying to do uh a better job than we did in the past you know because all all tools that work against COVID should be global public goods right things that will benefit humanity and this pandemic has shown us that the no one is safe until everybody is safe all countries, you know, there's no country that will be able to to not to have more cases while there are cases elsewhere, right? So, so, so we need a what we're saying, we are working towards a global solution that give the the countries the best chances to access a safe, efficacious, and affordable vaccine when they become available. Thank you very much, Dr. Marangela. Um we got a question from our viewer on Twitter. Has who be able to um lead or influence discussions with Gabi and vaccine manufacturers as you mentioned on access but also on pricing? You want to take it? So should I I can start. So, so yes, I mean the Kovac facility basically has been set up to be able to uh to have that leverage because of the the volumes that will be procured through the facility. Um as you know the the Kovac facility um is a pooling mechanism that will supply that will buy vaccines from manufacturers and supply them to countries both countries that are high-income countries that will pay for their own vaccines as well as the countries which normally get ki support. So there are 92 countries which are low-inccome or low middle income or some of the very small countries which will be supported uh through development aid but there are at least 79 countries now that have expressed an interest which are the upper middle income and high- income countries that will buy. So so once you have these commitments you can make advanced purchasing commitments to companies and that helps them to plan and also helps them then to scale uh the number of doses and to reduce the price accordingly. So that's usually the rule that the more the more the volume you're buying the better the price could be. Um the facility will obviously have uh enter into a lot of negotiations and currently what we're hearing from the manufacturers many of them are that they uh either want to supply it um you know at a not for-p profofit basis so just the cost price plus a little bit to cover their expenses. There are some manufacturers who have proposed a tiered pricing. So a lower pricing for the low-inccome countries and then you know higher for the middle and then higher for the high income. So there's there's that. Um and then the type of vaccine it also makes a difference. So there are some vaccines currently which could be in the range of a couple of dollars per dose up to vaccines which are being priced at you know between 20 and $30 a dose. And this is dynamic. It will change um as there are more vaccine candidates becoming available you know the pricing is going to change but we have to plan right for the beginning when there'll be limited candidates limited choice so yes um on the one hand you have the push funding which sepi is doing which is the R&D funding so there's funding uh being invested into the research and development of candidates on the other hand you have the gi kovac facility which is providing the pull funding u providing the market commit commitments and the advanced purchase commitments. So between these two um it should actually be able to to bring uh vaccines to people at affordable price. And of course most countries are thinking about how they will um provide vaccines to their own citizens um at a low cost or low cost uh or a cost sharing basis. So that's you know country bycountry discussions also happening. Thank you very much Dr. Sumia. We have a new question from our LinkedIn viewer. What exactly are you doing to speed up research? Are you giving extra funds to specific institutes and if yes, which ones? So um there are different models being followed to speed up uh research and maybe Mary Angela can talk about on the therapeutic side how the Gates Foundation and the partners you know Unite and others are investing uh in in in both keeping track of what the new advances are um supporting some of the studies but more importantly planning ahead. So if there's a promising drug that's getting into clinical trials today, are we going to have enough doses available? Is there enough manufacturing capacity available to be able to provide it to people? For vaccines, it's something similar. As I said, there's advanced investments into research and development, which means, you know, taking it through the lab studies, the animal studies, the human studies. There's a lot of investment in manufacturing because that is a significant portion of uh of the vaccine cost is to scale. You know, this is the first time that the world will need vaccines in the billions of doses. Currently, we mainly have a large childhood immunization program. We're talking about hundreds of millions of doses. Now, we're suddenly talking about billions. And that kind of capacity doesn't exist in any one company. So, new facilities have to be built uh and existing ones need to be strengthened and expanded in order to have that kind of capacity. And it's the same for for drugs as well. If you had an effective drug that saved lives, you would want hundreds of millions of doses of that drug or product to be available all over the world. And that is a big challenge particularly for things like monoconal antibodies which which are currently in clinical trials but for which there's limited capacity in the developing world. So this is these are the kind of issues that you know these um agencies within the act accelerator are grappling with and trying to find solutions for um thank you very much Dr. Sumia Dr. Marang Angela, here is a question on on therapeutics. Um, what is the stage of drug trials? How will uh developing countries benefit from these drugs or are they getting these is there a chance for them to get these drugs on fair pricing? That's a it's an excellent question and and one that everybody should be asking. Thank you for for the question. H there are so many you know you you have two different types of of drugs, right? When we are talking about the trials, you have drugs that already exists in the market for other purposes and they are we call them are has been repurposed. They have been studied for another reason. Right? An example was for example the hydroxychloroquin which is a malaria drug and it was studied to to see if it worked against COVID 19 against the the SARS COVID too. and it showed it did not work right and we have uh drugs that are used for HIV that also showed that they did not work and then we have new drugs you know drugs that are being developed now and Dr. Sun just described that like for example the monoconal antibodies which we call them biootherrapeutics there are some that are promising ones they have um they have some restrictions in use for example because most of them are injectable right so not everybody it's even doing the trials with healthy patients is is a is a is a challenge because people don't like to get injections Right. [gasps] So, so they are promising drugs. Both drugs uh we call them the the usual pharmaceuticals that we use with we call them small molecules, right? There are some a few promising drugs now on phase three trials uh with small molecules and there are a few monoconal antibodies which are the bioter therapeutics being developed for covid specifically for the virus or to boost the immune system. you have a we have a lot of disinformation, misinformation uh regarding the the trials and the drugs that can be used and you know we do who last week launched the guidelines on the use of corticosteroids especially with an emphasis on dexamethasone but not only on dexamethasone because you know that this this this virus it causes in the body a hyperimmune inflammatory reaction you know And the corticoststeroids which are anti very strong anti-inflammatory drugs they have been shown to be useful to decrease mortality in severe patients that are getting worse because of this hyperimmune response. So we have very few uh tools right now but we have been seeing also very few tools that have proven to be effective and and like I'm I'm citing dexamethasone and some other of the cortical because who just launched the guidelines on this but you you we are also seeing a a situation where the the the intensive care units in many countries are learning how to manage better the clinically the patients. Okay. So, so it using all the tools available. We have one specific drug that was a repurposed drug initially used to try to use for Ebola patients which is Resis who showed a a small benefit in decreasing number of days in hospital. No, but we still haven't we still do not have an antiviral that works specifically under against this SARS COVID 2. We will know by the end of the year which of these studies will will you know this studies that are ongoing and and let me explain something because it's very important. Sometimes people see a small study with 50 people, 60 people and they think that's it. No, we are talking about very robust studies. We are talking about studies that analyze people who take the drug and compare them with people in the same situation who don't take the drug. We call that randomized control trials. And this is the only way by comparing two populations that you can know for sure if this drug made a positive effect or not. No. So this these big studies are still ongoing with several drugs and we are hopeful we will see some results in the next months. Thank you very much Dr. Marangula. Uh Dr. Sumia, a few of our viewers are asking how many vaccine candidates are there in the Kovac facility. Also, they're asking if WHO is coordinating those vaccine trials. Yeah. So, um let me first explain the difference between uh Kovac portfolio which is um we sometimes use that to refer to the portfolio of um vaccine candidates being supported by SEPY. I talked about the push funding and there are about um nine candidates right now, nine companies that are being supported by SEPY but another 20 or so that are being considered for funding support. So that's purely to for investments in the research side of things. Then I talked about Kovac facility which is going to be this big pooling mechanism for vaccines. Now now there basically the facility is open to vaccines from all over the world. There is no restriction on who funded it or who developed it. The the what the vaccine needs to prove is that it is efficacious and safe and that it meets the benchmarks that have been set by WHO and by the regulatory agencies like the FDA, the EMA etc. So who has a big role here obviously because we will be asked to provide an opinion on whether a vaccine uh is ready for for use, whether it can be pre-qualified or whether it can receive an emergency use authorization. Um and so we're preparing ourselves uh for the assessment of all of these vaccines that are going to start coming through once there are results. So there is there's an independent expert group that's being set up called the independent product group that will advise Gavei and advise the facility on which vaccine candidates to invest in based on many criteria. One of course is the scientific data on the vaccine but also things like what's going to be the potential price, how easy is it to scale up. There are some um platforms, some technologies which are much easier to make in bulk than others. So that could be a criteria. The storage conditions, you know, do you need a minus 20 or a minus 80 or can you store the vaccine at 2 to 8° which of course makes it much simpler for use in in many countries. And so there will be these criteria that this committee will look at and advise Gabby on where those investments uh must go. And again initially there may be limited choice. There may be one, two or three vaccines that are approved. But as time goes on, hopefully there will be more choice. There will be uh also possibility to choose certain candidates for certain settings or certain age groups etc. So as time goes on I think this will be uh changing but at the moment it's going to be based uh by on on a clear set of criteria um and will be will be decided not by one or two people but by an independent international expert advisory group that's now being set up uh exactly to advise on this. Thank you very much. Uh viewers are always interested when um an efficient vaccine will be available and once we have it if we have it um how it will be distributed equally how it will come to the people who need to to receive it first as we are aware that we won't have enough doses at the beginning for for everyone. Yeah, that's a great question because you know I think many people think of the vaccine as a silver bullet that will arrive on the 1st of January and that will basically solve the world's problems. It's not going to work like that. Um we will start seeing the results of some of the trials which are already now in phase three the advanced stage of the trials by the end of this year or early in 2021. Then you know the it has to go through this process of evaluation and licensing um and then the scale up has to happen the manufacturing the shipping of the doses um we're looking at the middle of 2021 an optimistic scenario uh for for a limited dose of vaccines to arrive in countries and this is where the allocation framework that Marangela has been leading is very important because I think countries and people need to recognize that the first doses of vaccine seen that become available, we must prioritize to whom that goes. You know, the people who are at highest risk of getting the infection and and most people agree that frontline workers including health workers and other essential workers are those that might be the ones who first should get these vaccines. And then gradually as you get more doses, you start covering the population. You first cover those who are at high risk, the elderly, you know, those who have other diseases which makes them at high risk, etc. slowly you start covering more and more of the population that's going to take a couple of years and before that we need to continue the public health measures that we have shown to be effective now so it's really important I think for people to know that when vaccines come they will take time to be scaled up till everyone in the population or at least till 60 or 70% of people get that immunity which we talk about you know the population or the herd immunity which can really slow down transmission. We're not talking about eradicating the virus here. We're talking about reducing the kind of impact that it's currently having on society, on lives. And so that's going to take certainly up to 2022, you know, to see that change happen. Until then, we people have to be disciplined. I think that's really the only solution going forward. Thank you very much, Dr. So I meant here very quickly because I I saw some questions on herd immunity on on the chat on on the the side here and I I I think there's a lot of misconception about herd immunity as well you know because her immunity is a term that's used to always referring to achieved by vaccine you know it's not by immunization and her immunity to be achieved by natural infection indicates of this SARS code 2 would mean uh the death of countless people. No, we are not who does not think we will achieve her immunity without a huge life costs without a vaccine. Okay. So when you're talking about her immunity, we are talking in the context of immunization, not in the context of the natural history of the disease we've left unchecked. Thank you very much for that clarification. We spoke about vaccines, we spoke about therapeutics, but we also have a pillar on diagnostics. So our viewers are asking um are there available and accessible quality tests and what's the status of do we have maybe some new diagnostics diagnostics in um in PIP pipeline there's a lot of innovation going on in the diagnostics area and as all of us remember at the beginning we had very limited tests it was RTPCR test you need specialized laboratories to do that it's still the gold standard today but today we we are in a situation where there's been a lot of development especially in the rapid tests both rapid antigen tests which tell you whether there is infection or not and it can be done on a on a sample of the respiratory secretions and also antibbody tests which tell you whether you've been exposed uh to the virus at some point. So antibbody tests are more useful for for the public health authorities to assess you know what proportion of their population has been exposed and they can do it periodically to see you know what's happening in the community but it's the um PCR tests and the antigen tests and there's been a lot of progress prices coming down um it is possible that very soon we will have these tests available even the paperbased tests you know that people could even use for self- testing um at home and and could then could have mass testing you know where people are congregating and or going to work and so on and so I think the um the way we approach testing and our strategy is also changing and will change as these become uh available so it's a very good uh point and testing makes all the difference because once you are able to detect somebody early in the in the stage of the infection there's a much better chance that you can provide them the suitable care monitor them and prevent them from deteriorating and you know uh getting into severe problems. And that's one of the reasons now we are seeing much lower case fatality rates today than we saw at the beginning of the pandemic when people were only tested when they were very sick and showing up in hospitals. Today it's the reverse. People are being tested so much more that many of them are asymptomatic or with very mild symptoms. But it helps to know because two things. One, it makes sure that you don't get sick because you're doing the right things that a doctor monitoring you. Secondly, it helps you to stay isolated. So, you're cutting that chain of transmission. So, the more people you can diagnose when they're infectious and isolate, the less the chances of onward transmission in the community. So, I think a really important uh field and definitely something that the act accelerator has been discussing a lot and putting a lot of thinking into. Thank you very much Dr. Sun. Dr. Marian Angelo, do you have anything to add to this one? No, no. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Um, thank you very much. We are running out of time. I thank all our viewers for their great questions and for watching us from Scotland, Uganda, Canada, Nepal, Papa New Guinea, Bangladesh, Tanzania, the US, Hayiti, South Africa, Vietnam, Thailand, Myammar, Cambodia, Nigeria, France, Poland, India, Armenia, Turkey, Iran, Singapore, Sudan, Pakistan and many more. Um I thank Dr. Sumia and Dr. Marangala for their time and for uh taking all these great questions. Um please follow our website or our social media channels for any updates on vaccines, therapeutics, diagnostics and any other work that we are doing on COVID 19. Until next Wednesday, please stay safe.