Good afternoon everyone from the World Health Organization headquarters in Geneva. My name is Alexandra Kusmanovich and this is our weekly live Q&A as WHO about COVID 19. Uh today our guests are uh Hanan Balki who will be answering your questions about COVID 19 diagnostics and innovation that has been happening in this stream of work and response to CO9 pandemic and also Edward Kelly um who will answer your questions about essential health services that have been heavily interrupted uh due to pandemic. Good afternoon. Thank you for your time uh and thank you for uh being open to answer the questions from our social media viewers. Um I would just remind them that if they're watching us on Twitter, they can ask their questions by using ask. If you're watching us on Facebook, LinkedIn or YouTube, please leave your comments uh leave your questions by a comment section. Um Hanan Ed, how are you today? Good. Thank you. Thank you again for for your time to to join us and answer the questions. There there have been a lot questions coming in on these subjects in previous weeks. Um but before we start um can we remind our viewers about the ACT accelerator, the initiative that WH partners have established to uh rapidly develop new tools to fight CO 19 um and also to to provide equitable distribution to countries in in need. Of course. Maybe I'll go first. Yeah, go ahead. I think I think this is a great initiative. I think of course, as everybody knows, we're facing the pandemic of the century, if you will. And I think without having this solidarity and collaborative work among all types of organizations, private uh sector, um pharma, research entities, we will not be able to tackle this. And I think that this initiative to bring all these agencies together uh to fight this pandemic was the essence of the act accelerator and we see some really great progress over the past few months. Thank you Hannah. Can you please tell us more what are the different type of tools that WH partners are working on within this initiative? Yeah, I mean it's a great question. The I think the important thing to also building on Hanan's point is that we had a number of months of response on this and that is all continuing. The act accelerator is really trying to look ahead to when we have at big scale some of these tools and what's specifically needed in countries. So for who we've never stopped working so it's it's the it's not that we all of a sudden envisioned something uh new on this. It was really building on what we've been doing. So the the tools areas are really around diagnostics. That's already something that's rolling out and Hanan could speak about that around the therapeutics. There's not so many right now that have been shown to be effective, but a few and countries need to figure out how to get those into regular clinical practice. And then obviously the big push will be around the vaccines, which doesn't exist yet, but we're hoping for uh in in early next year, and the teams are working on that. Then all of those get rolled out in countries in health systems. So there's not two cell systems, one that responds to COVID and the other that delivers babies and fixes broken arms. It's the same people. So the health systems connector is the fourth piece of the act accelerator that really works on uh what are the enablers that need to be put in place to really make sure that those things uh land in a good in a good spot. Thank you very much both. Um Hanan, you're working on diagnostics pillar. What what is the main objective of of this pillar? Uh again, thank you very much. Very good question. And and the diagnostics is one of the very early tools that is used in any kind of emerging pathogen or any disease really. You really need to have a diagnosis so that you know what you're dealing with. And the diagnostic pillar again builds on several entities that have already existed before. But to make it simple for the audience, it focuses on four main areas. The first one is that we need to improve our diagnostic tools. So and that we can talk about that for hours as well but we need to improve the the types of diagnostics and making them uh you know more accurate uh faster quick turnaround time. The other part that the diagnostic tool is working uh the pillar is working on is uh the market readiness. How do we assist the countries in improving their regulatory procedures so that a country can approve a certain test for that matter other types of uh tools and then is the supply. How do we make them available? How do we because again the sheer numbers of demand or what is needed to to to to solve this pandemic or to respond to this pandemic we need large quantities. So we need to look about supply and procurement. And the last one is how do we prepare the countries and assist them to utilize these diagnostics in as Ed said within the health care systems that already exist. So how do we preparedness and that's the four the fourth area of the diagnostic pillar. Thank you so much Hanan. And here is the first follow-up question coming from uh Stanley Menzes uh watching us on Facebook. Uh which test is the reliable test which can detect COVID 19 at the earliest? That's a good question. So there's we want it early but we also want it to be super um accurate. So the two tests that would be either one of them is either the PCR test which detects uh small even small amounts of the DNA of the virus because it goes through a phase where it amplifies it. So it picks up the small quantity goes to the laboratory system goes through what is called uh replication. So it kind of you know um a cycle uh of um enhancing the quantity to detect it. So that takes a bit longer and you can detect it um at an early stage of the disease. Then you have the antigen RDT test which detects the outer part of the virus itself of the shedded virus. it does not amplify what exists. So there's a more likelihood of missing the diagnosis because if you have small quantity in the very early stages of the disease you might miss the diagnosis and that can be done though the the benefit of it is that you can do it at the you know in the field at the bedside um it's a rapid test and those are what we refer to the antigen RDTS so those are the two types of tests thank you very much an uh there [clears throat] is another question um that is coming uh What is the test accuracy and who is overseeing the quality of those newly developed uh tests before they are they are put in market? Yes, that's a great question. So, so the quality of the tests um uh or how how accurate are they depends on um the ability for it to specifically detect the the the DNA of the virus itself. So, the PCR testing, the ones that require sophisticated laboratory services, those are the more accurate. We refer to them in science as that they're very sensitive. They'll pick up the actual disease and they're specific. They will pick up the specific disease. So it will be if it says it's COVID, it's COVID. If it says it's there, then it's there. So those are the sensitivity specificity. Um the quality of it of course as for any diagnostic or therapeutic, it has to go through studies, research protocols that they test them on a population or on people who we can have a gold standard. So the gold standard is the PCR and again uh the WHO at a very early stage of this pandemic was able to um announce and to to show the the sequencing of the virus and that's why we can see this rapid evolution of the the PCR. It came out very very early I think sometime midFebruary or so and uh when the uh PC when the sequence of the virus was announced the ability to develop these diagnostic tests became much easier and that's why we see them here but the where can it go wrong again you have a very critical step at the beginning which is the swab itself the nasoparangial swab everybody calls it refers to it as the brain you know the brain swab which it's not it goes into the back of the nose nose to the upper part of the throat. And if the person needs to know how to perform that specific test and if that step is not done accurately then we have a we can have a problem. So we're hoping that we will have more innovative tests coming down the pipeline that will depend on saliva or on a throat swab and so on. Thank you very much. Hanan Ed, you've been working on a health system pillar. Can you tell us more about that part of the work? And also just to make the connection when we have those new tests coming up and new tools, how do we train the health workers around the world who are working on the response to use these new tools in in a proper way? Yeah, I the actually that's one of the big bottlenecks that occurs almost if you look at any big problem that has faced uh who or the world in terms of outbreaks or uh new diseases the aspect of bringing the health workforce up to where it needs to be has been one of the biggest challenges and actually this is one of who's big uh agendas in quote unquote peace time is strengthening the health workforce. We've talked about a 400 million uh shortfall in terms of health workers around the world that that we need to expand on. But that kind of training is part of what the the diagnostic team, the pillar that's leading on that is supposed to help strengthen. But then also in the health systems work that WHO and partners are doing along with the World Bank, Global Fund, UNICEF and other partners working on that there's a piece of work that looks at how to strengthen clinical care delivery. So the testing and also the the care delivery that comes afterwards and how to keep health workers safe as they take those tests and then as they need to treat those patients that test positive afterwards. Thank you very much. AD. Uh there are a few follow-up questions coming up already. Um what would be again from uh Facebook viewer uh Mitchell Collier. What would be the most critical factors for evaluating and selecting a PCR test technology? What would be the factors to select one? Yes, for evaluating and selecting a PCR test technology. Actually, maybe I didn't really fully respond to your to the previous questions. How do we regulate these and how do we approve them? So that there maybe it's it's uh pointing to that question as well. So so when I when you when I mention that when a test is developed based on the sequencing of the virus whether you're going to make it a PCR test or you're going to do an antigen RDT test those tests eventually need to be um uh studied within in the field right and then certain you have the regulatory body within the WHO. So we have something called the emergency use listing where the companies that are developing these products show an interest in um listing their product on the WHO website. And to do that it has to go through uh an assessment. So looking at the sensitivity of the test, the specificity um and comparing it to the gold standard now which is the PCR testing. And I think we were very lucky to have the the the sequence of the virus available and the PCR as a gold standard to compare. So the question is can we use this test? Is it going to pick up the disease? Will it pick it up early on without the person having symptoms? Will it pick it up only in the very f first days of signs and symptoms. So all of those entities need to be evaluated. So the guidance on a specific test it will be regulated and we have to give clear instructions on when to use it when will it be of value um because not every test will be of value for all of the scenarios that are out there and there's a lot of scenarios right so um so that's that's what actually happens and so for out of if I could say 50 of the antigen RDTs that are in the pipeline only two have um completed the very strict stringent um evaluation and they are on the um emergency use listing on the WHO website and I think just to add to this sorry Alex is like this question of the interaction between new technologies new innovations and then capacity at global and country level for regulating them. Mhm. If you go back to H1N1, actually this was probably one of the biggest bottlenecks that that WHO had that but that all countries had when we came with the vaccine was actually national regulatory capacity to get the vaccine going. So this is where the kind of again the peaceime regular work that WHO and other partners do is laying the foundation for this type of emergency uh response. So it's it's um something that uh needs still to be uh re-emphasized and strengthened. And and to add to that as well is the turnaround time for what uh the WHO has put um effort and energy in. The turnaround time for evaluating these new products has been extremely fast and uh trying to um support these uh new uh companies in their in their or these entities in submitting their products for evaluation is taking a much shorter time than it did in the past. So that's also very good important news. Thank you very much. Here's a follow-up question coming from a LinkedIn viewer. Looks like the PCR test is more superior, right? So can we just explain when do we use a PCR test and when do we use antigen test? So, so the yeah the reason why the PCR is more uh accurate it's because it's based on uh as we said it testing the the DNA or the RNA ampl amplifying the genetic material of the virus itself. Um so it is superior where it has a higher sensitivity and higher specificity. So it it's much more accurate. Um but it has that the backfall of the PCR testing is that you need a laboratory to be able to perform that test and once you have a laboratory then the capacity and the skills to run such um equipment may not be available in all of the countries. Um so that's where you have the you know the pros [clears throat] and the cons of the PCR testing. The antigen RDT on the other hand is much quicker. the uh it is not significantly inferior the ones that have been in the EUL testing again I don't want to get too technical but there are certain cutff points of how much can it detect uh and that's why we have also established for the national and subnational level guidance on scenarios when can we use the the antigen detection test because as we know that many of the countries do not have the laboratory capacity for the PCR testing Yet we need to have information about the disease in those countries to guide on tracing and and testing and isolation processes. Um so again there's pros and cons for each one of them. Both of them are there's so again a common question by the way is is the antigen test going to replace PCR? It it it's not going to replace it. So there are scenarios for each one of them. Thank you very much Hanan. Um Ed, we mentioned at the beginning of the conversation that pandemic has um caused a lot of uh interruption in essential health services. So what's the latest statuses? What's the latest data? We know that people are lacking essential health services. Well, the this is something that WHO has built in as one of the pillars of its work now with this particular outbreak is is looking specifically at the continuity of essential services. And you know, for those of us who work in in other areas, this is uh is incredibly key. If you looked at the height of the the early phase of the outbreak back in the um late spring, early summer, you had at least what was reported to countries and our survey that went out to about 105 countries. You saw that about half of all health services across at least what countries were reporting uh were interrupted or disrupted severely or partially disrupted. And these were some of them services uh such as dental services or rehab services where you know if you have to wait a bit of time uh perhaps that's possible to pause those services but other ones that were uh also very interrupted were important emergency room services uh life-saving blood uh transfusion services. So these these are things that should really never be interrupted. So uh now that we are seeing uh cases rise again I think one of the things we're realizing is how sort of the delivery of medicine has changed a bit and it's quite clear that our concept of what is essential and probably this is like a life lesson for us and not just a lesson about essential health services but I think it has to expand. You cannot go two years where people don't see a dentist, where they don't get rehab, where they don't have their mental health and substance abuse counseling. So, we're working right now on uh new revisiting the guidance, looking at how can countries safely restart, pause services. Uh and the bottom line is that uh all countries and communities, they'll have to figure out ways to access a bit of an expanded set of essential services and do so uh safely. So if you look at some of the key services that we're looking at now like routine and and um uh immunization and uh outreach services uh in some cases 70% of those were interrupted. They many countries have figured out ways to restart those uh now and to do those safely. So we're going to be repeating that and I think it'd be great to come back and talk about the results in about a month's time. That would be great. Thank you. Um what is the advice for people who need other health services how to go to the hospital and to stay safe during COVID? Because we've also seen some comments from from people that they are also scared to to go to a health uh health facility during this time but they also need to go and and and see their doctor. So what would be our advice and what is the safe way to do it? Yeah, I'll I mean we can both comment on this, but I think uh the the bottom line is that uh who all countries have these days guidance for care seeeking and uh also for where to report um in terms of if you are a suspect case and how to handle uh getting care uh and a diagnosis like we've been talking about for COVID. That's one sort of track of services, but all countries also have figured out ways to surge their health services and be able to manage and uh both assess and triage patients when they come into the health system. And I think we have to realize too that patients access the health system in many different ways. So related to community care uh services, related to emergency care services, but then primary care is going to be very very important. And uh the fact that patients are dealing now in particularly in the northern hemisphere with the flu season coming and being able to access those safe services safely uh is one of the aspects that uh all countries will have to be rolling out uh in the coming months. Thank you so much. And there is one follow-up question about blood donation. How much has blood donation been affected due to co most of what we have seen? We don't have W who doesn't have uh hard numbers on blood donation in terms of blood services. As I already mentioned that in some cases 20 uh% of uh blood transfusion services were interrupted but most of the uh um anecdotal information we've gotten has said that uh a lot of blood donation drives have been uh restructured curtailed briefly but um most of our regional offices have restarted the push on blood donation. Uh for people who don't know it June 14th is world blood donor day. So this year was unlike any other day. We didn't do it in person, but we did push countries to figure out ways to safely donate blood. And I would just encourage all of the people listening that uh blood donation can be done safely like almost all uh uh health procedures these days. So uh there's blood donation drives in France, Switzerland, right around who right now and I'm sure there are locally. So people should be looking out for that. Thank you so much. AD. Um, one more question we received is how much attributed life lost is expected globally due to COVID but from other other health diseases. Yeah, this is a big uh question that people have asked. Um, who has a has a modeling group that's been uh working with academic partners and government partners looking at uh modeling the potential impact of both COVID and non-COVID uh lives lost. who hasn't itself come out with an official figure on this. Some estimates are that the um from what we've looked at is that the potential interruption of services will have a much bigger impact potentially than uh than the impact that co has in terms of overall morbidity and mortality but we haven't come out with a figure ourselves recently. Thank you. Thank you very much Ed. Uh Hanan, we are getting more follow-up questions uh on on tests. Um the first one is coming from uh Angel Toriello. Uh how long does it take for the test to be able to detect the virus? You mean when does the result of the test become available to the patient? Um I think it's how long do we need to have a virus in our in in our body so that the test can can u identifit. Yeah. So what stage of the disease is the test positive? So those are two very different questions because and and it's very important that we understand what the audience is because both of them are actually we get both of these questions. So um the RTPCR testing can be positive a few days before the in the the initial symptoms. So within one or two days 24 to 48 hours and then most likely within the first five days of of illness. Um again patients would who would have their their symptoms and um the antigen RDT at the beginning of the test of the beginning of the illness it may not be always positive again because we're talking about you need large um uh burden of the virus we call quantities of the virus because you're detecting what exists in the secretions of the uh the respiratory tract right so so I think that um you can have it at the definitely when a person is is is sick in the first days of illness both would be positive and for RTPCR also within you know a day or 24 to 48 hours before but again a lot of this solid research has not um we need more studies in this area to definitely understand uh better um especially with the new tests coming in when we start having the the the sputum swabs and the nasal swabs it would be really interesting to know and and all of that information is still not uh clear yet. Thank you. Here's another question. Uh is there possibility of false positive on antigen test? Yes. And I think that is one of the other issues because when your specificity it's not specific to that to that virus. It doesn't reach 100%. It reaches 99% if you will. And people might say okay but that is still very very high. yet um it does allow for some uh false uh positive testing. Thank you. Uh you mentioned that there are a lot of tests in the pipeline and within the the diagnostic pillar on the act. Are there any uh selfadministrated tests in the pipeline? Well, even with the PCR testing, by the way, the nasoparingial, we've seen people been way more creative, I think, during this pandemic than they have in the past because in my I've been doing this for quite a while, and I've never thought that you would want a nasoparangial swab to be a swab to be self- administered, but I think in some countries we've seen them asking p people to administer their own nasoparangial swab. The problem with that is that if they don't do it accurately, if they don't go far enough in the back and they don't, you know, turn the swab enough times to collect the sample appropriately, you might have a false negative, not because the test is bad, but because the the method of collecting the sample was not very good. So, the self-administered tests would be really good once you have a nasal swab. you know, you're just at the tip of the nose or a throat swap for those who can tolerate a little bit of a gag reflex um or sputum, which would be the the optimum. But that's what we're hoping for in order for us to start using this more uh giving it an example like a home pregnancy test if you will. So at least people have an indication they're not feeling too well, if they have a positive test, they can selfadminister it at home. uh depending on how ill they are and how what's the situation of the epidemic in that specific community whether there is a chance to confirm it at a healthc care facility or a clinic with a PCR whether it's needed um then that will be the next step uh and I think that process is when I spoke earlier about the guidance of usage which depends on the country the community the resources and how they're managing and where are they in the outbreak Thank you very much. Um Ed, there is a question coming on mental health mental health services um and what is who plan for mental health of people during this pandemic. Yeah, I mean this is uh been a big question and I think it's um there's several layers to it. One is obviously access to mental health services and plan mental health services. The second is the impact that the virus has had on all of us in terms of uh the change in our way of living and how we perceive the world and sort of what we thought we were going to do with our lives you know on a given month or or day. And then the third piece which I think is related is how that's affecting the health workforce that um which has a special we had a special focus on this during world patient safety day on uh just recently on on health workers and health worker safety and including mental health uh issues. Um you can see if you looked again back to these uh the survey that we had we had uh around on nearly 60% of countries reported that mental health services were severely um partially or severely disrupted. So this means that people had difficulty scheduling and accessing regular counseling sessions but also regular substance abuse sessions and uh it has the knock-on effects of that um while not perhaps immediately um highlighted in terms of uh um mortality and morbidity will becoming uh really very apparent. So, WHO has um had a big push uh recently around World Mental Health Day and a big call for countries to consider ways of ensuring safe delivery of mental health services, re-emphasizing the place of of mental health within uh other areas which I think you know anyway it's been an opportunity if we can call it that in some ways this uh the outbreak has for rethinking the way we structure our work and health for many uh for us at who sort of exists in sort of a pillar but now we've done a ton of work with the international labor organization around mental health as part of occupational health programs as part of workplace health. So I think that uh it's uh also an opportunity to to reshape the way we structure and and integrate some of these services that need much better uh much better integration. Thank you very much Ed. And uh we're almost running out of time. So the last question from Hanan. Is there any test which can predict immunity of a person to covid 19? Any antibbody test or mutation detected tests? Uh so the first question is about the corological test the antibbody testing um which is available again and I think um we're still not sure how long does the immunity last. So again people might take things as a false sense of security. So we do know that you can detect antibodies for this virus and some of the studies where you know people hear the the the the studies you know in the media about you know 10% of the population is immune or 20 or 15% and we're a bit frustrated because after 8 months we're not at 60 70 you know we want to be very ambitious because then we know that we have this uh very broad uh immunity to the virus. So that does not exist yet but the test um is available and your second the second part was is there any mutation of the virus any antibbody test or mutation detecting test any mutation detecting test mutations are detected through the genomic sequencing so when there's over 95 the last time I tested I think we're over 100 uh thousand sequences published on the virus and there's very maybe one from Southeast Asia that showed one amino acid said. So again, not to get too technical, but there was one tiny mutation that did not show any impact on the, you know, the the the transmissibility of the disease, nor is it in a domain that's critical for vaccine development. So I think that's what the audience might want to hear. So there's no scary mutations that we that has been that have been detected so far. So I guess that's the good news, but antibodies do not detect mutations. So that's through the sequencing of the virus. Thank you very much. This is very helpful. Um, before we close, what has been the biggest achievement so far in your opinion from the ACT accelerators and what has been the biggest innovation in your opinion that we've seen in in this outbreak or actually in this response? I think I want to echo again what Ed said at the very beginning. I think the act accelerator was able to to bring a lot of the partners together and for us as WH as the global health leading organization. we were able to insert many of the entities um that already existed for the response to the pandemic and enhance that through this collab this collaborative effort and also expedite I think it's the speed we've been working much closer together and the communication between the agencies the speed of how we've been doing our work um and the the unified agenda really into um uh into acting together into finding solution solutions for this uh pandemic that has really affected countries at all different uh economical levels and income levels. So this is not something that's peculiar to one income level. It's it's everybody has been affected. So I think that is that's a major uh a major thing and the speed of and the number of in I mean this is really mind-boggling the number of vaccines that are in the pipeline the number of diagnostic tests that are in the pipeline people may not sense that because they're waiting for that silver bullet that vaccine but what exists already is is huge achievements I think I don't know what else no I would completely if you hadn't said it that so anyway Hanan took my answer but um But [laughter] the I do think that on this point that it's like the the two things I would emphasize is that this um partnership working between the different global actors which you know the World Bank, WHO, Gabby Global Fund, Sephi and all these other partners that are out there that maybe you know certainly if I um talking to some of my Facebook friends none of them would know who any of those are except for who maybe I hope but the fact that this global architecture is not just talking but actually doing work together and actually on an ongoing basis. But then secondly um because I like to return to this uh the somehow I had a colleague um who was a very senior person in a in an unnamed country administration say I've suddenly realized that there are so many pieces of health systems that I need to care about as a policy maker that I never cared about supply chain whether there's enough glass in the world whether we have enough syringes that that all of us just thought functioned out there. And I think there's a lot of that thinking that um none of us have pushed ourselves to understand like what is the quote unquote health systems of broad term but what are the what's sort of the plumbing underneath all of this big structure that needs to keep running and functioning that we've never worried enough about before. Um but because every country is facing this right now every partner's focused on it we are worrying about it now. So I think for me that's the big innovation. Thank you B. This was a really great discussion and ad I'm sorry I can't neglect this this question because it's does covid have an impact on the attention of neglected tropical diseases. Ah yeah very good question and definitely we saw a big impact on um service uh both delivery and also some of the you know when the outbreak first started many countries whether they had high case loads or or medium case loads or even low case loads many countries shut themselves down. So that meant not only were could you not go to the health service unless you were very ill and many people were afraid to but also it meant that community outreach services were very much shut down and so WO and UNICEF with IFRC came out with a guidance on how to safely head out into the community and a lot of uh the neglected tropical diseases work is based on community outreach work in low and middle inome countries and so uh that thankfully has uh restarted but uh but it'll be one really to watch very carefully as we go uh forward. Thank you so much. Thank you for your time. I thank all our viewers for their questions and for watching us from Singapore, Brazil, Belgium, Philippines, Nigeria, Russia, Myamar, Norway, Qatar, Thailand, Iraq, Pakistan, Bangladesh, India, Kenya, Morocco, Malta, Scotland, Colombia, Bhutan, uh Ireland, Italy, South Africa, Namibia, Serbia, Sweden, Usbakistan, Botswana, the list is very long. Um once again, thank you very much. Stay safe. Just to clarify as well, we are not wearing mask at the moment because we are sitting more than a meter apart from each other and the room we are sitting is having a good ventilation and we can still open the windows. Um, until next Wednesday, please follow us on our social media channels or follow our website for more updates and information. Thank you.