Good afternoon everyone uh from the World Health Organ organization headquarters in Geneva. Uh my name is Alexander Kusmanovich and I'm pleased today to be together with our chief scientist Dr. Sumia Faminatan and our director for immunization vaccines and biological biologicals Kate O'Brien uh who will be answering all your questions about COVID 19 vaccines. Um this have been a subject of a high interest of our social media viewers. So today uh they are available for an hour to answer all your questions. Um if you're watching us on Twitter, please use # ask. If you're watching us on other platforms, please leave your questions via comment section and we'll we'll try to take as many as possible of of them. Um before our viewers send us some questions, um good afternoon. Thank you for your time. uh would you be able to give us a landscape of of current vaccine candidates? We've seen some uh news this week about vaccines from the US um Russia and China. So um maybe we we could start with that explaining what are the the candidates in pipeline at the moment which stage they are um and if we get the vaccine ready does it mean that we are at the end of the pandemic or we'll need to do more? Do you want to start Suma and I can jump in after then? Sure. So the really good thing and the unprecedented thing we haven't seen this for any other disease before is the fact that we have over 200 candidates vaccine candidates within 10 months of a new virus you know being identified. Um and the other unprecedented thing or new thing about it is lots of new platforms are being tried. So this is where science and technology has played a very big role and the preparations over the last few years that the world has made that countries and and companies and other organizations like SEPY have invested in is building these platforms the mRNA platform the DNA platform for the first time we're going to see these these new platforms being used now about 40 over 40 of these are already in human clinical trials um and about 10 of them are in the very late stages what we call phase three clinical trials. Now clinical trials are the what we use to test the efficacy and safety of uh new drugs or new vaccines and what it is is let's think about a phase three clinical trial. So the phase one and two are really looking at the safety of the product. So the first study is always done in a few adult healthy volunteers to make sure that the that the drug or the vaccine is safe. Then it goes to phase two that's in a few hundreds of people. Again it looks at safety in larger numbers. It also looks at what we call u the uh the initial re reaction of the body the imunogenicity. So they measure antibbody levels or other markers in the blood that start giving you hints about whether this vaccine is actually stimulating the immune system to produce that response. And then the phase three trial is done in thousands of people in this case tens of thousands of people. Half of them are given the vaccine. The other half are given a placebo. And this half and half is is what we call random allocation. It's randomized clinical trial is a term that you often hear. It means that neither the the physician nor the individual who's participating has a choice in the matter. So you get an injection. You don't know whether you've got the vaccine or the placebo. It's called double blind. You're I'm blind. If I'm the volunteer, my doctor is also blind. Um and only the statisticians have the code to know who's who gets what. So then what happens is that you follow these people up over a period of time very closely looking for side effects. repeatedly doing clinical examinations, doing blood tests, and then at the end of certain predefined time points, there's a committee that's called the data safety monitoring committee that looks at the data and they look at um how many people have developed the disease, in this case, COVID 19. So, these people are regularly tested for symptoms. They have the nasal swabs done. They also look at have side effects been reported and they they may look at the results of blood tests and other safety parameters and the data safety monitoring committee then um decides they're seeing differences between the two groups and they are the only ones who know which group is which and if they are concerned in any way that one group has a lot of side effects or if they see differences in the in the end point which is a covid-19 disease. They will then make a statement and tell the investigators or the sponsors we are seeing signals and they usually say continue with the trial everything is good let's keep going or they say we've reached a a point where you can stop the trial and we can announce the results and unblind and what we saw with the FISA results is a good example you know we heard this week 90% efficacy what does that mean it means that the data safety monitoring committee took a look at interim results So the trial is not yet completed, hasn't reached its final end points. They looked at interim results and they saw differences in the two groups. And so 90% means compared to the placebo group, the group that just got a placebo injection, the other group had 90% less infections. So if there were 100 infections totally between the two groups, one group had 10, the other had 90. This is obviously a big difference which is why they came out with a press release. Now that's we need to see much more data from that trial and from all the other trials. So we need and they have uh said that they're going to have the the data set at the end of November or or early December. We will then see all the data across the two groups. How many cases in each we'll also uh get better visibility into the side effects and a lot more details that we will have to see. So that's how we can then start judging how vaccines are performing and and so I hope that that's a little clearer about how we talk about the efficacy of a vaccine and the safety of a vaccine. there are benchmarks that have been globally discussed and and sort of agreed upon and uh and the benchmark in in this case that the FDA and other regulatory agencies and the WHO were hoping for is a minimum 50% efficacy um with of course a safety profile that's that's acceptable. We know vaccines have minor side effects like local pain and swelling and maybe slight fever but that's acceptable and u we hope that there there won't be other serious uh adverse events but we need the the longer follow-up as well because you know it's not enough to know that somebody is protected for one or two months. We're hoping to see that longer protection. So that needs follow-up. And so while we can feel optimistic and hopeful when we see these interim results, it's very important to note that these vaccine trials must continue to accumulate data, must continue the followup so that at the end we're really know what sort of a product we're we're dealing with. Thank you so much Dr. Sumia. Uh Keith, uh we're already receiving questions and maybe you can take the next one. How safe is the vaccine being issued so soon? So maybe we can explain what's the regular process for ensuring vaccine safety and how we are doing it now in the middle of pandemic. So that's a great question. You know the most important thing about vaccines is um that they're safe and of course as as Dr. Simia has been describing they really have to be effective at preventing the disease that they're intended to prevent. But the issue of safety is key because as we all know vaccines are used as a preventive measure. they're given to people who are otherwise well who don't actually have the disease. And in the development of these vaccines, um there has been a a really firm clear statements from from manufacturers and from the regulatory authorities, the the parts of governments that actually authorize the vaccines after looking at all the data that there will be no compromise on the requirements around the safety data. Um so all vaccines are followed very carefully for safety events and as Dr. Suma described in a clinical trial every single thing that happens to somebody in the clinical trial who's participated in the clinical trial information is collected. So if you're in a clinical trial and you get in a car accident that information is collected even though it has nothing to do with the vaccine. So when we hear about the evidence on safety in clinical trials, people who participate in these trials are followed for anything that changes in their health status regardless of whether it's even possible that it had to do with the vaccine. And that's the reason why we've seen in a number of trials that there have been some pauses in the trial. And that's actually a sign to all of us that the trials are being conducted with the highest possible standards. That real care and attention is being paid. that when something occurs among somebody who's in a trial that the investigators are not quite sure what's going on um out of an abundance of caution, a pause is implemented while things are sorted out and then there is an assessment of the data and the trial continues once people are comfortable that whatever it was that happened um you know has been resolved and and the trial can continue. So that's how safety is assessed um in these trials. Thank you so much. We have a lot of um follow-up questions from both LinkedIn and Facebook users. So, thank you so much. Uh do we know about some short or long-term uh side effects from those 10 vaccines that are in the third phase of uh clinical trials? Maybe I can start and Dr. Sime if you want to add in. Um I think as Dr. Sumo explained these these clinical trials um really began uh in the springtime and so the information that is available on um long-term safety issues is uh it it's only possible to have that information as people who have been vaccinated are followed over um months more and and frankly years more and that is a normal part of followup on vaccines. In fact, for all of the licensed vaccines, we continue to look for and evaluate any safety event. It's just like your car. You don't buy a car and expect that the company uh is doing nothing about ever trying to improve the safety of your car. So, there's a constant um evaluation of vaccines uh to see whether there is is anything about uh the vaccine that uh that that could be improved. Um from with respect to the the short term that the evaluation of safety, it's been very clear from the regulators uh who will have to look at the data and decide whether these vaccines will be authorized for use outside of a clinical trial that they have a an amount of data on safety that they're requiring. Uh and they're being very firm on that amount of data. So for instance in the Fiser announcement we've heard about now the the information around the interim efficacy but they still are required to come with more information on the safety before they can actually um present the data to the regulatory authorities for consideration. So sometimes the efficacy data can come before um what's already required in terms of the duration of followup on on safety. Thank you very much. Can you maybe explain to our viewers who is deciding on these standards of quality? What is who role in not only for those covid vaccines but in general before any medical product and vaccines go into the market? Sure. Yeah. So you know every country has um a regulatory authority or or a body a national regulatory authority that actually approves a product for use within its own jurisdiction within that country. There are also regional bodies or networks in some regions um that that uh many countries come together and and do a joint evaluation and accept the decision of that body. WHO does something called pre-qualification of uh vaccines and medicines which is essentially assuring the world that a particular product is not only safe and efficacious but also meets certain manufacturing standards quality standards and um that's been very useful basically for in the vaccine world for these large procurement agencies like um Garvey and UNICEF that procure millions of doses of vaccines from generic manufacturers and supply them around the world and many countries accept who pre-qualification as a benchmark for for quality. So that's on the regulatory side. So there is the the there's the WH um process but there's there's also national processes and it's important because here we don't have time to lose and what we're trying to do is some kind of harmonization. So we're discussing with regulatory agencies and networks around the world to say can we do this together so we can save time instead of the dossier going from country to country and being examined you know by every authority could we have a process where we agree that these are the standards we look at it together and we can then decide more or less at the same time that a particular product is approved for use. Ultimately, countries do have the authority, you know, to approve or not approve a product. And you see already some countries have gone ahead and provided emergency use authorization to some vaccines for use within their own populations. You know, they have made that decision. They have decided who should get those vaccines. They take responsibility for it. Uh but when we when does it, it'll be for the world. So, it is an important decision. So here we are balancing the need for speed, rapid response and action, but at the same time we're talking about, as Kate said, safety being a very primary u issue here because we're going to vaccinate ultimately billions of people around the world. And so we really need to be confident of the data before we can proceed. Thank you. Thank you so much. We have um a lot of uh follow-up questions coming and one is coming from a Facebook viewer Megan McCarti. Will there be a framework established to ensure vaccines are not stockpiled? I can take that one. Um, you know, these vaccines are new vaccines and manufacturers are uh working really hard to already establish the manufacturing and frankly making doses at risk not knowing whether or not their particular vaccine is actually going to show efficacy against disease and whether it is going to meet the the quality metrics that the authorities that Dr. Sumia was talking about will then authorize the vaccine. But in spite of all of this work, um certainly in the short term in 2021, uh the vaccines will be in limited supply. We we know that everything is being done to go as quickly as possible. Um what is really important is that the vaccines that are available in in early 2021 and and later in 2021 are used to their maximum capacity to slow down and change the course of this pandemic. And so the not just the right thing to do but the smart thing to do from a science perspective is to asssure that those vaccines are given to people who most need them. Um and and that means giving them to especially health workers uh who are at high and very high risk of uh COVID uh transmission, COVID disease and to people who are at highest risk of a serious outcome um you know serious outcomes that require uh intensive care units um hospitalization and among those people who are at highest risk of death. So the idea of sort of stockpiling vaccines is not a very smart idea. Um because uh those vaci the vaccines that are being produced now really need to get out and be used um to their to their best benefit, their their their best impact. But we're not there yet. We don't we you know at WHO we have not uh we we really need to see the data from the vaccines. Um and that's the step that that we're eager uh to be on the road with with the manufacturers. Thank you so much Kate. Maybe as well we can we can tell more once the vaccine is developed uh proven to be safe and effective that what comes next please how do we ensure that vaccines are delivered and and given to those vulnerable or or priority priority groups have some work as far as I know the work has already started in in this regard as well. every country around the world is uh is working is already working to figure out how to deploy vaccines and I think we have to realize that um you know so much attention has appropriately been put on the science of figuring out the virus figuring out what the target would be of vaccines getting a a big range of vaccines in the pipeline being tested with scrupulous protocols and scrupulous attention to safety and and getting to the regulatory point. But a vaccine that sits in the refrigerator, in a freezer, on a shelf that's not actually used is not going to be of any benefit to anybody. So delivering the vaccines is our our next huge challenge. I I recently heard an analogy that somebody made that I thought was great, which is developing the vaccines and getting them licensed is like building base camp at the bottom of Everest and actually getting to the peak is um is the delivery part. We um have immunization programs in every single country around the world, but they are focused largely on infants and children as well as adolesccents. There are countries that deliver vaccine to adults and adults will be the first um the the first priority for this vaccine. We're not at the point of looking at immunizing um children. And so there is going to be a struggle frankly in every country about how to do this quickly. How to identify um the health care workers, how to identify the older adults, how to identify people um who have underlying medical conditions who will be the the the high probably the highest priority groups in each country. added to that, not just figuring out who needs to get vaccinated, but um but we have to have healthare workers who are trained to to deliver vaccines. And yes, of course, there are thousands of healthare workers who do this um for infant immunization programs, but if we're going to be delivering billions of doses even in 2021, we're going to need to surge on that. And then finally, we need the cold chain systems that actually move vaccines. All of these vaccines at this point either need to be refrigerated or frozen. And there are massive cold chain systems for the um vaccines we already use, but some of the vaccines that are being developed now need special cold chain systems and that's going to be um quite a lift for pretty much every country around the world. Thank you so much. Uh Kate, there is a follow-up question coming from you viewers as well. Is who doing something to support low and middle inome countries to to be ready to deploy a vaccine? Yeah, I was going to add to what Kate said about this question because obviously everybody's worried you know um vaccines are being developed around the world but yes a lot of them are being developed by the by the large companies uh which u which means that you know they already have big manufacturing capacities but our concern at who right from the beginning was how can we ensure that vaccines are available and drugs and diagnostics are available to people around the world because this is a pandemic. It's not limited to a few countries. Almost every country in the world has this infection. People have suffered, people have died. And so it is um but natural that we should think about equity. And so that's how the idea of the the access to co technologies accelerator came up. So when the DG Dr. Dr. Ted Ross launched this in April along with several heads of state, a lot of the uh global health agencies, the United Nations Secretary General, everyone supported it was about not only should we accelerate the development of these new tools, but ensure that once they're developed, the people have access to them. There's no point if they're so expensive or unaffordable that they're only reaching the rich people in a few countries. So, so from the beginning we've we've worked and so we have something called the Kovac facility now which is being set up by Gary the vaccine alliance who WHO and SEPY these are the three partners in the in the vaccines pillar of the accelerator the idea really is to pull procurement there you know on the one hand you invest SEP is investing in vaccines so to to make sure they get developed faster and there are more of them but on the other hand we can also pool the procurement so that you you get vaccines at a good price, you get it at large volumes and then you you have enough of that pool to distribute to people around the world. As Kate said, who has put guidance out the sage puts put out guidance as to who should be the first in line then. So we know that it'll be in short supply initially, but the way we're trying to take care of all the countries, especially the lower and middle inome countries is by having this this pool. Of course, it needs funding. It needs resources. And so this is where we're out now on a big fundraising for this pool. We need something like 7 billion to be able to deliver the 2 billion doses of vaccine by the end of 2021. That's our goal which means about a billion people can be vaccinated around the world. That's the the group that that's at highest risk that we need to protect urgently whether they live in high income or middle or low-inccome countries. So the Kovac facility has u countries that are going to pay for their vaccines. The so-called we call them self- financing countries um and there are countries that would depend on us being able to raise funds to to at least cover the first uh tranch. So I think this would be a an amazing um thing if it happened and it would be the first time and I think in the history of mankind that a vaccine a new vaccine would reach individuals in all countries at the same time. We've seen instances where it's taken decades the hepatitis B vaccine took like several decades before it reached people in the poorer countries which is where the burden of disease was. We don't want to see that happening now with this pandemic. So it's really global solidarity and most leaders around the world heads of government have committed have committed to this. So we are very optimistic that this will happen but there are several steps of course in the next few weeks we need to uh work so that in 2021 we can actually uh start implementing this. Just maybe I can just add something um to what Dr. Sumia said. you know, we we throw around some of these numbers about how much it will cost the world to to actually get these vaccines. You know, we need $7 billion or $5 billion. And I really want to put that in context. I think it's really hard for folks to wrap their head around what that number kind of looks like. Um, in order to to deliver on the promise of the Kovac facility so that, you know, countries around the world have access to vaccines for the highest priority populations in 2021. What we're talking about is less less than $20 billion. Well, that sounds like a huge number, but let's remember that in travel and trade alone around the world, the world economy is losing over 35 billion dollars every 10 days. And so, you know, the the entire cost of getting these vaccines and getting them in the volumes that we need and supporting countries to be able to actually deliver them um is the smart economic thing to do. So, especially as as folks are thinking about whether their government is contributing to this, this is a smart thing to do from an economic perspective. We have a globally interconnected uh world economically and unless every country is safe, then then no country is really safe. Thank you so much. Here is one follow-up question on on cold chains. Um the vaccine is supposed to be kept at very low temperature. How will we deal with that? So only some of the vaccines require a very low temperature and and what the what the uh the uh uh our friend on Facebook is talking about is what are referred to as ultra cold chain uh temperatures where you have to keep a vaccine at -60 or - 80°. Some of the vaccines that Dr. Sumi has talked about do require that ultra cold chain but not all of them do. Uh some of them require a usual freezing temperature or even being kept in a refrigerator. But specifically for um the vaccines that require ultra cold chain and the announcement we heard from Fizer this week is one of these vaccines that requires ultra cold chain. There are new technologies for how to keep them cold. We can use dry ice. We can use special shippers that keep the dry ice in and keep them cold. Um so we're looking really carefully at um a variety of technologies that can actually um deploy these vaccines. We know from the Ebola vaccine experience which also required ultra cold chain that this is doable. Um and so we actually do have in a limited number of countries some experience of how to manage a vaccine in in an ultra cold chain setting. But it's not it's not a simple lift and uh I think we do have to set people's expectations about uh the work that will be needed to get this to everybody that needs it. Thank you so much. Um, our LinkedIn viewer is uh asking for a usual time frame to get a vaccine out. It can vary I think because it takes uh from the time that development starts to the time it goes out. I think the shortest has been 4 years for months uh is what I've read. Um the the more usual timeline is about 10 years. It takes about 10 years because you know things go one at a time. you do your pre-clinical, then you go to phase one, then phase two, then phase three, and then if the vaccine is successful, then companies start thinking about how to manufacture at scale. So in this case, the reason why we've been able to compress timelines is because people are thinking ahead and doing things in parallel, not one at a time. So even when the earliest stages of vaccine development started uh companies are already thinking about how are we going to scale to to billions of doses where are our partners around the world that we can go to for manufacturing. Uh of course big investments have been made as well in manufacturing capacities. Um and also regulators are looking at this you know constantly from phase one to phase two. So we reduce the timelines. So I think it's important because it's not that you're reducing the time to studying safety or efficacy. That's important and that cannot be compromised. But what where you can save time is in in the procedural aspects. You know in the some of the bureaucratic aspects and in the manufacturing and in in getting ready as Kate was saying we're already thinking how are countries going to deliver this? Where are the refrigerators? Where are the coal chain? Do you have enough trucks and planes and things to transport this? Have the health workers been trained? You know, is there a policy that's been developed in every country? That's never happened before for for other vaccines. You know, things take some time and they a few countries do it faster than others, but here everybody is trying to be doing everything at the same time. So, this of course is is a huge stress on the system, but that's what we need now in the pandemic. I think I can just add it's also about collaboration. So, you know, we work here at WHO, um, we work incredibly closely with UNICEF and with Gabby, uh, with SEPY, with the World Bank, um, and many other partners so that everybody has their ore in the water and is rowing as fast as they can all in the same direction so that we actually get, um, everybody's effort driving at the same outcomes that we're we're trying to get to. And as Dr. Dr. Sumia said um for instance in WHO where we're responsible for giving countries you know really clear guidance on exactly what they need to do to be ready. We started working on this in June. We didn't even have a clinical trial result of any vaccine at that point. So, we've been working at risk just like the manufacturers have been manufacturing vaccines at risk knowing that we've got to if we don't do this um in a way where we're all working in parallel, we'll be losing time and that means lives lost and and suffering that could have been prevented if we had worked differently. Thank you so much, Kate. Here is a follow-up question again from a LinkedIn viewer. How long have the trials run for this vaccine? Now, you mentioned that this work started in June. What period of time have you used to follow up with volunteers until they develop immunity and how long after they are still protected? That's a lot of questions. Maybe I can take one or two of those and hand over to you. Um, so uh clearly the followup of participants is uh is totally dependent on when the trial started. But I think what I really want to point out here is um that we um have set standards about how much follow-up does need to um to be seen in people in clinical trials before we think that there's enough safety data to even consider um uh looking at the at the product for authorization and and different regulators are looking at exactly how much. So just as an example um uh the US FDA has said that um at a minimum is half of the subjects in a clinical trial would need to be followed for at least two months of time. Um so those are just examples of the kinds of standards um that have been set. We don't we don't know actually about the duration of immunity because people are going to have to be followed over time. So we'll know whether a vaccine works for a year when a year has passed um among people who have been vaccinated and we'll know whether it works for two years when two years have passed after people have been vaccinated. There's no way to shorten um that part. So as we watch to see these efficacy trial results come out they are by definition they are because of the nature of them about short-term protection. No, I just want to add absolutely I agree with that and and and so I think it's important also for trials to continue because we shouldn't all think that ah we've got one or two now we just stop everything. No, we need more vaccines. Uh we need the followup. We need to know which ones you know some vaccines may work better in some populations like the the older people generally you know have a less robust immune response. So there are certain kinds of vaccines which which work better in elder people. There are certain kinds which are safer to use in pregnant women. So you we need a variety of vaccines and it's possible that some of the vaccines will have longer protection than others and we will not know that unless we do the trials and we follow people and we collect the data. So it's I think it's also very good to see so many people volunteering to be in these clinical trials around the world. there are huge movements of people on social media saying they would like to be part of and that's really uh altruistic of them to do that. Um and just one thing I'd like to say about what WHO does to uh provide guidance to manufacturers and developers of vaccines is we do something called target product profiles that we put out very early in the year. So that's something that people can look at to say, okay, what what are what are your goals if you're trying to develop a vaccine? And we said, we'd like to have at least 70% efficacy. We'd like the immunity to last for at least 2 years. We'd like it to be able to store at room temperature. We'd like it to be safe for everyone, including pregnant women. So those are the ideal characteristics that you would be looking for. And then there are the bare minimum characteristics that you would want below which you don't want to go. So, so those are out on the website and I'm sure have been useful for people who've been in this field developing vaccines. But kudos to all the scientists around the world who really have risen to the challenge and and done this. Thank you. You mentioned older people, pregnant women. Some viewers were asking, do we know if any of current candidates in in a third phase of trials are also having one of those groups uh participating? So for sure the c for sure many of the candidates are enrolling older people um and they've looked already at whether or not the vaccines stimulate an immune response as as Sumia described in the phase 2 trials um and are including older adults uh in the phase 3 clinical trials. The size of the clinical trials may not be large enough in order to answer the question age group by age group whether there are any differences in the effectiveness of the vaccine but we can also learn about that even after vaccines are used in a routine setting you know are used outside of a clinical trial. So the studies that go on I really agree with Sumia that we need to continue clinical trials but even after a vaccine is authorized the study of how the vaccines perform um when we're using them uh you know outside of outside of a clinical trial is extremely important because it helps us optimize how the vaccines are used which age groups which subpopuls and we really would love to get to single dose vaccines also I mean most of them are twod dose vaccines at this point. So vaccine development doesn't stop at the point when we have one you know good result. Thank you so much. There is the next question. What type of vaccine is this one? Is it a is it a live virus vaccine? Is that about the Fiser vaccine? What when you say this one? Yes. Yeah. Do you want to take that? But maybe we can explain what types of vaccines are currently there. So as I mentioned earlier you know for the first time we have these new platforms the mRNA vaccine which is FISA Mona and and many others um further down the pipeline and what that is is mRNA is is part of the genetic signature which actually once it gets into the cell it tells the cell what protein to make. So the mRNA vaccine is injected in into the muscle. It goes into the cells. It starts telling the cells to make the spike protein of this virus because most of the vaccines in development now are are trying to target the spike protein and uh and then the body starts making antibodies against the spike protein. Also we have something called the cellular immunity TE-C cells. So we have the antibbody response but we also have like the T- cell response which is very important to measure. and um that's the response we want. So the approaches are different. So the RNA tells the body to make the uh protein and then the antibbody. Whereas there are other vaccines which are also in phase three trials which are using the protein um just the spike protein. Uh again there are various ways of doing that. Some of them are combining it with an aduvent and adjuvent is a substance which stimulates the immune system. So you combine adjuvent and and the protein or the antigen and then the immune system response. There's also another uh way to do it and that's by using other viral vectors which are non-replicating like we've uh seen many vaccines being developed which use the adino virus. It's a it's a common virus that causes a upper respiratory infection and there are some groups that have used a chimpanzeee adinoirus. There are some that have used human adino virus. So what you do is you take a form of the virus which won't replicate but you put the um the uh genes of this uh covid-19 virus the sars kovv2 into that and then that is injected into the body and then it starts again stimulating the immune response. So and then there are inactivated whole viruses as well. So we have many different ones more coming in the in the pathway. So that's why it's really exciting to see what's coming down because we'll have the first few vaccines probably coming up with results in the next few months, but further in 2021, I think we'll see many more and then hopefully we'll have a variety of vaccine candidates then to choose from that would make access easier because you'd have more volumes, but then you could also target different groups, uh different populations and so on. The way I think about it is um I'm not sure this analogy really works, but um if you wanted to um if you wanted to have a cake at home, you you have really two approaches. You can go out and buy a cake, so you can get the the the cake that's already made, or you can actually have a recipe that tells you how to make the cake. And so the the vaccines kind of fit into two categories. We're either giving a part of the virus itself that can't harm you. it's a subcomponent of the virus, but it's the part that we want the immune system to react to. Or we inject the instructions for how the body itself can make that little part. Um, and those are kind of the two the two big categories and then within those there are different ways um that we make vaccines. Thank you so much both. Uh here's the next question coming from a Facebooker Shaliza Dogra. uh vaccines which are developing in particular area and being investigating in a uh on particular population will be effective. Do we expect them to be uh effective for populations all populations around the world or we'll need to have different vaccines in different parts of the world? Yes. Um first of all this is a this is a great question. Um I think the way to really address that is that we have see no reason why uh vaccines that are developed are going to um behave differently uh in one particular geography or another geography but it's possible that that could happen. Um, so I think what what's really important is that we really need to finish the clinical trials and start using the vaccines and then being really sure that we have good evaluations of how the vaccines work in different populations. We do have some examples of vaccines that work better in some populations than others, but those are largely um vaccines against um um uh intestinal infections, diarrheal infections, and it really has to do with um the how common those diarrheal um diseases are in one population or another population. What what do Simeon know do you feel differently about that? Would you say that geography is going to be a pretty big determining factor? or do you feel comfortable that we should be going out with vaccines regardless of geography? And I don't know of any vaccines that have had that sort of differential effect uh so far. So most vaccines that are used now work you know populations around the world. So I would feel fairly confident but I think it's the sub populations we're more worried about is children, older people, pregnant women, you know. So that's something we need to study and that's why we need these large trials because you need to look at these subopuls as well and then ultimately we can look across all of these different trials maybe put it all together and and start um analyzing the data that way. One follow-up question thinking about different target groups and the the plan for priority groups to be vaccinated. question came um whether vaccine will be mandatory for children going to school to gather vaccine so that they can go back to school. I think the first thing to say is that we're not at the point um when I say we or the manufacturers the scientific community are really not at the point of um looking at these vaccines in in children yet. We really need to see what they do in in adults and then um look carefully about how to move into children. And part of the reason for that is what we really would love for these vaccines to do, we've spoken a lot about what they do for disease, you know, either preventing death or preventing severe disease or preventing even milder disease from from COVID. But what we really want these vaccines to do beyond that, that's really important. But we really want them to protect against getting infected, you know, just in your upper respiratory tract. And what would be great is even if you did get infected, if they protected against transmitting to somebody else. So those pieces of information about transmission are really important. And the reason I say that is that um if they're going to be used in kids, um what we're really also concerned about and want to know about is whether or not that transmission protection um is something that could really benefit um children. Thank you so much. Here's the next question. Will prior uh prior COVID 19 antibbody statues be a determinant for prioritizing who receives the vaccine when this is made available to the general public including healthcare workers. So maybe I can answer that one because we've looked at that carefully in uh in the um policy advisory committee that uh that uh advises who that's referred to as SAGE, the strategic advisory group of experts on immunization, an independent group of experts from around the world who um provide recommendations to the leadership of WHO on vaccine policy. Um and what's we've looked carefully at this um in the SAGE uh group and and there is no um uh they are not recommending that uh we look at whether or not somebody has previously been infected or previously diseased that the policy recommendations should consider people regardless of whether or not they have or don't have evidence of ever having been infected before. Thank you very much. Uh here's the next question. Now that there are evidence of covid-19 mutation uh such as the case we we we read about in uh and learned about in denmark Denmark uh will the new development vaccine uh tread all potential types. So we'll have AI just want to mention you the opportunity that tomorrow at the same time we'll have two experts talking about virus mutations and in particular situation uh in in Denmark but maybe we can address uh how virus mutations impact vaccine development. Yeah, I think it's important because obviously readers have heard about how viruses mutate or change and we all know that influenza in the case of influenza vaccine every year there are experts who meet and discuss uh which strains should be included in the in the vaccine it's because of the virus mutates and changes a little bit every year. So there's a lot of uh work going on in this and scientists around the world are tracking it. So we at who have this virus evolution working group probably hear more tomorrow at your session about what's happening in this uh in this area. Um so this virus is also mutating we as all viruses do and we are tracking the mutations to see what impact it'll have particularly on this spike protein that we've talked about that it's that's the target for vaccine development currently and so so far there's no evidence that any of the mutations that have been seen would have any impact on the immune response that a vaccine would would elicit. So, so far so good, but this is something that would need to be tracked uh continuously. We don't know in the future if this if this virus also evolves and we'll see when we come to that. But as of now, it it seems to be um not mutating at the at the speed at which uh influenza flu mutates for example. So that's good news. Thank you so much. Um here is the the maybe before I ask next question maybe we can summarize for viewers we mentioned that we will have we hope to have a ready safe and effective vaccine early 2021 how long would be the roll out since we won't have enough doses for everyone. So for how long we expect that we need to to deploy a vaccine so that we we become uh protected from from this virus collectively. there's no vaccine that's being developed right now that's going to have enough doses to serve the entire world. Um so the roll out of the vaccine is uh I'm going to say the vaccines um is really going to depend on having more than one vaccine. Um and and this is just another reason um that you know Sumia has really emphasized about why we need to continue clinical trials and why the moment we get the first vaccine that isn't the moment to stop. Um really the manufacturing capacity is extremely important and um pretty much for every vaccine at some point or other in the course of manufacturing um there are uh there are some difficulties in the manufacturing. So having a really robust group of vaccines that can then ramp up in terms of production capacity. But what we're really aiming for is that in um that every country around the world is able to immunize at least 20% of their population. That's the goal. And if we can do that, if we can really get that amount of vaccine around to every country, then the highest priority groups are going to be able to have some degree of protection, which doesn't mean that we just end everything else that we're doing. We already have lots of great interventions. Handwashing, distancing, wearing masks when you can't distance. Um, you know, limiting uh the the uh groups of people that you're around, being outside if you need to be around other people. So, all of those things are not going to just magically disappear like that with a vaccine. We're really going to have to um uh crush this virus by using everything that we have at hand and and certainly not taking our foot off the pedal at any point yet. Thank you so much. There are still a lot of questions. I'll take few more just so because we need to close in in in few minutes. Um Jan Mayers is asking on Facebook, how much percentage of global population would need to be vaccinated to end this pandemic and that the virus is not a life threat. That's also a very good question. Very smart viewers. Probably in the range of 70% or so. That's what we we we think. Um I'm going to give a slightly different answer. This is a great this a great I agree. It really depends what the what the vaccine can do. So if it only protects people against themselves getting disease and does nothing about transmission, that's a different that's a different situation than if the vaccine can really alter something about how how much with with what intensity it it can transmit. So I think we're not we're not really in a place where we can answer the question yet. But I agree with Sumia that assuming that the vaccine has some of these characteristics something around 60 70% of people. The next question uh will this new compressed timeline be used in the future to expedite more vaccine production? I hope so. I hope so. We have other huge infectious disease problems around the world that we need to solve. TB is a is a good example. uh and if we can bring this kind of uh global collaboration around the development of new technologies and vaccines I also think that this mRNA platform and the DNA platform if it's proven in this pandemic that it's it has worked then I think we'll be in a different position because this platform allows you to very rapidly insert the genes of any new virus that comes along. So hopefully we'll be better prepared for the next pandemic. So I think I hope that this changes the way we do things in the future. Last question. Since there will be mass distribution globally for the vaccine, counterfe products will hit the markets claiming to be the genuine to be the right ones. What is the contingency plan for that? So there are um this is an important issue and uh and the safety and security of vaccines um is really important. there are methods um that are used uh on on medicinal products and vaccines inclusive um using barcode technologies um methods to to identify this vaccine as a as a legitimate vaccine. Um I think the the other point that's important is this this is partly why um ongoing continuous all the time monitoring of safety is important because things can go wrong. there can be nefarious things like this uh that happen and that come into the supply chain but these are extremely rare in the course of vaccines um and uh and I think the concern is much more about um assuring that we have adequate supply for for everybody who needs it. Thank you very much and for closing Dr. Sumia we expect to have vaccine early next year. We see encouraging developments and news but the cases are on a rise continuously. What can we do now? What are the proven tools so far that we can use and also in the worst case scenario if the vaccine is not working in the end? How we can stop this pandemic? Yeah, I think it's really good to to keep our expectations also uh realistic. So while we we hope we'll get more good news about vaccines, it's going to take time to scale up production to get them out to all the countries and then to get enough people vaccinated so life goes back to precoid days. Till then we need to do the things that individuals can do now. Physical distancing, washing your hands, making sure you're wearing a mask if if you can't be physically dist if you're in a place with lots of people. Avoid crowded places, particularly indoor poorly ventilated places. Stay home if you're sick. Protect the elderly and the vulnerable within your families. Make sure they're not exposed. So, there's a lot we can do now to protect ourselves and to and to protect others. And governments would need to keep doing what they need to do, which is having the diagnostics in place, making sure they're detecting people early, providing them care, making sure that they have supportive ways of quarantining all the contacts, isolating those who are sick. Those are the ways in which we can keep transmission under check and make sure that even if the virus is circulating, it's not a huge problem for society, for the health system. So we need to keep doing that for many many months now till we're at the point where everybody will or enough people have a vaccine that you know we can go back to being normal. But I think we've we know this now we should it it does require quite a lot of self-discipline to continue to do this. We need to motivate each other and to make sure that we can keep going. Thank you so much. there has been a lot of work done as well uh among scientists and innovation on diagnostics and then therapeutics. So we we spoke about that few weeks ago as well and we'll give the the update soon. Um I have a long list of countries from where viewers are watching us from Europe, Americas, Asia, Africa. So I thank you all very much for your questions. I thank you both for your time to answer the questions. Please uh join us tomorrow at the same time. We'll have uh experts talking about CO 19 virus mutations. Um and next week again, Wednesday at 5:00 PM, we'll we'll answer more questions on CO 19. Thank you so much and stay safe.