So many countries have been affected by the sudden and unplanned cuts to foreign aid. So what's the WHO doing to support them? >> Thank you. Thank you, Isabel. And apologies I couldn't be with you there. Of course, my spirit is with you and you know um my links with World Health Summit as a co-founder actually uh many years ago. So of course it's a great opportunity at least to join you virtually if not in person. Um first of all I would like to say and there is a German phrase I like uh mentioned um I like that because health is a human right and if people can take that to heart all over the world whether it's a low income middle income or high income countries I think they can make significant progress. Uh but the first thing is to believe that humanity held health is a human rights a fundamental human right and an end in itself but also a means to prosperity. So I just would like to start from there and I listen to the panel starting from the opening from her excellency minister Nina Voran especially one thing she said I think is very crucial national health depends on global health. So we cannot really protect ourselves as global citizens without solidarity and without global health. And then coming to your question Isabel um many countries have been affected by the ODA uh decline. Um and I think you know many of the really sad figures but at the same time uh countries have really felt um you know the uh withdrawal and the funding cuts and they're trying to uh take their own initiatives. Uh, of course there's one thing I would like to say to say before we I move into telling you how we're supporting countries. Um, the US has every right to use its money the way it wants. I don't think anyone can criticize the US for withdrawing its funds or withdrawing its support. But one thing that could have been done is um there could have been a transition or an exit strategy for instance about six to 12 months and then countries who have been benefiting from the US generous support could have prepared themselves. So that's one thing I would like to raise. But then I have met many leaders from developing countries and the current crisis situation actually is they're saying is an opportunity an opportunity for for self-reliance and many countries many developing countries are mobilizing domestic resources to fill the gap and that's I think the way forward and many developing countries countries or all developing countries. What they need is not charity. What they need is fair terms. Fair terms in investment, fair terms in trade and fair terms in you know um taking loans from the market and fair terms in in in other ways. I think the chair of the AU said it uh earlier. And then what who is doing to help is two two focuses. First the immediate because there is a gap immediately and we're advising and supporting countries to generate funding from uh taxes on tobacco, sugary drinks and and alcohol. um this is generating in many countries I think significant amount of money and then the second is the long term the long-term is the most important uh we are advising countries on how to build a social or a public health insurance system both for the formal and informal sector I think countries have the capability as you know I'm in Sri Lanka and in Sri Lanka health services are free at entry point and the indicators they have are really as good as many of the high income countries. Uh they're doing this because as I said earlier they take health as as a human right and they use their own resources to the maximum or mobilize domestic resources. So Sri Lanka is a developing country and there is no reason that other countries uh can do the same. So the way forward for the developing countries is first fair terms and second mobilizing resources immediately using taxes which we are advising and second is to build uh self reliance through the um health insurance systems both for the informal and and and formal sector and it's possible because some countries have already done it for for many years. So that's how we're trying to help countries. But the key is in the countries themselves. It's not what who supports. I see a mindset shift to move toward self-reliance and that's that's key and donors should help um in building capacity at country level of course and the if they focus on building uh capacity that is aligned to self-reliance I think that could could also speed up the process with which you know countries could reach self-reliance So, thank you so much, Isabel, and and back to you. >> I just like to pick up on something you said right at the beginning of your answer that, you know, what was particularly damaging and devastating when it came to the withdrawal of aid was the sudden and unexpected nature of that. So, could you tell us what strategy the WH can take to become more resilient to future unexpected shocks? Yeah. So due to the sudden withdrawal by the way people have died and and and that's why I said if there was um you know some exit strategy you know there we wouldn't have people dying because of uh the withdrawal of the US uh funding. Uh but not only that, I think the US withdrawal and the decline in other in the funding from other donors um is also uh going to um roll back the achievements we have um in in many fronts whether it's communicable or non-communicable business. By the way, I want to join my brother Jean Cassa in thanking Germany for the significant contribution to global fund a billion and not only that to SEPI also 100 million dollars. Thank you so much Phil and Dank Germany. Um and that I think will help. Maybe one thing though like to suggest is in with regard to you know all the global health partners with the resources that are coming and who included. I think focusing on building capacity at country level will be very important and supporting countries based on their priorities and to truly believe that result can only come when countries are in the driving uh driving seat. And then for WHO um of course for WHO um the last few months have been very painful. I I I need to be honest with you. Saying goodbye to college is not easy. As you know, um, we're downsizing and I had to meet starting from senior management, sit with colleagues one on one and tell them the bad news and asking them to leave. And you can imagine how painful that could be. Um and of course people understand, colleagues understand. Uh but you know through what kind of storm WHO has passed especially during the pandemic to what level of stress our colleagues who colleagues have been exposed and working under stress 24/7 and to be honest they don't deserve separation actually surprise like Yeah, because this is not the reward they would get after extreme working condition especially during COVID and also for what they have delivered. But at the same time we believe that this crisis is actually an opportunity an opportunity for the organization to shape up to focus on its core mandate and to be more independent. Um and maybe coming going back to our uh how we're running the um restructuring we're using three principles transparency, fairness and humanity and we have already reached a milestone at the end of September and we will do our best of course no process is perfect but we will do our best to follow these three principles but we're almost closing the restructure. and focusing on our work on supporting countries and and and moving on and then coming to the opportunity um I think in every crisis it's a matter of opening our eyes but there are opportunities and we see opportunities uh but when I see say opportunities I can also also share with you I don't know maybe some of you know we saw this problem actually coming that's why it was not difficult for us to see this as opportunity we saw it coming when we started our transformation in 2017 2018 at that time we have concluded that the major risk for the world health organization is its dependency on few traditional donors and we even underlined then if any of the major donors reduce their funding significantly, we may get into a shock like now. But not only that, the dependency on few traditional donors is also compromising our independence because with the big funding, some threads are attached or some um uh you know conditions are coming that may compromise our independence. So because of these two problems we said we need to address this major problem. We didn't even say this is one of the major risks for WHO. We said this is the major risk for WHO. And the solution we proposed at that time was to broaden the donor base so that in the future not only we can avoid shocks but also to ensure WHS independence. And then several measures were proposed that are aligned with broadening the donor base. One is the assess contribution increase. The second is creating who foundation which is already done. The third is the investment uh around and the fourth is increasing some uh you know the cost cost recovery mechanisms. If I focus on assess contribution, by the way, Germany has the biggest contribution in this and a very able person BUN Kuml from Germany has chaired the member states working group. They agreed to increase the assess contribution by 50% based on our request and not only that we are also doing the other measures. So as we speak that financial reform the increase of assess contribution by by member states by 50% has actually helped us to minimize the impact of the US withdrawal and the funding cuts from other donors. The crisis in WH would have been even more serious if the finance reform was not um um uh implemented. >> Dr. Thanks to Yes. >> I will ask you to wrap up uh if that's okay. >> Yes. Thank you because you asked me a very >> very big question. I know. Sorry. >> Big question. Important question. So I will I will wrap up because I have to respect my moderator. So dev your question the sustainability of who lies in that reform which started in 2017. So there is no need to start a new thing. It's better to continue along the same line. Meaning member states have already approved two installments the last four years out of the five installments they have uh decided in and it's a matter of for member states to implement the additional three installments until 2031. That's one. And the second proposal we're making is and we are assessing this to create an endowment fund. This endowment fund is similar to what we have in Harvard and also welcome trust. I have spoken to Harvard and I have spoken to welcome trust the secretariat and and the board and they're willing to support if who can have these two ports the increase in assess contribution if it's can be implemented it will be 50% of our our budget by 2031 and if we have the endowment fund side by side this could put WH on a sustainable track and that means who can prevent future shocks and also ensure its independence and can continue to be an independent voice and we can speak independently with our feed without fear of repercussion. So that's how we're trying to sustain. It's implementing what we have started but we have the additional recommendation of starting an endowment fund. Of course, the other measures which I said the WHO foundation, the uh cost recovery could could also help, but it's the devil is in the financial model for who and this has not been addressed for a long time addressing that and that will create the sustainability that that you asked and I call on all participants in the room. They can do this especially with the endorment. We want you to help us and make it happen and make your WHO an independent institution. Thank you very much and back to you and sorry for taking time. Big thanks there to Dr. Tedros who we miss a lot and having him in person. Um now we have been hearing that there are leaders who are showing the way