All right, from now on we start the webinar. No more noise, no more sounds. Thank you. Healthy beginnings, hopeful future. That is such an optimistic way to mark World Health Day as we gather together to bring global action for women and newborns. My name is Fei. Okay. I am your moderator for the next 75 minutes. Let's start with a reminder of why we are all here. Mama, I love you. You hold me. You keep me safe. You are my world. Not every baby gets this chance. Every 7 seconds, a mother or baby is lost to causes we could prevent. Not enough midwives, not enough medicine, not enough time. But this can change when we invest in science, in strong health systems, in equality, when we make the choice to support mothers and babies, when birthdays are moments of hope, not loss. We protect the future because every healthy beginning means a hopeful future for us all. Mama, welcome everybody. If you're joining at the WHO in Geneva, if you're joining remotely on Zoom or on YouTube, it is so good to have you on Zoom. We actually have our entire session in multiple languages. So go to the bottom of your dashboard and you will see a little section that either says interpretation or more. Click on more. Find interpretation and then you will see the number of different languages that this session will be available in. And then you will hear me speaking perfect French or Arabic or or Spanish or Portuguese. So that is how on Zoom you can hear our session in multiple languages. It is so good to have you. Let me tell you the plan for today. We're going to unpack the challenges for women and newborns around the world. Making sure that their health stays intact, that they have a healthy future. We will look at where we are now. What is the data telling us? And we will get solutions from experts and guests. And there is a phrase that you will hear. It has an acronym, but I love the phrase so much. Every woman, every newborn, everywhere is an initiative that brings together over 50 countries and three UN agencies to accelerate the improvement of care for women and newborns, every woman, every newborn, everywhere. the three UN agencies who will be co-chairing this initiative, the WH, UNICEF, and UNFPA. You will hear from all of the heads of these agencies in the next few minutes. We start with Dr. Ted Ross, the director general of the World Health Organization. Happy World Health Day to you, Dr. Ted Ross. What do you have to tell us? Thank you. Thank you, Fei. Uh dear colleagues and Hello everybody who is watching on Zoom. I appear to have a technical issue. So this is one of the challenges of connecting globally and via the internet and virtually as well. So just give us a moment. We will work on this as soon as possible. We will reconnect with Dr. to Ted Ross and we will continue our session. But thanks for your patience. I'll come back with more information as soon as I have it. In the meantime, you get to look at my face. So, I apologize about that, but it's nice to see everybody who's gathered from around the world. All right, so we are trying to reconnect with the WHO in Geneva. Who thought that that would be the weakest link? That's extraordinary. Uh let me remind you of some of the conversations that we have coming up. Um we will uh reconnect with Dr. Tedos. You will hear from the heads of UNICEF and also the heads of the UNFPA for our co-chairing initiative which is every woman, every newborn everywhere. We will then get some data. Where are we right now? Fresh data. What is the current situation? And then we will go into two mini panels. And I love the first panel. Actually, I love the second panel as well. The first panel is talking about solutions coming from on the ground. You know the solutions often get pushed to the last minute of a of a conversation of a session. Um but our solutions will be at the beginning. We're starting with the solutions because we need to accelerate the health of women and newborns. And then the second session which is even more important, well they're jointly important. I can't elevate one over the other is about partnership as a way to implement the solutions that we're going to share with you. It's possible that we might actually have this this entire webinar without the WH in Geneva if we're having trouble reconnecting because we've got so many of our expert speakers right here online in the Zoom room. So, we will have a boutique conversation. That is possible. let's see what is possible to do and then of course we will talk about action. Um no session is complete without saying okay we've talked about this now what do we do so again I will remind you that as if you needed reminded because this session is not all about me and you're seeing a lot of me right now is that we have a technical issue connecting with the WH in Geneva which is where Dr. Tedros is. It's where we heard the very first part of his opening remarks and we didn't hear anything else. I will check with the with the team. So give me a moment to do that. So you will see my face concentrating but I will mute myself. So you can check on actually you can check on your email. I wasn't going to tell you that. check on your email, check on your messages, and then but keep the Zoom open, keep the stream open, and I will be back with more news with you for you in just a moment. But I'm just going to mute myself so I can focus on how do we fix this because if nothing, we are troubleshooters if we work in maternal health with newborns. Okay, back in a moment. Do stay with us. Thank you. All right. So, in this session, we have two panels. And the first panel is going to be a really important panel. We actually have all of the panelists here. So, I'm actually going to say hello to them and get them to introduce themselves as we are starting this a little bit earlier than we were anticipating, but we are we're adapting, which is what we need to do whenever we talk about some major health challenges. So, I'm going to go to and bring in into our conversation our three panelists that will take us into solutions. What are the solutions for how we approach and accelerate the care that women and newborns need? In our conversation, we have Dr. Bbec, director, family welfare division, Department of Health Services, Ministry of Health and Population in Nepal. Dr. Parajitta executive director, Center for Catalyzing Change and co-chair of the White Ribbon Alliance Global. and professor Caroline Homer, director of Arpan Center for Research Excellence at the Bernett Institute on behalf of the Western Pacific Regional Office of the International Stillbirth Alliance and the Australian Still Birth Center of Research Excellence. Caroline, I know, professor, you do not have that on your business card. That would be impossible. We are going to accentuate the positive in our conversation today. Dr. Beck, hello. Please say hello. Please greet our Zoom audience, our online audience. Welcome. Hello, Free. How are you? Very well, thank you. Uh Rachel, good to see you. Um lovely to have you as well. But also, I'm going to go into Dr. Ggoy. Hello, Dr. Ggoy. Welcome. Hi, Fei. Very good. And uh and Caroline, welcome. Thank you so much. Hi, Fei. Hello, everybody. Thank you so much for being here this evening, this morning, this afternoon, wherever you are. Yeah, because we're all over the world all of the time for this session. So, let me start first of all um with Dr. Bbec because you're in Nepal and you have done something pretty extraordinary which is with limited resources you are looking at how you can care for women and newborns in a better way, in a in a in a healthier way. So more people survive that critical point of life. What are you doing? What can you share with us that help us understand what is possible from the Nepalese perspective? Thank you Fei for that question. So I'll let you on in a let you in on a secret that is like many other low and middle inome countries we also struggle to secure sufficient uh funds from our national budget. Just to give you an idea our uh bud budget share in national annual budget would be around less than 5% generally okay but what I think I the my colleagues and predecessors over a long period of time have done smart is that they have prioritized more resources for the metalin and newborn health program out of the available budget and we have also had very good IC foresight where the legal and policy structures were in place so that we could move it forward. We have also been very fortunate to have support from bilateral, multilateral, non-governmental organizations as well as the community based organizations. And when it comes to programs, we have been fairly quick to adopt new evidence-based recommendations that comes from organizations such as WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA and others as well to improve the metal and newborn health uh in our programs and policies. So all of these have been uh I would say u useful in getting us where we are today. So if you'd like me to go a bit deeper then I can talk about some of our legal and policy environment or would you want me to stop there? Um do you know go a little deeper and then I'm going to go to Dr. Ggoy but just a little deeper says tell us a little bit more. We're leaning in. Thank you so much. So starting with our constitution itself, it enshrines the rights of every citizen of safe motherhood and reproductive health as the basic rights and we have got further laws which clarify these where all these services related to safe motherhood and reproductive health are part of basic health services which every citizen is entitled to get free of costs. So you can understand how much of a burden that is that we have taken upon ourselves with the given limited budget and also we have got our long-term health policies, plans, safe motherhood and newborn health road map that we have developed towards achievement of our SDG goals. So all these have been very helpful on ter in terms of legal and policy environment and we have also had very good package of interventions directed towards uh pregnant mothers and newborn babies. So we have been incentivizing women to come for antiatal checkups. They are provided uh some transportation cost. Every uh services related to pregnancy and delivery are free including up to the cesarian sections. They are entitled to receive free postnatal care. Even transportation is free and we have a very robust what we call maternal and perinatal death surveillance and response system which looks after these deaths and uh what we can do to prevent such deaths in the future and we also have a free newborn care program where all the services provided to care for a newborn with medical needs is free of cost. the parents are not supposed to bear any cost and the hospitals are reimbured the cost. So just to give you some idea on these and we have also had that's amazing that's ex that's that's extraordinary and there's more to share obviously thank you so much Dr. Bec I'm going to pause for for a moment there because I want to bring in Dr. because one of the one of the challenges that we're having right now always have but where does funding come from? How do we get uh more funding? How do we fund initiatives that really need to help women and newborns? And so what I wanted to ask you was really about specific interventions that we can use to prioritize the progress. What should be at the top of the list? What should we be top of mind that we should be thinking about? Dr. Ggoy, thank you Fei. Uh, hello everyone and greetings on the occasion of World Health Day. Um, thank you for the question on protecting progress, but I also want to talk about what could quicken progress because we really need that. And I also want to talk about the fact today I know everybody would be talking about what health systems, health ministries can do but I want to talk about solutions coming from beyond the health system. Of course strengthening health systems, strengthening quality of care, ensuring access to family planning to reproductive health everything is really really important. But the challenge that we have today is systemic inequities. And you all would agree that if we want to solve systemic inequities, we have to address factors like gender discrimination, poverty, harmful cultural practices because these are what is harming the most vulnerable women and girls and that is where progress is stalling. If you look at all the progress that we have made around the world, you know, the quote unquote the lowhanging fruits are gone. it's going to be increasingly difficult to reach the vulnerable women and girls. So my solution is that we have to prioritize equity, education and systemic reform. And how do we address systemic inequities? We have to go beyond health. Like I said, we have to look at women's economic empowerment. How do we provide women in our country's income generating opportunities, microloans? How do we help them transition to a labor force? and fem. So many women that we meet uh in in in the communities, they tell us that if they had their own money, if they had control over their own money, they could have taken decisions, better decisions, life-saving decisions. Again to address inequities again beyond health we have to invest in girls education because we know there is global evidence that educated girls exercise better contraceptive choices delay marriages and we know that all of these lead to better maternal and newborn outcomes. So yes, solutions must look at harmful gender norms, girls education, social norms like child marriage. And I think because we are focusing today on vulnerable women and girls and children, I think we have to remember that women who are in the marginalized communities, they have overlapping vulnerabilities. no agency early marriage could be school dropout no education no economic power facing violence on a day-to-day basis not able to seek care and that's the reason why I am making my point here that for solutions we have to go intersectoral and my last point here is that it's really really important to amplify marginalized voices because vulnerable groups especially women in rural areas in crisis settings I think hearing their voice is really really important because they can provide us unique perspective ives on how health systems either fail them or support them. And I want to take a second to talk about the what women want campaign where the white women alliance asked more than 2 million women across the world about what is it that they want, what is their top priority and we listen very deeply to their needs, their aspirations and we acted on what women are asking for. We mobilize women communities advocates but we ensure that solutions are being led by local decision makers and just to share with you this particular campaign what women want it has resulted as of today in impact of multiple levels around 40 policies have been changed or informed or propelled by what women want demand more than 300 I think more than 300 million USD in new funding has been mobilized because women asked for some of these thousands of health workers have been recruited. Thousands of facilities have been upgraded and the impact of amplifying the voices has been local, national, even global. Um, so I would like to end by making a case that if we want to not stall progress, we really have to look beyond the health sector. We have to center communities voices, women's voices so that marginalized groups, marginalized women and children are not left behind. Back to you Fei. Thank you, Dr. If you have just joined us or you joined us midway through our conversation, you are watching Healthy Beginnings, hopeful futures, global action for women and newborns. We have a few technical issues, but it is not stopping us from having the important conversations that we need to have today. Although I have to say I'm very sorry for uh interpretation at the moment. We do not have it. We are trying to troubleshoot that and get it to you. But in the meantime, we continue our panel on solutions for women and newborns, making sure that they have healthy, hopeful futures. Professor Homer Caroline, when we talk about midwives, they are really at the front line of action and help support not just for newborns, but also for women and families who sadly experience a still birth as well. So when we're talking talking about practical solutions, what comes from the midwiferey community, what would you want to share with us? Thank you so much, Fei. And yes, there are many great solutions and both my colleagues who've just spoken had some really fantastic solutions. We know there's a lot of great interventions that we can do um with women with with babies to make sure that they have these healthy beginnings, but we have to have a workforce to deliver them. And so this is where midwives are so key because without midwives, without a health workforce, you just can't deliver the things that we know women and babies need. We know from a lot of research from around the world that midwives are really important in providing quality care and reducing these preventable deaths. Some work that I did a few years ago showed that if we had universal midwifrey coverage by 2035, we could avert over 60% of maternal and newborn deaths and still births. 60% is a very big number. So midwives are a solution, but they're not a solution just to educate them and send them out. They have to be well educated. They have to be well regulated. They have to be part of a system that looks after them. That ensures they have access to a phone to call for help or to consult with other health professionals, especially doctors, pediatricians, obstitricians, neatlogists where they exist. And of course, they need transport for referral. And Beck has mentioned transport already. What I've seen works well in a number of countries is when midwives are recruited from their communities, they're well educated to provide the care that mothers and babies need, and then they're put back in those communities with good support, with access to medicines and equipment to do their job well. But of course, they have to be paid properly. They have to be given good working conditions and they have to be respected by other health professionals and of course they're mostly women around the world and that has a gender disadvantage as well. We know that leadership is really important as a solution and so well uh effective midwifrey associations in every country working closely with organizations who are part of FIGO. I think that's really important. Two more points, Fei. One is about midwiffrey models of care because in another um event today, there's a midriffrey accelerator being launched, which is really key for scaling up midwiffrey continuity of care, midwiffrey models of care. This is where the woman knows the midwife and they develop trust. There's really good respectful care and support. Um so these midwifrey models of care, you'll start to see more out there in many countries. And finally, sadly, sometimes a loss will occur and can't be prevented. So, a still birth or a neonatal death. And we know now that bereiement care is essential. And midwives, especially if they already know the woman, are really important to provide this bereavement care. So that includes emotional support, compassionate, non-judgmental support, practical support and and especially um talking about stigma of loss. Um there's physical care. These women have often had very complicated births and postpartum care is so important just as our colleague from Nepal said, it's an area that we have to get better at. And then making memories finally encouraging families to create memories and rituals to honor their baby and using the name of the baby I think is so important. So Fei, thank you. Just a few ideas and solutions. Um and really lovely to have this conversation. Thank you. It's such a it's such a joy to talk about solutions when we have so much to do for women and newborns. And so it's been such an encouraging conversation. I I'm going to keep with the optimism if I may panel solutions panel because the theme for world health day is healthy beginnings hopeful futures Caroline so between now and 2030 achieving our goals for women and newborns what gives you hope um look lots gives me hope Fei I think you know we are in a tough space at the moment but even in the last year I've been really hopeful around on the enthusiasm for midway free models of care. As I said last year, WH released a position paper called transitioning to midwayree models of care. And today, UNFPA, WH, um, UNICEF, the ICM, and many other partners are launching the Midfree Accelerator in in New York. This is a global initiative to expand access to highquality care. And next month we're working uh we'll be releasing an implementation guidance. So there's lots of momentum I think and we have to keep on this momentum and I think the work today that was launched showing a decrease in maternal mortality is hugely encouraging but we know it's slowed and we now know we can't slow down. So we have to continue this momentum. Okay. Uh accelerate the momentum. Uh Dr. Koy between now and 2030 on World Health Day, what gives you hope? What are you hopeful about? Um, of course for me the world today is filled with disruptions, funding cuts, policy changes, everything, changing priorities. But I think there's a lot that we can look forward to and there are many things that I would like to talk about. You know, what civil society organizations are doing and can do more. We have governments, we have WH, and SFU and FBA donors doing a lot. But I think uh csos can really bridge some vital gaps because they are closest to the community. They can advocate for equitable policies and they can really amplify the voices of the marginalized because we are there where the most vulnerable populations reside and I think CSOS can contribute a lot more to the solutions because we're talking of solutions today because we are on the ground we know the realities and there is an immense amount of commitment. Back to you Fe. Okay good. Um I I like the way this session is going um because it is giving us solutions and also giving us hope when it's a really difficult time for anybody who's working in health. Dr. Bebebeck, one last session of hope from you. What do you want to share with us? What are you hopeful about for the next five years? I would refer to the data that came out today through the publication of the report jointly by all the UN agency which shows that we are making remarkable progress and we have seen it through our own eyes through our own experience and now we know what works and what doesn't it is uh I think most of the countries you you refer to it have now adopted the maternal newborn health acceleration plan so we have identified those things And we are going to work on that and we also have the evidence from other studies other parts as well as our own uh domestic settings where we uh we feel that every sector buys into the idea of better health for mother and newborn. So I think the overall environment is conducive conducive to a better mal and newborn health in five years. But again I would have a word of caution there is it requires sustained financial and technical support. Many of the countries do not have enough domestic resources to take it to the finish line. So I think we need to have that global solidarity and continue to work so that we can reach where we want to by 2030. Solutions panel. It's been such a pleasure having you start our conversation here on World Health Day. We really appreciate you. Please stay with us uh because your optimism will infuse the rest of our conversation. I go now to Dr. Tedros who is uh coming live from his office. A change of location. It wasn't expected, but we are adaptable and we can handle it. Dr. Tedros, again, we really appreciate you being one of the co-chairs of Every Woman, Every New Everywhere. What should we be thinking about on this day when we're focusing on healthy beginnings and hopeful futures? Did you touch it there, Dr. Tedros? Over to you. Can you can you hear me? We hear you. Uh, we hear you. We see me. And we see you, which is a miracle. Thank you. So, we're we're very happy to do both solutions and hope and I think I would add to that don't give up, keep moving uh because uh we have this technical glitch and then of course u uh we we we have we didn't give up but we we have a solution now. So, thank you so much Fei. But I fully agree with the panel. Solutions and and hope is very important. And good afternoon to everyone here in Geneva and good morning or good evening to everyone joining us online around the world. And happy World Health Day. As you know, World Health Day is WH's birthday and today we turned 77. It was on this day the 7th April in 1948 that the WHO constitution entered into force. The WHO constitution outlines 22 core functions of the organization. One of those functions is to promote maternal and child health and welfare. In other words, maternal and child health has been part of WHSDNA since the beginning. The team for World Health Day this year is healthy beginnings, hopeful futures. It reminds us that the way we start life plays a huge role in determining everything that comes after. When women and newborns not only survive child birth but enjoy good health, it benefits families and communities and contributes to economic development and stability. Since 2000, the world has made great progress. Maternal deaths have declined by 40%. And newborn deaths by just over 30%. The report we're launching today presents more good news. In 2023, for the first time, not a single country was classified as having extremely high rates of maternal deaths. These gains are being driven by advancements in research and service delivery which are helping us to address the leading cause of maternal death including postpartum hemorrhage. who is also supporting countries to scale up interventions to increase survival for small and sick babies, including specialized newborn care units and kangaroo mother care. And with partners, we're improving access to skilled midwifree care. None of this work is possible without partnerships. Which is why together with UNICEF and UNFBA, we established the every woman, every newborn, everywhere initiative or e-ween. I'm pleased that the executive director of UNFBA and UNICEF, Natalia Kim and Katherine Russell, my dear colleagues, will also share their messages with us today. Ewini ensures action for maternal and newborn health under one roof so that we coordinate more effectively with local and international partners in places that need it the most. It's now supporting more than 50 countries to improve access to high impact interventions and bolster health systems. Stronger partnership is more important now than ever as we seek to reinvigorate progress towards the SVG targets in the fa in the face a dramatically cons phase of a dramatically constrained financial environment. Since 2016, progress has slowed and every year we continue to lose millions of newborns and hundreds of thousands of mothers during birth and shortly afterwards, mostly from preventable cause. Most deaths occur in the poorest countries or communities and especially in war zones and other fragile environments. It's in these areas where the recent cuts to development assistance will have the starkkest impacts. So, let me leave you with three priorities as we move forward in this difficult times. First, prioritization. We need to focus on what we know works. Scaling up evidence-based practices adapted to the local context for maximum impact. Second, investment. We need to make the case that investments in maternal and newborn health deliver a rich return over many years in the health of children, adolesccents and adults and in the stability of communities, countries and economies. Third, partnership. No agency or country can do it alone. We need to work together, learn from each other, and make sure that we engage the communities we serve. Thank you all once again for your commitment to working for hopeful futures and healthy beginnings for our mothers, our sisters, our babies, and for all of us. Fei, thank you again and back to you. Thank you very much, Dr. Tedos. We appreciate your insights as we mark World Health Day, healthy beginnings, hopeful futures. The initiative e-weeni that Dr. Tedras talked about, every woman, every newborn everywhere, is co-chared by three UN agencies, the WH, UNICEF, and the UNFPA. We are joined now via video by via with Katherine Russell who is the executive director of UNICEF. Katherine, thank you so much for joining us. Over to you. On this World Health Day, we celebrate the remarkable accomplishments in maternal, newborn, and child health and the tireless efforts of midwives, nurses, and community health workers in ensuring that mothers and babies survive and thrive. More mothers, newborns, and children are surviving today because of their efforts. Between 2000 and 2023, improved access to essential health services has contributed to a 40% decline in maternal deaths and A-50% decline in child deaths. This is testament to the remarkable results we can achieve through collective efforts. But much more is needed to bring down preventable deaths and improve maternal and child health. As pregnant women, mothers, newborns, and children continue to face unprecedented challenges, including humanitarian emergencies and lack of access to health and nutrition. Our work is more vital than ever. Newborns are particularly vulnerable as almost half of the deaths of children under the age of five occur in the first month of life. Without adequate and sustained investment, decades of hard one gains could be rolled back. Investment in scaling up access to proven life-saving maternal and newborn and child health services is urgently needed now. We have the knowledge of simple, costeffective, and scalable solutions that can save lives. Skilled community health workers, nurses, and midwives can address complications during pregnancy, provide quality antiatal and postnatal care to support mothers and babies. UNICEF is calling for governments and partners to protect investments in nurses, midwives, and community health workers. We know that progress is possible, and by working together, we can ensure that every mother and every newborn everywhere has access to life-saving health services. One more co-chair to hear from and that is Dr. Natalyia Kanam, the executive director of the UNFPA. Dr. Natalia, over to you. Excellencies, esteemed delegates, colleagues, and friends, on World Health Day, we gather together with purpose and resolve. Because in our world, each and every two minutes a woman dies from preventable complications in pregnancy or childirth. And in places affected by conflicts, maternal mortality more than doubles. Look behind every maternal death and you'll find a clinic that didn't have essential medicines, a community without skilled midwives, and a crisis putting basic human care out of reach. It's one of the world's gravests injustices. It demands everyone's urgent attention. Maternal mortality is not inevitable. Since the year 2000, maternal deaths have actually dropped globally by 40%. And that is proof of what is possible when we choose to act. We know what works. Top of the list, midwives. Midwives save lives. Yet, currently, we face a global shortage of nearly a million midwives. That's why UNFPA with WHO, UNICEF and other great partners launched the Midwiffrey Accelerator, a global blueprint and coalition to fill that gap. We cannot afford to lose momentum. I urge governments to support maternal health. Safe birth is no longer a technical challenge. It is a political choice. Investing in maternal health is both a smart investment and a decent moral imperative. This year's World Health Day theme, healthy beginnings, hopeful futures, reminds us that the survival and well-being of every woman and every newborn everywhere is the very foundation of strong families, of resilient communities, and prosperous societies. A healthy beginning is a human right for every mother and newborn baby. Laying that bright pathway to a safer, healthier, more peaceful world for all. Let's make it happen. Thank you, Dr. Con. You may have heard a little bit earlier when Dr. Beck was talking about Nepal and talking about some new data and information that we have. He teased the breaking news, the breaking data ahead of Queen Dubet, Dr. Queen Dubet, medical officer, Matanu Newborn, child and adolescent health and aging department at the WH setting the scene. How far have we come? How far do we need to go? What is the data that is important for us to understand and unpack? Dr. Dubet, over to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Uh Sei, can you hear me? And can you see me? We hear you. We see you. Thank you. Thank you very much. And uh can you see my slides? We see the slides, too. Thank you. Fantastic. So over the next couple of minutes I would take you through what's what has come out on the press from a couple of hours ago and what came out about two weeks ago. So about two weeks ago uh the UN released a report on childhood mortality but also still bed as of 2023 and just today on world health day and again happy world world health day everyone we had the UN report on trains in maternal mortality released so I'll take you through the high level insights on where we are Now suffice to say that when you look at maternal deaths, newborn deaths and still death in 2023 we lost 4,460,000 out of which 260,000 were women who lost their lives whilst pregnant or giving birth. We had 1.9 babies that were still born and 2.3 million newborns lost their lives in the first four weeks of life. very important for us to realize that yes the the numbers are huge but we've made progress from the year 2000. When you look at numbers from 2000 to 2023 in terms of maternal mortality, there has been a 40% decline. On the newborn mortality, there has been a 44% decline. Uh on the steel birth rates, there has been a 37% decline. Well, when you zoom in on these graphs, you realize that most of the progress was in the Millennium Development Goals era between the year 2000 and 2015. Whether you're looking at maternal mortality, newborn mortality, or the still birth rate from 2016, progress has stalled. And when you look at the still birth rates, we have actually we've remained static. The dotted lines at the bottom is where we should be landing in 2030 and we have less than five years to 2030. Clearly as if we continue with business as usual, we will not be able to achieve the SDG targets at the global level. For the newborns, we need to run seven times faster. For the steel bones, we need to run five times faster. It calls for agent action. And then when you look at where are these mothers, these women dying, their newborns and still beds, regardless of whether you're looking at it from the maternal angle, the newborn angle, the darker the color, the higher the burden of the deaths. And whether you're looking at the maternal mortality, newborn mortality and still birth mortality or childhood mortality, you notice that the greatest burden is within the subsaharan region, but also countries that are affected by conflict and fragile settings. I need to highlight however that even in some of these countries where the number of deaths are on the lower side, we still are struggling with huge inequities where the deaths are occurring within a specified population. And it's important that even in these settings, we address the equity gap. So it's important to know where we are, where we're coming from, and where we should actually be landing. So we're clearly clearly off track but we did it during the MDG era. We were able to have faster progress. We can actually also do it in this SDG era. And we know that if we invest in pregnancy, we inversed round about the time of birth. We inversed in care of these women and their newborns after birth. We invested in emergency care and small and sick newborn for these women and their babies. we can save three million lives. the back of these deaths are actually preventable and that should give us some glib of hope that if we did things right together we can actually push the agenda forward and that's why the every woman every newborn everywhere a winning initiative is very very important and through this initiative we are supporting countries to scale up high impact interventions and that's where these coverage targets are coming from for us to be able to save the 3 million lives. We need to make sure that at least 90% of every pregnant woman has access to good quality antiatal care. 90% of these women when they go into labor, they attended to by skilled birth attendant. They have proper care immediately after delivery and in the postnatal period. 80% of these women. We need to make sure that in case there is a complication whether it's during pregnancy, during delivery or in the postnatal period, these women have access to emergency obstetric care and their babies have access to small and sick newborn care. We do talk about access so much but access on its own without pushing the quality agenda will not be able to to give us the impact that we're looking for. It's important therefore that we push for access the 9080 but alongside access we should also be pushing for quality and that will give us an impact. We can save three million lives. Back to you F. Access plus quality equals impact. Dr. Queen Dubet, thank you so much for unpacking the latest data that we have on women and newborns globally. But every data point, every piece of data is actually a real human being's story. And we wanted to make sure that we brought that to you in many, many ways, but particularly via Tasmin Bolter. Tasmine, it is great to have you here. Thank you so much. appreciate your patience as we've been listening in to all of the conversations about women and newborns, but you have a story that you want to share. I'm going to tell everybody that Tasmin is the founder and executive director of Preeie Connect. She's based in South Africa and your personal story is so pertinent to why we're all here today. Tasmine, thank you for sharing it. Please go ahead. Thank you so much for having me, Femy. I am blown away by the information that has been shared and yeah as a mom I take that role out of all the roles as the most serious of them all and I am one of the people that had a pre-term baby that was born at 28 weeks gestation due to placenta abruption but I was one of the lucky ones I ended up receiving the right care at the right time at the right place in order to save my baby's life. Um, a part of my story that I tend to not share very often is that a few weeks before my baby was born, I was involved in a motor vehicle accident, which I firmly believe uh correlates to me having my baby born too soon. Um, but they were a few weeks apart, the two instances, so it was not something that we really really focused on at the time. And in a matter of a few hours, my world was turned upside down and I was thrusted into a world that I knew nothing about. And this tends to be the case for the majority of parents who end up having preterm babies. I was just lucky that when this happened, I happened to be on the opposite side of town, so I was not near the hospital that I was booked to give birth in. But like I said in the beginning, I ended up being at the right place at the right time. Um where I live in Johannesburg, South Africa, we have one hospital that is dedicated to maternal and child health and that is the hospital that we were lucky to have landed at. And so my baby spent 54 days going through the premier journey and to say that you are never prepared for the journey is an understatement. But what a lot of people don't talk about is the journey after discharge as well. And so in hospital we received all the support that we could have. I always say that I feel our medical team was miles ahead um because they already recognized back then that family integrated care was crucial in the survival of our preeie. um kangaroo mother care at that time was introduced um once our baby was stabilized and again it was another factor that helped me gain confidence in order to be able to take care of my baby because at the end of the day no matter how much the clinicians do in hospital you are discharging a baby into a community to parents to families that know very little if not nothing at all of what's going on with this baby's health and that's where I found myself. Um after being discharged, I went in search online for an organization where we could find emot the emotional support that we needed and it literally took me on a tour around the world but I was specifically looking for a group based in South Africa and at that time I could not find any and that is when I decided to form preeie connect and through the work that we have done it brings me to where I am today. But we have gone through many years of providing emotional support, education. I think education is the number one um issue for our parents because we feel like as parents sometimes we're very scared. We're very nervous to ask questions. We feel like what the doctors are saying is the be all and end all of what is going on with our children. And so in the work that we do, we are I make sure that my parents understand that their voice is just as important as the medical team. And I'm so pleased to see that more and more um parents are getting involved. Like just me being here today is testament to the fact that we are being given a seat that our voices are important and that um sharing our stories make a difference. And it has been 8 years. We have just celebrated my prim's 8th birth 8th birthday. And it's been 8 years of us being on this journey. It has been filled with many ups and downs. At 4 years old, my prim was diagnosed with mild hypertonic cereble pulsy. um another part that I didn't know anything about but through the work that we've been able to do with Premier Connect I had already formed a village uh that was able to assist me. Um our medical team till today has been key in ensuring that we receive the right care. We received early intervention from 10 months old already. So my child has gotten those allied health services that he needs which I firmly believe has made the difference in our journey. We I have a thriving happy healthy 8-year-old today which could have not been the case had we not received that the care that we received when we received it. And so I'm just very grateful that the World Health Organization and many many many other organizations are recognizing the importance of maternal health, the importance of saving our babies cuz every baby deserves the right to survive but not only survive also thrive. Thank you so much Fei. Back to you. No, no, no, no. Thank you so much. has when it comes from you, when it comes from moms and families, it means so much. It's so powerful and your energy and your passion is leaping across the Zoom screen to all of us. Um, so good. I'm going to make you stay for panel number two. Are you okay with that, Tasmin? Absolutely. Thank you so much. Let me tell you who else you'll be enjoying your company. Who will be enjoying your company? We have Dr. Angel who is the from the ministry of health in Zambia, assistant director reproductive and maternal health and also Rachel Durango and uh Rachel Durango is the regional director advocacy and public policy for Path. And in this second panel, we are going to be looking at the power of partnerships to implement the solutions, the many solutions that we already know that we already know that are possible to create better outcomes for newborns and for moms giving birth to babies the first few months and years of their life. Um, we know we have those solutions, but how do we implement them using partnerships? I'm first going to partner with Dr. Angel to partner with Dr. Angel because Dr. Angel is going to tell me how to say his last name perfectly. Dr. Angel, this partnership is important. Please go ahead. Please say your last name for me and for all of of our uh attendees in the webinar. Go ahead. Thank you. Um my last name is Mu. Um thank you opportunity. Yeah. And and and we're looking at the government level here. What partnerships are possible when you're looking after women and newborns with a Zambian perspective? What do you want to share with us? What I want to share with my colleagues here, part of it has already been touched on. Um, healthy beginnings, hopeful futures is a powerful reminder for our collective responsibility to ensure the very best start for every woman, every newborn everywhere. And it does not only end with healthare workers. It does go to social scientists, politicians and everybody else. What we see in Zambia is mult sectoral multisiplinary collaboration with an enabling environment created for implementation of high impact interventions in healthcare. High impact interventions in education. high impact interventions regarding nutrition as well as water and sanitation for the benefit of every woman, every newborn everywhere. And what we see with that kind of partnership is a reduction in maternal mortality by 25% recent data and 37% reduction in neonatal mortality. And believe me you we can do better than that with stronger partnerships and stronger collaborations as well as multi-disiplinary interplay. Over to you. Thank you Dr. Angel for giving us that government perspective from from Zambia. Civil society organizations are so critical for what we do with our our little ones and with our mothers in the community. They have a particular uh insight into what do we do now that funding is really tough. It can't be just we can fund all of these solutions. How do we implement them? How do we partner with civil society? What is the top ask, Rachel? How do we rep prioritize what we need to get done? Thank you, Fei and um everybody else. Happy um World Health Day. And I think um when we can we really ask a very important question at a time when funding for health is really facing huge threats especially in the lower and middle inome countries and you know subsaharan Africa where uh which accounts for majority of the maternal newborn um and and child health as we've heard from the data that has been shared today um while we say that again um it's it's uh critical to note that spending for health and especially domestic spending in the Africa region is really um you know still low and so even as we are talking about the current situation and how we respond to auxiliarate action for women for mothers and newborns we really need to ask ourselves where then do we put the monies that are needed to be able to accelerate progress and uh speaking from an African regional perspective um as a key ask for now and also from the uh advocacy community is really for governments um in Africa uh especially with support from regional institutions um the global partners including those in the room today to really prioritize and protect investments in maternal newborn health. I think um maternal newborn uh survival and well-being should not be compromised by the shifting financial priorities at the moment but rather this we really need to sustain investments um to protect the gains that we have made and be able to accelerate the progress looking at the shift in health landscape and this data that we've had today I think we this really should spur renewed commitment right and uh strategic action and robust partnership to be able to help drive sustainable improvement um in the Africa region where path works in a number of countries alongside other advocates uh we acknowledge the progress that has has been made and it's very um refreshing to hear you know the commendable progress but at the same time we call upon leaders including institutions like the Africa Union Commission to really leverage existing and promising initiatives ives in the region. For example, the karma campaign. We have uh platforms such as the global leaders network for women, children and adolesccent health. We also have um the network of African parliamentary committees of health which can really help to mobilize resources um mobilize political will but also really drive smarter investments in health, ensure financial sustainability and also just ensure that we are scaling up impact and cost effective solutions that drive um you know lives uh saving lives for women. But we must say that um underpinning this ask really is the critical role of civil society including local communities uh in advocating for change in pointing to where our priorities uh prioritization need to happen. And I think as advocates globally, regionally and the the country level. It is important now more than ever to have a unified voice and apply joint strategies to advocate for prioritization for effective partnerships and for scaling up of innovations. And so um for me is really a call to collaborative efforts. Let us evaluate. We do have solutions. We do have interventions at work. That is where we need to be putting the money to be able to scale and save the lives of women and newborns in the continent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much, Rachel. Don't go away. I'm going to come back to you in just a moment. But I I'm I'm going to return to Tasmine who told us her story about she calls her she calls her son my preeie. She told the my preeie story, which means that she's got real insight into what it's like to experience complications at birth. So what would you recommend Tasmin knowing that and also from the advocacy that you do? What would be critical actions as far as you're concerned to accelerate the support we're able to give to women and newborns? I definitely think that communication is key um across the board. Whether it is the patient that's receiving the care, whether it's the clinician that is giving the care, if we can communicate effectively, it takes out all the unnecessary fear factor that comes into it because most of the time you will the you know like in my case it's an emergency situation and there isn't really enough time to communicate what's going on. But in order to ensure that patient knows and understands and what the risks are, I definitely believe starting with communication, especially communicating in a language that the patient can understand is also very crucial. Um I've seen lots of times where information goes over a parent's head just because they are not being communicated in a language that they understand. I mean, I come from a country where we have 11 official languages with English not even being, you know, at the top of that list. And so, I think I feel like that would that makes the difference um and, you know, is a key starting point in ensuring that um parents understand what is going on with them. But I think also early intervention, that's why it's so important for us to something I preach even now. Um we are branching into the antiatal space because it's so important for women to understand what is happening with their bodies to be aware of signs and symptoms and the earlier that we start receiving our antiatal care the earlier issues can be picked up and in a lot of cases can pre be prevented. So we can prevent issues. We can prevent um the maternal you know mortality if we are doing what we should be doing as the individual as well. I think it's just like we keep talking about multis sectoral. It starts with us as the individual that requires the care as well. We need to we need to take uh stand up for our own health and our own care. And I think from there the communication comes into place and receiving the correct information and you know we're able to scale up if you need to be sent to a specialized unit in or if you're receiving uh having complications. So yeah, I think communication is the the starting foundation of it all. Yeah, I I love this. So So this is our levering partnership panel. So we've got a government representative, we've got civil society, we've got a mom who's experienced complications at birth. So that's the partnerships that we're sharing with you. But let me ask you panel, one critical action to be done in the next year. I will if we could have that power. We have that power as a community. What would be that one critical action in a sentence? Dr. Angel one critical action in the next 12 months. What would you recommend? Thank you once that one critical action that we need in the next 12 months is to strengthen district level capacity for implementation of high impact quality interventions. We need to train the healthare workers, capacitate them, support them as well as uh give them the support to use quality data for planning and decision making. In that way, we will have brought the services closer to every woman, every newborn, everywhere. Everywhere. Yeah, we're all going to be saying this. Thank you so much, Dr. Angel Rachel, one critical action must must must have in the next one year, next 12 months. What what is it from your perspective? Thank you, Fei. First of all, we must protect, you know, the investments that have already gone into maternal and newborn health. But we must also must increase to make sure that you know the low cost high impact interventions from vaccines to bundles of care for prevention against um you know causes of maternal death and newborn are scaled up and are made available to every woman and every child everywhere. Thank you. Thanks Rachel Tasine. I feel like I've been asking you so much. This is one last question though to get this out of you which is in one year in the next 12 months what would you what would be top of the this is the one critical action is it communication have you already shared it with us or is there something else? Um I would have to go back to what Dr. Queen said access makes all the difference on whether you will survive and thrive. It's sad to say, but it's the reality of the situation. And just like Dr. Angel was saying that um we need, you know, more health care workers. What happens to the mom in the rural area that can't get to a level one, level two hospital? So yeah, access for me would be key. That's what I'd like to say. Thank you so much. Partnership panel. It was a good partnership between us for panel number two. levering the partnerships to accelerate and implement the solutions that we heard in part one. Um we have around about 300 maybe 400 people that I can see actually on this Zoom webinar. There may well be more watching uh on YouTube and following elsewhere. But I'm going to ask you this question as well. What gives you hope? Those healthy beginnings uh hopeful futures. What gives you hope on World Health Day? Please put your response in the Zoom chat and it'd be really good to tap some of your energy as well. What gives you hope? And also, what would be the critical action that you would recommend as the M&H community for the next 12 months? Because we have to do this together. All right, we complete our webinar today with Dr. Kim Mamba. She's the WHO representative in Malawi. She joins us live now via our Zoom webinar for our call to action. What do we need to do? What are you asking for us to do? Dr. Kambo, over to you. Thank you, Fei. Wow, this has been um really exciting, inspiring and I hope we are all really invigorated and you know we all feel we all feel like we are ready to renew our commitment to accelerate um reduction in maternal newborn health. So um I'll just first like to summarize just some of the key things that we've heard today. Um it's exciting that there has been progress when we look at um the data from 2000 that we have seen progress in reducing maternal and and and newborn health um newborn mortality as well as mortality among stillborns but yet we've seen that the progress is not adequate to get us to the um SDGs and um with the current changing landscape, it's really important that we're able to work together um to support women and babies who are the most vulnerable. So, we've heard in this past hour, we've heard from leaders, decision makers, advocates, workers, families, mothers, and we've heard of some solutions um that um are being taken and implemented um to move things faster and um to be able to save the lives of women and children. We heard um about the e-ween um the every newborn everywhere um every every woman every newborn everywhere initiative um which is co-hosted by who UNFPA and UNICEF. We heard from our leaders but we also heard from Nepal and and and Zambia um from Dr. Bebec as well as um Dr. on um these are two countries among the 50 countries that are already prioritizing um survival for for women and children through this initiative and and I think we've heard the issue of prioritization coming up. We also heard the issue of um multis sectoral response that it's not you cannot fully um achieve our targets if we're just going to focus on the health sector. So we heard about you know ensuring a multis sectoral response is very critical for us to be able to reach um the targets the ewing targets we heard of the 9090 um which you know we should all continue to strive to achieve and it's not just about the access but we heard about access and quality is important for impact um I think also from from that health worker element. We heard about the importance of health workers um about leadership and um we heard about the midwiffery accelerator and midwifery models. Also the emphasis on on midwifery um on this we heard from civil society and and the importance of really hearing about voices from their communities and it's not just a matter of hearing their voices but when we hear their voices then it helps us to identify um the gaps and the areas where we can um work for impact and and and improve and and and impact uh based on the gaps that they have um said. So we clearly see that um you know we have UN partners and and partners supporting countries in this every step. We know that partnerships work within the UN and beyond the UN with with the government. So just a call really along all those areas um that that I've mentioned all these things that we have heard here today um as we kickstart this campaign on healthy beginnings and and hopeful futures um I hope that all of us will work together to um to advocate to invest and to act together so that we can improve the lives of mothers, we can improve maternal health, and we can improve newborn survival. So as we take part in this campaign whether it's in advocating for quality of care whether it's sharing your personal experience um which is you know so important and so touching as we did get from um from from Tasmin um whether it's ensuring that people have the right information let's all to work together over this next year to accelerate and ensure healthy Happy beginnings and hopeful futures for mothers and newborns. Thank you. Back to you. Dr. Kimbo, thank you so much. If you have your mobile phone handy, which I know most of us have within arms distance away, look at the QR code, have a look at it through your camera app, and you will see it will take you to the Healthy Beginnings Hopeful Futures campaign site. so you can go over lots of the incredible information that has been shared with us today. Thank you for spending part of your World Health Day with us. Thank you speakers. Thank you attendees. We really appreciate you on behalf of the co-chairs of the initiative, the WH, the UNICEF and the UNFPA. Take care everybody and make sure you do what you can for healthy beginnings and hopeful futures to accelerate the global action to support women and newborns around the world. My name is Femi K. It's been a pleasure being your moderator. Take care.