Greetings everyone. Happy International Youth Day. On behalf of the WHO Youth Council, we're thrilled to welcome you to our International Youth Day event, Chat with Dr. Tedros and the WHO Youth Council. My name is Danielle Wallwin and I am just one of the many youth council members that you'll meet today. And on the youth council, I represent the Healthy Caribbean Coalition and our youth arm, Healthy Caribbean Youth. Before we begin, I do want to acknowledge the presence of Dr. Tedros who has been incredibly supportive of the WO Youth Council and youth engagement and leadership in global health. I also welcome other WO colleagues and key listeners and our collaborators events. >> We also want to recognize the Eastern Mediterranean Region Youth Council, the first of its kind for being here and their participation today. Very importantly, I welcome youth change makers. This is your space, a chance for you to connect directly with the WHO's top leadership and share your ideas and solutions and also very importantly to hear experiences from other youth and the fantastic work that you are leading on the ground. Our event today will be in two parts. We'll have a chat with Dr. Pedros, which will be moderated by Christina Williams, fellow youth council member. And then we're going to have breakout room discussions on the topics on your screen to explore the work that you are doing in these areas and how we can build on them through the WHO youth council. Here are our expectations for today. Please, please let us know who you are. Introduce yourselves in the chat sharing your name and your country. We have a number of countries that are represented here today and that have registered for this session. We'd also love to see you. So, please turn on your camera. Be mindful of your words. What you say matters and can either empower or harm others. And housekeeping, please use the chat to share your reflections and the Q&A for questions. When we get to the chat with Dr. Tedros, please raise your hands when sharing ideas and questions and you will be unmuted. Today is about exploring ideas and solutions and we're looking forward to this experience with you. With that, it is my pleasure to introduce the director general of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros, for his opening remarks. Dr. Tedros. Happy International Youth Day to all of you and thank you for your partnership. Uh and the rest who joined us to colleagues and friends around the glo globe. I would like to say welcome and good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. It's an honor to join you on International Youth Day. Today is not just a celebration. It's a conversation centered around this year's theme, local youth action for the SDGs and beyond. It's a reminder that the global change thought by sustainable development goals are rooted in work that's done locally in our neighborhoods and in our communities. It also aligns with the pact of for the future which recognize young people as agents of change and essential partners in achieving sustainable development. As young people, you have a critical role to play with unique insights into local needs and challenges. So today is the chance to connect with you, to hear from you, and most importantly to learn from you as we together build a better future. At WHO, we're committed to health for all. But we also know that we cannot achieve that without the active participation of the young leaders of tomorrow. In fact, you're not only the leaders of tomorrow, you're leaders today. You're advocates, innovators, first responders, and change makers in your communities. Your voices, your perspectives, and your energy are vital in this time of global health challenges. These range from longunning conflicts to widespread misinformation about science to cuts in development and health's funding. In the face of these challenges, we must work together, stay informed, and advocate for a healthier and fairer world. Your voice matters. I offer my sincere thanks to the WHO Youth Council for your leadership and commitment to youth engagement and empowerment. I'm grateful for your valuable advice on a wide range of topics from climate change and mental health to equity and education. The youth council has collaborated closely and productively with our technical departments. Your efforts have inspired member states to include your youth delegates in their assembly delegations and in decision making. This allows young people to help shape the decisions that will define their future. WHO is deeply committed to making youth engagement not just a promise but a priority. Whether it's through the youth council, our global consultations, or conversations like this one, I very much look forward to your questions and comments and to a productive and invigorating discussion today, but I would like to suggest that our communication should be two ways. Don't be shy. Don't don't hold back. We need your advice and your comments and feedback. Thank you so much. And Daniela, back to you. >> Thank you, Dr. Tedros. And handing it over to our WHO Youth Council co-chair, Alistister. >> Thank you very much, Daniela, and thank you, Dr. Tedra, for those warm remarks that opened this team, but also your steadfast commitment not just to engaging with youth, but to making the meaningful partners. I I think there are a lot of important things that brought us here together. One of the things that brought the youth council here is the declaration that we adopted with Dr. Tedrris's um endorsement last year at our in-person meeting. This was a profound step for the youth council in asserting the way we believe that young people set the pathway to creating healthy societies, not just as beneficiaries, but as co-creators. It was based out of the work of the organizations that we represent based on local work and I think that's again what brings us back here today is how we then relocize this the work of so many inspiring young people um my youth council colleagues but also young people around the world working to promote healthy societies using health as a means to achieve peace and education and empowering young people through promoting public health. I I think we've got to recognize that this is not just an aspiration. It is also the guide for all of our work. And we hope that you engage with the breakout sessions later on health, education, literacy, accessibility, and equity on regional, local, and national youth engagement, and on planetary health, which will empower us to continue to advise the DG in such important areas. And I think this is really where where it's going. The declaration is an important starting point, but it's your engagement here today with the DG and what you take away to inspire other young people as health advocates as you go to engage with mayers and local leaders, with parliamentarians and national governments on how to create healthier worlds and worlds which are more engaging with young people in co-creating healthier worlds. That is so important. So, I'm so eager to listen to all of your exciting opportunities, suggestions, and questions. And I now get to pass it over to Christina Williams, who is an inspirational health leader in her own right and a dear friend to facilitate this Q&A comment session with the DG. So, thank you to everyone that's made this possible, to the DG, to all the youth council members, and to all of the young people who have turned up to really provide for such a rich and thoughtful dialogue. Thank you, Alistister. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, good night wherever you are. As introduced, I'm Christina and I'll be moderating this chat with the DG. I'm really excited to hear from you. As you heard, today is focused on local actions from young people. That is you and our young professionals. And so it's important for us to hear your ideas, your solutions and also your concerns in terms of or regarding global health challenges. So to start our conversation this today, I would like to begin with Evangelia from Greece. She has an idea about how we can ensure that we have more youth participation. Evangelia, are you here? We'd love to hear a little bit more about your idea posed to the DG. Go ahead. Go ahead, Evangelo. The floor is yours. >> Could we get some assistance to have her unmuted, please? Technical team, thank you. >> Thank you very much. >> There you are. >> Hello. Thank you very much, Christina, and thank you very much for the opportunity to share my idea. Um, Dr. Tedros, first of all, thank you for this open dialogue and I think my idea is quite simple yet transformative. I'm thinking of ensuring meaningful participation of youth and young public and global health experts in every WH department and initiative as active decision makers. So we can bring innovation, lived experience and urgency on health and sustainability issues like the planetary crisis, non non non-communicable diseases and equity and justice. And by directly integrating us into program design, implementation and monitoring, we can ensure that WH policies are relevant, future proof and grounded in real community needs in a way that we can carry as co-leaders um we can carry WH's vision and mission in the future for the decades to come. Thank you very much. >> Thank you. Thank you so much, Evangelia. Over to you, Dr. Tedros. Would you like to take one more before he responds? Okay, sure. Um, Ashima from India, are you here with us? And if we're not seeing Ashima, yes, we Yes, she is. Okay, Ashima, you may go ahead. Just a reminder that we have 45 seconds or less to give our idea. Go ahead. >> Hi, Audible. >> Yes, you are. >> All right. Thank you for the opportunity. I'm Ashima from India. I am a biomedical science researcher and a youth advocate. The WHO Youth Council declaration has a power to be more than a statement. It can be a catalyst for rewiring how we approach health education globally. From my experience, lasting change happens when we integrate minds from diverse disciplines, science, policy, arts, and technology in a shared mission. Imagine a young environmentalist, a medical researcher, and a local storyteller co-creating a climate health curriculum for their community. Now, this is the kind of collaboration WHO can champion. My question, Dr. Ted Rose is that how can WH help make such interdisciplinary youthled collaborations the norm rather than an exception. Thank you so much. >> Thank you Ashima. Now we'll have Dr. Just respond to both of those ideas. >> Now thank you. Thank you so much. I will uh instead of a question I will as you said uh take uh take them as recommendation. Uh I think the first one Evangelia presented it as recommendation of course but Ashima moved it towards a question but um as I said earlier don't be shy you can just give us advice you can recommend and I will take it as a recommendation and what you have proposed are excellent recommendations uh as you know we have now institutionalized who use council in our uh organization and we need to do more to cement it and I fully agree that the declaration uh we had which you already indicated earlier is is very important to guide us on where to to focus uh then uh of course in order to implement the declaration and the agreements the areas of priority that we have identified uh working with all relevant departments is very important. So our partnership should not be just high level at um you know the management level only but you have to have uh relationships with departments and all technical programs. of course in order to um have it in a more organized way I think that alignment though should focus on the priorities that we have identified together so that's what I would like to say on the first one on the second um the fuse science policy arts I think you're right that's also why we say in who the multis sectoral approach is very important important health is central and influenced by almost everything that that that we do. So um underlining especially coming from your side that's why I said um you have to uh speak um the integrated approach and the multis sectoral approach is is very important and we should also follow the same principle in our relationship in in in your partnership with who because uh siloed approach will not help us to deliver results. We have to see it from different angles and we have to um approach it in a way that um brings all relevant issues like you said science, policy and arts together. So I fully agree the issue is we we we need to um take your ideas and um implement them. Thank you. and Christian back to you Christina. >> Thank you Dr. Tedra. So thus far we've heard about youth participation across all who departments and initiatives as well as how can we fuse science with policy arts and tech to make health a lived experience and and a lived practice. So I'd like to take some suggestions from the floor now. Let me start with a aladimi. Your hand is up. We'll have you on mute. Remember 45 seconds. Share your idea. let us know where you're from. >> Uh I'm from Yemen, but I'm residing in Italy to take my second masters. Um thank you very much for this open dialogue. Uh I had one question. Um it seems to me that WHO has not renewed or didn't engage uh in the inter um in the internship programs uh anymore and that has been creating a little bit of concerns. Um I hope my question is how will engage with youth with the internship program uh being uh on hold. Um I've worked with W for seven years and I moved to Italy for my second masters but to my surprise the youth engagement has declined with that context. Thank you very much. I would like to uh see what Dr. Timus would say about this. Thank you. >> I think I'll take one more. Um, and I would love, as I said, if we can also have some recommendations coming out as well, that would be great because we do have a session for questions um, coming a little bit later. But we do appreciate your question, Ar. Thank you for raising that about youth engagement in your region. Okay, I'll take uh, Medel Aet. Yes, I see looks excited. Yes, you're selected. >> Okay. Hello. Is my mic on? >> Okay, first off, hi, my name is Metal. I reside in the US currently. is like 5:00 a.m. right now. And so my proposition is to like help spread um medical supplies in like rural areas like and find out ways to make it affordable as well as trying to fund high quality uh medical facilities like hospitals and like places such as like Africa and uh Latin America. So, how we could do this potentially is through funding initiatives. And I've seen something like what Dr. Tedro posted before, which is like how governments need to take action if I'm not mistaken. And >> okay, thank you so much, Mel. All right, I'll doctor just to respond now to those two um post from the floor. >> Okay. Uh thank you on the internship program. Um it's on hold as you rightly said but it's temporary and if we as you know we are passing through a serious change or restructuring uh program uh and we uh had we we have a pause uh in order to finalize the changes we're making in in who as you may remember because of the significant funding cuts which is 20% actually we have to right size and we started from proposing a new budget, a new structure and then of course that was followed by um the appointment of a new senior management that started its work a couple of months ago now and then that's followed by other uh initiatives in order to finalize the uh restructuring and we hope to stabilize by early next next year the first quarter of next year. So my uh so according to our progress so far uh we will resume internship programs in the next uh 3 months not more than 3 months also. So uh I would like to assure you that because the internship program is one area where we that helps us to connect with the youth and we don't want to lose that and we have a strong commitment to continue our international our internship program but not only resume but we would like also to expand it and we will we will do that as well and that's the bridge between who and uh our youth and uh we we value uh that program and we will resume. I would like to assure you that on medical's question on medical supplies in in remote areas I think the funding that you have proposed uh this will need some further discussion with you but in principle I think it's a good idea considering the shortages we see in medical supplies especially in in remote areas in developing countries and having a special funding for that could be discussed and explored and would be happy to discuss this further on uh you know how we can use the idea medical thank you and back to you thank you Dr. to address. All right, I am going to take Christian Cortez. >> Share your country, please, and go ahead with your suggestion. >> Sure. Um, hi, I'm from Mexico. Uh, and I want to say something really, um, I'm really thankful for being here, right? So, I want to to share that I love this place. I love being in a in a chat with all of these people and I suggest more places to talk around people around the globe. I think it's meaning uh I I think it would make a change a total change and yeah I think connecting and sharing ideas with other people in force like this are amazing way to to grow up and to make some initiatives that are small at the moment bigger uh in communication with all of of us. Thank you so much. >> Thank you. All right, we'll take a mirror. Uh, could we have some assistance for Amira Bafford Hill? Just give us a second. Someone will unmute you, Amira. Amamira Baffodel, she's next. Okay, there you go, Amamira. Go ahead. >> Yeah, thank you so much. Thank you, Dr. Tedros, for allowing us all of us here and uh to celebrate together the International Day. My name is Amira. I'm a medical doctor. I'm from Yemen. I'm based in Yemen. So, I'm a strong witness about the all the conflicts and the u struggle that there we are facing in Yemen as a public health young professional. My question and my proposal is to um to engage as a female like as a woman uh for the policy making because as you know as a woman in a tribal country like Yemen we are far away from the policy making and to sit together to do um to engage or to share our voices as a woman. So my proposal is to um to uh engage or a program that uh empower us as a woman in a leadership especially in the public health sectors so we can all work together to improve our fragile health system. That's all from my side. Thank you so much. >> Thank you Amira Dr. Jose Cortez and Amamira's responses. >> Thank you. Uh thank you Christian. Um I fully agree that we need to have platforms to discuss like today and from our side we're committed and we would like to do it as regular as possible as well and I enjoy talking to you because uh you come up with ideas that's already helping us in who and um I would like to really continue our our partnership and even make it uh more more regular. on Amira Yemen. I was in Yemen last December. That's December 26. Maybe some of you might have heard while I was at the um um SA airport departing. Um the airport came under drone attack and um we I actually survived narrowly and one of our colleagues was was wounded and on this next day um we managed to leave uh the area with our wounded uh colleague from you and us. Um the reason I'm saying this is I can imagine in what situation you live daily amira and uh um I feel what you feel and I understand what you understand and I also believe that you know to address this crisis and um get Yemen out of this crisis women's participation is important and as you rightly said uh women in leadership So I fully agree with you and um I know Yemen very well and from our side from who side uh we would be happy uh to support you in any way possible and best wishes also for Yemen uh to get through out of the conflict it's in. So uh uh please stay hopeful and things will improve. Um and we hope we will have a better a better um Yemen with women leadership. Thank you Amira. And back Christina. Back to you Christina. >> Thank you Carla. Let's have Carla Eimenez unmuted, please. That's Carla with a K. Okay, while Carla is being unmuted, uh, we will have I think I saw Dr. Jennov. I think it was Dr. Yes, she's unmuted. Okay, go ahead. >> Yes. Thank you so so much. Thank you, Christina. Thank you so so much, Dr. Tedros. And thank you so much to the Dout Council members for creating these spaces to share and also to be so inspired among uh some other doubt advocates around the world. Um I will take advantage of the 30 30 seconds I have right now. Unfortunately we know that NCD rates are increasing among young people and many NCD risk factors and behaviors develop uh during adolescence and adulthood. So the question I would like to make is what strategies is WH implementing to increase awareness and also to engage young people as active partners in shaping policies and interventions that address NCD prevention. Thank you so much and Aika from Mexico. >> Right on time. Thank you so much Carla. Okay, I'll take Dr. Geneviva. Um thank you very much for this opportunity. Uh my question I'll go straight to my question. My name is Dr. Dr. J Noviva from Tanzania. So I have been in different conferences and different um discussions about health all over um in my in my region that is Tanzania. So my question is how can we easen the accessibility of the solutions that are usually discussed in these areas um to to um to reach uh the the local people who are found in our regions. uh this is because after the discussions and the solutions that we usually have they usually tend to be late um reaching the local regions maybe 2 years later or 3 years later which usually it's um maybe very late so isn't the process of like reaching the solution to the local people >> thank you over to Dr. Tedros >> Christina can Dr. Dr. Uh and niguru can you can you repeat the question please sorry >> is that Dr. Jenn Geneviva >> or >> yes could you put your question please just in summary >> it is Dr. Genova Donguru. Okay. So my question is through the discussion that we usually have in different conferences and the health discussions that we usually have, we usually come up with with very good solutions that usually um for them to be applied in um third world countries such as Tanzania, it takes a long time. So how can we improve the system of reaching those solution to the local individuals in the countries that are far like Tanzania third countries and countries of like >> you mean these are guidelines from WHO or >> no like the solutions that we usually discuss in like different platforms. Ah solutions with okay >> solutions how can they reach to the third world country easily than not >> okay okay >> go ahead Dr. you may respond to those two posts from the floor. >> So I'll start from from the last one. I think the the key for that is um you know the involvement of um uh countries I think will be very important. If you participate in anything, if you're part of the discussion, then the chances of implementing also is is is high. uh for instance the involvement of developing countries like Tanzania in the discussions I think will be will be one one way where there is an opportunity uh to make sure that you know they are part of the solution they are part of the discussion and then that means they own the solution and then they can they can implement it. uh but the other uh of course they cannot be they cannot participate all meetings and they cannot participate in finding solutions. There could be others who participate and your question is how do we get those into uh the local areas especially remote areas like places in in in Tanzania. And I think the um one one solution would be um there are you know institutions like WHO who have local presence and there are other institutions also like who multilateral organizations who have local uh presence and making sure that the local the local government you know governments or the national governments are aware ware of some of the solutions which are propos proposed and pledging also to support will be very very important. I would I would would um suggest that. But the most important one is uh the the first one which is the participation but second if they cannot then the um institutions who participate have the responsibility to make sure that the solutions are shared and even give support to implement them. Then on policy making I think on the first one from Carla on policy making um like what we're doing in WHO engaging the youth council through our the WHO youth council at national level the same thing should be can be done. I know there are countries who have a strong guidance in involving uh the use. So uh starting from the discussions and finding solutions and keeping in mind the youth whenever they propose any solutions is is going to be very very important. So one again for this one participation at national level participation at at global level of the use directly will be important. By the way that's why for instance if you take global we're encouraging all our member states 194 to have youth as member of members of their delegation when they come to the world health assembly. As you know uh the World Health Assembly is actually the highest global body uh that decides on norms on uh on um you know resolutions global resolutions that are implemented at at country level. So having you in their delegation means you will be participating during the assembly in the deliberations of these resolutions and and decisions and meaning since you're part of the delegation your participation and advice could shape the policy. So at the global level we're trying to do it and national level there are countries who are doing it. I think uh all um uh at all bodies whether it's national and global level should understand the advantages you bring or the um uh contributions you can have uh and they they they should they should do that that's how you can be involved in in policy making and and decisions from our side I commit to make sure that your participation ation is institutionalized. So you have we have your voice at the highest body of this global uh body during decisions and and resolutions every every May of course. Uh so thank you and Christina back to you. >> Thank you Dr. Tedras. So many hands, so many ideas. I know we're all brimming at the seams of the solutions we want to share. However, we have limited time. So I am going to read uh from Haya she shared in the chat about progress and elderly public health interventions. We do have an Asian population globally. I know my country Jamaica is one such country and she wants to look at what's the current focus on how to achieve better equity, accessibility and maintaining people's dignity. So it's about elderly populations and aging populations. Thank you for your question ha. And we get a we got a recommendation coming in from Shoua. She's talking about global health and women in global health. How can we pro she wants to propose rather a global mentorship and leadership program specifically for young women from marginalized communities in health. And she wants that program to look at training, fellowships, innovation support to empower young women as future health leaders. Dr. Tedros, you may respond to those too. But I just want to share with you for everyone here who has their hand up. You've had your hand up all this morning to just share your comments, your ideas, your concerns in the chat. We're collecting them. We're adding them to our um our internal um knowledge for the Youth Council and we'll continue to advocate on your behalf and with your support of course as well. So don't feel disheartened that you haven't been able to open your mic and share. Please add it to the chat and we will record it. Thank you so much. Over to you Dr. Tedros. >> Yeah, thank you. So, uh to start from the second one and on global mentorship, we have a program actually the young professionals program um which has the same uh objective. Of course, sadly we are pausing it for for a while because of shortage of funding. But the young young professionalist program is meant to train young people from developing countries and then go back home to support uh the their their people and um the first cohort after they're completing now after three years with us. This is not a short period actually it's on job um training and they um operate as who staff for 3 years um minimum two years uh through the young professional programs and they get the training and then of course uh that helps them when they go back. So we will resume that as well. It's a matter of policy but we will continue. So thank you for that advice and we we really believe in that and developing countries should should get the support. And then on aging population um of course you see the silver so people who have the gray hair they call us silver tsunami because as you know more and more aging population that's a very negative comment by the way I think instead of silver silver tsunami the aging population can be considered as silver dividend as you Now you have demographic dividend or demographic bomb when the youth when you see the youth belge. Um if there is a youth belge um it could be a demographic dividend if you use it the right way. If you can find jobs, educate your youth, uh create employment opportunities, improve governance, you know, uh ensure democracy. uh it could be a demographic dividend and countries can prosper when they have a youth belch but it's the way they use it but if there is no education if there is no employment if there is governance problem if there is no democracy then the youth belch could be a demographic bomb you know that what I mean and then the same thing with silver with aging if you manage it well in if give support and have initiatives to make sure that the aging population continues to contribute to society and being integral part of the society because of the wisdom they have because of the experience they have they could be silver divid dividend meaning they can add value but if they're stigmatized if they are discriminated if they're not part of the society. If they everybody thinks that they will be dependent and they're not contributing they're not allowed to contribute to society then of course you will have the silver tsunami. So it's the way governments or countries uh manage that dis defines that defines on the outcome of whether it's a youth belge or um you know an aging population. Um so that's what I would like to say on that. But with regard to health sector, of course, we have a program in WHO and we support countries uh to support the aging population uh and um we will continue to uh to do that. Thank you. And Christina back to you. >> Thank you Dr. Tedras. I'm seeing the comments in the chat from UAE, Cameroon, Indonesia. Please keep adding them. We are collecting them and we'll be in touch as well where possible. All right. Um, at this time I would love for us to have a group picture. Yes, we're excited about that. It's International Youth Day. It's our day. We're celebrating. I would love to see all those smiles. I'll have the technical team be on standby to let us know when we can say cheese. Well, that's what we say. That's what we say in my country. We say cheese when we're smiling. Okay. So, we can have your cameras on if you're comfortable doing so. And the team will let us know when it's time to go. Are we Are we good to go? Okay, smile time. Everyone smile. Keep smiling. One more. I think we got it. Yes. I think we got it. Yes, we're good. Thank you. Thank you everyone. Now over to Danielle. Back to you. Thank you so much Christina. And we do want to thank Dr. Tedros for those incredible reflections and to thank all of you. Again, as Christina mentioned, we are so happy to have your comments. So happy to see so many hands raised. as she mentioned, we're going to be collating all of these and using it to inform our work at the WO Youth Council and also sharing it with Dr. Tedros as well. So, thank you so much everyone. I'm going to hand it over to Christine to provide some closing remarks. Thank you, Christine. Christine, over to you. >> Hi, thank you Danielle. So, excellencies, distinguished guests, and fellow youth leaders, my name is Christine Lee, and I am a high school student and advocate based in Singapore. It's an honor to join you today to close our first section. Firstly, I would like to extend my deepest thanks to Dr. Tedros Adonom Gapriasis for his time, insight, and unwavering commitment to youth engagement and participation in global health. So during this chat, Dr. Tedras reminded us that us youth are not just future leaders, but present actors in shaping public health. This space today to listen and engage directly with young people reaffirms and emphasizes the WHO's commitment to meaningful youth participation in furthering sustainable development. So, we've talked a lot today about how young people are taking action in their own local context. And I'd like to quickly take this time to introduce how I, as a high schooler, have been taking action. I'm the founder of Inspire Fire, a Singapore-based initiative focused on youth mental health, and empowerment. We work to help young people, especially girls, build self-awareness, emotional resilience, and the confidence to question harmful norms. Early this year, I also represented Singapore at the UN Ecos Youth Forum in New York while where young people worldwide, including WHO youth counselors, emphasize that health solutions must reflect our local contexts. I think today's conversation really reinforces that message that youth health is holistic and our voices are central. My call to everyone here today is to take the recommendations and questions heard here and bring it back to your own communities so the impact continues, sustains, and grows past our meeting. Once again, thank you to Dr. Tedros, the WH team, the youth council, and every participant today who lent their voices chat. Happy International Youth Day to all. I would now like to hand it back to Danielle to close and transition to the second part of the program. Thank you. Fantastic. Thank you m so much Christine and kids for SGS for your continued support. Thank you for those powerful reflections. Folks, how are we feeling? Can I see some hearts? Are we feeling good? I'm seeing smiles which is excellent. Thank you so much for being here. And again, a huge thank you to the director general for his time and all who contributed to the first session. Christina, your moderation superb. And although the DG is now going to be leaving, we will be sharing, as I mentioned before, the outcomes today. So, we're looking forward to that. And now, we'll be creating a space for even more dialogue. But before we do that, I do have a quick announcement. We want to share some breaking news. The WO Youth Council is teaming up with partners of the Youthled Futures Alliance, including Berlesman Stiffon, to launch the global youth call, inviting everyone to share what peace means today and how we can shape it together for for just and thriving futures. This is a global opportunity for young people to express desirable visions we actually want to live in, visions we actually want to leave in. Submissions are welcome in the form of art, music, video, poetry, writing, or performance. And I'm going to pop the link in the chat for you all to have a look. I'm going to pop the link in the chat for you all to have a look and see. And before we officially move on to the next section, Dr. Tedros, I'm going to turn it back over to you in case you have a few final words for our youth delegates on the call. >> Yeah. No, thank you so much. enjoyed our exchange and um look forward to uh you know deepen our partnership. We value your your support and leadership. So from our side I assure you that we will do everything uh to make our partnership a success. So all the all the very best and see you next time. >> Thank you. >> Fantastic. Thank you Dr. Tedros. >> We can show some hearts and some love um for Dr. Tedros. Thank you again for your time. >> Thank you. Bye-bye. >> Bye-bye. Until next time. >> Until next time. Thank you. >> Thank you, Dr. Tedros and team. All right. Excellent. So, I think we're feeling energized and we're feeling ready for the second half of this event. So, now we're going to be delving into