With the COVID-19 pandemic, the way oral health care is delivered has changed. Oral health professionals work in direct contact with their patients, use aerosol-generating equipment, and are exposed to saliva, blood, and other bodily fluids. All of this represents a risk for them of contracting COVID-19 and infecting their patients. However, many of us will continue to need oral health care during the pandemic. Therefore, it is important to know how patient screening, reception, and triage have changed to protect staff and patients. The World Health Organization recommends prioritizing urgent cases, examining patients, and implementing other measures to protect oral health professionals, administrative staff, and patients. If the clinic is open in communities with high transmission rates, priority is given to urgent or emergency dental interventions, and routine non- urgent care is carried out in accordance with national, subnational, or local recommendations. Among the urgent or emergency dental interventions, those that treat infections should be mentioned. Acute oral or systemic swelling, heavy or prolonged bleeding, severe pain that cannot be controlled with painkillers, interventions needed before other urgent treatments can be carried out, and dental trauma may require oral health staff to first advise patients by telephone or other remote means or when we arrive at the centers and should postpone treatments by controlling pain and antimicrobial treatments. Transfer your call. This method is called the 36-hour advice. Painkillers and antibiotics will help us assess whether a case is urgent. Then you say that the pain is intensifying and that none of the medications are effective. If a patient who has or may have COVID-19 needs an urgent or emergency oral intervention, they should be referred to specialized oral health services equipped with appropriate protective measures. They have a fever. They have been in contact with someone infected with COVID-19. We can see you at our dental service. You can come at 10:30. Actually, it would be better at 10:40 since the dentist has to Disinfect the treatment room after each patient. Upon arrival at the center, patients must wear masks and wash their hands with soap and water or disinfect them with hand sanitizer. [Music] We will need to collect the contact details of each patient and anyone accompanying them, and then attend to them. After the gentleman who is waiting, your friend will have to wait outside, as we need to reduce the number of people in our treatment room. Please be seated. In the meantime, sir, next patient, please. If we follow the proper procedures, we can continue to provide essential oral health services during COVID-19 while preserving the safety of our staff and our patients.