The others could be Bka, Emilio, Lucia or Yasmine, Ratiche, Tashi or Wangashima, Yokiko or Tesana depending on whether we are in Latin America, India or Asia.  Along with Uma, Ismaël and Ramata in Black Africa, all these children have in common that they are candidates for the name and live in developing countries. But the name, this forgotten or little-known pathology, is not a new or modern evil that comes to strike its regions, adding to the scourge of poverty, malnutrition, epidemics and illiteracy. Noma is a disease of the past known since antiquity where it prevailed in the Mediterranean basin until the 19th century when cases were reported in England, France and the United States. The Nomad has survived through time under different names, only to disappear in the 20th century in developed countries.  A fragile disappearance since it can reappear when given the opportunity, as was the case during the Second World War in concentration camps such as those of Astrez and Belsen. The nomad can strike any individual living in conditions of extreme poverty, malnutrition and under-medicalization. Certainly, the problem of nomadism does not have the scope and resonance of malaria and other endemic diseases, but it has a human and social dimension that deserves attention. The epidemiology of this disease is still poorly understood and the nomadic map that can be established to date makes it possible to indicate the affected countries but without precise quantitative indication.  While avoiding any generalization or projection onto other countries, Niger lends itself to a better understanding of nomadism through the action and commitment of Nigerien practitioners and health structures in close collaboration with the World Health Organization and various non-governmental organizations such as international dental aid sentinel or Doctors of the World. The term noma comes from the Greek word meaning to devour.  Noma in Mauritius is a gangrenous stomatitis with a gingival or jugal starting point rapidly reaching neighboring regions, including the jugal, nasal, labial or chin regions. It is a formidable disease that is most often found in young children, especially children in the age range of 2 to 6 years. Although the clinical presentation of Noma is fairly well known and the therapies are codified, some uncertainty remains regarding its etiology and no specific bacteriological factors have been identified. However, the importance of the environment in the development of this disease is perfectly well known.  Although a few adult cases have been reported, the name is essentially a childhood disease. It appears due to various factors. Firstly, a state of malnutrition which leads to weakness and fragility which only increases the incidence of parasitic or infectious diseases such as measles, typhoid fever.  On the other hand, late weaning is abrupt, all the more so when it occurs during the appearance of the deciduous teeth and the initial phases of the appearance of permanent teeth.  Poor dental hygiene is also an aggravating factor. The name develops in different stages. The early stages are very rarely observed, with patients being seen much later at the established stage, in the established phase.  The initial lesion, when one has the opportunity to observe it, is unique.  This is a case of stomatitis localized to the gums. Stomatitis becomes ulcerative very quickly, that is, within 24 or 48 hours. The smell is fetid, it is characteristic, your general condition deteriorates quite quickly. After this initial phase, we enter the state phase. A blackish area appears on the skin, clearly delimited by a furrow that marks the limits of the future loss of substance, therefore of the part that is undergoing necrosis. A few days later, the eschar, which takes away the entire thickness of the tissues, detaches, resulting in a loss of substance. This loss of substance is located in the cheek, lips or nose.  And in many cases, these different conditions are associated. When appropriate treatment is implemented early, it is observed that after the eschar falls off, the general condition improves rapidly and healing takes place under good conditions. The scar of the name, as we know, is very retractable and often at the cheek level, it leads to a decrease in the volume of the loss of substance but also a permanent construction of the jaws. This constriction, therefore, prevents the child from opening their mouth.  But few children reach this stage of healing.  With a mortality rate of 70 to 90%, children most often die from septicemia, the nomad having been able to be diagnosed quite early. Parents often resort to traditional care practices that prove incapable of solving this problem.  Next, they send the child to the clinic where rudimentary care is provided, and finally, as a last resort, the child is taken to the hospital.  But the costs of medicine, transport, and accommodation outside the village are inaccessible to most families. N is therefore a disease of extreme poverty. Should we therefore simply wait for the socio-economic conditions of the countries concerned to improve? Today, we know how to prevent, treat, cure and to some extent repair the after-effects of Noma. But the repair is long, difficult, painful and so costly that it is worth taxing. We can find ways to prevent suffering, disfigurement, or even death of children around the world. The first element of action against the name remains prevention and early detection with the implementation of immediate treatments. This action will be taken, this preventive action will be taken at different levels. Firstly, the training of health personnel operating in rural areas must be much more thorough. Indeed, this healthcare staff is the first to come into contact with the young patients.  Healthcare personnel will therefore need to be made aware so that an early diagnosis can be made and appropriate therapeutic actions can be carried out quickly.  and nutritional monitoring and recovery which often allows the pathology to stop. This medical staff must also be able to detect the negative evolution of the disease.  I will refer the patients fairly quickly to the hospitals closest to their locality. The second awareness-raising action should focus on medical structures, particularly maternal and child health centers, dispensaries and hospitals.  In our view, it is necessary to instill in healthcare staff the importance of monitoring the oral and gingival condition of children suffering from infectious diseases and malnutrition, and of early management of suspected gingival infections.  The third level of awareness, in our view, is the education and awareness-raising of populations in order to improve children's nutrition and hygiene. This education of the population must also lead them to abandon certain harmful beliefs and practices that we have observed, in particular practices which consist, once the child has this mouth ulceration, once the edema appears, of rinsing the child's mouth with camel urine and applying fresh animal dung to the swollen parts . Training and education of healthcare personnel are the first means to be implemented to combat the disease and must involve States with the support of developed countries and major international organizations. The first treatment for a child in progress is emergency therapy whose primary objective is to save the child's life.  This emergency treatment involves anti-infective medication with a boost to the body's defenses and nutritional rehabilitation. This medical treatment is directly linked to the economic and health conditions of countries.  Most of the affected children come from very disadvantaged backgrounds. Parents are unable to obtain antibiotics or anti-inflammatories, while the public services intended to help them are often ill-equipped. The answer to this situation lies in building up stocks of medicines in order to ensure that first aid can be provided at any time.  It is also important to encourage collaboration between various healthcare structures and services, such as pediatric services, to accommodate these children who are wrongly believed to fall solely under the purview of stomatology services. When the child is cured, he or she still carries a secal graph made up of hideous mutilations and functional complications. Only reconstructive surgery, allowing him to regain a more human face, can enable the child to find his place again. The states and countries affected by nomadism do not have specialists in maxillofacial surgery in their healthcare staff and their equipment is far from being adapted to plastic surgery. To address this situation, a first response consists, as has already been tested in Niger with the help of humanitarian organizations, of bringing teams of specialized surgeons to the site , but with the limitation of only being able to concern pre-selected patients, affected by relatively simple losses of substance.  In the most complex cases, the outcome and care of her children abroad in specialized services.  This solution, which has been working for several years, is very expensive and can only be reserved for a very limited number of cases with the financial, technical and human support of humanitarian organizations. However, a question remains about the consequences of being uprooted for several months in a developed country for this child who will have to reintegrate into his living environment and natural surroundings.  It is important to note here the importance of social monitoring of children before and after their surgical interventions in order to ensure that after the treatment stage, the child finds a balanced family environment allowing for reintegration into their community.  Alerted by the situation in various developing countries, an intervention network was established under the auspices of the World Health Organization, bringing together organizations aware of the problem of nomad and other facial mutilations. This network has established an action plan and different levels have been selected.  For prevention, the effort will focus on early detection, training of health personnel and raising awareness among the population.  For care, the following were chosen: treatment by on-site missions of surgical teams, referral of complex cases to specialized centers and the creation of a regional center in Africa.  And in order to better understand the prevalence of this condition, a survey launched by the WHO on referred cases of facial mutilation is currently underway in several countries.  All these actions, with the commitment of countries towards development and improvement of socio-economic conditions, are the only ways to see the disappearance of this terrible disease, which is the name, indicator of extreme poverty and under-medicalization. We need to mobilize energies and resources through a genuine chain of solidarity, extending well beyond dentistry, which, although it has a key role to play, cannot alone address all aspects of the problem. Noma is a disease of misery, of extreme poverty, two key words that are not exclusive to developing countries.  And for all men, for all children of the planet, the right to life is not just about living.  but also to live in good health.