We are closer than ever to eradicating polio thanks to two vaccines that provide protection against the virus. In this video, I will explain how these two vaccines work and what their respective roles are in the eradication of polio worldwide. I will first explain how the poliovirus works. It resides in the intestine and spreads when excreted by an infected person, contaminating others. This means that the greatest threat is in places with poor sanitation. Most infected people show no symptoms and can therefore transmit the virus unknowingly. However, in one out of 200 people, the virus reaches the spinal cord and causes incurable paralysis. We have two vaccines that help us protect children against polio. The oral polio vaccine is the inactivated vaccine, which is injectable. It does not work in the same way. The oral polio vaccine ( OPV) provides protection by introducing  In the child's body, weakened strains of the virus are present, just like the flu or measles vaccines. The vaccine virus then spreads throughout the body like the wild virus. When it reaches the intestine, it begins to replicate, triggering the production of antibodies. This is called mucosal or intestinal immunity. The weakened virus present in the vaccine can also be excreted, and when sanitation is inadequate, it can spread into the environment, just like the wild poliovirus. However, in this case, it also allows for the passive immunization of the community around the vaccinated child. OPV has two tricks up its sleeve that make it quite unique: first, it breaks the chain of transmission of the infection by preventing the spread of the wild virus; second, administering OPV simply involves putting two drops in the child's mouth. This means that people without medical training can carry out the vaccination. An incredible global network composed of community leaders, volunteers, families, and many other stakeholders has contributed to this.  An invaluable contribution by delivering this vaccine to some of the most isolated and inaccessible regions of the world. The second vaccine at our disposal to eradicate polio is the inactivated polymorphonuclear leukocyte vaccine ( IPV). This must be administered by qualified healthcare workers because it is injectable, unlike the oral polio vaccine (OPV). IPV does not contain weakened forms of the virus but killed viruses. This leads to the production of antibodies primarily in the blood, not in the intestine. This means that the country protects the vaccinated child but does not prevent the child from carrying the virus in their intestine and transmitting it. While polio is on the path to being eradicated globally, IPV will become more important within the framework of routine immunization to ensure that the progress made is preserved. It must never be forgotten that the value of a vaccine is measured by the number of children who benefit from it and are protected. Approximately 95% of a population must be vaccinated for the poliovirus to stop circulating. The Global Polio Eradication Initiative  The polio vaccine and its partners deliver vaccines directly to children as part of vaccination campaigns, but they also help strengthen routine immunization programs, which should allow for the sustainable building of solid foundations of immunity against polio in each community. These two vaccines play important and complementary roles in protecting children against PE. Thank you for your attention.