Manual cleaning and disinfection of surfaces in the immediate environment of oral health services are essential in infection prevention and control, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. Certain medical procedures generate aerosols that can contaminate surfaces in the immediate environment and increase the risk of virus transmission to dental professionals or patients through inhalation or direct contact with contaminated surfaces. Some studies have shown that the COVID-19 virus can remain on surfaces such as metal, glass, and plastic for several hours and become a potential source of virus transmission. After each patient, the dental assistant must perform a routine cleaning and disinfection cycle based on standard operating procedures. The assistant must wear appropriate PPE. Cleaning with detergent is an essential first step as it helps to eliminate or significantly reduce pathogens on contaminated surfaces. The dentist's chair must be cleaned after each patient, from the cleanest to the dirtiest areas and from the highest to the lowest levels. Highly touched surfaces such as doorknobs, chairs, telephones, and...  Desks should also be cleaned regularly. The second essential step is the application of a chemical disinfectant to eliminate any remaining microorganisms. The World Health Organization recommends using 70% ethyl alcohol to disinfect small surfaces and equipment after each use. This includes reusable equipment or equipment that deteriorates in contact with chlorine. A 0.1% sodium hypochlorite solution can be used to disinfect larger surfaces, and a stronger 0.5 % solution for copious spills of blood or body fluids. The use of other disinfectants should comply with the requirements of local authorities. Two-in- one products clean and disinfect simultaneously but should be used according to the manufacturer's instructions. Clean cloths should be used at the beginning of each cleaning and disinfection session. These cloths should be washed or disposed of properly after use. In areas considered to be at high risk of contamination by the COVID- 19 virus, new cloths should be used after each patient. All dental instruments, devices, and equipment should follow all the steps of a sterilization cycle. The first step is to immerse the instruments in soapy water.  As soon as possible after treatment, this helps prolong the lifespan of surgical instruments, as dried blood and saline solution can damage stainless steel and make cleaning the instruments very difficult. If using detergent-based products, ensure they are mixed at the correct dilution. Immersing instruments in a 0.5 percent chlorine solution or any other disinfectant before cleaning is not recommended. The next step is cleaning; this is the most essential step before carrying out the sterilization process. Instruments can be cleaned manually or mechanically using water and detergents. Rinsing removes loose dirt and detergent residue. Drying is an important step that prevents microbial proliferation. Devices should be hand-dried with a clean, lint-free cloth, preferably single-use. Before sterilization, instruments must be inspected and packaged. Packaging techniques are designed to hold and protect instruments to facilitate sterilization and maintain their stability until the point of use. The most commonly used sterilization wraps are single-use bleached crepe paper. And for wraps that combine cellulose and synthetic fibers, reusable cotton or cotton- polyester fabric can be used, but it is less resistant as a bacterial barrier than sterilization wraps. Containers to be sterilized must be labeled before sterilization. The label must include the names of the instruments and the expiration or sterilization date. Sterilization eliminates all disease-causing microorganisms, including the COVID- 19 virus. The preferred method for dental instruments is steam sterilization using saturated steam under pressure as a stabilizing agent. The World Health Organization does not recommend dry heat or chemicals for the routine sterilization of dental instruments. Ultraviolet light and boiling water should also be avoided, as they do not sterilize instruments. Sterilized instruments should be stored in closed cabinets in low- dust areas. The management of healthcare waste must be governed by best practices and current standards and procedures. Approximately 15 percent of dental care waste is considered hazardous, as it can pose health and environmental risks. It must be collected safely.  In lined containers and sharps boxes clearly labeled, floors must be cleaned and disinfected at least once a day, and also if they become soiled with blood, body fluids, or chemicals. In all oral health centers, guidance materials must be visibly placed in prisons or other facilities so that infection prevention and control staff know or remember the proper procedures. If we follow the proper steps, we can continue to provide essential oral health services during COVID-19 while preserving the safety of our staff and our patients.