Polio has paralyzed children for thousands of years.  To ensure a polio-free world for future generations, we must eradicate all strains of the virus. In this video, I will discuss the two types of polyoviruses that must be targeted to eradicate polio. Wild polyoviruses naturally present in the environment and polyoviruses derived from a vaccine strain. There are three strains of wild polyovirus type 1, type 2 and type 3, the number of which has never been so low thanks to the widespread use of the oral polio vaccine.  In fact, the type 2 virus has already been eradicated and the type 3 virus has not been reported anywhere for 3 years.  The oral polyemic vaccine has proven to be the best tool for stopping the spread of wild polyovirus.  We must also prevent the emergence of vaccine-derived polyoviruses, of which there are three strains, as with wild polyovirus.  In very rare cases, the live attenuated virus present in the oral polio vaccine can genetically mutate and cause paralysis just like the wild polyvirus. To understand vaccine-derived polyovirus , it is necessary to remember how the oral polio vaccine works. When administered to a child, the attenuated vaccine virus multiplies and can be transmitted like the wild polyvirus.  And other children are thus protected against the disease. The oral polio vaccine is the best tool we have to protect children against polio because it is easy to administer and prevents the spread of infection.  The emergence of vaccine-derived polyoviruses only occurs in countries where communities have an insufficient number of vaccinated children. The weakened vaccine virus strains can then continue to circulate for months through children who are not vaccinated.  If these viruses go undetected for several months, they can occasionally mutate and cause paralysis again.  These strains rarely appear because it requires that many children not be vaccinated for a long period of time. But they can paralyze children just like wild polyvirus. To eradicate polio, it is as important to stop the circulation of vaccine-derived polyoviruses as it is to stop that of wild-type polyovirus.  The oral polio vaccine is the vaccine used to eradicate polio because it has the exceptional ability to interrupt human-to-human transmission of the virus. But when all types of wild polyviruses have been eradicated, we will have to stop using this vaccine completely.  This will definitively prevent vaccine-derived polyoviruses from reappearing. This process is already underway.  Since the oral polio vaccine has three components, one for each strain of polyovirus, we can phase them out gradually as wild polyovirus strains are eradicated. Any child paralyzed by a polyvirus is paralyzed for life.  The anti-pollyomeletic vaccines have allowed us to consider eradication, and when we have eliminated all the wild strains, the work will be finished and we will no longer need them. By removing the oral polio vaccine, we can finally eradicate polio by stopping the spread of all types of poliovirus. Thank you.