The world is closer than it has ever been to eradicating both wild polio virus and circulating vaccine derived polio viruses. This video will explain how we are gradually phasing out the oral polio vaccine starting from April 2016. This important step will prevent new strains of circulating vaccine derived polio viruses from being able to emerge. And this in turn will bring us even closer to achieving our goal of a polio free world. While polio virus type 2 has already been eradicated thanks to the oral polio vaccine. So for the last few years we have also been able to start using a version of the vaccine called bvalent which protects children against polio virus type 1 and polio virus type three. Once wild while polio type one and three have also been declared eradicated we will be able to stop the use of the oral polio vaccine altogether. Fore according The fact that we are ready for the switch is a sign that we have come a long way in our journey to stop all polio viruses and we are confident that all countries will play their part by implementing this globally synchronized switch in vaccine types. The switch will need a significant amount of preparation and commitment from everyone involved. It will require the support of national decision and policy makers to guide all of the planning to make the switch possible. Lots of work has already gone into preparations and the days ahead will be the most important yet. Foreons. This is the biggest globally coordinated project of its kind in the history of vaccines. This one change will make a huge difference to the world's children, removing the biggest cause of vaccine derived polio viruses in one go. The months ahead will be crucial to make sure every detail is addressed and we thank everyone involved for all of their contributions to make this a success because we know that this will take us a major stride closer to eradicating all types of polio. This project demonstrates what can be achieved on a global scale when we all work together to protect children. Thank you for watching.