As we move towards the eradication of all polioviruses, it is now important to phase out the oral polio vaccine, starting with the one containing the type 2 component. The oral polio vaccine containing all three types of poliovirus will be replaced globally by one containing only type 1. This operation carries risks. In this video, I will show you the risk mitigation measures in place. The replacement has begun without stopping the use of the oral polio vaccine containing the type 2 component. Children will no longer be protected against type 2 poliovirus by the type 1 component of this vaccine. We must implement several measures to ensure that children are not at risk of being infected with type 1 poliovirus after this replacement. First, we must reduce as much as possible the risk of the emergence of a new type 2 poliovirus derived from a vaccine strain. Second, we must plan how to deal with the consequences if this were to occur. The first of these threats is  The new circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses for the region mean that, as the replacement date approaches, we must strengthen the protection of children against type 2 poliovirus in high-risk countries. We are conducting intensive campaigns to administer vaccine-derived polioviruses that contain all three components, including type 2. Inactivated poliovirus vaccine also has an important role to play in strengthening children's immunity against all three types of poliovirus. All countries are introducing at least one dose of inactivated poliovirus vaccine into their routine immunization schedule. This vaccine will confer basic immunity against type 2 poliovirus even in the absence of a regular poliovirus vaccine. As this vaccine is made from a killed or inactivated virus strain, it does not entail the risk of circulating vaccine-derived poliovirus. These important measures will help us reduce the risks of circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses, and in order to prepare for all possible scenarios, we are putting in place plans to know what to do if a  Should an epidemic outbreak occur, we will no longer use type 2 oral polio vaccine, but we will build up stockpiles so that we can administer it if necessary, just as the best tools allow us to intervene quickly in the event of a polio outbreak. In every situation, these type 2 vaccine stockpiles will allow us to quickly protect children if needed. The introduction of the inactivated polio vaccine has one advantage: it offers protection against all three types of virus administered as part of routine immunization. It will give children basic immunity, which is particularly important in places where immunity is low or where polio is likely to reappear in the event of an epidemic. This basic immunity would be reinforced by the use of the type 2 oral polio vaccine stockpiles. These risk mitigation measures aim to make the world more resilient to type 2 poliovirus. By putting these safety nets in place, we are ensuring that the withdrawal of oral polio vaccines containing the type 2 component will have a positive impact on children.  global and we will be able to eradicate polio faster. Thank you for your attention.