We are closer than ever to stopping the spread of polio. In 2015, the number of cases due to wild poliovirus was the lowest in history, and the eradication of one of the wild poliovirus strains was declared in the wild. The polyvirus can only live in the human body and in the environment for a limited time, but in order to achieve the eradication of polio, we also store the virus in laboratories and at vaccine production sites. Type 2 poliovirus has been eradicated in the wild, but it still exists in these laboratories and production sites. An important aspect of our work to ensure that the world is permanently free of polio is to ensure that these facilities handle and store the virus safely. This is called containment. Containing poliovirus will reduce the risk of accidental or deliberate release into the environment. With the eradication of wild poliovirus type 2, it is now important to  To ensure that all type 2 polioviruses are properly contained, once wild polioviruses type 1 and type 3 have also been eradicated, they too must be securely contained. In 1978, during smallpox eradication activities, an accidental release in a UK laboratory resulted in the death of a woman. For this reason, the smallpox virus is now stored in only two official repositories, with remaining stocks having been destroyed or transferred to safer laboratories. To prevent a similar event from recurring, we must ensure that there is no inadvertent dissemination of the polyvirus and therefore reduce the number of locations where the virus is stored. In view of the global withdrawal of the type 2 component of the oral polio vaccine in April 2016, it is also important to ensure that type 2 polioviruses derived from vaccine strains are  Even if properly contained, removing this component will reduce children's protection against poliovirus type 2. It is therefore important to ensure that no virus escapes from any facility. The first step in containing polioviruses is to know where they are located. For this reason, each country has been asked to identify all facilities holding poliovirus type 2. Once this information is obtained, countries will encourage facilities to destroy all materials containing poliovirus type 2 that they do not need. However, some virus must be retained for vaccine production or research. In a second step, facilities that need to store viruses will have to demonstrate that they are implementing strict containment measures to prevent any leaks. These facilities will be regularly assessed to verify that they meet containment criteria. All these measures are crucial to protecting current and future generations from polio. As we strive to guarantee a polio-free future, we are collectively and globally responsible for ensuring that this work is done effectively. Containing all polioviruses is very important, and this work will be completed when all polioviruses have been destroyed. Thank you for your attention.