The past few years have opened our eyes. We've seen pain, suffering and untold demise. Watched forests burn, air poisoned and waters polluted. Had a sickness that left populations diluted. The pandemic underscored the centrality of health. It laid bare inequities and widened gaps in wealth. We learned that health is not solely for social security. Rather symbiotically linked to economic prosperity. Because of COVID-19 the world is off track. At this rate, we're bound to fall further back. So let's stop and step away from our stagnation. Take a different route to a better destination. We propose a new path to goals of sustainability. One that supports countries’ healthcare durability. Shifting paradigm towards promoting well-being and health, and preventing disease through caring for oneself. One that reorients health systems towards primary care. Making universal health coverage undeniably fair. A new path that strengthens our systems and tools for pandemic preparedness and international health rules. A path that harnesses the power of sciences. Where innovation and data strengthen alliances. A course that bolsters our resolve and determination as the leading authority on global health information. Over the years, we will build on these foundations to enhance the results and impact on nations and achieve the accelerated progress that's needed to reach our targets, some to be exceeded. If we want to reach the goals of development then we must double our efforts equivalent. Set low carbon objectives at healthcare facilities. Address rising societal and economic difficulties. We'll prioritize people, amplifying our unique voices. Championing diversity and healthier life choices. Accelerate country progress by scaling up innovation towards drugs, diagnostics, technologies and vaccination. Ultimately, we will hold ourselves accountable. For transparency makes all challenges surmountable. We will not surrender, for we have commitments to keep and many billions to heal before we can sleep.