When we talk about gender issues, we cannot talk about it in a vacuum as if they appear without any uh yeah without politicizing it, contextualizing it. Historicization, I mean, we need to look at history, his historyries of our region, where it [music] came from. And we always say it's not about romanticizing what happened before. In today's episode, we speak to sociologists [music] and practitioners Dr. No Nazir Edin and Dr. No Abu Assab. During our conversation, we address topics [music] of a sexual nature that may be disturbing or triggering to some listeners. Listener discretion is [music] advised. Welcome to the World Health Organization's [music] # no excuse podcast. I am your host Gonas. >> So, let's [music] get started. Uh, welcome to the WHO hashtag Noisc Nor. >> Thank you, Gooni. Thank you so much for having us. >> So both of you are known for bridging divides between theory and practice, academia and activism. How do you do that? How do you merge an a world that is you know focused on data and science and another one that is based on lived experience and um stories. What is an academic theory without the lived experience and also without speaking to the people it's meant to be about? And at the same time, what is practice or activism if it's not informed by the knowledge and the learning we already have? We don't think of them as in binary terms. Although we do see, for example, we we see activist movements saying academics are in their ivory towers. We also see academics saying, "Oh, activists do not really rely on the theories that we produce. But this tension is a barrier towards further understanding and deeper understanding of the social world we live in. Also, I remember when we were doing our PhDs, me and N uh in the in the UK, we felt that we are not being encouraged to theorize. So, we were so much encouraged to bring the lived experiences of people or to describe women's experiences. My PhD was about women and class uh in refugee camps in Jordan, Palestinian refugee camps. We weren't pushed to theorize and it made us think why are we always push pushed like to describe our lived experiences rather to theorize and write theory. >> Where was that push back coming from? >> This is how how academia manifests its colonial attitude in a way. So oftent times like when students come from the global south and they're doing researchbased projects their supervisors tend to want to learn about their context. So what happens in that in a way is they push their students to describe their contexts rather than theorize about them which prevents them from theorizing and by the end of the day that enables the supervisor to theorize leaving the student without that access to bringing their own perspectives and theories. >> I want to pick your brains on the decolonial approach. I know you've written an important piece on that. What does it actually mean in practice? You spoke about it in the academia world. How does that show up in the aid sector and yeah, what has been your experience around that? >> Yeah, decolonial we've been working on this framework for the last 7 8 years and I think it's it didn't just start 7 8 years. I think we've always thought about it maybe in our brains in our minds in our even like spirituality. If you look at the aid sector, the NGO, the funding, we consider that as part of colonial structures in a way because if you have donor agendas implementing projects in the Middle East and North Africa, Arabic speaking countries, they have they come with a specific ideology. So that's why having a decolonial lens in the aid sector is really important because we need to contextualize the work. We need to politicize the work. We need to think about language, the politics of translation. What is being talked about? What language are we using? Also, what knowledge is considered best and what knowledge is not considered best. There has always been historically decolonial justice projects. Historically, we did not come up come up with that. It all it's it existed for a very very long time. Decolonial justice projects, decolonial movements, etc. But what we noticed particularly in the past 10 years I would say is that we would be in conferences talking about decolonizing the aid sector and we'd be in conferences in academic settings as well where they talk about decolonizing without actually thinking about colonized contexts. So it made us feel in a way that this is becoming really detached from the lived experiences and the realities of people who were formerly col formerly colonized and are still colonized and are being colonized. So that pushed us to think that we really need to we need to find a definition. We need to think about it. We cannot just use decolonizing without framing it and also you giving it foundations in a way. So it doesn't get appropriated. It also doesn't get whitewashed because it got to a point where you hear the most abusive oppressive people saying we need to decolonize. So it just did not make sense. It did not sit well from that very simple perspective. So when we noticed that that both no and myself we decided to create a framework that's based on the lived experiences of people that grounds the lived experiences of people and that does not make it just a just a buzzword and similar to how localization has been thought about within the sector like with localization there were international efforts the grand bargain came came in and they we now have localization indicators. We have we have references for localization. We felt that decolonizing also needs the same work. So we've created a framework that relies on specific analytical pillars that can be translated into action and practice within organizations in terms of whether we're doing research, whether we're doing development work or whether we're even doing humanitarian work. and and those and these analytical pillars there eight they basically proposed that we need to be really sensitive towards context without also compartmentalizing it. We also thought that we also need to consider politics when we're talking about decolonizing because decolonizing is about power and it's about standing up against power and then we also thought that we need to be intersectional in our thinking so we don't leave anyone behind. We also talked about um within the >> power power and relationality cuz power and relationships are important as well. the politicization make things political like when we talk about gender issues we cannot talk about it in a vacuum as if they appear without any uh yeah without politicizing it contextualizing it historicization I mean we need to look at history histories of our region where it came from and we always say it's not about romanticizing what happened before it's about to understanding history because without understanding history we cannot really inform the present and thinking about the future language uage and the politics of translation >> and the most important one radical self-reflectivity. >> Oh yes, >> radical self-reflection. In fact, this is the first pillar and it also entails that we need to look, we need to critique ourselves. We cannot always be in a defense mode. We would never progress. We'd never learn. So radical self-reflection basically calls for us to think about our own complicities in oppression as well because we're all complicit whether we like it or not we all contribute in a way or another. So just to think about that to consider that and to consider with it our positionality how are our positionalities can for example cause harm in some contexts. They can for example be be marginalized in another. >> Yeah, thanks for sharing that because that allows these pillars allows people to frame it frame a context or a situation in a way that uh force reflection on what are some of the inherent biases. So thanks for sharing. Um, another aspect that you speak about is the myth of prevention, which is I think for um, organizations like the WHO, prevention is at the heart of what they do in the context of prevention to sexual misconduct. And I think organizations know that it's inevitable to have risks of sexual misconduct and the way they go about policies and training is to prevent from that to happening or or prepare a system to be able to respond if something happens. But you critique that and you challenged it. Uh tell us more what's missing in in that process or in that mindset. So for us when we think about it that way when we say yeah we're preventing sexual exploitation and abuse and harassment and other forms of uh harmful practices it it promises a lot it puts a lot of pressure on organization we've witnessed where organizations they like in their in some organization there are some cases where harassment happened or sexual exploitation happened and they were so scared and ashamed from saying it because they felt that they're they're failing. So for us we we cannot promise so much because we will always inflict harm. Acknowledging that and put it on the table rightly so. And being self-reflective allows us to say okay we are trying to prevent we are trying to protect but we cannot promise so much because by the end of the day they will always h things will always happen. Harm will always happen no matter what even if it was unintentional. When we also look at up at data and how we interpret the data, there are issues that we need to resolve around the indicators when we monitor our prevention systems as well because we raise awareness around our uh around complaints mechanisms, reporting channels etc. At the same time, we put in policies in place to basically say that we are zero tolerant. We do not tolerate these abuses. Now what we get what the data we get from that would be for example if we are increasing awareness around reporting mechanisms then reporting will increase we will receive more cases at the level at the very logical level the cases reported wouldn't look good in terms of prevention. So it also means that we also need to rethink about how prevention is framed and how we are assessing our prevention efforts as well like what indicators we're using how are we reading these indicators as well just to bring another layer to this because in the UN world so some organization call it prevention to sexual misconduct prevention and response to sexual misconduct and some call it protection to sexual misconduct. So that you talk about false promises or overpromising. How are we conceptualizing protection? Like those frameworks, international frameworks, they also lack an understanding of of agency. If survivors and victims, they have different agencies. And uh I know like well-intentioned uh well like those organization, they want to support those victims and survivors by giving them support. But there are other ways we have to think outside of the box when we think about protection. Maybe some people need an apology. Maybe some people want to do like uh I don't know like uh work with also the perpetrators themselves because they're part of the community. I mean also we need to do a power analysis when we think about perpetrators and victims. Who are these perpetrators? Who are these victims? Are we are they part of one community? We we need to think about the agency of those victims. What do they need? They need reparations. what kind of reparation maybe psychosocial support to the perpetrator. So that's why those the myth of prevention like we need to think about it in how do we conceptualize protection and prevention as well. >> You mentioned reparations. Um >> okay [laughter] >> um how how would reparation look like for an organization? This is a very uh contentious uh how to say topic to speak about but I want to kind of hear uh your thoughts on reparations for victims and survivors >> and also I'm you know making a link as well on the decolonial approach as well >> um cuz I know you spoke about this in in in your paper. So >> please tell us more. I mean also the decolonial framework allows us to think about what kind of justice we want to achieve. Do we want also punitive justice? In some cases it's great but in other cases it doesn't get like do us any good to the community to the perpetrators themselves or even to the victims. for I guess reparation it means think about it from transformative and restorative justice like why did this harmful practice happen in the first place understanding the root causes rather than just solving the symptoms in addition to that uh the restorative and transformative justice approach they allow us to think okay we understand why it happened what how can we repair it now and reparation can can take different forms it can take as I said it can take maybe just an apology It it depends also on the agency of the victims because I think victims and survivors do not share the same experience when it comes to harmful situations. If two like we always have this example if Nur and I were exposed to bullying which we do in our trainings and our work our experience towards bullying is not the same. Our reaction is not of the same because of our upbringing our childhood like it can be so many things. So what I need maybe is completely different from what nors need need as a victim as a survivor. So I'm talking about bullying but it can like we can also think about it in a terms of sexual harassment sexual abuse. So that's why we need to think about yes victim centered approach. Yes. But not with a vict with a tick the box exercise with rather engaging with victims engaging with what with their communities. They're part of a larger community. They're part of an ecosystem. So we need to understand why that happened and also what kind of support reparation we need to allow for. I would like to contribute with uh a story actually because a real a real story that happened and this happened in a country in the Mena region and happened to some of our colleagues. Two two women were in a taxi in Lebanon and basically the the taxi driver harassed them verbally with sexual ino. They felt uncomfortable. They took the the plate. They called up the company. They told them we were exposed to this. The company completely ignored them. They didn't do anything. So what they tried to do is just do a a tiny campaign against that particular company because they did not take action. From the perspective of our colleagues and friends at that time, they felt that the taxi driver on his own comes from a refugee background. first of all. Second, he has family and children and after they did the public stunt against the company, the company offered to kick him out to fire him from his uh practice. So from our friends perspective and they took on a transformative restorative justice approach in a way they said no they would not be happy with the company firing that man but they would be happy with the company imposing safeguarding trainings to their taxi drivers. So because from their perspective it's the structural gaps that need to be addressed not just the the punishment for the individual. It's not a standalone incident. It's part of a system. It's structural. It's systematic. It's systematized. It's it's it's embedded within the everyday. So this is what we lean towards when we particularly talk about reparations. They may look different not for like punishment would not satisfy everyone from other from some people's perspective. They want to prevent that from happening in the first place to others. >> Thanks for that uh story. It help us really conceptualize what what we mean by reparation and being victim victim survivor centered. You also speak about key concept that are important to understand uh if an organization wants to better prevent uh or respond to sexual misconduct and there's a specific term that caught my attention which is structural sensitivity. So we hear we know about cultural sensitivity. For example, talking about sexual misconduct is sensitive here. We can't talk about it in our culture because it's not acceptable. But you challenge that idea and you say it it misses the point um when we say cultural sensitivity and you switch to structural sensitivity. Um tell us more. What does that mean? >> Okay. So to to break it down basically, so culture is only one aspect of the social world around us and the structures that influence our every our beings. And when we talk about culture, the thing is we live now in a world where in one household you would find multiple cultures. My culture is very different from my families and my families within them also like my brothers are very different from each other. So there isn't one singular singular culture that exists even within the same country. You might find cultural trends when we think about culture because we need to avoid cultural exceptionalism. Like if we come into communities assuming that they don't talk about sex, we will never get to a point of them reporting sexual abuse or reporting or reporting any form of sexual violence. But when we if we come to a community where we understand the structures that prevent them from speaking about sexual sexual abuse, then we're more capable of understanding and addressing that sexual abuse. And when we talk about structural insensitivity in particular political structures, other social structures, relational structures, environmental and even economic. So that simplification of culture and just and just be sensitive to the culture assumes a singular culture and assumes it's exceptionalism as well. So basically what you're saying is that saying that this is culturally sensitive here is a bit of a lazy way of going about it and it's much more complex and you can talk about it but you just need to understand the context better with all these different um pillars that influence and dimensions. If we move on to this topic that is uh I think everyone can relate which is about relationship at work. So just for the story when we started at who this work uh when we were doing open doors and we were speaking to to the workforce and one thing that came out with this work when we came out with the prevention to sexual misconduct people were afraid that they couldn't have relationships with colleagues and this famous phrase is love is not allowed in at work but actually it is it's just that you need to disclose So that you know we make sure that there's no potential conflicts of of interest. In your critique in your paper you observe that some organization you know apply this ban on or on all consensual relationships and that they and you say that they actually increase the risk of misconduct. Tell us more. You cannot stop love like if two people [laughter] I think it's it begins with as simple as you cannot prevent people from falling in love with each other and uh and the working environment is one of the spaces where we meet people like we spend sometimes most people spend at least 8 hours at work that's that's like onethird of their day so they're doomed to happen whether we like it or not so I find that so rigid and I don't know [laughter] it compartmentalizes us in a way. So that's why a misconduct might happen because people are so scared of saying we are in a relationship or I know that person because they will be punished then. >> Yes. And it's also and and why it increases the chances for misconduct as well because these relationships if they exist in the dark in a way it does allow more room for abuse to occur. It also so from that perspective it is always better to let people be and then think about how to prevent or how to mitigate like if we don't want conflict of interest to exist at the workplace we can think of ways to manage these relationships we can you want to add no yeah sorry I I got excited about consent we talk about consent consensual relationships if we're two others are consenting So, so again where is the consent in the respect? So we need to think about other ways of regulating those relationship rather than banning them. >> Yeah. No no for sure. I think that uh it's [snorts] well said well said we another important concept that you've been speaking along this conversation but also is part of your work which is the mapping power so that we understand this issue in in more depth. Um, and I think when I was reading your work, I was thinking this could be also a way a framework that supports the identification of risks of sexual misconduct. And so you break it into four types. There's the formal power, symbolic power, relation, relational power, and emotional power. Can you walk us through how these different types of power uh operate you know in real life and how can us understanding those different nuances can help us better prevent sexual misconduct. People would look at power in terms of the position the person occupies within the organization. However, what we're saying here is power is not just your position or the position you occupy because you also have power from below. And that power from below is often the invisible. It's often the disregarded within organizational contexts. And what we mean by power from below, there might be someone there might be two people within the same organization. Someone with a high position, another with a more junior position. But the person with the more junior position might have more social power than the person in the high position which can also allow for room for abuse of power. And this power needs to be considered and particularly when we talk about collectivistic context for example the relational power plays a massive massive massive part in our everyday dynamics. So, and when we talk about relational power, you might find someone in a junior position with relationships with people in power within the overall community that could allow them to to be abusive within their organizations as well. There is the emotional. Maybe I could have an emotional power on my colleague who she or he they might have a like a senior positionality because of my the way I my charisma the way I talk to them. I might have a symbolic power because I I I come from a specific family name for example. So looking at power only like a top- down approach it's so simplistic and it would we will lose so much I don't know we wouldn't catch the intricate and the the complexities with how power is shaped and how we negotiate maneuver those power structures. So and also other forms of power that we need to take into consideration is for example language because we know of an organization for example they were scared of getting rid of a serial bully. I want because there were several bullying complaints against this person because he was able of speaking English and he was the one point of contact with donors not because he was the manager necessarily. So this is the nuance that we're inviting. >> And I want to also like say something else. I know that most organizations like all of those international protocols they focus on sexual. The sexual is really important. But sometimes we need to look at for example other forms of abuse that take us they don't they don't operate on it on its own. It all intersecting. Maybe someone is being sexually exploited but before that they were maybe abused financially or economically or verbally. So focusing on only the sexual on its own when it comes. So for example if someone is receiving a complaint and they don't see sexual they dismiss it that's a huge problem. We need we always tell organizations look at the informal complaints look at the the other complaints that come like maybe a complaint on the training venue I don't know look for much more complexities within those context just don't read it with like no sexual then it's not dangerous >> right >> because they all intersect and this is and this this also brings us to the idea that we should not be thinking of safeguarding as a standalone own practice or a standalone department within organization. It also pushes us as organizations to rethink how we mainstream it as values and ethics within other departments as well. >> Yeah, I think we we've we've observed that as well within who people were actually asking us, you're doing a fantastic job on the sexual misconduct front. Can we talk about abusive conduct in general? Can that this this thing can this be included in a more broader term? So I think even people feel that before we wrap up um I I really I'm sure a lot of listeners are thinking this is what brought you to do this work and what keeps you going? Uh I think we we came into this work naturally and organically to be honest. It was a progression because when we first started our our professional careers in that sense within that field as also independent organizers, we started as movement organizers to be honest and we started with the queer LGBT feminist community and then while we were doing that work and we were trying to organize, we were trying to resource the movement, we were trying to resource also technically and financially etc. What we found is the movements are not really working because of the abuse that is happening within those movements. The there are so many abuses including for example like people threatening each other to tell the police about their sexuality. people harassing each other that so many that they were rife in abuse that we naturally found ourselves moving into a safeguarding direction. So this is what brought us to the work I think and also we found ourselves that within like as organizers in the movements being part of different movements across the region people wanted to silence like those abuses. We cannot justify our harmful practices because we are victims or we are marginalized. >> So that's why we me and like thinking and it's serious it didn't happen like oh one day we wake up like oh we want to be safeguarding experts. No no no organic like we we cannot be part of those there's a cognitive dissonance we cannot be part of those organizing of those movements and we witness so much abuse >> inflicted on like Yeah. So >> yes, >> we said that we need to professionalize in a way or I don't know it happened. Yeah. Organically. >> Yes. >> Going though. >> It so it came it came I think it came from the idea basically that being marginalized does not excuse your abuse. >> No. >> So that was the starting point. What keeps us going? To be honest with you, it can be really difficult at times. And I want to and y I want to say it really it can be really difficult because what people aren't aware of yet is the amount of abuse safeguarding practitioners get themselves to be honest like sometimes it it can be as simple as and it's really exhausting and tiring. We're still of course doing the work because we do believe that we need to change organizations from within. It's difficult to deal sometimes with uh organizational resistance to transformation. So what's keeping us going at the moment is that we integrated both aspects of organizational transformation with safeguarding because they need to happen in parallel. They cannot be happening in silos. >> And to be honest on a personal level we take good care of ourselves honestly >> like I know like yeah we we take breaks. we say I don't I don't want to do it now. I don't have the energy to do it. And we are like we are okay with saying no I don't want to engage with that case or I don't want to keep doing I want to take care of myself because if I don't do that switching off sometimes we we will we don't want to be in a in a in a in a status of burnout. I don't like the burnout because we become so reactive and I don't like that feeling. I want to be able to strategize, think rather than just being Yeah. So we do take care a lot of ourselves and each other to be honest. >> Yes. [clears throat] And therapy is very important to the field. >> Yeah. And it's really important for if you deal with cases like that, you really need to be in therapy. The world around us pushes us to be in therapy. >> Mhm. >> No, I think a lot of people can relate to this. uh especially if they are in the field they definitely can relate to the burning out and it's it's something gradual that you don't even recognize happening to you right so um prioritizing yourself and your self-care is uh I think a great advice so thank you so much >> and it's a radical selfcare it's not coming from a selfish place it's coming from so I can keep going you know >> Mhm. Yeah. For for for the system to be able to sustain itself, right? Otherwise, it would just crash. >> Exactly. >> Thank you so much uh Dr. Nof and No, for taking the time uh to speak to us uh on the hashtag no excuse podcast. >> Thank you. >> Thank you so much. I really enjoy >> really nice. I love that. Thank you. >> Thank you for listening. [music] If you have any feedback or questions, feel free to reach out to us to pr.int. Until the next time, goodbye.