Hello colleagues and thank you for joining another edition of transforming WHO. This is a series of video interviews where I talk to colleagues inside and outside of WHO about what we do in the World Health Organization and about how we change and transform to meet the challenges of global health. And today I'm very happy to be joined here in the studio in Geneva by Pascala Alote who's the director for sexual and reproductive health and her responsibilities also include leading the special program on human reproduction. Welcome Pascalin. Thank you for joining. Thank you very much sir. So first a little bit about your background. You you're from Ghana uh your nationality and you started in your country training as a nurse and midwife originally. And I actually have proof of that if anybody's doubting that. So let's pull up the first uh slide here. This is actually your license, your certificate of registration as a certified nurse and midwife in Ghana. I don't know, could you still work as a nurse and midwife back in Ghana if you wanted to? Um I would certainly need to uh re-register. I think clinical practice has moved on a bit since I was last in our hospital. I could have, but I would certainly love to. Yeah, you still have it in you. Absolutely. So do I. Actually, I trained it as an obstitrician and worked for many years, but it's been a while, so I probably need to be retrained as well. Anyway, you quickly moved into academia and research. I mean, you did a masters of public health and a doctor doctoral degree in in Australia and then in the 1990s, you went back in the late 90s to your own country in Ghana. you did some research in the field working with women looking at pregnancy care also at traditional uh practices like female genital mutilation etc. That was very much of your early research, right? That's correct. And then you you have a very distinguished academic career. You had leading academic positions in Australia, in the United Kingdom, in Malaysia. From the late 90s, you also started working with WH uh on on various programs, serving on advisory committees, etc. Um you also previously chaired or co-chared the Lancet Commission on Gender and Global Health. So that's sort of very much of your academic and professional career is in gender global health. And then of course you uh joined WH in 2022 as in your current position. Is that a fair description of your very long and impressive career? Um fair description. Yes. I think um when you talk about it, it sounds like it was very nicely planned and it progressed but I it was very much about opportunities and a lot of curiosity. Ah yes. Um so with um starting off in in uh particularly in community midfree um when I had the opportunity to do post-graduate study um I jumped at it. It was in initially in primary healthcare. Um and it was a really nice opportunity at the time in Ghana uh quite complex actually because it was um the primary healthcare movement in Ghana was really pushed by a military government. Um but it meant that there was a lot of community mobilization and so being a part of that and really um being a part of a political era that was very much about listening to communities. it may not necessarily have been the way that I would have chosen it under the military rule. Um, but it really kind of steeped me in the in in working with communities and and trying to understand and that's where the anthropology bit came in as well. Um, and so with the research um for my PhD um I was very very much committed to midwiffery um but it was also in a community in Ghana that had a whole range of tropical diseases. So I did both. I looked at tropical diseases in pregnancy. Um, and it was, I mean, just being curious, trying to understand why everything happened the way it was, why things didn't work. Um, and it's a it's it's such a wonderful foundation for a research career. Yeah, curiosity is a strong driver of research for sure. So one of your current responsibilities here in WHO is actually to lead uh the special program on on human reproduction uh which has more a history of more than 50 years. It was founded in 1972 uh as the human reproduction program and and and is still ongoing and now under your leadership. Can you speak a little bit to why this program was groundbreaking back in the 1970s and what has been its successes? Okay. So, it has a history that goes a little bit be before um 1972. It arose from a uh a world health assembly resolution of World Health Assembly meeting that was um that raised the importance of population regulation and it was the early days of the pill um and so on. So there was a the world health focus on family planning. A focus on family planning. A focus actually at the time which was quite quite Malthusian. There was a there was a concern about a population explosion and regulation and so on. Um and so there was a call for um the evidence behind it and the science behind it. So that kind of started in the late60s. Um and by 1972 it was clear that there was a there was a a um a need for a much more permanent program um within WHO. So that's where the and it was set up very specifically to ensure the the global evidence behind it that um the research could be commissioned that it could be coordinated across countries because it was very clearly not an issue that was within borders. it was very clearly a global health issue. Um so in 1972 it became a formal program. Um and in 1988 it then became there was a little bit of a controversy. So the the controversy has been going for a while but a number of member states that were not comfortable with the idea of of of fertility regulation. Um and so it then in 1988 it became a co- UN co-sponsored program that then included the World Bank uh UNDP UNFPA um and then later on UNICEF joined as well as part of it um and the governance was taken outside of the World Health Assembly into a separate governance. So it's under what's called the um policy and coordinating coordination committee PCC. So it still has member states. It has um a group that is elected by the regional committees of WHO. So it's global representation. Um IPF which is the international planned parenthood federation is um an observer um as is UN AIDS as well. So it is very relevant um topics to sexual and reproductive health um but with with me member state governance and absolute so so these days it's more of a special program who of course has a leading role supporting with secretariat under your leadership but but it's a broader program and over the years more than five decades focused very much on training research low and middle inome countries in this sort of whole reproductive uh health space, right? That's correct. It's been it's been responsible in terms of the achievements. These are things that we don't we take for granted today, but that work is certainly groundbreaking and continue to be. So, a whole range of uh contraceptive technologies um long long acting uh contraception um the trials that um led to the um work on motherto- child transmission in HIV. um they uh the um uh emergency contraception. So all of these are these are technologies. This is of course a field I mean I worked in that field for many years myself. if I know very well. It's a field that has had a lot of scientific breakthroughs 1960s7s 80s 90s as you mentioned but it's also a field that always had a lot of politics ongoing back and forth and and to take it a little bit uh further up in the 1990s there are two big uh international conferences that I think are important in this field. One is the 1995 Beijing international conference on women's rights uh which basically institute very strong language on gender equality in society and in health etc. And the other very important event is the Cairo conference in 1994 that specifically focus on sexual and reproductive health and rights institute some very strong language on exactly these are rights rights to reproductive health and uh services also rights to your own reproduction and fertility support for infertility even and also support for abortion services. of course controversial but still it was decided in 94. That's correct. And so what um what the the conference what the uh Cairo conference did IPD the international uh conference on population and development what that did was actually pivot the work of the program the special program from what was very much focused on the science of fertility regulation to one that was much more rightsbased and became patient centered and rights based. So that expanded the mandate to be to um what it is now which is comprehensive sexual and reproductive health and rights across the life course very much centered in gender equality and human rights and the rights based approach of course was also what WHO was founded on back in 1948 with health health as a human right health for all that was then taken further in the 1994 Cairo document that serves in many ways This is a guiding document not only for WHO's work but also for UNFPA, UNICEF and and others. Right. Yes. And what what happened as a result of that was that we uh the program then actually put together a reproductive health strategy and that was actually passed by member states in the World Health Assembly. So it it it took it took the work of and the evidence that had been generated from HRP over the years um layered on the the um ICPD and it was passed um the reproductive health and that is still the foundation of our work through to today from 200 but I think it's fair to say and I've also followed the WHO and our governing bodies for for quite some time. It's fair to say it hasn't been smooth sailing for the last 30 years in this field because it is very political in many our member states. I mean uh political uh changes also influence for instance reproductive rights, abortion services etc. So now more than 30 years later what would you say are the state of the Cairo recommendations? Well um there there are a couple of ways of looking at it. one is um if we focused on the specific outcomes um the the the health outcomes as a result of Cairo um those are translated into things like the the maternal mortality outcomes um access to contraception and so on um we're certainly not where we would like to be. um the um and I think we will uh raise that a little bit later but we know that we've stagnated um in terms of the maternal mortality figures there has been there absolutely has been progress we can't um there's no question about that um but I do think that um while while we have made significant progress through the improvement of of health services and health systems and um general improvement in gender equality and so on that have all contributed to improvements. I think we are part of the stagnation is also in in continuing to strengthen our health systems. But it may be that we also need to go that last mile. Um and where the the the nature of our work has done the most for a lot but we have we have to do we have to accelerate to get to the last mile to be able to to really bring it home. It it seems so. I was reading the we just recently celebrated international women's day on 8th of March uh secret the UN secretary general and and UN women they issued a report which was basically also a 30 years sort of status of the Beijing declaration in that report was some progress noted as you say I mean for instance access to family planning that has actually been progress it's not perfect but it's actually better but still I mean I think that report was highlighting that women generally speaking globally have only 65% of the legal rights of men. So in many me member states I mean it we're not there and even on the 8th of March when this was presented for the u for the conference of of the of the rights of women in in in in New York the secretary general of the UN was saying that he's he was seeing patriarchy uh misogyny sort of uh having a heyday in these days. I mean so he was speaking very strongly to what perceived challenges in this area. Do you see the same? Absolutely. And it it is it's something that um is is very worrisome. Um it is obviously continues to be a problem in uh low and middle inome countries. But it it is it is global now. I mean the the the regression in women's rights globally is it is it breaks my heart that we're still talking still having to talk about these issues fundamental women's rights issues um in 2025 um and it is the the I guess the strength of doing this work out of WH is that it is we we are backed by the evidence we can provide the the data and that is that for us is the strongest Um the strongest tool we have in our toolbox is is so the sciencebased evidence-based approach building on the principles of our constitution the rights based and these other international declaration and then the science that's basically what we can do in who that's correct but as a scientist in this field for more than three decades Pascal why why do you think that the issue of women's reproduction and women's sexual life. Why is that a constant political battlefield? Oh, that's a big question. Um um we so there is a it it is and and this is this is one of the nice things about about my curiosity and having come up through learning through communities and so on that there are the the the often the sciences that we don't use enough are the political sciences the social sciences and so on to really understand what is happening um within communities within countries ries and what the the political the change in the global health politics um how that impacts on on women um the if I can go back a little bit to the STGS the MDGs and then the SGS certainly it it it brought women's equality and women's empowerment very much to the four countries actually had to and were accountable for girls education and so on and that has been that has clearly been and uh uh created some of the been responsible for some of the progress. Um we unfortunately are seeing a backlash um in a lot of that. Um and I think we will while while the while the progress has been clear. Um and I also just just one more point I want to add in there is the the actually the introduction of the feminist foreign policy which a lot of countries are pulling back from at the moment. Again what that did was was was provide a very strong accountability mechanism. With all of that withdrawing, that then takes away the push to actually go that last mile to ensure that equity is an important part of of the work that we do. And the point at which you don't recognize that um largely women start on the back foot in terms of equity and therefore that they that women are that we have to be very clear about what the issues are for women throughout m the the um at least maternal mortality because that gives us something to count. But the reality is before the 9-month period that is that is of interest there are whole range of other women's health related issues and this is why sexual and reproductive health is important that by the time you come to the period of pregnancy you should the woman should have come into that pregnancy out of choice should have had access to contraception to make that decision. Yeah. Should have had access to safe, comprehensive abortion care if she did need it. Um, and have access to information to ensure that she is safe. Um, not subject to gender based violence, not subject to traditional practices and so on. So, it is very and I would even I can attest to all of that having worked as an obstitrician for many many years. I mean, it's extremely important. It's not only the pregnancy and the delivery. I mean it's basically a a healthy young women woman before becoming pregnant and I would even make it more holistic and say she also has a right for education and a place in society and meaningful employment and safety and health to make uh that pregnancy and that delivery and that family safe and good. So you spoke to maternal mortality because that is uh a very very strong indicator because most maternal mortality is preventable. When we speak about maternal mortality this is basically a woman dying from pregnancy delivery or the post immediate postpartum period. Not everything is preventable but in a strong healthare system most cases can be preventable. So that's been a very clear indicator. We followed it for decades. It was in the Millennium Development Goals. is in the sustainable development goal and I actually have a graph showing let's just look at the data here um so this is a graph we are tracking it from WHO this is a this is a global data if we break it down into countries low middle high income it looks different so basically looking across the decades it seems like we have made a lot of progress we've really developed uh a lot of solutions to support uh women uh but but it's sort of stagnating ing in the last couple of years. In this graph, we are roughly at 225 per 100,000 pregnant women and the SGD target is 70 per 100,000. So, we are not on track, not on track to meet the uh SDG goal for this indicator and it seems to be leveling up off after having progress. Why is that? We still need to um continue to strengthen our health systems. Yeah. Um, as I as I'd mentioned before, I think um the the we started off with a very low base. I mean, maternal the numbers of deaths um uh in at the beginning of the millennium was awful. Um and we have got to the we have the evidence now partly from HRP's work um on the importance of of um having skilled birth attendance on the importance of the number of antiatal clinics that antiatal visits um the sorts of risks that need to be assessed during pregnancy and increasingly the the actual birth experience. So in terms of the evidence on cesarian sections when interventions are required and not postpartum hemorrhage which is one of the highest um uh causes of maternal mortality we we we have just uh last year actually the emotive trials um that we had done have now put together a package a bundle um of interventions to prevent postpartum hemorrhage and so on. So the science is there, the the the the what we need to do largely and it's always we we can we can continue to do the research. Um it's a it's a number of things. It's being able to get the right interventions to the right places. Um during one of the the recent consultations we had for the postpartum um for postpartum hemorrhage in particular, there was a summit um that we convened um and what was clear just talking and we had people from the community, we had uh clinicians and specialists and so on. What the and what was very clear from those discussions for instance was that we are while we may have the interventions particularly around the perinatal period they are not getting to where they're needed. So there's still women in rural communities who cannot get to the basically about strengthening healthare system. We have the science. We know what is driving this. The postpartum hemorrhage, the hypertensive diseases of preeacclampsia infections. We have the tools to deal with this. We know what works. And actually these are not very expensive tools. I mean they're very very basic tools in including the drugs and etc. But it's all about access. It's very very much about having a healthare system and also having a skilled attendant for the pregnant women. Yes. and mother and you and me we have both worked as birth attendants in our previous clinical life. So it it it always hurts my heart when I know what is needed is just a skilled birth attendant. Yeah. And the woman is not getting that. A woman delivering a child anywhere in the world not having a skilled attendant by her side. So that of course she should have that's a right. It's more than 90% in most high and middle inome countries. in subsaharan Africa and many countries like 60 65% of the women. So onethird don't have it. That's correct. And it's actually not improving. So how can we uh how can we support governments and member states in doing this? Well um there is a um a midriffy model that's been put together. We do even even within the professions it has taken a while for the importance of the midwife um to be recognized. Um and we are getting there. There's um we have previously it was too doctor. Yes, that's correct. And it is it and and and we I I I unfortunately don't see a world where you can get a doctor everywhere. No, it's not indeed. I can say that. So there are a whole range of of different levels of task shifting but very much midfree is so important because there's they they often midwives are often the people that are um known by the communities. Um they they engage with women throughout the pregnancy. So there's a relationship and you can get them and they they are able to do a whole range of services including broadly sexual the range of sexual and reproductive health services as well. So we we have to get the people out. We have to get the skilled um staff out the skilled workforce out that can help to manage these um some of these problems. And we we're talking about many of these midwives women they are already there in the societies. They need to be supported. We are not talking about needing to educate everybody in the university. It doesn't need to be a skilled medical doctor as you say for for most of these cases. So currently we are facing a very great crisis I would say in global health. I mean with the withdrawal of the United States also withdrawal of funding not only for WH also for many of our colleagues in this multilateral system but even more concerning I would say a withdrawal of funding for many global health programs in the field is this affecting what we're talking about as well absolutely um the I know um my colleagues in in the division are still collecting the data on that and there are a number of others as well collecting the data to actually demonstrate um just how how devastating this is going to be. I think if we look back to and this will be um evident in in um the new uh uh data that will be released on maternal mortality but it was very clear the the blip in the numbers of deaths maternal deaths is very evident over the COVID period and I think that that that that should be for us very much the the canary and the coal mine that demonstrates that if you don't have a resilient health system that that maternal maternal mortality should be the one thing that we we should be. So that was because of disruption of healthcare services during the pandemic. Yeah. And there is no way we will not see that with the with the redu the very severe reduction. We see that all the time Pascal as you say it's a canary in in the mine. I mean the terrible devastating and war in Gaza. I mean the first affected, they have a high fertility in Gaza. But I mean it broke my heart hearing about women who could not deliver safely. Yeah. Um or even I heard about colleagues who were doing a cesarian section that needed to be done but without anesthesia in Gaza. We saw it in Western Africa 10 years ago with the Ebola outbreak. I mean a lot of a lot of the the deaths were actually not related to Ebola. That was related to disruption of healthcare services. So it's it's certainly what we see. Yeah. So this is concerning the the the lack of funding, the dep prioritization of global health, but it's it's also more than funding. I mean we also see a challenge to the core principles and values even the science that we are talking about here that goes back to what we talked about the um who constitution the kairo document and we see that for instance in the reemergence of so-called gag rules which are major funders who say we will not fund a program if that program provides reproductive services abortion services etc. That's right. So why do we see a reemergence of of this? Now I think it goes again it goes with the with the global politic that is happening. Um a real resurgence of um religious um often fundamentalism that is a very strong part of um the global discussions um at the moment. um at some level I don't think it is necessarily just about um sexual and reproductive health. I do think that there is a there is a breakdown in some of the fundamental values that that that define multilateralism. I mean that's that is what what the whole system is about. It's about ensuring equity and fairness. It's it's it's the conscience of the world multinational. a broader challenge to the rulebased rights based multilateralism but do you see a future for multilateralism? Absolutely. I mean I I know our systems are not always perfect and I know you know we need recalibration um whenever but it it really is it is um the one thing that brings us together as as human as as humanity um that that we we are able to remember that we are a part of a community that we're part of a global community and and that we need to look after each other. Um and that is that is for me very much what defines um the importance of multilateralism and absolutely worth protecting. So there is a future for multilateral. There is absolutely a future and I think for us in global health it is particularly important because it what it does is it raises um this notion of the individual um particularly in in public health to recognizing that yes the individual is important absolutely as a rights holder but as part of a community we what we do impacts on on our fellow citizens our fellow human beings. beings and therefore we have a collective responsibility as well to look after each other um and that comes under the very much under the umbrella of multilateralism and that's a very strong message. So this is about community locally but also about community globally. Thank you very much Pascala for joining me in the studio and thank you very much colleagues for uh tuning in to uh transforming WH and do stay tuned on this channel to look for upcoming episodes.