Hey there! Good afternoon Brazil and good morning/good evening to everyone participating in this event from other parts of the world. Isn't this your news and media director here at the WHO ( World Health Organization) in Geneva? And we have here with me Dr. Mariângela Simão, Assistant Director-General, I should say, the WHO's director-general for access to medicines and vaccines. In Washington, at the headquarters of PAHO (Pan American Health Organization), which is also the WHO Regional Headquarters for the Americas, I have Dr. Jarras Barbosa, Deputy Director of PAHO. And in Rio de Janeiro, the president of Fiocruz, Dr. Nísia Trindade de Lima, and in the next 45 minutes we will be talking about the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil and the world, and especially about vaccines. You can participate in this event on Twitter with the hashtag #AskMS ( MST in capital letters) or #aswhyAskwhy (all together in capital letters), or through Facebook or Twitter. And to begin, we have some questions that we received on our social networks. I'll start with Dr. Maria Ângela Maria.  My account has been bothering me for over a year. What is your assessment of the current epidemiological situation in Brazil? A general overview of the world... Thank you very much, and it's a pleasure to have you on screen. Until the beginning of this year, we had a somewhat more promising outlook because we were observing a decrease in the number of cases in several countries around the world. Although, in Brazil and other countries in the Americas, we were still on an upward curve, this reversed rapidly. Five or six weeks during the year, the real number of cases and deaths increased again, and we are seeing an increase in cases not only in Brazil—don't forget the situation they are experiencing now, a rather difficult phase—but also in other regions of the world. So you have large countries like India with an increase in cases, Turkey, and other countries, of course. The doctor will now talk a little more about the situation in the Americas. Almost half of the number of cases in the world are in the Americas region, and also equivalent to almost half of the number of deaths. So you have a mixed situation in the world; you have countries that have stabilized at a high level, and you have countries that have stabilized at a lower level. Lower [in the curve] and if there are countries that are currently experiencing a resurgence, there is no price to pay for the emergence, and the situation is quite varied at the moment, and what are the factors behind this situation that just started with babies? Big kiss. First thing, despite the fact that in this year and a little bit we have learned a lot about this virus, we still don't know enough about it, and in a certain way, I would say, there is a false sense of security with the arrival of vaccines, and in a certain way also a fatigue, tiredness of the population. Correlations of preventive measures are extremely important at this moment not to lower our guard, even if you have vaccines, and we will talk a little more about vaccines during this, and this, this Spain today, even if you have vaccines, the control measures, which are not yet proven effective, in Brazil, there is a lot of talk about social isolation, and in fact, the term we use is more appropriate. What is more adequate is physical distancing. Because we don't want anyone to be socially isolated, physical distancing, consistent use of masks, and hand hygiene, avoiding crowds, and these are universal measures, until we can be at a more stable level in relation to transmission.  Community and now your friends, Maria Ângela, you spoke about vaccines, which vaccines? No hope that we can save lives and control this acute phase of the pandemic. I want to ask about my Nísia Trindade Lima card. How is the situation with vaccines in Brazil? And even now, elected by us, we are not able to hear, sorry, now let's see, now yes. Good afternoon Marcelo, could you? Good evening and to those who are following us at other times, it's a pleasure to be here with Mariângela Simão by Jarbas Barbosa. The situation with vaccines in Brazil, I think it's always important to talk about vaccines and vaccination, right? Regarding vaccines in our country, today two vaccines are integrated into the National Plan for the operationalization of this national immunization program, which is the vaccine from the Butantan Institute and the COVID-19 vaccine, the result of a partnership between Fiocruz and the pharmaceutical company. Originally developed by the Oswaldo Cruz Institute, at this moment the first dose is taken in Brazil, about 18 million people, without eight thousand, and here I think it's important to say that from this month of April this vaccination will intensify and many states will be. Platinum-platinum-colored people in the older age groups up to 60 years old, in addition to vulnerable groups that were defined for the priority vaccination phase, still have a long way to go to go beyond the two vaccines already agreed upon. Socorro is making dinner at this moment, which allowed for an expansion of this vaccination, and I think that every effort at this moment must be to create vaccination in a combined way with control measures. Mariângela is the B button, I think Bruna's goal for controlling this academy is seventy percent coverage of the population that can be vaccinated. Which means we are talking about about 170 million Brazilians, since the population under 18 years old could not yet be part of this vaccination program. It is a great effort that must be undertaken, the measures already very well put by Mariângela, and I would also reinforce the testing and screening measures as important public health actions to be adopted. And now if we talk a little about the variants, right? As the virus infects more and more people, it is not transforming. I would like to bring Dr. Jarbas here now. Barbosa, to talk a little about these variants, and thank you for the pleasure of participating in this conversation. Viruses naturally mutate, but this is a known natural tendency of viruses. When these mutations make modifications and become stable, they give rise to new varieties. But so far, we have three new consolidated variants: the one originally detected in the United Kingdom, the one originally detected in South Africa, and the one originally detected in Brazil. Variants can alter the behavior of the virus for better or for worse. Unfortunately, regarding the new variant that was initially identified in Manaus, it is explained that Brazil has been monitoring it. Our Pan American Health Organization maintains a network of 21 laboratories in Latin America and the Caribbean that performs sequencing, and this one, the one originally detected in Manaus, has at least five studies demonstrating that it has two to two and a half times the transmission speed. You will spread it more quickly, and this is worrying, is n't it? And the more we let it circulate, the more chances we give it to transform and even generate more severe forms, a greater production of serious cases and deaths.  The way to avoid new variants is precisely to control transmission. This doesn't affect the active vaccines; it's fundamental. A rich country vaccinates its entire population, but if the virus continues circulating in other countries, perhaps by chance a new variant emerges that won't be protected by the vaccine administered in that country. It's theoretical, imaginary, and all the effort could be wasted. So, the international response isn't just about ethical and moral principles; it 's also the most effective way we have to overcome the pandemic. Okay, and we're starting to receive questions here. I'm looking at the questions we 're already receiving from people participating in this event on my phone. We have a question about symptoms that I'm going to ask Dr. Mariângela. It's from Rosaleny. She says, " After getting COVID-19, I lost my sense of smell and taste. What can I do to improve this?" Patience. I think that's what we've been saying so many times during the pandemic, isn't it? Unfortunately, that's what we have at the moment. I think you have to be patient; there are several symptoms of the virus that last longer.  That's what we're calling a long- term infection, right? So, I'm sorry, I think it has to be tough, you can't taste her things, I tried to smell things, but that needs to be analyzed over time, and I think now, I'd say there's a little more patience. You've already passed the difficult phase, which was surviving the infection. Now, looking ahead, another question I think will come up: this new variant from Amazonas that was identified in Amazonas, is it more... Hi Lucas, thank you so much, and including with the forces here, look, Amazonas Cross, but we already have 55 studies that have been released demonstrating that this new variant is probably two to two and a half times more transmissible, it has a higher count of Rosa, it transmits more quickly, and that's worrying because when you transmit more quickly, even if it doesn't produce serious cases on its own, the faster the transmission, the number of serious cases that will be produced is proportionally also growing, which means that the risk of overloading, of exceeding the capacity of the health system is greater. But on the other hand, it's important to remember that the measures of...  The preventative measures we have for the original virus are equally effective against the new variant. This is what the Navy has already said: wear masks at home, maintain physical distancing, avoid enclosed spaces, avoid crowds, and authorities should carefully evaluate which non-essential activities can be postponed or suspended to prevent further contact. By maintaining preventative measures, we are protecting ourselves against new variants and the original virus, because the ability of new variants to spread is very important. From the initial cases identified in Manaus, we have already identified this new variant in 14 other countries in the Americas. In other words, if we don't have preventative measures, the virus will continue to spread, and the chance of new variants appearing will increase, which is not advisable, given the risk we are already facing in Brazil, with evidence of overcrowding in some capitals and cities, lack of access to certain equipment that can be life-threatening for people who develop severe forms of COVID-19. And now, my namesake, Márcia Dias, is asking me...  I think this question is for Dr. Anizia, and when will the vaccine for children and adolescents be released? At this moment, it should begin. The protocol for research in Brazil for the vaccine we are producing at Fiocruz should be initiated. It's based on an agreement with Brazil, as I said, to close the deal. I hope that soon we will have all these approved. Right now, the vaccine in phase 21 is being adopted from age 16 onwards, and the TEXT is one of the focuses of attention. We have approved it for pediatric use and for adolescents as well. Another important group is pregnant women. We have been monitoring cases involving pregnant women, and this should also be a major concern for the country. For clinical studies with the vaccines for 21-year-olds, I take this opportunity to reinforce what I said. In fact, the measures have to be combined. Increasing vaccination is very important, and at the same time, control measures are crucial. What is the vicious circle? The more cysteine ​​film, the more variations we can have. For now, the variants are a devil. In the UK case of the vaccine, our responsibility at Fiocruz is this...  Regarding the vaccine, I think it's just that she showed you in the laboratory that it's effective for me, but it's something of a cause for concern, which is why our researchers in several of our institutes, and especially in the Amazon, are totally dedicated to these variants. Besides the lab work, they started that beautiful institute, right? And now I have a question, Edson, let's go back to talking about the variants. Edson asked to take a screenshot of the increase in the manifestation of this new variant. I think it was here that you mentioned it, and energy was identified in the Amazon. What does it really depend on? The manifestation of this variant depends on the immune system. It's a high degree of exposure to the variants. They happen because all viruses have a certain tendency to mutate; it's not small changes that they make. This varies from the most stable to the most mutant viruses. The influenza virus is an example of a virus that produces so many mutations that we have to get the influenza vaccine every year, right? Because every year you can have different strains of the influenza virus circulating. The O2 virus is a virus from 2019. It produces many mutations. These mutations are lost in others, and some of these mutations remain constant. What does that set mean?  The mutations have led to the development of a new variant, that is, a virus that has some characteristics different from the original virus. The longer we let it circulate naturally— this is completely random, we ca n't prevent it—the virus can naturally develop mutations that become consolidated, become permanent, and constitute a new variant. Mariana, we already have these three new variants that have been identified; others have probably occurred, right? I don't think so, friend. It's just an important point. The vaccines we currently have also protect against variants, but without a doubt, it 's very important to think about controlling the virus for several reasons, including preventing the emergence of new, more aggressive, more contagious variants that produce more fidelity and more lethality. It's extremely important where the transmission of the virus increases the possibility of new variants occurring. Again, the measures that prevent the original virus are also effective against new variants: masks, physical distancing, avoiding closed places and crowds. And now we have a question. Going back to talking about the effectiveness of vaccines in relation to variants, it's a question from Isabele. She asks, and I think the answers are organized... the Corona vaccine... which ones... which ones... These variants we're talking about... Andthen the lawyers... the series A vaccine effective against the variants... in the case of the Fiocruz vaccine... I want to mention the importance of studies also being carried out on the effectiveness of the vaccine from the United Kingdom and Scotland... today, these variants from the United Kingdom are also circulating... the effectiveness study... which means... all with the vaccinated population and especially seeing the very significant reduction in hospitalizations and severe cases... which is a very important objective of this participation... the repetitive weapons put the tuning and the control measures adopted for children before plants... variants of concern are identified and also... and... have proven adequate... these bands are not used in an integrated way and to do the effectiveness studies that are already being worked on with the Ministry of Health to do... in the case of Brazil... the situation in Brazil today... I'm going to bring here now Mrs. Mariângela who has something to add... traveling... but you complementing... and Jarbas... there's a question that is super important when we are watching... so much that the prevention measures have to continue... the need to understand how the vaccines work now, right? Because up to the moment...  He's starting to see some studies showing whether or not the disease is transmitted from person to person, but so far what we have that is extremely important is that all these vaccines that have demonstrated greater or lesser efficacy all prevent the progression to severe illness, which is the same as reducing the number of people who will die. So at the moment, we still don't have certainty about the transmission of the TAM vaccine and whether you can catch it through the virus if you've been vaccinated. So far, the evidence says that you can still catch it, but if you do catch this coronavirus, you won't die, right? So this is a super important distinction to keep in people's minds, and what we're talking about here right now is that you have to combine the vaccine with preventive measures because community transmission is very intense in Brazil, and it will also be extremely intense in some regions of Brazil. Even vaccinated people have to be careful, and we're saying this also to increase the effect of the vaccine, by preventing transmission between people and reducing, for example, the possibilities of person-to- person transmission with the use of masks, physical distancing, and everything else that you're saying.  Giving the vaccine a greater chance to help control the acute phase of the disease, I would help here so that fewer people become seriously ill, and that we have a health system. I think this distinction is quite important. Thank you, Marisa, continue with us. You were talking about transmission in Brazil, how we are going through a difficult time. We have a question here, right? A question about whether it is transmitted through the air or through surfaces. The virus basically transmits from person to person, but it can also be transmitted through surfaces, through contact with contaminated surfaces. But basically, the transmission is from person to person, and what is important when we are talking about physical transmission is to avoid crowds, ventilated places, and everything else. The virus has proven that it can be transmitted through some very special circumstances. For example, if you have a patient in the ICU who is intubated and there is an environment that creates aerosols, that is the mode of transmission through the air, but it is not the main mode, it is very rare to happen. The basic mode is person to person, and the care with surfaces and hand hygiene. I don't know if Dr. Jarbas wants to add to his, but I can't give a great risk, it is really the transmission between people, right? Because  Everyone who speaks emits things doesn't see them because they are tiny droplets of saliva, and those droplets contain viruses. So, if one person is talking to another, and both are without masks, and one has been affected by the virus, two are in that phase where they are naturally producing a lot of viruses, so to speak, and after a few days, because one person is talking, they reach the respiratory area of ​​the other person if the person is coughing or sneezing, and it is multiplied several times. That's why several studies have shown that closed places where people are talking, shouting, and singing without masks are places of very high transmission. Other studies, such as religious gatherings in nightclubs and restaurants, have shown the capacity for up to 300 people to be infected. On the other hand, here in the United States, we have the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, which is a light on the...  The most consistent institutions in the world, internal epidemiological analysis and forecasting, estimate that if, starting today, Lambada, from this week until July 1st, 95 percent of people in the Americas were using masks, we would save 44,000 lives. We would have 44,000 fewer deaths than the system we are going to have. So I believe it is very important, as Nívea and Mariângela said, the vaccine is fundamental. But it's a medium-term answer, at least not immediately, because what will save lives are only these public health measures that need to be reinforced with clear messages, a clear and transparent message to the population. What should be done so that we can avoid this growth that we are seeing in several countries, in Brazil, Paraguay, Peru and Chile at this moment, and in the Americas, there is significant growth in some of these countries, like Paraguay, as in Brazil itself. The overload in some services in some cities in relation to ICU beds is very worrying. We are not talking about the pressure on the ICUs, and we have a question here from Rodrigo Oliveira. He asks...  Why don't they prescribe home inhalation for people diagnosed with COVID-19 to prevent them from reaching an emergency situation? We can start with Mariângela, thank you. I even saw some information circulating on Facebook and the internet about home inhalation, right? Actually, when you have respiratory symptoms, inhalation often helps because it helps humidify the system. What we observe here in the evolution of what we call the natural history of this infection is that some people experience complications. These are the people we call more vulnerable groups: people over 65 years old, people who have pre-existing conditions, what we call complications. So I would say that very, very clear attention must be given to these people who have a higher risk of developing severe illness, to be attentive to any manifestation. Normally, what we have seen is that complications occur on the sixth, seventh, or eighth day. So home remedies are welcome, but you should always be attentive, especially if you are listening to, you have a relative or friend who is a person...  who has the highest risk of developing severe illness and who should be alert to any symptoms that indicate a worsening of their condition and seek medical attention as quickly as possible. I think you have to trust the home remedies, but you also have to closely monitor the possibility of complications in some age groups and groups of people in certain conditions. And now, I don't know what a question is, pulling more with me. Global, the world, Europe too. Mariângela, we're talking about Barbosa da Silva. Barbosa da Silva Ambrosina asks us: We are seeing what we call here in Europe the third wave, right? We call it phase 3, the third wave in Europe. Will there be a phase four, a fourth phase? I've even had Jarbas comment on this as well, because in fact, this issue of waves is very relative, right? Because you have several different resurgences. You're in the first, second, or third wave. If you look, for example, at the profile of infections in Brazil, it is always following a high level with some exacerbation in some periods. What is being seen in Europe is a resurgence, and some countries, even countries that have a more advanced vaccination program...  ...and you see at the same time Barbosa, and we have another Barbosa da Silva in this call, you're addressing at the same time that countries that are taking very strong preventive care measures, citing the example of Portugal, which a month ago was the country with the highest incidence of new cases in Europe, and which has now returned to measures restricting the movement of people, measures making the use of masks mandatory, restrictions even without closing commerce, restrictions on the entry of prisoners, managed to greatly lower the number of cases in the country like Portugal, but so I would say that I think we have to worry less about the second, third, fourth wave, but we need to think about the transmission mechanisms and where there is community transmission, be very attentive and not relax the preventive measures, including in European countries, I do n't know if using them will be complementary to the measures that culture... Anitta... Well, I think it's very important what Angela said here in Brazil, the main ones, shopkeepers and other scholars from academia have also spoken, not only about this level that remained high, but now in the dramatic situation that we are living through, more than one  The tendency for this virus to circulate for a short time reinforces the need for control measures, right? Epidemiological surveillance measures? And I also wanted to draw attention to the possibility that our health system offers greater integration of primary care with surveillance. So I think the key word from this moment on is emergency actions. Because unfortunately, we are losing many lives, but this doesn't affect the long term, and it applies to all countries. Well, let's go, we're using strategies from family health and primary health care to the most modern technological mechanisms for testing, and so on. I believe that we are not living with this virus, but with the critical situation that some countries have today. That's why this idea of ​​surveillance and control is very important. And it hits harder during the last... another question, something, there's a question, but go ahead, okay? Internally, this issue of the wave comes a lot from the profile we saw in Western European countries. It's not when that first wave started, called February of last year, March. When we look at the graph of the number of cases, the number of deaths, it's one thing, you see, and it goes because it grew very quickly. They took containment measures, even in their own backyard, with all the social and economic characteristics that...  In those countries, these measures were very effective; the curve falls, forming an inverted V shape, then there's a period with very little transmission, followed by a new wave, mainly after the European summer, with a certain relaxation of travel measures. There's a second, inverted V in Latin America due to poverty, the informal economy, the lack of a strong social safety net, and often confusing messages from leaders about the severity of the pandemic and preventive measures. We see that the measures taken by countries were able to prevent an explosion last year, but they weren't effective in controlling it, so it plateaued. It decreased very slowly at the end of the year, but now, unfortunately, for the last two months, we've noticed a trend of resurgence in any country in the world. I believe what we need to do is make people aware that, in relation to the measures, the virus will circulate again with more force; it could be a third, fourth, or second wave. I think that's irrelevant. What's relevant is knowing that, in relation to the measures, if people stop wearing masks, maintain physical distance, and avoid crowds in public places.  Inevitably, if the virus remains closed, transmission will rise again. The important thing is to always remind people that they cannot stop maintaining these measures and observing these measures. We 're talking about the question we already had: initially, this virus mostly affected older people, and now young people are contracting it as well. This change in age range is due to the variants we're talking about. It 's a good question, actually. We have to separate what represents which age groups have the highest number of cases and which age groups have the highest number of severe cases and deaths in countries with good surveillance systems—that is, those that can detect almost all symptomatic cases because there is a lot of transmission, performing many tests, not just for confirmation. The vast majority of cases are in adults and young adults, and young people are the ones who circulate the most, who are most exposed. When we look at severe cases, hospitalizations, and deaths, these have been concentrated from the beginning of the pandemic in the elderly or adults with some condition.  Chronic diseases like hypertension, diabetes, cancer, and obesity have several conditions that can facilitate the onset of severe forms of the disease. And this hasn't changed; probably now, more attention is drawn to the fact that transmission is so intense. Cases of young people in their 30s and 40s, all intubated, draw people's attention, but the risk is a risk for everyone. Statistically, you ca n't apply it individually to yourself; that is, no young person knows if, for some unknown reason, they have a compromised immune system, and they will be one of those young people—a minority, but one who can also present a severe form and end up in the ICU. That's why it 's very important, both from a social point of view, protecting everyone, but also from an individual protection point of view, that we don't relax the measures that are capable of preventing transmission. And a question for Dr. Anísia: we are in Holy Week, Easter is approaching, how can we celebrate Holy Week and Easter safely, in the way we have discussed throughout our talks? We have to think that social ties at this moment will occur without physical proximity, without physical contact with people from the same family who live in the same place.  The same household can celebrate Easter together, but in no way can we encourage or promote larger family celebrations. All of this will be punctual. What we're talking about here isn't the need for these precautions; it's the care that actually reinforces our social bonds. Solidarity is the main social bond: care, self- care, and care for others. So, what to do in a way that doesn't involve the Jacobina Festival, actions in small family groups, and for those who are religious and consider Easter an important moment, to do it from their heart and especially through their practice in terms of self-care and care for the lives of others. And speaking empathetically, it's the message I also heard from Pope Francis. If you don't have it here now, tomorrow we'll talk precisely about self-care, care for others, care for others. How does our mental health fare in this time of pandemics, a pandemic that, as we said at the beginning, has already lasted for more than a year? How can we protect our mental health and the mental health of those around us? Hi Mariângela, I think you don't have your microphone on, that's the most used phrase of the last year. I can't hear you. No, but I think...  The question is whether these measures are truly important because budgetary problems have an enormous burden of disease worldwide, particularly depression and other associated pathologies. We are currently in a very difficult situation because, as I was saying, with social isolation, we are trying not to have a message of social isolation but rather a message of greater distance. These things are not equivalent. So, it must be observed from a scientific point of view, from statistics, that there is an increase in the frequency of problems related to depression. And during this difficult period in our lives, I hope it is the pandemic of our lives, at least in my life, but I wanted to emphasize here, more than ever, the importance of not isolating oneself socially, so that you can maintain the community networks that I use whenever possible, the use of social avenues, social relationships through the media, and all of this can help the support networks of people who are alone, the family network. At this moment, more than ever, it is important that people do not become isolated from a social point of view, and that even if you have a system of physical distancing, you also keep interpersonal relationships alive and the groups.  From friends and community members, it's only happening in Brazil, on a huge number of social media platforms, boosting support right now. To support people who are having difficulties related to mental health during this extended phase, it's also important because we're not going to get out of this, but it won't be anytime soon, right? So it 's super important that we pay attention to family and friends who may be having difficulties, feeling isolated and defined, and that we can bring people messages of hope and encourage discussion of the problems they are experiencing. We will also listen to the jobs, and in addition to the impact at a global level, as you're saying, Mariângela, it has affected each of us in a different way, and even though it's different from person to person, it has been a very difficult period for all of us, but it has also grown into a period of achievements and opportunities. So I know our time is running out, and to end this conversation, I wanted to ask each of you: What is the overall assessment we make of the opportunities, of the positive things that have helped me during this pandemic, starting with Dr. [Name]?  Anisia, and I can think that learning is nothing more than a positive outcome. I think a very important lesson is the need to strengthen the health system and social protection systems. Not everywhere in the world are there social inequalities. They reported the impact of a virus on our stomachs, and also on our families. This brought new inequalities to countries like Brazil, which has scientific capacity, technological capacity, and academia. It showed that we have to integrate this system of Science, Technology and Innovation into the unified health system, and this applies not only to Brazil but to other developing countries. It also applies to the great need to no longer have low income with great social inequality. I want to reinforce these lessons. We need to strengthen the health systems, the Million Faces system, social protection systems, and our capacity to respond to, unfortunately, new possible health emergencies. It also hopes, as Mariângela said, that living through this is another academy, nothing like it is a disaster. For scholars, it has been a wake-up call, and this will be possible if we think about post-pandemic society on more solidarity-based foundations, strengthening protection systems, supporting Science, Technology and Innovation, and also reinforcing the democratic approach to health issues.  Today, for me, the factors of contemporary society's health are what we can learn from, unfortunately, well, thank you, and lipstick on the jar, in your opinion, looking at how to install Dr. Aniz, it's the world, I can, pandemic, what we want to see, devices, what lessons we have learned from this, from the COVID-19 pandemic, but I believe that almost at a certain level, it's a hard learning experience, right, that we are doing, because the pandemic, in addition to the health impact, produces a terrible economic and social impact, but perhaps in Latin America we will lose a decade of progress in the fight against the virus. I believe this serves as a reflection on the need to have more resilient health systems, to have greater capacity in each country to detect and respond quickly, because other pandemics will come, but we don't know when, we do n't know what the virus will be, and we do n't know if it will be as severe as this one or less severe. But they will come because of nature, right, that these viruses that circulate among animals can jump a biological barrier and infect human beings. The capacity for detection in each country and response is limited, but the law has ended. We don't have, for example, any great funding today.  In the world, this isn't the case; we need to think that no country will be completely protected if not all are. And lastly, I believe this greatly reinforces the need to think about how to strengthen global coordination mechanisms. The mechanisms that the Ministry of Health created with other partners—how many partners like Kovacs, Philips, and others—because without a doubt, the isolated national solution has proven completely incapable of responding. Again, I believe that it's not just about understanding; it's not ethical or moral to reinforce inequality when one country might be vaccinating the entire population while others aren't even hesitating, not even the most vulnerable, but because of the characteristics of this virus. And we all get through this together, or there will always be the risk of resurgence. These are strong mechanisms, and global coordination also needs to be strengthened and thought about from a new perspective. And this is a crucial point. There's been a lot of talk about rebuilding better, and using global coordination mechanisms, you're talking about how we need to improve these mechanisms. Or, as Dr. Mariângela said, what can the international community do to report on these mechanisms? What are the next steps? And now...  Well, what do we do, right? I think first, let me say that I think one of the positive things we saw in this, when it wasn't the rapid advancement of science, if you have money, you have the will, you have the invitation, you have a collaborative spirit, we produced vaccines in less than a year, in a way that normally takes seven or ten years. Trying to do that, there's a positive side: international cooperation doesn't just happen out of absolute necessity. We saw this in this family, which we've already experienced in others, but this one specifically, everyone finds it much easier to communicate in Portuguese because in English these things are difficult. And the use of these mechanisms, which was already extremely important, is why the INSS (National Institute of Social Security) is currently discussing at the World Health Assembly the approval of a treaty, a convention for pandemic preparedness, which obligates countries to meet certain requirements and do certain things in a pandemic situation. This will be extremely useful, and we are encouraging discussions that are happening with the member countries participating in the World Health Assembly to establish, to prove everything will be alright, a treaty will be approved, like others we've had before, the tobacco convention, but I think everyone knows That tobacco has a mandatory law, that Brazil and other countries have to do a little bit, they have to put legislation in place for some restrictions or mandatory laws, so it's extremely important at this moment that the world, when trying a new selection process, because in the West, Messi will either have a new law or he won't, I just hope it won't be while I'm alive, but it will, right? And it's necessary that we are better prepared, one of the best things that can happen to us at this moment is to solidify this cooperation. International operation through the approval of a convention or treaty for preparation. Thank you, Mom, thank you very much, but our time is up. So I would like to thank our guests: Dr. Nisia Trindade de Lima, President of Fiocruz; Dr. Jarbas Barbosa, Deputy Director of PAHO in Boston and here in Geneva with me; Dr. Mariângela Simão, Deputy Director-General of the WHO; medicines and vaccines; and thank you very much to all of you who sent questions and comments through the social media platforms of the Pharmacy Pool here at the WHO in Geneva. Until next time!