People around the world face acute public health events. These are events caused by hazards such as infectious diseases, chemicals, and radioactive substances. When such events arise, the first and crucial step is a robust and transparent risk assessment. In a risk assessment, public health experts assign a risk level to an event and identify the best response actions. They empower decision-makers to use evidence-based control measures. So, how do public health experts assess risk? The level of risk for an acute public health event is assessed by examining the likelihood that the event will worsen the potential impact and the capacity to respond. Considering these three key elements, the level of risk is categorized using a scale from "low" to "very high". Let's watch a fictional scenario to see this in action. Welcome to Olyndria, an imaginary country. It's mid-september and the National Laboratory confirms two cases of Disease A, one in the city of Nemar and one in the city of Krila. Disease A is known to cause large outbreaks. Health workers are looking for people with similar symptoms to identify cases. Public health experts have started the risk assessments by looking for information about the disease, the epidemiological situation, and contextual factors in each city. Here is a summary of what they have found: Starting with disease information, Disease A is transmitted through close contact between people and from contaminated food and water. It spreads rapidly in crowded places with poor water and sanitation. Most cases are mild, but malnutrition and no access to proper treatment put some people at risk of dying. Regarding the epidemiological situation, six additional cases have been identified in the city of Nemar, three live in the household of the initial case and have had direct contact with the case, while three never met the initial case and live in different neighbourhoods, indicating unknown chains of transmission. Down South, in Krila, only one additional case is identified from the same household as the initial case, indicating limited spread. For the contextual factors, there is malnutrition and poor water and sanitation in Nemar. The city is overcrowded and has only one overcrowded hospital with no waiting times. However, outbreaks of Disease A are common in Nemar. In previous outbreaks, temporary treatment centres have been created to manage cases. Krila has good living conditions, no malnutrition and good water and sanitation. It has several well-functioning hospitals. However, there has been no outbreak of Disease A in Krila in the last 20 years, so health workers have very little experience with the disease. Knowledge about the disease, the epidemiological situation, and context allows public health experts to assess the likelihood of the event worsening, its potential impact, and the response capacities. Using this information, they can determine the risk level of the event Let's compare the level of risk in the two affected cities. Nemar is at high risk from this event for the following reasons. The situation will likely worsen since the risk factors for spread at present and there are cases in different neighbourhoods. Due to malnutrition, more people may fall severely ill. The hospital may be overwhelmed, which can affect treating patients with Disease A and people with other illnesses. However, health workers have experienced managing Disease A and temporary treatment centres can be set up to improve access to treatment. Krilla is currently at low risk from this event. It has good water and sanitation infrastructure, no malnutrition and sufficient healthcare facilities. The disease has spread only within a single household so far. However, due to the lack of recent experience with Disease A, disease awareness and case management knowledge are low. Based on the risk assessment, the health authority for the country of Olyndria focused resources on the high-risk city of Nemar to support identifying and isolating cases, improving water and sanitation conditions and increasing case management capacities. In Krila, which is at lower risk but had low awareness of the disease, authorities help the public and health workers learn about Disease A and its case management to prepare them for further cases. This example highlights the importance of assessing risk during public health events to improve response. In reality, risk assessments are complex processes, often requiring multidisciplinary teams to gather and interpret available information. The World Health Organization provides guidance on risk assessment to countries. When countries have strong risk assessment capacities, they can respond more quickly and effectively to acute public health events, keeping people healthier and saving lives.