Today, more than 300 million people are international migrants. By the end of 2024, over 123 million people had been forcibly displaced. That's more than the entire population of Japan. More people are on the move now than ever before. Yet, migrants and displaced populations often experience poorer health outcomes than host communities. Migration and displacement shape our health and especially our mental health. Refugees and migrants are more likely to experience depression, PTSD, and suicidal thoughts. I know this personally when I was forced to seek sanctuary in the UK from Lebanon. I felt disconnected. I was a little lonely and afraid. It didn't take long before I experienced a mental health crisis. I was so far removed from my home, from the streets I knew, the language I spoke and the people I loved and who loved me. The distance between me and my parents, between me and everything familiar was overwhelming. I sank into the murky depths of a depressive illness too dreadful to describe. Picture the journey before migration, war, poverty, conflict, persecution. During migration, unsafe travel, detention, violence, human rights violations after arrival, language barriers, racism, discrimination, isolation. Each of these can be challenging. Together, they can be unbearable. Let's be clear, not all migration is forced. Many move for work, for education, for opportunity. And when migration is safe, dignified, and supported, it benefits not only migrants, but the host communities they enrich. Still, most don't get the care they need. Not because they don't want it, but because our systems are not built for them. Here's what the World Health Organization is calling for. Mental health access in every health system. safe, culturally aligned care, legal protections, and safe housing, and truly inclusive communities. So, let's do better. Let's make people feel included, supported, and valued, especially those who are forcibly displaced or seeking sanctuary. Mental health care is a human right, not a privilege, for everyone, everywhere, at all times. Protect your minds and protect your hearts.