Hello and welcome to transformation stories uh a series of videos where I talk to colleagues uh inside and outside of WHO about what we do in the World Health Organization and how we try to transform from the way we work. And today here in the studio in Geneva, I'm joined by a very good colleague, Kate O'Brien, who's the director of immunization, vaccines, and biologicals. And and welcome, Kate, and thank you for joining me in the studio. Thanks so much for having me. Really a pleasure. First, a little bit about yourself. originally Canadian by background. You did your MDs at at McGills in in Montreal, but then you moved to Baltimore and the Hopkins Institution for your post-graduate work and in in pediatrics and and vaccinereventable diseases. You did a lot of field work and research and I I believe you had a 30-year career with the Hopkins Institutions, etc., and academia and clinical work before joining WHO. Yeah, that's all right. Um, and I also worked at the US Centers for Disease Control as a as a shoe leather epidemiologist. Um, a disease detective. Shoe leather epidemiologist. That's like field work right on the ground. Yeah. But there there seems to be throughout your your career a focus on vaccinereventable diseases and and studies in that numocco rs roa viruses in the pediatric field. You have a background in pediatrics as well. Is is that a fair summary of your impressive career? Thanks for that. Um yeah, fair summary. Um I I have worked actually on vaccines that are across the life course. So vaccines of course aren't only for infants and children. Um we have vaccines for prevention of really important diseases, adolescents, adults uh and the elderly as well. So I've actually worked across the whole of the life course. Oh, very good. And then you of course you worked with who also before becoming a staff member. you served on on Sage which is our advisory group of experts in vaccines that we've been having for many decades actually I think you served for a number of years before you joined in I believe 2019 was it as as in your current position as director yeah so that's about you we have to talk to about vaccines here it's a topic very dear to you and also to me and and like anybody else working in public health so going back a little bit more than 50 years. 1974, WH takes the initiative of establishing the EPI, the expanded program of immunization. The background being we had the success story of of smallpox eradication which was at the height of that during that time, but also more vaccines coming in that could be introduced in the childhood immunization program. So basically who establishing a standard program of immunization with more and more vaccines eventually that would then be employed in for basically every child in every country everywhere. That was a beautiful vision of the EPI 50 years 51 year later where are we? So that's a great summary of the EPI program and um I think the really important part about that founding of the essential program on immunization, it's kind of how we refer to it now um is that in the success of the smallox program, countries around the world really recognized and realized the power that vaccines have. I think it's I think it's generally understood that vaccines are one of the biggest scientific achievements of uh of our era. Um and uh sort of just a a a profound impactful um intervention to preserve health uh protect life um and assure well-being of of you know people in in every community, every family, every country. And so these countries, ministers of health, um, recognizing that smallox was on the brink of being eradicated, understanding the power of vaccines, but many many countries had no vaccine program for their children. Yeah. And so it was really that recognition, the success of smallox in the face of having other life-saving vaccines that weren't actually being used in many countries around the world. And so they got together and they asked WHO to establish this program the what was called at that time the expanded program on immunization and at that time only about 5% of children around the world were vaccinated with the basic core vaccines that were life- saving that are life saving vac like you were saying I mean we had the success story of the small pox which is a huge success story we saved billions of of lives with eradicating small pox That's a huge success story also in the history of WHO. Before that we had attempted to eradicate malaria. That didn't go so well. So then small pox was a success story. And then of course again in the 1970s more vaccines were emerging. Polio had come and and of course is now what we're trying to eradicate but also uh a couple of others. I mean TB vaccine was introduced uh and also tetanus and and and patusis was was introduced around that time and then measles we need to talk about the measles vaccines that that had developed in the 60s and 70s but not quite introduced yet I'm guessing we are more or less the same age Kate and I had measles I didn't get the vaccines but I remember my mother telling me that I had had the measles and and and people don't realize today probably how dangerous measles is, how we had these huge measles outbreaks. So, this is such an important point because you know in 1974 there were about seven diseases um that were vaccinereventable um and as as you said uh there are incredibly deadly diseases that were just not being protected against. Um if we sort of dial fast forward to today, there are 13 diseases that are part of the routine immunization program in practically every country around the world. So a huge expansion of what can we protect against and these are all deadly diseases. We don't vaccinate against things that you know don't have. Exactly. We got HPV which is causes cancer in young women etc. I mean major diseases that are now preventable due to vaccines. Right. Yeah. And the really important part you you raised measles. So measles is one of the most infectious diseases and and and one of the most deadly as well. Over these past 50 years, um what we've been able to work out is that over 154 million lives have been saved. It's kind of hard to get your head around that number. That just seems it's it's too big a number to really understand. The way I think about it is um we don't actually know who those people are that are in our families that are in our communities that are in our work circles that wouldn't be here today were it not for the vaccines that have been used around the world and we need to remind ourselves of that. I mean again taking measles as a case because I remember that very well because my mother was a pediatrician and she worked for more than 40 years as a pediatrician and she re recalled that experience of being in the pediatric wards when they had the measelless outbreaks and they were full of sick kids dying even if they survived they might sometimes have neurological sequel from the measles I mean so huge respect for we are able to which is a very contagious disease some people don't realize that and today's world, right? Well, that's very true. people um in countries where measles vaccine has been widely used and at high coverage um the vast majority of people have never seen a case of measles in their community um many doctors have not seen a case of measles and the whole reason why they haven't seen a case of measles is because we have been vaccinating right but I want to I really want to point out that in many parts of the world you talked about wards full of children who are suffering from measles and a substantial number of them will not survive their illness. That still happens in countries around the world. There are big measles outbreaks that happen and I um you know have the privilege of of visiting lots of different countries. I absolutely have been in hospitals in in the past 5 years, 10 years where you walk into a ward, an isolation ward that is full of children who have uh measles and are suffering from the consequences of it and a substantial number of them do not survive uh that. So we forget heartbreaking when we know it can be prevented, right? Well, we forget how sick and how dead measles can make you. Yeah. The immunization and vaccine and biologicals field is also a very scientifically active field with a number of breakthroughs. I mean Nobel prizes have been awarded to many different technologies. I mean just mentioning a couple of ones that I can recall. I mean the introduction in the 1990s and early zeros of uh the VP technology vaccine like particle which basically enabled us to have the vaccine against HP HPV which causes cvical cancer in young women that was a huge breakthrough one of the biggest in my professional career I have a background in gynecology obstetrics and I worked for 20 years in that so I have seen young women dying from cervical cancer dying in pain and I've seen kids losing their mothers from that disease. So when we got that vaccine and I saw the first studies and and what that technology could do and eventually led to Nobel prizes and then a second experience in my professional life was leading the covid-19 response in my country and then when we got the messenger RNA vaccines. So what have been the highlights for you? What breakthroughs in in your career? Well those are certainly two highlights but I I kind of want to add to that as well. um for me. So, first I'm a mother um and a pediatrician and an infectious disease specialist. When I was going through my training in pediatrics, so in the late 1980s um and in the early um 1990s, we had recently had the technological breakthrough for bacterial vaccines called conjugate vaccines. And little babies do not respond really well to bacterial vaccines. Their immune system is just too immature to do it. And there was this scientific technological breakthrough where we could um we could encourage the immune system of infants to respond to those bacterial you know risks diseases like pneumocus oritis for instance menitis pneumonia um and there are a number of bacteria hib as a bacteria numacus maninga that cause those diseases. um by connecting those bacteria to a a you know essentially a sugar particle which the immune system of young babies does respond to the we we induce the immune system to respond earlier. And what was really interesting for me in my career is that you know training in inner city Baltimore at the beginning of my training absolutely every week we would have a a child on the ward that we were treating who was coming in with menitis. And by the end of my infectious disease fellowship, it basically was never seen. Now, I worked in Haiti. Um I went right from my residency to working in Haiti. And it was um the hospital ward that I was working on um was just full of children who had what I knew were vaccinereventable diseases. And about 30% of kids on that ward died. Um it's really tough to watch day in and day out the grief of parents of losing their kids. Yeah. Um and all it takes is one experience like that. But as pediatricians of course um you know we we see that um all too often and uh so this for me was like the transformative moment of I wanted to um not just try to save lives one at a time but I wanted to work on things that would save lives millions at a time. That makes sense. So we have the vaccines which are wonderful. We have a lot of science and technology which is is is perfect and and and we're talking about the successes here but what we still don't have in this field is access. So even though we have the vaccines they're not all the time made accessible to the people who need them for many different reasons. It has to do with health system delivery vaccine uh hesitancy but it also has to do with funding and and commercial interests. Yeah. So to address that going way back vaccine funding mechanisms have been created even back in the '9s but most significantly gave the vaccine alliance I think was created 25 years ago and then in recent years we we saw the Kovac initiative during the pandemic and and the SEPY initiative and and etc. Can you speak a little bit to what what are these mechanisms addressing? What have been the successes of that? Yeah, each of these is trying to address a problem that um is a real problem. So again, before these mechanisms existed, I want to point to hepatitis B vaccine and hip vaccine, which are life-saving vaccines. And yet, it was taking 10 to 15 years. Yeah. Before these vaccines were available in countries that most needed them. Yeah. In fact, vaccine access um is about whether you can pay. And that's not uh that's not really the the the the attribute that should be um determining who gets access to life-saving products. It should be about where the need is greatest in order to save the most lives. So, you're absolutely right. in in the year 2000, the Gabby, the vaccine alliance, which was founded by WHO and UNICEF and the World Bank and the Gates Foundation um came together as a coalition to say an alliance really and to say, you know, there's got to be a better way of doing this. There's got to be a better way of bringing funds together that could um create an ability to purchase vaccines that can be um supporting countries that otherwise would not introduce these vaccines because they're just far too expensive and essentially rapidly bring the market forward so that we can guarantee supply in large volumes with long duration. And countries pay country pay a co-ay for the vaccines that they introduce. They're not given for free because countries really are the deciders about what they made completely affordable and it's really shaping the market so that vaccine manufacturers know they have a market. There is going to be um a market addressing some of the market failures because it if it was purely on commercial basis and and then it would not be possible to balance that without funding. Yes. Part of the alliance are the manufacturers. So this is all um in you know pulling together all the different actors the UN agencies the funding mechanisms the manufacturers the countries to create this environment where vaccines can be delivered um more quickly uh and save more lives and what what role does play in in these alliances and these partnerships. So every one of the actors has a really critical role and a unique role and the role that plays is a number of different roles. First and foremost um as the UN agency that is um is leading on health um we have some very specific roles to play and this whole ecosystem doesn't work unless unless we're playing those roles and playing them really well. So the first one is developing strategies. So what would be the vaccines that countries um should be aiming for? We have policies that go with those strategies. So we look at all of the evidence around new vaccines. We pulled together as you mentioned in the introduction an external group of experts to look at the evidence in its complete form on safety on efficacy of vaccines and on um their performance um you know uh how much disease they're actually going to prevent. So that's who's role is to set policy recommendations for which vaccines are the ones that are really ready for prime time for introduction into countries. We also have big responsibilities to help countries. So countries one at a time need to make their own decisions about which of these vaccines that are on offer they're actually going to use in their program. And so we give support to those countries so that not every country needs to um pull together the evidence all over again. And then the third thing that we do is we put out um basically instruction manuals. Um how would you introduce this vaccine? What do you need to consider? How would you estimate the number of doses that you need? What's the best way to train your health care workers to deliver the vaccine itself? What do we need to communicate with families and with communities also so they know what we're um bringing on offer? Setting the norms and standards uh for the vaccines that should be used and used for whom that then in the partnerships and the alliances can then be the basis of whatever is funded and then introduced in in the countries. There's one more thing that's really important which is there isn't any vaccine program that isn't deeply grounded on two pieces of data. One is well how well is the program working? Who are we missing? We may know who we're vaccinating but we don't know who is being missed. So the data part is extremely important for a vaccine program so that it can keep getting better. We call that program strengthening. Of course. Yeah. We want to make sure countries want to make sure that they're vaccinating everybody who needs the vaccines. And so that data part is really important and it should be data that's in the hands of the health workers so they know in my area who am I missing. And then the second thing is that of course all of this is about preventing disease. Yeah. And unless we're doing surveillance for disease, we don't know the degree to which the program is actually doing the thing that we want it to do. So disease surveillance and then program monitoring and then of course also the technology. I mean who also assesses the technology the various vaccines. I mean one good example is the responding to the emp outbreak in African and then there are two different commercially available vaccines and then the countries and the and the funders are actually dependent on who to then regulate and and uh and recommend the vaccines. So we want to make sure that vaccines that are available to countries around the world are at the very highest quality. You know, I think everybody kind of gets this, but it's worth saying that the importance of the safety assessments on vaccines is at an incredibly high standard. And the reason for that is that we give therapeutics, we give medications to people when they have a disease already. We give vaccines to people to prevent them from getting a disease. Healthy people and often people so so very high safety threshold safety standard is incredibly high. Yeah. Um and and what WHO does is we're not a regulator ourselves. But what we do do is we go through a review of all of the evidence that has been provided to regulators and we give it our assessment and our stamp of approval looking at the clinical studies and then demanding that. Of course. Yeah. No, that's for sure. So everything is not perfect still. I'll just let's just have a photo up. We'll have a slide here which is looking at one of the key indicators in this field. Uh we call it zero dose children. uh but that's basically usually that's children who during their first year of life do not receive the essential vaccines and usually it's counted as have you received the first DTP vaccine that's for dterior tetanus and and pusis and and and we look at this jointly with UNICEF and Garvey and others and and we have a clear target for 2030 it's shown here on the slide we are not on target we have actually seen a very worrying uh backslide uh because of the pandemic in zero do kids. I mean it's like roughly 15 million kids annually a year. That's very depressing. Kate, we just talked about the huge potential here. We have the vaccines. I mean this is an easily available vaccine. We're talking about these basic childhood vaccines. So So where does where does this chain break delivery of vaccines to kids? You know, the pandemic really showed us that um as much as we've been making progress that um there's no guarantee that we don't backslide, right? So making progress doesn't mean that you can't um do worse in the next year. Um so we are deeply offtarget for what all the countries around the world agreed we should be aiming for by 2030. Um as you said these are called zero dose children. It's not that the children I just want to clarify these are kids who have received zero doses of the core vaccines in that first year of life and we we do use this terminology. Um the reason that we're off track on this is there there are a number of reasons but I can kind of boil it down to just a few. Mhm. Um first of all, country governments are ultimately responsible for deploying the vaccine programs of uh you know to to um uh protect uh their children, their adolescence and their adults from vaccinereventable diseases and of course every country in the world um was really suffering through co and those uh programs really took a hit. So that's why we see that big upswing during the covid time. what many countries have been able to recover from that. They've been able to go back to the performance of the program um that they were operating at before co but there are others that have had a really difficult time getting back and the reason is that we have in some countries there is an increased number of kids who are in the country so they actually have to do more just to stay level set so increasing numbers of births. The second reason is we do know that these zero dose children they're not just randomly distributed in countries. They're they're in quite special communities vulnerable. So they're in urban settings that are poor urban settings. They're in rural areas where it's hard to get to them. They're also in conflict settings. And we know that there have been an increasing number of conflicts and humanitarian settings. We also do see an increase in misinformation and disinformation around vaccines and there are more and more people who are being influenced by that incorrect false information and it is to some degree creating um part of the problem. Now that's not the major part of the problem. The major part of the problem is are there enough resources to actually deliver vaccines to everybody everywhere who needs them? basically the breakdown of health services and delivery and and especially in conflict. We saw that for instance with the devastating humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza and then certainly an outbreak of polio because uh vaccine rates were were dropping and we see it in in many other cases in subsaharan Africa etc. So currently we are in a crisis I think it's fair to say of global health uh also in WHO withdrawal of funding not only from the US but also others and a withdrawal of support. So we are facing a huge crisis in in global health. We see the country consequences in the countries with many health programs. But it's more than that. It's also a challenge to the values the principles that we stand on even science like we discussed here vaccines vaccine skepticism. How do you see that challenging what the work you are doing in vaccines this current crisis? Well, you know, I talked to a lot of people uh in the vaccine world and um I think it's fair to say that most people find it surreal that we are in 2025 um having some of the conversations that are uh that we have to be having. Um we have an incredible track record of safe, effective, impactful vaccines that have they're one of the most the greatest returns on investment from an economic perspective. For every dollar spent on vaccines and a program, there's somewhere between 20 and $54 um recouped in in benefit. We need to tell that story better. Well, I think one of the problems is that vaccines are a little bit of a victim of their own success. That in settings in the world where the broad use of vaccines has driven down the frequency the how common vaccine preventable diseases are, somehow people have uh sort of lost the plot a little bit. That the only reason that that's true today is because of the program's success of the past. And if we take our foot off the pedal now, they will come roaring back. There's no question about that. These are infectious diseases. They don't understand that there's a border or a passport that you need to move. People are, you know, moving measles. We talked about polio. We received with other diseases. Yeah. Yeah. So that's one of the that's I I think this I this word surreal is what I I really what I hear a lot of people talking about. I think the second thing is that um there's huge concern um about as I mentioned before about vaccine revisionism about um false information that's put out there that very well-meaning parents um um adults who are themselves uh trying to find out about uh being vaccinated and there's somehow this uh belief um among some people that there's a problem with the vaccines and I just want to point out a Couple of things. Um, you know, we have really fantastic uh preventive strategies. Airbags in cars is a great preventive strategy. Um, not the the use of airbags sometimes does harm people. Some people who are in a crash, the airbag itself is doing harm to them. So, I think we also have to as a we have to be more literate as a just a general community around risks and benefits and when rare things happen. um for something that is a preventive uh a preventive intervention. Um we do acknowledge that um there is no vaccine that is one could say that is 100% that there's not a single side effect that it has. This is actually about the tradeoff between the disease, the severity of the disease, the risk of the disease and the incredible benefit that the vaccine has. Recognizing that there for everything we do, we get in a car, we take a walk out in the street, there is some risk we take of some harm will come to us. And I guess that's a very important role for WHO and all public health authorities around the world in supporting that choice for parents and and people who accept the vaccines in as who one of our most important roles is we will always hue to the evidence. We will always focus on what the evidence says. And of course it's not a straightforward assessment always about the entirety of the evidence. That's why we have expert committees who come from around the world um sharing different views uh of their read of the evidence and and what would be the best policies. Science is our universal language. Science is at the heart of what we do. People are also saying that it's a broad broader challenge to multilateralism that we are seeing in currently and and and are concerned about that. Do you share that concern? Do you see a future for multilateralism? Well, I do think I I think it goes without saying that um this isn't about health and multilateralism. I think we are seeing this as a an enormous social and political shift and health is one part of it. The area that I work in is in infectious diseases. Infectious diseases are by their very nature concern multilateralism. We cannot address them one country at a time. It's not possible. Um there's an essential component of multilateralism. Um just as we saw with smallpox, just as we see with the effort to eradicate polio and as we see also to eliminate measles, to address empas are infectious. It means they move from one person to the next. We have to we have to work together. It's not a choice. Yeah. Um it's an imperative. So I do absolutely see a future for multilateralism. The question is how effective is it going to be? And are we going to be in a sicker and more deadly world? And I think that's the that's the question that we have to address. Thank you very much, Kate, for for joining me here in the studio. And thank you very much uh for watching uh this episode of uh transforming WH. Do stay tuned on this c channel for upcoming episodes and thank you for watching.