Dear Mr. Director General Zetros, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, we are experiencing a global crisis. As of today, almost five million people worldwide have been infected with the coronavirus, and there have been 300,000 deaths worldwide. Furthermore, closed borders and severe disruptions to economic and daily life demonstrate that hardly any country has been spared the pandemic and its consequences. No country can solve this crisis alone; we must act together. Therefore, I thank all of you who are participating in the World Health Assembly to jointly seek solutions. It can help us that the Ebola epidemic in West Africa in 2014 led to the necessary reforms of the World Health Organization. The G7 and G20 countries have also made health a priority, and at the UN General Assembly last year, we adopted the Global Action Plan for Healthy Lives and Well-being for all. Nevertheless, the coronavirus pandemic demonstrates once again, particularly emphatically, that we worldwide must do even more for better early warning mechanisms and Preventive measures for more research cooperation for stronger health systems: The World Health Organization is the legitimate global institution where all the threads come together. Because of this, we must constantly review how we can further improve processes at WHU. This also includes ensuring a sustainable financing system. Most urgently, however, is containing the coronavirus pandemic. This requires suitable diagnostics and therapeutics worldwide. Furthermore, a vaccine must be developed, which of course must be accessible and affordable for everyone. Last but not least, we must jointly mitigate the diverse economic and social consequences of the pandemic. How we deal with this challenge will shape our national societies as well as the international community. I am convinced that we will overcome the coronavirus pandemic; the more we work together globally, the faster and better we will succeed. I encourage everyone to participate and I thank all those who contribute to the global common good.