 subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected to subjected assistive products like walking aids, spectacles, and hearing aids. That's why WHO created Learning on TAP, available on the WHO Academy learning platform. TAP uses a blended learning approach with online modules that can be combined with hands-on practice with the support of local mentors in each topic. One health worker in Syria shared, TAP is simple and easy to understand. It enhances my knowledge and skills, enabling me to provide better care and support to improve the lives of those we serve. TAP offers modular courses for primary and community personnel on topics such as vision and hearing screening for school-aged children, assistive technology, and eye care. Learners gain practical knowledge on how to identify, prevent, and manage eye and ear health problems, and how to provide essential assistive products that improve lives. All TAP courses are free and accessible to all. Using clear, simple language, each module includes interactive activities, videos, and printable resources available in a range of languages. Already accessed by health workers in over 160 countries, TAP is supporting frontline workers to gain the knowledge and skills they need to deliver health for all. Register today.