In Oram, the epicenter of the epidemic, the number of infected people doubled every four days. Half a million confirmed cases of COVID-19. In the last 19 hours, 1,270 deaths were confirmed. The number of deaths in Brazil is the highest in Latin America, surpassing China, the birthplace of the pandemic. For healthcare professionals, it was very difficult because in the first few days we didn't have enough milk, it was overcrowded, we didn't have field hospitals ready, and those that were ready didn't have staff. And then I saw a patient die in agony in front of us, and I knew that if we had effective and quality healthcare, that person could be alive. And that's the reality we experienced every day. There were shifts where I worked 12-hour nights without a 30- minute rest. The nursing technicians were also overloaded because they were also reduced in staff, and when I got home I couldn't rest either because the adrenaline from the entire shift was so high that we couldn't get home and rest our bodies. Our minds were reliving certain scenes. I went to sleep in a separate room from my husband. I couldn't put my children to sleep. I couldn't come home and hug my children. I would leave.  I was running because they were running to hug me, so I ran straight to the bathroom so they wouldn't get near me. At first, I was scared. I thought, " Wow, I'm going to be in a health unit for 60 hours!" Then I thought, "Wow, and I live with my mother and all that!" But then I remembered, "I'm a healthcare professional. I trained for this, you know? They're going to need me, and I need to be there." I've treated many healthcare professionals, my colleagues, and it's very delicate for us to treat healthcare professionals because they understand what's happening. My colleague even sent a message to our nursing group saying she was at home to die this morning. I went on a pilgrimage to several hospitals and couldn't get admitted to any of them, and now I'm at home just waiting for death to come. I'm in this agony because when they wait for the symptoms to appear, we no longer have the resistance to leave. I wasn't expecting the little party that Vanessa prepared, so everyone applauded me, and I could see and feel the affection of all the colleagues who gathered there.  There, on that way out, they wished me a speedy recovery, giving me more encouragement and strength to better overcome those difficult moments. Nursing in Brazil was already experiencing significant physical and mental strain. We were already registering very high rates of depression, suicide, and other types of mental suffering among Brazilian nursing professionals. With the pandemic, this strain increased considerably every day because of the invitation to wear a mask. Every time I see a woman like that, I see a little of myself in her and a lot of her in me, and I wonder what that care would be like. I wish there was a professional who would offer help—a nurse, an assistant, a doctor. What we can do here in basic care, in primary care, is something that will have a much greater impact later on, in secondary, tertiary, and ICU care. Those who use public transport don't have this issue of social isolation. Especially those of us in healthcare who need to travel from one hospital to another, and we haven't received any support in this regard. There isn't, for example, transport just for professionals or a safer means of transport; we have to take risks.  And we see that inside the bus I'm wearing a mask, but other people who are very close to me aren't wearing masks, which makes me sad because we have such a necessary category in healthcare, valued by everyone. It's very contradictory; we should have our appreciation, our respect, our recognition, and we don't. We set up field hospitals. We see what the country's priority is at the moment; if it's really health, then other issues... we have to come out better than we went in, and to come out better than we went in, we need the humility to evaluate what we did right and what we did wrong. And it 's not wrong in the sense of blame; the question should actually be what we need to improve. There are difficulties in approving two projects that I consider among the most important: the regulation of working hours, which has a national salary weight. It's exactly this very heavy lobbying that the private sector in the healthcare area, the philanthropic sector as well, and a good part of the mayors have been exercising within the national congress so that these projects don't advance. Just so you have an idea, the oldest project is the regulation of working hours for nursing professionals from the year... 2000, this is the moment for us to show and come with everything and say, "Hey, this is my scenario, you understand? It's critical, it's a pandemic. Nursing is prepared to deal with this. Let's go!" And leading the team, teaching, assisting, managing, we are everywhere. Nursing is omnipresent; all care involves love, responsibility, and study as well. When I passed the nursing entrance exam, it was my father's pride; he always made a point of saying, "Ah, my daughter!"