Hello everyone, it's incredible, we're here outside in the World Health Organization parking lot, and smoking is completely prohibited. But more and more in the world, we're finding smoke-free spaces both indoors and outdoors. We know why tobacco is so bad for the health of smokers and non-smokers exposed to secondhand smoke. But even for informed smokers, quitting can be very difficult. I spoke with an expert who explained the three major challenges that smokers face. What about discounts and abolished [illegible] to learn to function eight other nicotine high school joss but the process victim girl anne castot anicroche ok that was the first challenge, nicotine addiction. The second major challenge concerns habits, daily behaviors associated with smoking, for example, taking a coffee break with a cigarette, talking on the phone or going out with friends. Now let's listen to the third major challenge, noble and dignified as in the companies wyeth process visioguide major gesture with kendy pretty symbol of tenchu McQueen challenge in gray pieces that will challenge, could modify this salad, me proud of creating Nitoo Ben Brick by Sap, leave sauce, so when someone has decided to quit smoking, what are the first steps? First, after consulting a doctor, you can start by setting a date, for example, a birthday. It's also important to inform those around you who can provide support. You have to anticipate the effects of withdrawal, plan activities, see a guy, eat something, go out, do sports when you have cravings, and finally, you have to remove everything that reminds you of tobacco and lighters, ashtrays, and cigarette packs. Let's listen to other advice from Donghu Dior, who is at the service of Aline Sagesse Washington. The fund would have had Miss France landing at the top of the British Biscan action against the peaks. Users, normal, there was a sense and that they do n't control at all, irritated activities and so close, LinkedIn today, as imagined except smooth seals, criticized, expresses at the King Tune, which puts your mother process, Chouyoukh Sachs was going to stop the  Quitting smoking is difficult, but it's not impossible. The benefits for your health, your loved ones, your relationships, and even your finances are beyond what you can imagine. So, good luck! We're here to listen, and you'll succeed.