A challenge, the biggest the Ministry of Health has faced so far, with the efforts of the population, the efforts of health professionals, and the support of organizations like the WHO and the UPS, El Salvador now has very favorable results in managing pandemics, and we continue implementing the necessary strategies, one of which is nationwide vaccination. For that, we have to take extreme measures; some will call them exaggerated, but these measures cannot be just personal care or the allocation of financial resources. The only way to massively contain this virus is with mobility restrictions. To contain the virus, let's say, several pillars are important for the care of cases once there are active cases, once there are people who are infected. We need to care for them and have all the supplies so that this care is of high quality. Another key element was the construction of the El Salvador Hospital, the national reference center, with specialized equipment and a monitoring room, which have truly provided an important response to the country for the care of critical cases, right, Kobe? [ Music] It's very hard to go from  From being nurses and caregivers to being patients, the day I had to return to the hospital, I was afraid because we can't say it's over, but at no point did I hesitate to put on my protective gear again, to work on the front lines in a hospital, a commitment, a commitment to the country. We always carry out public health screenings, and within that framework, we also designate mobile units which travel every day to different areas of our country. Locally, it is still important to control who is sick in the communities, in the municipalities, to identify them promptly and their contacts, even the isolation, right, within the home. [Music] They retrained the health professionals about what the disease was, what the different processes for vaccination would be, what the strategy would be to bring these vaccines to the entire population. The vaccine is a very important measure because, let's say, it has proven to be an effective strategy. It is a strategy that allows us to protect the population massively, which does not replace the partial use of biosecurity while we have active cases. We know it won't be the same as before because we have all learned a lot, but we see  A hope that we can go out again and not have that fear of being able to hug a family member. I believe that from such a significant evil as the COVID-19 pandemic, El Salvador has been able to gain something, and that benefit is the transformation of its health system.