The decision to increase the assess contributions that was created by the sustainable financing working group is historic. Back when we started this process, one of the key drivers for this process was to make who less vulnerable. Basically, if one of the key donors drops out, withdraws, is unable to pay their assessments anymore, what happens to what happens to global health? What happens to the people who depend on the ground on who's work? The idea was to broaden the donor base where everybody contributes on an equal footing. We all agreed on a huge step in increasing the assess contributions for all of us all together. So this is not one donor paying more but it is us all paying more. So we all set the priorities. We all pay based on our ability to pay. We make who less vulnerable for the next crisis to happen. And we are currently seeing a huge crisis. One of the key donors decided to withdraw. that is the donor that provided roughly 20% of the resources that WHO has. But who is wellprepared through the steps that we've taken. So a 20% increase which really makes this organization financially more healthy than ever before was already two years ago a major achievement. And during this assembly we uh agreed and approved the second step. So again a 20% increase and I think it makes less vulnerable. It's exactly the trend that we try to achieve through the transformation agenda and it shows the strong commitment of the member states that we really want the strong WHO despite the financial crisis that many experienced back home. WHO is undergoing a huge transformation process and so will the broader global health architecture to refocus on its core mandate, refocus on its comparative advantage. We are working as one as the global community in addressing these challenges because obviously we are all dependent on one another. We're doing this in a very very transparent manner taking all member states on board. We are working together to make impact happen on the ground to make the people more healthy.