COVID-19 is one of the greatest threats to people's lives and livelihoods worldwide. In response, the development of effective vaccines against COVID-19 has been a remarkable achievement. Vaccines have slowed the spread of the disease, saved lives, and created the conditions necessary for recovery. However, many countries lack access to vaccines, or the number of doses is insufficient to vaccinate those who need it most. To protect everyone against the virus and all its variants, wherever they live, more vaccines are needed. For this reason, the World Health Organization has launched the Vaccine Solidarity Trial. What is the Vaccine Solidarity Trial? The Vaccine Solidarity Trial is a global clinical trial evaluating promising new vaccines against COVID-19. It will be conducted in countries with high rates of the disease. The vaccines currently being tested have been selected based on the most recent data on their safety and potential to work effectively, their ease of storage and transport, their rapid production for global distribution, and their ease of administration.  The Solidarity Vaccine Trial is extremely flexible. Vaccines that are not effective can be removed, and new ones that meet the inclusion criteria can be added. The trial is conducted in hospitals, community centers, and mobile temporary centers to reach the most isolated communities. The results will be released quickly. The trial's conclusions will be robust, reliable, and universal thanks to a standardized research methodology being applied worldwide. It will likely involve hundreds of thousands of citizens worldwide. Each participant in the trial will make a difference in the global effort to find more safe and effective vaccines against COVID-19. To participate, people aged 16 and over who live in an area with high rates of COVID-19, who have not previously been diagnosed with COVID-19, and who have not been vaccinated against COVID- 19 are eligible. Once they have given their consent, participants will receive one of the study vaccines or a reference substance. A placebo, a harmless substance such as water, or a licensed vaccine may be used to measure the effectiveness of the study vaccine.  The results will be monitored for all participants for at least one year. Participation in the clinical trial is entirely voluntary. People can decide whether or not to participate after receiving information and speaking with the researchers. Who is running the trial? The World Health Organization (WHO) together with national ministries of health. WHO is coordinating and monitoring the clinical trial. Independent experts will ensure the highest possible scientific and ethical standards. Governments, national regulatory bodies, and ethics committees will review and approve the clinical trial in each country. A principal investigator leads a local team that will conduct the clinical trial. The teams will work in close collaboration with scientists, public health professionals, community leaders, and local communities. We need more affordable and readily available COVID-19 vaccines so that everyone is protected everywhere in the world. The Vaccine Solidarity Trial will help us achieve this goal sooner. COVID-19 vaccines: access for all. For more information, see Solidarity Trial Vaccines.