COVID-19 is one of the greatest threats to the lives and livelihoods of populations worldwide. In response, the development of an effective COVID-19 vaccine has been a remarkable success. Vaccines have slowed the spread of the disease, saved lives, and paved the way for a cure. However, many countries lack access to vaccines and have insufficient doses to vaccinate those who need them most. To protect everyone, wherever they live, against the virus and all its variants, more vaccines are needed. This is why the World Health Organization launched the COVID-19 Solidarity Vaccine Trial. What is the COVID-19 Solidarity Vaccine Trial? It is a global clinical trial designed to evaluate new vaccines. Sponsored by the World Health Organization, it will be conducted in countries with high rates of the disease. The vaccines being tested were chosen based on the most recent data on their safety, their potential efficacy, their ease of storage and transport, whether they can be rapidly produced for global distribution, and the ease with which they can be administered to individuals. The COVID-19 Solidarity Vaccine program is very flexible. Vaccines that don't work can be abandoned, or new vaccines that meet the entry criteria can be included. The study uses hospitals, community centers, and also temporary mobile sites to reach the most isolated communities. The results will be available quickly. The study results will be robust, reliable, and universal thanks to a standardized research methodology applied worldwide, in which hundreds of thousands of citizens of the world are likely to participate. Each trial participant will make a difference in the global effort to find safer and more effective vaccines against COVID-19. Who can participate? People can enroll if they are 16 years of age or older, live in an area with high rates of COVID-19, have not been diagnosed with COVID-19 before, and have not been vaccinated against COVID-19 before. Once they have given their consent, participants will receive one of the vaccines under investigation or a comparator. The comparator will be either a placebo, a harmless, water-like substance, or an approved vaccine. All participants will be followed for at least 1  To measure its effectiveness, participation in the trial is entirely voluntary. People can decide to participate after receiving information and speaking to the researchers who lead the trial. The WHO coordinates and oversees the trial with national ministries of health. Independent experts ensure that the NGO's scientific and ethical standards are the highest possible. It will be reviewed and approved by national governments, regulatory agencies, and ethics committees in each country. A principal investigator will be responsible for leading the local team of readouts. Their teams will work closely with scientists, public health professionals, community leaders, and local communities. We need more affordable vaccines against copy 19 that are available to everyone, so that everyone everywhere can be protected. The Solidarity vaccine trial can help us achieve this goal faster. Anti-copy 19 vaccine: access for all. For more information, search for the Solidarity vaccine trial.