This podcast contains discussions on sexual misconduct. Topics such as sexual exploitation, abuse, and harassment may be discussed. Listener discretion is advised. In this episode, I speak to Shay Akivovo, author and leading voice on digital safety and founder of a nonprofit committed to ending online abuse. A junior woman making a complaint to her employers about her boss sexually abusing her. Fantastic. The boss was absolutely confused. Like, I don't know what you're talking about. I haven't spoken to you in that way. I thought we were fine. You want to believe the victim? You want to be the survivor, obviously. Kind of long story short, turns out somebody was manipulating the boss's voice. This is the # no excuse podcast discussing the challenges and complexities and potential solutions in preventing and responding to sexual exploitation, abuse and harassment in the aid sector through interviews with victims and survivors, experts, aid workers, artists and leaders. The podcast is produced by the World Health Organizations department for the prevention and response to sexual misconduct. I am Goni Das your host and global focal point for the department. Shay, welcome to the hashtag no excuse podcast. Thank you so much for having me, Gon. So today we're going there um into the dark corners of the digital workplace and we're going to talk about online sexual abuse. It's no-brainer. the way we've worked has changed and according to Gallup over 80% of employees in the US are now you know working either remotely or in a hybrid setup and while it's great to have flexibility it also brings new risks and I remember speaking to the professor professor Frank Dobin from Harvard University and he said abuse happens when no one's watching he was saying how it could be during late night shifts and if we were to, you know, apply it to the aid sector, it could be during vaccine campaigns as people uh knock on people's doors. And so now with this whole digital space, it can be in Zoom rooms, WhatsApp chats, you know, the quiet DMs on LinkedIn. And I think the biggest challenge is that it's much more harder to detect and and confront and also report. And so I thought you were the the the perfect guest to have on the show because you you're known to challenge how we think about safety, especially on the digital in digital spaces. So let's get into it. Thank you so much for having me and I I hope I can help add a different perspective to the to the conversation, a much needed conversation. So I hope I can add something unique. So is it me or is online sexual abuse or misconduct in the workplace a myth? No, it's definitely not a myth. And I I I I I want to agree with you that flexible working, remote working, I founded my organization being remote working um is a beautiful luxury and experience and much needed um for a lot of um people with different accessibility needs, different working styles and and to be honest economically. Um but the risks that were there in offline spaces in offline work spaces are going to be in online spaces. It's not a new thing. My issue is that because we haven't been dealing with the misconduct offline. We haven't actually um set standards, behaviors. We've got an issue with consent which I hope we can get into in a moment. these things have now been exacerbated online and there is more of a feeling of getting away with it. So I think the online space remote working has has shone a light in different work practices and particularly the ones that we're uncomfortable discussing already. Mhm. And do we have any data on on this? Unfortunately, there isn't. Unfortunately, there isn't data, surveys, interviews, research specifically on online sexual misconduct in the workplace, which I think in itself is telling. We do have um statistics, global statistics. So for example, the international labor organization conducted a global survey in 2021 and found that one in five employed individuals have experienced one form of violence or harassment at work in during their working life. And we know that women are disproportionately impacted, queer communities are disproportionately impacted, those from workingclass backgrounds are disproportionately impacted and how the online space could be this whole new forum for harassment to happen. So we can make inferences, we can make suggestions, we can make policy recommendations from existing research, but sadly online sexual harassment in the workplace is not well researched. But that doesn't mean that we don't know that violence offline and online aren't part of one continuum. That doesn't mean that we know that perpetrators will find tactics and ways to get away with it. Particularly with animinity, particularly with um oh it was a mistake. particularly with you know th saying things like it wasn't me I was hacked so we will need research from unions and labor organizations but I think where we know where there's power there is always um risks of vulnerability so yes we do need statistics um but I don't think that's going to be what um addresses this misbelief I think it's culture I think it's policies I think it's leadership I think it's a wider conversation and so if we were to explore the idea of accountability or in this and I know you've done a lot of work around uh around online safety. So there's different agents in this conundrum of how do we approach accountability? as the individuals or organizations, tech companies, governments. And if we were to start with the tech industry who make it all possible, those platforms, you've worked closely with uh tech companies on making social platforms uh safer. And with the rise of online abuse and sometimes leading to self harm, suicide, I think those standards of the tech industries are showing us that their standards are failing to meet the basic needs of safet safety of of their users. Why do you think that is? Fundamentally, a lot of these tech companies are designed um and founded by by by men and by a particular demographic of men as well. um class is class is important factor in this and vulnerabilities are are not thought about let alone designed around and I think that plays a real uh factor in in in how these tech companies are then formed um I think because we don't tend to have these standards offline so code of conduct consent faith in the criminal justice system good HR policies the stand tech is only amplifying and illuminating a a wider issue. And then also I think there's a particular problem with setting a standard a duty of care. So this was a term coined by um professor Lorna Woods and William Perne um from Cariegi Trust and um they were in the UK pushing for the uh now the online safety act which is a regulatory um framework for social media companies, discussion forums, search engines, small sites, you name it to have a duty of care. Unfortunately, that amendment was um was was dropped before the bill passed, but it was now putting an emphasis that tech companies have a standard of care that they need to ensure for their users. And I think this is a cultural problem where tech bros, tech um companies feel like they can get away with creating technology very quickly and apologize later. and we actually have to kind of rein that in and not in ways that it's now seen as being against innovation. That's not the case. But it's not it's making sure that innovation isn't happening at the expense of communities in the workplace. There are ways in which companies can be given controls and and um around the the way their platform is being used, what can be shared, um controlling the times in which forums can can happen. There is a way to have a very generative conversation around how can workplaces use these technologies to ensure they're not being used by bad actors and making sure that security ultimately is there. If if we flash back to 5 years ago the in lockdown, how many times did we hear about Zoom bombings? How many times did we hear about the security of the workplace being really really at risk? Um and and I think these comes with conversations. But to have a conversation, tech companies need to listen. And I think workplaces, consumers, users of tech need to feel empowered to say as a digital citizen. I want my tech companies to be more responsible. And if not, we're going to use alternative platforms. And I think finally, the reason why we don't have this standard is because we have a monopoly in the market. If we had competition, if we had alternatives, if we had choice, right, which is what if we look at another industry, fashion, if you look at another industry, the car industry, we have a choice in the types of cars or clothes we want to buy, which then pulls this kind of race to the top of standards of eth ethical means of production. We don't have an alternative to teams and zooms and all of those options. Tech companies have a right and responsibility. I think they should be made responsible for stress testing their products so that it's um it can't be manipulated by bad actors. So, we've covered the tech the tech industry. We've talked about what organizations could do and I'm curious to know what are your thoughts on digital um citizenship. If you look at the individual and how they, you know, behave on these platforms, if there were a case of, you know, sexual misconduct or a case of abuse, there are kind of three different actors you could see. You could see the perpetrator, the the victim survivor, and the bystander. I'd like to to get your your thoughts on this. How does digital citizenship comes into play when there's these three actors Yeah. So for me, digital citizenship is about the understanding that we have rights and responsibilities and what does it mean for individuals who are using technology. I think it's in the everyday habits of small acts of treating people and supporting people the way that you would like to be treated and supported. So, when we see someone being abused online, when we see something that's an uncomfortable comment, reporting it, um, checking that the person's okay and really and truly being mindful of our words. I think there is a real flippness in our community. I don't know if that's a word, it is now, but there is a real flippant behavior around the the words and tactics and abuse and we we normalize it and that then kind of sends a signal to tech companies that this behavior is okay. outraged content is okay. Teaching the algorithms that we need to be seeing more of this rage content and and and overly sexualized content. One of the biggest um forms of abuse that we're seeing at the moment is around AI, right? We're seeing I'll give you some examples. We're seeing AI voice technology. Um, I I heard about a case of um a young a junior woman making a a complaint to her employers about her boss sexually abusing her. Fantastic. The boss was absolutely confused. Like, I don't know what you're talking about. I haven't spoken to you in that way. I thought we were fine. You want to believe the victim? You want to be the survivor? Obviously, kind of long story short, turns out somebody was manipulating the boss's voice through an AI voice technology and pretending to take phone calls with this junior member of staff, overly sexualized conversations, which was recorded. All the things that victims have been told to do to find out that actually they were being pitted against each other and they were both victims of online harms. We're seeing that. And so we need to ask ourselves, is this how we want our technology to be to be used and and how can workplaces who have a duty of care to their staff mitigate against these risks? That means staying on the pulse. It means having podcast conversations like this with experts around different ways innovation is being misused. Another example of harm with technology that we're seeing is around deep fake technology. So um deep fake for those that don't know is creating synthetic media and it can be of of completely generated through AI now or it can be a photo of you um and I and I post it through this tech technology and it can nudify us and what we're seeing is that there is a real increase there's a real disproportionate um number of nudified apps being used to nudify women in pornographic ways. So there's a real gendered lens to how this is um being misused. So the responsibility of ourselves as society is not making this an interesting thing to use. I give you another example. Taylor Swift has been a victim of deep fake um of her of her um being made being made naked um online and that was spread. Well, the first question I asked myself is why was that being spread? Why didn't we report that? Why didn't we take that down? Why have we shared that in gossip gossip sites, forums? Why have we, you know, why have we made this as something to be talked to um to be discussed, which is then signaling to algorithms, signaling to um companies who want to make profits through ads on social media, and we've got to be responsible for the for what we're spreading. I um share this story a lot about um my time um working with some folks in Taiwan and just hearing how their culture is around digital citizenship. they have this culture where um factchecking is so important that they don't want to be a conduit of spreading misinformation because they know how harmful this can be with you know geopolitics at play and I think we need to get that kind of digital citizenship culture in us and being responsible in so many ways of our language of our act of being a of being a conduit and being a bystander and active bystanders that is low stakes that doesn't have to mean this big superhero Marvel Marvel type uh scenario and it's a it's a practice. It's a it's a way of of shifting our our behaviors with each other as communities offline and online. But what do you think it is about humankind and human nature that we love the gossip? We love when it's negative and we love to continue to spread the negativity behind a computer and hide behind that. Yeah. I'm not a psychologist or a behavioral behavioral expert, but I am a practitioner and I deliver, you know, workshops and hold spaces around this. So, I do believe that you can shift behaviors through practice. And I think it starts with role modeling. And if we as the older generation online aren't shaping or alternative ways of engagement, then human nature is going to keep growing and festering around the bad the bad parts of ourselves. Um, I don't think we're going to completely eradicate gossip. I don't think we're going to completely eradicate harm, but I do think it's disproportionate online. And I do think that that we don't have enough people enough of us being amplified for the ways in which we are being respectful online. The positive dialogues, the positive debates, um holding multiple truths, emotional resiliency, um emotional maturity. How do we signal to um platforms that um positive camp positive engagement which we know is there, right? People love a cat photo. People love a dog photo. People love to watch inspiring, positive content online. But I don't think there's enough of us teaching that algorithm that that's what we want to see. And we're not letting shareholders of these tech companies say that's actually where you can make make money. And I think human nature, particularly with the global crisis that we still continue to be in in a compounding way, the economy, isolation, that needs to be looked at. That needs to be looked at more broadly for why then people are trying to get these dopamine hits in these most in the most cruel ways, which doesn't serve them um and definitely doesn't serve society. So what do you think that governments can do? I know that in the U uh recently the digital service act got out. What are I know you've been involved in this and you have quite a few thoughts on this. Um Kristen, what you think? Yeah, I think governments play an important part and I know that they are coming up against organizations, civil society groups and and and genu and genuine concerns of government overreach, surveillance, big government and all of that. But I do think that governments play a huge role in making sure that we set legislation and we set standards of companies of workplaces um and that that standard should be about being proactive than then then only being reactive. So in the EU we've got the digital services act which is about um regulating tech companies and data. It's a very holistic piece of legislation and and and that I think is powerful because it brings all the EU member states together to be singing from the same himshi against a multi-billion dollar industry, right? Um and so there's safety in numbers and their sharing of intel and their sharing of practices and and and and the ways technology is being manipulated and the way certain tech company uh leaders are also manipulating political crisis and government need and the e the economy I think that is really important there. I think legislation around um employment so and and workers rights um uh my background is in the kind of labor union so I'm always going to be advocating for that and in the UK there was an amendment to an act called the workers amendment protection particularly on sexual harassment in the workplace and they placed a proactive duty on employers to be proactively ensuring that workplaces are safe particularly when it comes to sexual harassment and that has got to include online sexual harassment and being proactive around how tech can be used. So thinking about a risk assessment and my role as founder and CEO working in partnership with uh other organizations and and in coalition that was really important um for the online safety act in the in the UK was pushing for a riskbased approach to product development and think like I said earlier about stress testing products and before they before they rolled out but thinking through the risks um from a gendered perspective is is key um and is one thing that governments can be mandating tech companies to do. The alcohol industry have a duty of care. They have to put responsibility messaging out. Why should the tech industry be uh separate to that? Why should they get away with that? And I think the biggest thing that I'm passionate about about what governments can do is talking about harm, safety, community, human rights, all of that also through a h through a business lens. If I was a businessman in in a more traditional industry, say manufacturing, I would be a little bit peeved with the way tech companies get away with so much. And it doesn't feel like there's any real learnings from when tobacco industry kind of blew blew and it wasn't regulated and they were able to lie about about the the the harm of tobacco. It it feels like we're having the same kind of wave. And I would encourage governments and and those who can influence governments, right, to be thinking about what's good business practice. It's not good business practice for 50% of the population to be not feeling safe at work. It's not good business practice that that could potentially mean that there is no there is a lack of diversity in in in the company which we know impacts profits, impacts effective strate strategy implementation and employment and and all of that. like it's not good business practice to not want to have safety inclusion um and and regulation and I think that's what governments could be doing really being a thought leader that this is not a add-on or we're making your life difficult for you and we're against innovation but this is actually good business practice and we want good business for a good society. Yeah, you sound very passionate about this and you've done a lot of work around it. What keeps you going? Talking to people and I've very much felt a re-energized like wave and hearing different perspectives. I like I went to um the 200th anniversary of the railway in the UK. I know very weird but I now understand why people like trains and it was this uh art production through AI firework drones which was fascinating which is another example of why tech how tech can be good for society right because it's now not going to fireworks have an environmental impact right a negative environmental impact and now AI can um um um address that so anyway in the north of England uh learn learning about um the the birth of the the the the railways through art through culture, through music. And then as the production went on, you could see the divide, the ge geographical divide between the north and the south and where certain railway tracks were placed and what that meant for certain communities, how that ended traditional forms of of transportation, so ports and boats and all of that, and that made people unemployed. We're seeing the same conversations with AI and the fears that this is going to take people's job. we're seeing the same ramifications um and interest when we have um a technological revolution and I get amazed by it and inspired by it because there are ways in which we can avoid repeating history. We can avoid there being the divide. We can avoid there being the exclusion. We can learn from our elders. And so I think that uh I draw a kind of um wisdom from from other forms of technological advancement to really understand this space. And I think because I can just see as a visionary I can just see there can be an alternative there there can be a way out of this and there can be a way of um doing this in community and doing this through um shared values and practice and us all playing our part rather than what I felt like when I started coming into this space 8 years ago was government blaming tech blaming parents parents blaming school teachers. It felt very divided and if there's one thing that I can that I feel really happy about and and keeps me going is that I I try to connect different people. I try and connect different parts of the ecosystem that we don't turn against each other but we stay focused on this common vision which is a responsible AI tech future. How does it feel like to be one of the many voices that are out there that speaks about online um you know online abuse but you know are not necessarily representing people of minority just cuz I'm assuming it's mostly white and male. Is it a correct assumption or I am usually sometimes the only woman in conversations. I'm sometimes usually the only uh woman of color. Um um and I'm sometimes usually um the only person that can have a perspective into the global south. And I see it as my responsibility to not gatekeep to not to to to convene where possible to pass on opportunity. I had the privilege of hosting a or moderating a panel last week um and uh I'm a survivor of online gender- based violence as a woman in politics and I was abused by um neo-Nazis online and on the panel was somebody who was a young um white working-class lad up in north who was groomed and radicalized into the far right and be able to sit there and say we have been victims in very different ways. of the same radicalization because of the same vulnerabilities because of the same need that we have. I'm enjoying slightly overwhelmed but I'm enjoying trying to have an expansive conversation around what do we have in common? What are the vulnerabilities that lead to radicalization that lead to isolation that lead to this division that lead to people using technology in this mind-blowing negative dark way? um and and how do we start having a public health conversation about this? How do we start looking at some of the drivers and the causes? Because that's actually something we can all be united around. So, if you were to make the case that prevention on online abuse was uh a public health issue, how would you phrase that? Well, we know prevention is better than than cure. So if we look at a young person who has abused or shared a video of a girl that was naked underage that now brings in the police that now brings in the school community that now brings in the teachers there's now needing to be a investigation. Then you've got the local authorities that will be involved potentially safeguarding there could be social work. That's just phase one. Then you've got is it going to go to court? Then you've got um the kind of uh aftermath of therapy for both sides, rehabilitation for the the perpetrator, you name it. That is costly. That is very very expensive emotionally, financially. It's a cost. And I really believe looking at online abuse as a public health health issue would save us so much money and time. This is costly. This is a cost to the human. This is cost to our human rights. This is a cost to cost financially. So I'd be saying let's invest in mental health services. When I was going through my abuse, no therapy, no therapist, sorry, could really understand what I was going through cuz it was quite new. There is now studies to say that the mental health service is in a crisis and has a long waiting list and the majority of the issues is to do with some form of online conduct or experience whether that's body mis dysmorphia, suicide ideiation, you name it. M mental health services are at a breaking point. We need to invest in our education system. We need to be talking about digital citizenship, media literacy, not just how to spot misin misinformation and disinformation, but how to be responsible online, how to be critical thinkers. And I think isolation has to be a public health priority because there is a lot of polarization happening. And if you are isolated and you're wanting to fit in, you're wanting to be seen, it is very dangerous to now become groomed by bad actors who um want you to join their gangs, want you to push drugs, want you to push a particular rhetoric. You're you're going to be more vulnerable to these to these um recruiters, if you like. and isolation definitely is um a root driver of all of this. And on top of what you're saying, who declared uh loneliness as a pressing global health threat and with numbers that where social isolation and loneliness are widespread with an estimation of one in four um people experiencing social isolation. And I come into this space around digital citizenship or even ending online abuse because I believe in the power of the internet and and and technology and it bringing people together. Thank you so much uh Shay to for your passion, your work um and continuing to to spread this awareness on on how to to be safe online. Thank you so much. Thank you for listening. If you have any feedback or questions, feel free to reach out to us to prs.int. Until the next time, goodbye.