Hello and welcome to another episode of Transforming WH, a series of videos where I interview colleagues inside WHO and outside about the work we do and how we try to transform. And today we are actually taping this in a temporary studio that we have set up in the corridors of the World Health Assembly currently taking place here in Geneva. And I'm joined here in the temporary studio by Meen Birmingham who is head of the country office for WH and Paho in Peru. And thank you very much for joining me here in the studio Marine. Thanks for inviting me Saurin. And u first a little bit about yourself. I mean you have an impressive four decade long career in in global health. I believe you started in veterinary medicine and epidemiology and then 40 years ago you started working for the organization of Afric American states in in Haiti working in disease control epidemiology and for a number of years with the CDC the centers of disease control. You're American by background I should say. And then sometime in that journey you joined WHO I believe a couple of decades ago uh in Bangkok. I believe you were head of of our country office in Bangkok for a number of years and then moving back to the Americas and and then you've taken up the position of being head of country office or as we say who paho representative PWR in a number of uh American countries, Mexico, you won Argentine during COVID 19 I believe back in Haiti where you started early in your career right and then currently taking up your current position in Peru. That's an impressive career. Anything I missed, Meen? Well, I spent a little bit of time in WHO headquarters as well. Ah, yeah. But, uh, you're right, S. I I feel very sort of I feel very fortunate to have all these experiences that uh um that I've had um and uh I started as you said a as a veterinarian first practicing in the US but then did go to Haiti and um worked in veterary public health as animal health is an important source of people's livelihood and uh but increasingly confronted a lot of uh issues of public health you know zooonatic diseases food safety issues in Haiti we were often dealing with anthrax with um cyst cycosis with rabies things like that and so I veterinarians in from the US are trained in public health but I became increasingly interested in in that area um moved on to Bolivia um where we're also training veterinary technicians um in the same type of model but again in confronting a lot of these public health issues and found uh although I was trained in this area it was hard to cross that line and talk with the public health side um those mechanisms what we call now one health weren't really well established back then. Now there's a huge focus on as you say one health and about so notic diseases and how to tackle that but but I guess in at least in the last two decades I mean you've been broadly focused on public health you have the the vet side the one health side the sonotic diseases in your background but it's much more broadly focused right so um with this somewhat of a frustration I went back and got a masters in public health so I could cross that side and have my foot in that side with you know with with the credibility you with a masters in public health. Um and from there I was in Boston doing my masters went on to CDC where they have this great program on training field epidemiologists all the fun work basically. Um and so did that training program and um never never uh intended to leave completely uh veterary medicine but uh loved this area, loved epidemiology and in at CDC I also joined the preventive medicine residency program which is how I ended up at WHO and headquarters because the second year of that program um there was an opportunity um for uh a resident to be in WHO. So that's how I landed in WHO and in the in the polio program or the immunization program. Four decades in public health and global health. That's an impressive career. What are you most proud of? Biggest achievements in in the four decades. Marine. Yeah. Hard to say. And it's not just my achievements. Everywhere I've been it's been a team, you know, working as a team of course. Um when I arrived, if I can say in sort of chronological order, places I've been and things I've remembered um in WHO headquarters, I arrived just in the early stages of polio eradication. So at that time we were setting up the very basic pillars of what to do. You know the routine immunization of course was ongoing but strengthening that the campaigns but then surveillance surveillance to really um guide the strategy. So I was on the surveillance side and setting up uh with with the team with the team and setting up uh the sort of uh standards and the the tools to go do that and then and then rolling that out with the regions. We had some great regional adviserss and so the team and headquarters and the regional advisors we were rolling out polio surveillance and within within a few years we had weekly casebased reporting coming from most countries in the world in a standardized way. easily see the successes in in in an area like polio eradication. Yeah. So that was a big collective I'd say collective back in the days when you were in the polio program. Would you have expected that by now we had eradicated polio globally? I would have hoped so. I remember the world that was being said back then. I remember some dates being announced of that we had passed but exactly like the year 2000 was the first goal. So I remember the world health day was fully eradication by the year 2000. So yes, still still striving to to get there. That and in your career, any um regrets, anything you regret not doing or anything you still want to do in your career? Any big achievements you are looking for? I really enjoy working at the country level. Um I I enjoy the the just different the variety of uh different country offices and what they what they present to you. Um I wouldn't say they're regrets. It's just that I I very much I I experienced working at at headquarters level then in the regional level uh working on pandemic preparedness in the Southeast Asia region which I really enjoyed and I somewhat accidentally fell into the country representative position first in Thailand. But let's turn to the country work that you've been doing. I mean your last four three postings and your current I mean is Haiti, Mexico, Argentina and then now currently Peru, right? Four very different countries I'm guessing, right? Haiti certainly very very challenged vulnerable crisis war humanitarian catastrophes a different situation in Peru I would expect what are the key challenges in Peru that well in Peru um it's a middle- inome country it's uh as in many countries in Latin America very fragmented the health system so working on sort of um unifying that system more defragmenting but it's also decentralized and so if we just work at the central level which we do on norms and standards and establishing those. We know we need to get out into that we call the territory. Get out into the um so Peru has some rural districts, indigenous populations that are hard to reach. Yeah. Yes. We've got like the Amazon area and yes, more than 50 different languages. Really interesting, very rich in culture. We've also got the highlands, you know, in this in the Andes mountains populations there, very high rates of anemia. Um we've got also the coastal areas very prone to disasters. So priorities there we work on some of our um big priorities in the region is getting u maternal mortality down. We call it zero maternal mortality or at least the preventable maternal mortality. That's um that's a big uh priority in Peru um especially in the Amazon area in indigenous groups and that's where we have to work in a very intercultural way understanding how their cosmo vision as we call it and how we can work with them to find the solutions um on on on preventing this preventable what's the role of who like a country office you lead a country office in Peru how big is your staff what's the role of that country office we've got we've got about I mean we've got about 45 50 people. It varies but depending on what we're working on. Um we do work on migrant health as well. It's very vulnerable population 1.6 million migrants coming into Peru a country of about 33 34 million. Um we work on uh health systems as mentioned on on some of the financing they uh working on what are they spending on primary health care. How do we make primary healthcare really work within an integrated service delivery? You work very closely with the government especially the ministry of health. I mean supporting them and and and so based on on their priorities. Um so we work on some of those health system issues also on um getting access to medicines the PAO strategic fund to help um get gain access through um poolled purchasing mechanisms. You get the lowest price of assured quality medicines and technology moving into that moving into tele medicine. So that's a very potent way of reaching underserved populations and proving We're coming with the uh uh norms and standards, the technical guidance from WHO and from PAHO and then providing that supporting that for the government of Peru in in in their uh priorities. That's right. It's very much of a dialogue of how what we can offer. Sometimes it's just convening. Sometimes with the fragments, we can convene people that don't normally maybe work together and just convene them. We just did this for the yellow fever. There's a yellow fever upsurge in several countries. Um, often it's capacity building and bringing the the standards and the best practices. It's sharing experiences. Sometimes getting countries together to share experiences. One country has more capacity. Right now we're collaborating with Chile on stem cell transfers for child leukemia, collaborating with Argentina on organ transplant, collaborating on on childhood cancer. Um, so we often also there's a lot of there's a lot of human capacity, human resource capacity and coordination. WHO and and Paho and in the Americas also plays a special role in sort of the ecosystem of various stakeholders and agencies and initiatives. Absolutely. If you can speak a little bit to to that you say we convene or you convene I mean what's what's that role right well as mentioned sometimes um the solutions are there there's an issue the solutions are there but it's sometimes getting people in the room we don't necessarily come with the solutions the package solutions but we get people in the room to really take a deep dive into some of what the issue is and then what are the what's the pathway forward and that might be other multilateral agencies who also are active in Peru it might be NOS's it might be foundations philanthropies etc that are all active in supporting public health in the country. Right. So we do have that we have um you know the UN the UN systems there. So very much working on some of these common areas of for example the anemia problem in in in Peru is very high. So the different agencies can bring their strengths to the table and who also so we do have areas like that where we work with the whole UN system. as a framework for for the UN uh sustainable uh framework and and and a resident coordinator. I believe you actually a couple of times in your career you also served as a UN resident coordinator or acted as such and yes we are we are asked to do that. I did serve for quite a long time in Thailand I think about nine months. Uh so that was a very interesting experience during also a major flooding a m a major disaster. Um so that was also um leveraging the humanitarian system to respond to that massive flooding that that lasted for a long time in Thailand. Um and then periodically in other countries uh one is asked to serve as the resident coordinator and sometimes humanitarian coordinator. Um so yes this was in Haiti this happened uh also uh occasionally must have been very difficult in Haiti with with the humanitarian challenges and right that's a very different compared to the other countries I worked in which were more middle- inome countries um that have their issues in terms of um inequalities inequities uh some high human capacity but also a lot lot of these issues in Haiti it was very really challenging in terms of um more of a humanitarian setting you know we had um really uh difficult uh security issues. Yeah, I could imagine. Declining uh security. Um and then just a lot of incredible human suffering there. Um as gangs increasingly have taken over the capital city, um people are are really quite quite terrorized, you know, by by the situation and the violence. Um but but also we working of course in the whole UN system, across the UN system and the humanitarian system, but finding creative ways forward. Yeah. um in in that kind of situation, how do we make sure we have life-saving care available? How do we get access to some of these populations that are often closed off from from the gangs there that we can't even access some of these communities? Um so, so how do we keep immunization coverage? You know, we were really had a strong team trying to keep, you know, some of those basic services. A woman with a obstetric emergency, how does she access care? So and even just having the challenge of not having like security issues like you say not having a stable government that you can intact with us. I was there when the president was tragically assassinated and following that was an earthquake and uh so we had deteriorating um deteriorating security while we were trying to um respond. But it's a different context in your current position in in Peru. I mean you took up that position two years ago I believe in 2023 October 23. Yeah. And then last year you actually at you and your team you and with the government I believe developed a country cooperation strategy. That's right. Which is basically an instrument of describing what WH Paho from the country office will support the government with. Can you speak a little bit to to how did you develop the country cooperation strategy and what are the key uh focus areas of that? Right. So we went through AI mean one of the key things about a country cooperation strategy is not just the product itself. It's the process of getting there. It's the excuse to have that dialogue with the government and we have a structured approach um within that within this region of um prioritizing what are the key in in all of the paho and who strategic plans all the areas what are the key things for for Peru and so we we were able to establish that dialogue so that's with the government so we have sessions with the government we also went off and talked to people individually former ministers vice ministers and said what what do you want to see more from PH and what did they tell you? What what became the key priorities and how did that emerge and what are the key priorities? Um I I think just to answer your first question I think they wanted to see more multis sectoral collaboration that they saw sort of the health sector not not who per se but just the health sector was a little closed and we needed to open up and collaborate more with some of the other um sectors. So all of government approaching all we couldn't agree more with so that was useful. Um the priorities though were the somewhat the classic priorities a lot of the health system work you know really making it reality. Um primary health care working within an integrated service delivery network making that work. Um the financing that goes with it the human resource you know so some of those system those building block system issues are quite classic that we that we work in. Um getting access to technology and medicines uh that was one big area. So the second area is the disease control. On the communicable disease side, we're still dealing with, you know, tropical neglected tropical infections and diseases. We're dealing with the big three of malaria, TB and uh HIV. Uh Peru is a high burden country for tuberculosis. So that's very much on the front burner. um also on of course the health promotion side and working multi in these in these areas that require multis sectoral collaboration whether it's road safety or whether it's um working on other um social determinance and environmental determinance climate change etc etc um and then of course the emergency area Peru is a place we have I mean earthquakes we have shakes every day and um and then of course there's an occasional massive ones so really having disaster preparedness not only for earthquakes but also for floods landslides um so severe weather events as well as there's a lot of tropical diseases like for example and then once you have the country corporation strategy in place then it's signed by the regional director Dr. Javas on behalf of WHO Paho and then the min the government the ministry of health typically right and that's for a five six year period I believe the country corporation strategy needs to 30 or well it's it's really up to it's really up to us to with the government to decide but what happens next is basically my question so now you have the country corporation strategy how does that then commit you and the government to deliver it's more of a framework um it's a framework uh that we can constantly go back to and make sure we don't uh stray too far from keep ourselves focused on what we agreed were the priorities and of course then through our bienial planning through our bianual planning of uh program budget and our work plan we are we stay very much we try to stay within those that framework unless things change in the country there's we're not you know so that's basically steering and deciding how you prioritize the resources or how WHO prioritizes the re resources towards supporting the government exactly and as governments change which they do in Peru we can go back to that is sort of well this is what was agreed um there's but there's always the opportunity to update it or or modify it you know b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b based on if there's a change in the government. So um it does in the last recent years there've been a lot of focus in who and Paho on strengthening our country offices. Uh that's been discussed for as long as I can remember inside this organization. But it it seems like we took at the next step when we established the so-called action for results group the ARG that was established in 2022 right and that had a focus on basically strengthening our country offices capacitating them empowering them including the country office heads like yourself in making more decisions and also allocating funds to ramp up and secure the the capacity the basically the the staffing also of the country offices So that's now in its third year. Right. Right. You've just taken over as co-chair of the AIG. So currently we're in a crisis of of losing funding and we had just in this health assembly a difficult process with our member states of balancing our budget for the next two years. Balancing it between aspirations, what do we want and then realism. How much money or how little money do we have? Right. Right. So in that context, how do you see that country strengthening work in the next couple of years? I think it's more important than than ever, yeah, to um to maintain this vision. Um and the DG has also reiterated that over and over during this week even of the World Health Assembly that um his commitment to maintaining or strengthening the work at country level and again this is all about translating the normative work of who into results at the country level. So very much within that we're also faced with a a funding crisis. I mean this program budget that was just adopted by the health assembly is more than 20% less than right previous benium. So I mean we have to face reality. Yeah. And we have to adapt to that new reality. And so as as the ARG we are um working on that for example um the the ARG in the past established what was called core predictable country presence. CPCP is a concept as well as a model of looking at different types of country offices from the very upstream advanced countries to the countries that are fragile and in conflict and what kinds would need to be there differentiated approach based on these what's called typology. So is there was a model established um and then what kind of staffing what does that look like in each types each of those country type typologies. We have to look at that again in light of this new reality and see what's a more maybe slenderized version. Um what can we do to to adapt to this maybe and looking at our priorities is also certainly what is emerging very much from the discussions and decision here at the health assembly. I mean we need to prioritize looking at our core mandate our core functions absolutely leading and convening our norms and standards etc. So right I guess that that goes for all levels of the organization, country offices, regional office and headquarters. That's right. We have to face reality. We have to be creative. We have to be innovative. We have to look where we do have more opportunity or more opportunity for more efficiency. We have to decide what perhaps we're not going to do anymore. We we have to face it, you know, and be and be and and prioritize and be strategic. So I think the ARG is very much uh facing that also. So looking at ways we can slenderize that that uh CPCP model um but still maintain the concept that there should be when you go to a country office a core predictable country presence that should be also have predictable financing. So that that whole um concept I think we will very much continue to promote and we think it's still realistic to promote that but perhaps in a relook at the model in a more slenderized way the delegation of authority to so they can really really move and be agile and and deliver results. There's also an opportunity in this crisis. I mean there's an opportunity to to change our ways of working and become more efficient and more focused. I think so. Yes. I think that these kind of crises are there's always opportunities, right? They always say don't miss a good crisis. Right. Exactly. So I think we're embracing that. By the end of the day, it it is a major crisis, fair to say, of of of losing funding not only for WHO, but from many other multilateral agencies also outside of the health space. Many of our sister agencies are also getting defunded, but even more so also for global health programs in countries that are losing funding. So, so it's a huge crisis, but many are also saying that it's a crisis of multilateralism maybe being challenged of our core principles and values. Do do you agree with that assessment of the crisis? I think I think there we're in crisis. Yes, we know we're in crisis. There's a lot of questioning the multilateral system. There's a question there a lot of questioning going on. But I think we can turn that into an opportunity as well. Um I feel even from this week at the World Health Assembly and what we hear from the member states um I feel I feel more encouraged that member states are saying we still need who and we need the UN system. Yes, we need a more we need to look at efficiencies. We need to look at where there's mission creep or where we're overlapping or what we can um let go of or sunset. So there's still a future for multilateral. I I still very much believe that. Yes, I'm still maintaining some optimism and we did see that commitment here in the health assembly. I mean agreement the pandemic agreement the the program budget etc. And the important thing is that we keep delivering we keep delivering results and I think that's part of the ARG the upcoming work is we need to really focus on accountability delivering results showing results um as part of the work of this of establishing core predictable country presence the financing that we deliver results so with the country but u so you seem like an optimist Marine well I don't stop trying I guess I'm resilient from from the past because you know this is not the first time the organization has gone through through crisis So I think we can we can weather it. Good. Thank you very much for for joining me here in the studio. Thank you very much for your optimism and for sharing your experiences. Very much a pleasure. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you very much for watching another episode of Transforming WH. And do stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes.