Hello colleagues and thank you for tuning in to another episode of transforming WH. This is a series of video interviews where I talk to colleagues inside WHO and outside about what we do in WHO and about reform and change of the way we work. And today I'm joined by Livio Vidrasco who's the head of the WHO country office in Kygystan. And welcome to the studio here in Geneva, Livio. I was very fortunate to just catch you while you were here visiting in Geneva and you could join me in the studio. So first a little bit about yourself. I mean you started actually as a nurse then you became a medical doctor and then you worked in public health in your home country of Muldova but fairly early on approximately 25 years ago you went to work in the field in many different capacities and countries around the world. I believe we have a picture of you here 15 years ago working in the field. Uh this is you reporting on uh the earthquakequake crisis in Haiti. Uh we have another picture of you and uh Sher alone I believe. So that is 10 years ago with the outbreak of outbreak of Ebola in the West Africa and and you were also responding to that. You worked in Sagal, Myanmar with the Rohhinga crisis. uh um Bangkok during COVID. You were in Bangkok actually responding to the COVID pandemic. Then a couple of years working in emergencies here in the headquarters in Geneva and then two years ago you went to work in our country office in Kystan. Yes. As the head of the country office. Why did you go and become a WHO representative in Kyhan? Thank you. Thank you for the question. Actually, it was a very simple decision. And I always wanted to to experience this this role. And in fact in Thailand before coming to HQ I was depr. Yeah. So I tasted this and I thought I like this. And actually there is a lot you can do. There is a lot of autonomy. There's a lot of freedom, creative freedom. And you know you have lots of partners you can work with and you can shape certain agenda. You can pick up issues. And at that time Thailand is one of these countries that they had seven country cooperation strategies. They are probably the the veterans of country cooperation strategies. The document that sort of defines what does in a country and Thailand always like said, you know, we believe in this, we invest in this. And actually I think they are one of the few countries if not the only country where the government of Thailand is investing in the programs that are decided jointly between WHO and Thailand. Yeah. Is their health insurance company. Yeah. which is completely like if you say to someone in Muldova or in Sierra Leon like oh government is putting money into WHO at the country level into implementing something they will go like and this is outside ACVC this is this is just locally and it doesn't even go for who accounts so it's a very creative methodology few years in Kykstan Kystan is a fairly young country I mean more than 30 years being independent so of of course a lot of challenges as a small mountain country but also they've done a lot of progress but can you describe what you do in Kystan in the country office? Actually that's a very nice question because when I came I tried to figure out of course I tried to study and do some homework before I went there and I realized that the was there for 28 years and a half and I was uh try to Google try to look on our internets like where is the country cooperation strategy? because that's a document what what does in a country and it's not there. So I called the people in Geneva like don't they have a country cooperation agent? No we don't. So when I came I studied I I looked at the heat reports health in transition reports and they had one recent it was there. So the problems were there. What are the challenges in the health care public health in Kystan? What are the biggest challenges of Kystan? Well the biggest challenge is you have some infectious diseases that are still there. Yeah. TB, HIV, and also a fairly high prevalence of TB and HIV. Absolutely. And it's not the job is not done. But when I came and saw that there is not no not a country cooperation strategy, I said no, this is has to be fixed. It has to be done. Other public health challenges in in Kystan. I believe they also still have a a high maternal mortality even though they have tried to bring it down. I think that one is relatively of course you just mentioned that I was in Sierra Leon there was just I'm I'm an obstitrician by background so any maternal mortality above a very very low level so when I looked at that it's still a challenge adolescent pregnancies I mean access to uh to family planning still a challenge that they are working with in Kyrgystan and then of course as in many many countries around the world a high burden of NCDS non-communicable diseases and and increasing the burden of of non-communicable disease and that's why when we came and said you know we need to have a country cooperation strategy I looked at different models of course I was very much influenced and you know inspired by the Thailand experience and also looked at many other countries that have good country cooperation strategy. What do I mean good? Yeah. What is a good country cooperation strategy? A good one is it has very limited number of priorities. Yeah. And for each priority, it has a baseline. Yeah. Like what are you trying to fix? Yeah. How bad it is. Yeah. And what are you going to do to get it from this baseline to this target? And the contropation strategy is basically a WHO document that we develop with the government, the Ministry of Health. Basically laying out what are the priorities of the government and how can WHO support that because that's our core role. I mean, who starts and ends with our member states. We work for the member states. We support them. And I think you actually brought the contation strategy. That's that's it. Yes, that's the strategy. And I'm very proud of my team who put it together in record time. I arrived in July 23 and it took us about three months to get it right. Of course, he took the homework and everything and we have uh even for people very busy politicians, they don't have time to read big documents. So, I even have a back all the seven priorities are on the back. So, they don't need to read the book. They don't even need to open the book. At least they look at these seven. Yeah. So, these seven of course I mean hypertension, emergencies, mental health, AMR, climate resilience, chemical safety, human resources and digital just to not to read all the words. But this they are not too broad because what some of the worst not the worst but some of the not optimal country cooperation strategies I saw 10 years 15 years ago they say we have three priorities the first priority is communicable diseases the second one is non-communicable diseases and the third one is health systems that's basically everything like that's nothing so what are you trying to achieve but here this seven and also I love good marketing you know because you need to communicate to politicians you need to communicate to donors. So we chose first five priority then I came with a seven and then another decision about country cooperation strategies for how long you cannot do something for 100 years we don't live so long but so this one is actually seven years so is that aligned with a national strategy u planning period so this I mean there was options I could align with JPW 13 14 I could align with UN country team but I decided to align with SDG's uh period 2030 the agenda 2030 and also with a government they have a plan until 2030 and of course we have some very specific goals for for STGS for 2030 that we are not quite on track but we need to basically escalate and accelerate progress. I have a picture actually from healthcare in the field in Kystan. And here is actually I I really like this picture because Kystan is a very mountainous country. Of course, people increasingly move to the big cities, especially to the capital of Bishkek, but there's still a lot of people living in very rural uh areas and and this is a healthcare worker and she actually travels on horseback to reach some of these mountain villages with vaccines and other essential uh public health elements. I really like that picture. I mean, yeah, absolutely. I love this picture. We put it on so many publications because it's really symbolizes Kyrgyzstan and also I mean you said about movement migration is a big issue but because of where it's situated so there's a lot of a lot a lot of movement people moving there but compared to like my native country Muldova where every second person lives in the capital in Kyrgyzstan is only every seventh person so it's still a lot of people six million are living outside Bishkek Yeah, which is different from if you go to any central European country or any other country where you have a high concentration in the capital. So people actually do live in very remote areas. And uh back to the country cooperation strategy if I may because I love this document so much and it's not just a document it's our road map is is that is also Kyrgyzstan has seven regions. So seven regions, seven years, seven priorities. And why are regions important? Because we attach at least symbolically if not fully. We attach one region of a country with one priority. So AMR for example, we have OSH. This is the region of OSH which has the better laboratories. They're leading. So it's a sort of if you want south cooperation but inside the country. Yeah. So if OSH can drag Talas and bring them closer then that's that's a very good thing in my view. Yeah. So two years in as WR head of the country office in Kystan you're very proud of the country cooperation strategy but what other achievements are you very proud of in your two years in Kystan? Well, I think one achievement again back to the communicating and clarity whenever I speak to the donors or to the government, I can communicate very easily what we do in the country. It takes me I can do it in 30 seconds. I have a 30-cond version, a 90-cond version, and a 5 minute and a 10 minute. And you have data to support that. Is that datadriven? Absolutely. I in addition to this country cooperation strategy we commissioned and we worked as a team to do a monitoring evaluation plan for microp planning every intervention. So of course hypertension is big but we're going down to salt consumption. We know what's the baseline. We go down to trans fats. We go to the legislation. We go baseline how many people are are treated for hypertension? How many what's the opportunity cost? what is you know what can be done and we've mapped it all and we also know how much it costs and we also have a funding and we have a staffing and also what another thing I was very proud of and still very proud of because the office was very flat structure I came and I was I I discovered in uh in our system you know that I have 20 something direct reports and as a manager my whole life I know this doesn't work yeah So, so restructured the office have team leads and I don't have more than five reports now the the three team leads the communications person and the assistant and that's it and basically this datadriven results focused way of working has been central to the WHO transformation agenda that's one of the strategic thrusts another key focus of who transformation is strengthening our country offices and also empowering people like yourself, the heads of the country offices. We are still working on that. We are not by far where we should be, but we have invested in our country offices. We've allocated resources and empowerment. What more can we do? Liu, are we walking the talk? I mean, in this current situation, any more new ways of working, innovations to further strengthen our country work? I think the the the intention is there. I think there are good good uh beginning of good systems. Yeah, I think the fact that we have a WH representative roster and how the WRs are selected is also important and it's also new. I mean people think that it has been there forever but it's only a few a few decades. So this is important. The delegational authority which was increased. What is delegation authority? Maybe people don't know. basically means that we we give you power to hire, recruit, etc. So that's that's there, but it's still you have things that are written and things that are not written. You have uh prevalent practices that are hindering. They're not written, but this is I mean one thing so it's in our culture you might say the culture and it's it comes in this type of phrase. I remember I went to Myanmar and I went and I was greeted and everything was fine. I was given a desk and then I was assigned free assistance. I'm like my goodness what I'm going to do. It's like oh she will do this and say I don't need I don't need all of that. And I remember like now he said oh this folder after one month someone said oh are you okay? Uh are you feeling okay? I say why? Oh, you didn't give me any medical claims, reimbursements. I say, why? I think but I am I'm I I'm you know this is a private matter. I'm not going to. So there's still efficiencies and new ways of working etc. So currently we are in a crisis. I think it's fair to say for global health. I mean we've lost a lot of funding with the withdrawal of the US not only from funding WHO but programs in global health in a broader context but it's also already a constrained funding in in global health and and many challenges to the way we work I mean you worked in the field for many many years now you're in a country how do you see that current challenge we have I think this is because I've lived through a number of this and I would say this one is not The cyclical decade cyclical this is something else. Yeah. You know in economics you have recession cycles you know 10 year sometimes 15 year and then you have the 100 years 100y year cycles of economic transformations. I think I would be safe to say that this is probably could be characterized as one of this larger changes that is not something that was like 2007208 financial crisis. This is it was a bigger challenge. So how should we respond in this uh huge challenge this crisis I mean we need to rethink the way we work in who our efficiencies and way of working. Do you have any suggestions on on how we can basically in this crisis uh come out of it? Well, I think it's it's good to stay on the core on the essence and stay focused on what we are supposed to deliver in the countries but also at the global level. The core mandate the core mandate core mandate and things that are transnational in nature. Something that only countries coming together can solve. something that has implications for the whole of humanity. something that is not purely a role of a sovereign state and it doesn't matter like basically health for all our normative technical functions our support and guidance to governments that's what we need to focus and and do that absolutely absolutely and also of course in the area of health security that is a great concern and that we cannot do without cooperation and solidarity and sitting together so we can respond to the next pandemic or crisis Absolutely. Pandemic preparedness is I spent half of my career 15 out of 30 years if I don't count all the years. This is what what you know uh but it's like that sometimes you kind of feel like there's a collective amnesia. We had a pandemic that hits us 5 years ago and it's kind of like we're forgetting it but we need to I I disagree. I disagree. I disagree with this because I hear this a lot like oh we're not learning lessons learned. We forgot everything. panic and neglect. I don't know. I mean, humankind, they just like to criticize themselves. And I I see a lot of improvements and even increased levels of preparedness. And I saw it when COVID happened. Of course, it's always someone is going to criticize. But if we did not invest and did not do all the preparedness in 2005, 6,7 because I used to work in a bird flu and people didn't know what contingency planning is. Now everybody, every nurse knows or every hospital director we we just forget how much we learned. We forget how much we advanced because we think it's not perfect. So those lessons learned are there in the system. They're there. They're there. I will certainly never forget. I mean, this is in my professional life, the COVID pandemic is the biggest thing that ever happened. So, I'll never forget it. And I guess the same for you, right? Yes. Absolutely. Absolutely. There's also many voices saying multilateralism in itself is being challenged and we've seen that over the years and certainly in the current context. Uh um do you agree and if so, do you see any way out? Do you see a future for multilateralism? I see a bright future. Yeah, I see a bright future. And I think if we look in history, even if you look at global health, even pre48, yeah, we have a League of Nation. Yeah. And then even before the League of Nation and every time we invent a new health organization, it gets better and sometimes maybe it goes astray and sometimes maybe it goes a little bit off. But overall I think the trajectory is positive. I've been actually I just remember today because I was talking to colleagues about who about I actually came here 25 years ago uh in 2000 in September. I was on an advisory panel for essential health technology package testing of a software. Imagine 25 years ago and I just remembered, oh yes, I was here and I remember the atmosphere, the type of conversations. I think we evolved and I think yes things can be improved but overall I see great potential and great future and I think this is not the end of multilateralism and I believe that you know we will not only reinvent and renew and you know we will look at this maybe as a period of great learning. M thank you very much for that optimism Leio and I thank you also for joining me here in the studio and sharing your experiences from the field and and good luck with the work in Kyistan and thank you colleagues for watching uh this episode of transforming WH and do stay tuned on this uh channel for upcoming episodes.