Excellencies, dear colleagues and friends, digital health is not about applications, platforms or devices. It's about transforming how health systems serve people more equitably, more effectively and with greater attention to individual needs. When digital systems are designed well and implemented responsibly, they work for people. Health workers are paid on time. People carry their health records with them and access care across borders and governments can track health spending and make sure it reaches the right place at the right time and has the expected result. These are not future aspirations. Their outcomes we're already seeing in many countries, but they require more than innovation. They require alignment between partners, policies and priorities. They require strong foundations in governance, infrastructure, financing and trust. And they require countries to lead their digital health transformation based on national strategies and local systems. That's why the extension and renewal of the global strategy on digital health is so important. It contains actions countries have prioritized for who for partners and for their own digital transformation. Since 2020, we have made significant progress together. 129 countries have now developed national digital health strategies and almost 70 countries have assessed their digital maturity through the global digital health monitor. More than 1,600 government officials have been trained in digital health and artificial intelligence through the global digital health certification network. More than 1.8 billion people in 82 countries now have secure portable access to their health records. WHO is helping countries develop national digital health architecture and governance frameworks. The WHO Science Council has also focused its work on the responsible use of digital technologies in global health. We're supporting the responsible use of artificial intelligence with guidance on ethics, safety, and regulation. And through smart guidelines and capacity building on open standards, we're enabling countries to build locallyowned interoperable solutions. WHO's role is to advance science, to set clear and trusted standards, and to help countries build systems that are resilient, inclusive, and sustainable. Because the only digital transformation worth pursuing is one that leaves no one behind. Together, we must ensure that the use of digital tools to narrow inequities rather than widen them, that data is collected and used ethically and transparently, and that every tool moves us closer to a world where health is not a luxury for some, but a right for all. I thank you.