Thank you. Thank you moderator. I hope you will forgive me if I repeat what uh from what Andrew and Raina said. The repeating is not actually wrong. It will help sync. So you'll allow me to do that. Your Excellency Deputy Prime Minister Frank Vandenbrook, Honorable Minister Christina Lastenburgg, and Dr. Usman Ahmed Mushtak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health Norway and President of the Conference of the Parties, Dr. Raina Roa, and our acting head of the secretariat, Andrew Black. And I join Andrew in thanking Adriana for her leadership. Dear colleagues and friends, tobacco kills more than 7 million people every year. We're so used to saying it that it no longer shocks us, but it should. 7 million people. That's about the population of Hong Kong or Koala Lumpur or Riyad or Baghdad or Santiago or Madrid wiped out every single year. If tobacco were a virus, we would call it a pandemic. Researchers would race to develop vaccines against it. Governments and public health institutions would do everything to prevent its spread to protect people from it and to mitigate its economic, social and environmental impact. Instead, tobacco is a multi-billion dollar industry rewarded by investors and defended by an army of lobbyists. The WHO framework convention on tobacco control is the world's best defense against this unprecedented health threat. And it works. Since the FCTC entered into force 20 years ago, tobacco use has dropped by one/3 globally. Today over 6.1 billion peoples, threearters of the world population are protected by at least one of WHO empowered tobacco control measures compared with just 1 billion in 2007. The world is using less tobacco, but there are still 1.2 billion people who use tobacco in our world. one in five adults. And the industry continues to develop new products to hook new customers and to continue profiting from addiction, disease, and death. The tobacco industry's problem is that it keeps killing its own customers, so it needs to recruit new ones. Schools have become the new battleground where tobacco companies seek to recruit teenagers with bright colors, sweet flavors, and social media influencers. Targeting children with toxic and addictive products is not harm reduction, it's harm production. As I said it earlier in our round table. Thank you. We all have a responsibility to protect our children from these attacks. parents, teachers, activists, legislators, all of us, governments, civil society, all of us. In the face of these threats, the convention remains as relevant as ever. We must continue advocating for its urgent and accelerated implementation. We must continue to be on our guard against the tobacco industry and its tactics even to infiltrate and undermine this meeting of the COP. Let me assure you that I remain personally committed to using the full force of the convention to protect health from the scourge of tobacco. And let me leave you with three key requests. First, we urge all member states who are not yet party to the convention to ratify it. Second, we urge all parties to continue working toward this implementation of the full package of empower interventions at best practice level for all tobacco and nicotine products. And third, we urge all parties to be on their guard against the tobacco industry whose only motivation is to protect profit, not people. Thank you all for your continuing commitment to the WHF CDTC and its implementation. Every death from tobacco is a preventable one. We have the tools to protect people now and in future generations. Let's use them. I thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Tedras for your remarks. It's a pleasure to welcome