The situation is not easy. Uh after the loa foyer uh second wave there was on uh 12th of June another epidemic in in Moravia. The same epidemic spread in Moronia Montero County. Uh the some two weeks ago the situation has deteriorated with four uh more counties affected. Now in total we have six counties that have reported cases and uh the there is another one we have suspected case which is a river but the major problem we should mention here is that we are facing a crossber epidemic affecting three countries so it's not about lean epidemic only and the second issue is that we have an epidemic IC for the first time affecting the capital cities and that makes the situation very difficult to control. In addition to that, we have a problem of denial from the population and uh also traditional barrier practices and funeral rights which expose highly expose people to uh contaminate themselves and they get Ebola virus disease. And they know when we are talking about traditions is not easy to control. The last point is that in Africa when we have something killing quickly suddenly people believe usually that these about uh witchcraft about spiritual issues. Uh in West Africa we talk about juju and that's make the situation not easy. There is another point I I forgot is which is very unusual. The suspected cases and contacts run away and hide from the health workers who are doing contact tracing case finding and that's make also the situation not easy. It's very unusual. Usually in the previous epidemic we don't we did not experience such such situation. Yes, WHO is u actively supporting the government of Liberia, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare in responding to this epidemic. In the first wave, as as we said, we had a team stationed for one month in Foyer Lofa County and that helped to control the epidemi. Uh today we are involved in the coordination area in the epidemological surveillance contact tracing. We're also involved in the case management specifically on infection prevention control training health workers to be aware about this problem and uh as I also forgot to mention that there are so many health workers infected in this epidemic. So we are uh uh training sensitizing them training them and those who have been trained we have to refresh their uh skills so that they know about it and they remain aware. We also supporting social mobilization we have a communication team here from uh from this second wave from headquarters. I should mention that we're also responsible for coordinating other partners for the response. Yes, we need to increase human resource capacity because originally we had only two counties affected. That's and Monserado with one case or two in Margi and we are coping with that but now we have six counties affected in the area of epidemics surveillance to make sure that contact tracing are followup the information is shared on time and and the flow appropriately and share with partners. Uh we need to uh make sure that all the cases that are uh uh reported are put under treatment center followed up uh appropriately to in increase chances of survivals survival. We need also to have enough social mobilization especially those who are doing interpersonal communication and some having even some good negotiation skills and have anthropologist to interpret this kind of reaction from population where people run away from from the communities move from their homes going somewhere So we need more expertise. We need also of course additional financial resources to make sure that the operation is well conducted, people go on time and where the problem is having a few and some uh facilitation terms of DSA. Uh what we need is to increase um the disinfectant chlorine and uh also u we need to to order for more uh PPS but I received a message today that headquarters want to send us additional PPS and the those are basically the thing we we need but it's also important to to improve preparedness in the non-affected counties. And for that we need to to provide more uh information, more flyers, sending an advanced team to to make sure the information is there and avoid uh those counties to be uh affected by the aba epidemic.