The devastating 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa prompted changes in the way the world responds to Ebola and other health emergencies. \hOne of the lessons learned from West Africa is that disease outbreaks often move faster than the money allocated to respond to them. WHO set up the Rapid Response Fund so that money is immediately available to jump-start an outbreak response. And in 2016, WHO streamlined its emergencies structure into a single programme. These changes bring speed and predictability to WHO’s emergency work. In recent outbreaks of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, other things are also being done differently. Experience with past epidemics highlights the need, and the importance of research as an integral element of the response to any epidemic. The Research and Development Blueprint is a global strategy and preparedness plan that allows the rapid activation of research activities during epidemics. When someone is sick, they want to know what they have as quickly as possible. Faster results mean faster access to care, and a better chance of survival. A rapid diagnosis also helps responders understand where the disease is spreading. A yet to be licensed vaccine (rVSV ZEBOV GP) to protect against Ebola is being used and has likely saved thousands of lives. A ring vaccination strategy targeting families and communities who are most at risk has protected many from Ebola and has contributed to stop Ebola from spreading. Since the West Africa outbreak, the care provided to Ebola patients has improved dramatically. Ebola patients have access to life saving experimental therapies. The Ebola Treatment Centres are using two highly effective and well researched new treatments in addition to optimal supportive care. The earlier the treatment, the better the outcome. Ebola survivors need support for the health and psychosocial challenges they face. All survivors are offered enrollment in a program that provides clinical, biological and psychosocial support. Many survivors also contribute to the response, working in Ebola care and in community outreach. Now, what I have to do is to make my parish aware that this virus exists, And they have to accept, in case they are sick, to go quickly to the hospital, like I did. And then they will be able to return, like I did, to the community. The community knows best what their challenges are, and how to work together to combat Ebola. Teams work with heads of families, religious leaders, school teachers and communities to find solutions to end the outbreak. The global health community increasingly recognizes the importance of proactive and coordinated research as well as product development efforts. These efforts - when taken before or during epidemics can save lives. WHO is in the field. WHO will continue to support the Ministry of Health to stop this outbreak. So we are motivated we will never leave, we will stay until the end of this outbreak.