All of Germany thanks WHU and its Director General for the important work done in recent months to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. This is a global pandemic and requires global solidarity and a global response. We will only defeat this virus globally, or not at all. Therefore, a political effort is crucial. And I, as Germany's Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development, say this quite deliberately. This is not only a health crisis with three million deaths, but also a dramatic economic and financial crisis that has exacerbated and triggered hunger and poverty in many developing countries. We expect or will suffer two million additional deaths this year on the African continent alone, not from the virus, but from the lockdown, from disrupted supply chains of medicines, and from missed vaccinations against tuberculosis, AIDS, and malaria. International solidarity and aid are necessary here, and we must not retreat into ourselves. In Europe, in the wealthy countries, the situation is appalling. The Director General's statement today that 70 percent of current vaccine doses are unavailable and will help in ten In the richest countries of the world, this is not the solidarity that will stop this virus. Not only African countries are particularly hard hit, but also Latin America, the Caribbean, the Pacific, small islands, Mexico, Peru – to name just a few. The economic impact is dramatic; in Africa alone, 300 million jobs would be lost, a financial crisis, a stability crisis. That's why I say again: the virus will only be defeated globally, or not. A multilateral strategy and international solidarity are necessary. Thanks again to BHU Gabi; with Kovacs and the Axxelerate, a structure is in place. This is great work that has been done. The structure is there, even in the poorest countries of the world, to implement vaccination campaigns worldwide. The goal is that we support Germany and the European Union in becoming even more committed than before. To vaccinate 25 percent of the people in developing countries this year as well – that is possible. Currently, the necessary doses are lacking, but by increasing production...  This can be achieved, but 25 billion euros are still needed to finance this global vaccination campaign, which also includes testing, treatment, and diagnostics. Germany recently increased its contribution by 1.5 billion euros through the Chancellor. I urge the international community, including the European Union, to close this 25 billion euro gap as quickly as possible. When we consider the national aid and recovery programs we are launching in the European Union, for example, an economic recovery program of 1 trillion euros, then the European Union's solidarity contribution of one billion euros is insufficient. The international community, which is also dependent on the Arab countries, China, Russia, and America, which has rejoined the UK, must now act decisively, not because of the 1990s with HIV when the poor were left behind. That was not only deeply inhumane, but it also has repercussions for us. I say again: we will only fight and win if we defeat the pandemic worldwide, and that includes what is being said directly in the Council.  Again, fair access to vaccines for all, and the financing and global cooperation are important. Many thanks, thank you very much, Operations and Development.