Mr. President of the World Health Assembly, Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations, Heads of State and Government, Mr. Director-General of the WHO, I want to thank you for inviting me to open this 73rd World Health Assembly with you. This session is undoubtedly one of the most important in the history of the World Health Organization. It must be a moment of unity and solidarity, but also of clear-sightedness and action in the face of the unprecedented global crisis we are all experiencing. Let us remember what led to the founding of the WHO in 1948: to build a new world where everyone can enjoy better health, because that is the fundamental right of every human being. Let us also remember the progress made since then, all that we have been able to accomplish together with the World Health Assembly and all global health stakeholders in service of this objective: increased life expectancy, a reduction in infant mortality, the eradication of deadly diseases like smallpox—the fight that remains. As for him, against tuberculosis, malaria, and HIV, for expanding access to medicines and vaccinations, for strengthening health systems, the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted our lives and societies, brought our economies to a standstill, and revealed our vulnerabilities. It has also reminded us, if necessary, of the immense value of human health and those who care for it. In this year dedicated by the WHO to midwives and nurses, I wish to salute all those who are on the front lines every day caring for others, sometimes at the risk of their lives, as the horrific attack on a maternity ward in Afghanistan tragically demonstrated just a few days ago. So, while healthcare workers are fighting the pandemic, while the populations of all our countries are facing it with courage, we have no right to be divided, we have no right to shirk our responsibilities. We have a collective duty to be effective. The absolute priority, the only one that matters, is to overcome this pandemic. Each of us carries within us a part of the solution, and organizations International specialized funds, civil society organizations, pharmaceutical industries, development banks, citizens: it is only by joining forces that we will overcome this pandemic. We need the WHO for its irreplaceable coordinating role, its scientific expertise, and its knowledge of the field. We need a strong WHO in the face of COVID- 19, and the MSC—its member states— it is therefore up to us to enable it to play its full role in the international response to pandemics. This is why France decided a few days ago to substantially increase the financial support provided to our organization. This is why, alongside the WHO, our European partners, and all global health stakeholders, we launched the ACTA initiative to massively support research, accelerate development, and enable universal access to the means of fighting the pandemic. Because yes, a vaccine, if discovered against COVID-19, will be a global public good to which everyone must have access. It is a matter of effectiveness as long as the disease remains the reality for a few.  It will be a threat to everyone; it's a matter of principle. Human health is not up for debate, nor can it be reserved or bought. Europe is fully committed to building the international response to the pandemic. On May 4th, the financing conference organized by the European Commission mobilized €7.5 billion to support ACTA's objectives with its international partners. In this session, Europe is presenting a robust response to strengthen the application of the International Health Regulations, improve emergency response and alert systems, and bolster research. We must better understand, with transparency and a spirit of cooperation, the crisis we are facing and learn all the lessons from it, thus improving our response. We must look squarely and rigorously at what has worked and what hasn't in the international management of the crisis. We have the opportunity to provide a united response to the pandemic, without complacency or unfounded accusations. United, demanding, and clear-sighted—that is our responsibility. I call upon all members of this assembly to act responsibly and take action on behalf of those who have  presided over the founding of our organization and in the name of a fundamental human right, hope