Cassis and that seven Your Excellencies, dear colleagues, good morning. I would like to welcome you to the signing ceremony of the agreement between the World Health Organization and the International Organisation of the Francophonie. The agreement was approved by the Health Assembly in May by resolution W/H and 74 points. Thank you for joining us. We have here, Madam Secretary General of the Francophonie, Madam Louise Mushikiwabo, and the Director- General of the WHO, Dr. Ross. The floor is yours. Thank you, Mr. Ivana. Your Excellency, my dear sister Louise Mushikiwabo, dear colleagues at Arm Thunder, dear friends, good morning everyone. It is a pleasure for me to welcome you again to finalize the agreement between the World Health Organization and the Francophonie, adopted by the World Health Assembly this year. This agreement is the next step in strengthening the already 30-year relationship between our two organizations, based, of course, on the Memorandum of Understanding that we signed in April. Lakovic 19, as you  As you know, this has highlighted the need for international cooperation. The Francophonie's commitment to peace, human rights, and democracy makes it an ideal partner for the MS. I would especially like to emphasize EDF's commitment to this issue. It's not just about the pandemic; it's about much more than that, since you were very involved in malaria prevention. We will continue to work together not only on malaria but also on universal health coverage and the Water Academy in Metz. We know that many Francophone countries have suffered greatly from the pandemic and remain vulnerable due to a lack of access to vaccines. The goal of the "Bitter Taste" initiative is to vaccinate 40% of the population of each country by the end of this year and 70% by mid-2011. 22 countries, including many Francophone countries, are at risk of not reaching this 40% vaccination target. I would like to take this opportunity to urge Francophone countries that have already reached this target to step aside. From them, actions, and measures, this solidarity that we need to overcome this is not stupid. We also know that COVID-19 is just one of the many health crises your countries are facing. The mayor has pledged to support all Francophone countries in responding to the pandemic, but also in building more resilient health systems and addressing the many health needs of your populations. As we respond to this pandemic, we must learn the lessons we are learning from it and make every effort to prevent any crisis of this nature and magnitude. We are seeking the support of the Francophonie for a treaty on pandemic preparedness and response, which will be the subject of the special session of the World Health Assembly later this month. Together, we have the opportunity to shape the future we want, a future that is much safer, much fairer, and healthier. Thank you again to the Francophonie for your leadership and partnership. I thank my sister Louise. We will continue and we look forward to working with you in the coming month and the following months.  years to come to fulfill the mission, the laws to promote health in the world and protect the most vulnerable. Thank you very much, thank you, thank you Dr. Ross. I would now like to give the floor to Her Excellency Mrs. Louise Mushikiwabo for her introductory remarks. Thank you very much. Here, the Director-General and the entire team of the MS, first of all, for this warm welcome. But if the Director-General of the World Health Organization, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, sir, madam, ambassadors of our member states of the Francophonie, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, on April 14th, I signed in these same premises with the Director-General of the WHO, Dr. Tedros, my brother and long-time friend, and with your participation, the Memorandum of Understanding between the MS and the OIF. On that occasion, we announced that this memorandum would be strengthened by a cooperation agreement between our two organizations. I am therefore happy to see this shared wish realized today, which will result in the signing in the coming minutes of  Regarding this important document, I would like to thank the Francophone Ambassadors Group in Geneva for their efforts, which contributed to the adoption of this agreement by the World Health Assembly last May. In accordance with the rules governing the World Health Assembly, this adoption was a necessary prerequisite for the signing of this agreement by our two organizations. This is my first time addressing the Francophone Ambassadors Group since the establishment of its new bureau. I commend its president, His Excellency Mr. Makaila Arman, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Republic of Chad. I would also like to highlight the remarkable work accomplished by the outgoing president, Her Excellency Ms. Lise Lene Holten, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Canada. I wish to reiterate that the memorandum signed in April 2021 will allow the Francophonie to contribute to the promotion and protection of fundamental rights, among which, as the Director-General mentioned earlier, the right to health is a fundamental right. This is precisely about contributing, alongside the World Health Assembly, to development.  of social protection and universal access to public health services in the Francophone world and our demands, it is certain that the OIF does not implement public health projects on the ground, but it will provide political and diplomatic support for the accomplishment of certain missions entrusted to it. The OIF has relied more specifically on the promotion of the French language and multilingualism to strengthen equity in access to information and training, particularly in the field of health, and in this regard I thank the President of the French Republic and the Director- General of the OIF for the honor they bestowed upon me by associating the Francophonie with the installation ceremony of the MSA Academy in Lyon on September 27th. I salute our colleague and sister Agnès Buzyn, who is therefore at the head of this academy. The OIF's support to the OIF, the Director-General, will also focus on advocacy for universal health coverage as well as the fight against malaria.  And I heard you clearly regarding support for banks being treated. So what is the role of this agreement that I will sign in a moment with Dr. Tedros? First, it will offer, on the one hand, a real legal and political framework for the implementation of the actions outlined in the memorandum, and on the other hand, it will allow us to now benefit from observer status in the WHO bodies. Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, returning to Geneva for the signing of this agreement also renews for me the commitment of our organization to the fight against the pandemic, which unfortunately continues. Indeed, nearly two years after its emergence, the COVID-19 pandemic remains a public health emergency worldwide— I repeat, an emergency. It is therefore our duty to take more appropriate measures and stronger commitments, to remain vigilant. To do this, it seems essential that we intensify our efforts, particularly around three axes: firstly, strengthening the coordination of international action in the face of the pandemic, of course under the aegis of  The WHO believes it is essential to strengthen our collective action in support of the COVID-19 and COVID-19 mechanisms. On this point, I would like to commend the new strategic plan launched on October 28th to revitalize the vaccine accelerator. Secondly, the intensification of international solidarity for equitable access to vaccines is crucial. Solidarity is a fundamental value of the Francophonie. Our organization, having overcome the challenge of vaccine development, now requires the international community to mobilize even more to ensure their equitable distribution. Despite the actions deployed so far, access to vaccines remains a distant prospect for many of our Francophone countries and other countries around the world. To date, of the 6 billion doses of vaccine administered worldwide, only 0.4 percent have been given to low-income countries. We have many in the Francophonie, so we must intensify our efforts to bridge this gap, and we will do so together. We will be safe from this pandemic when all countries in the world are vaccinated.  Regarding its population, I also emphasize the importance we must place on local vaccine production, and in this regard, I commend the efforts of the European Union and the Bayonne TIC company, which is one example, in support of three African countries that are manufacturing vaccines. I congratulate the three countries already engaged in this process: South Africa, Senegal, and, of course, Rwanda. I also commend the commitment made by the G20 states at their last summit in Rome, which has facilitated the export of tools to combat COVID-19 and the delivery of vaccines. Thirdly, our action must be based on the full appropriation by the states of the Francophone space of the agreement between the Head of State and the Minister of Health. This agreement, which we are signing in a moment, is truly a catalyst and a mobilizer for the Francophonie, and that is why I encourage our member states to take up this text to intensify, at the national level, advocacy for equitable access to healthcare for all, as well as to vaccines. I am convinced that this is Only through our collective efforts will we succeed in overcoming this pandemic and thus create the conditions for a sustainable economic recovery and labor market revival. But if the Director General, Sheikh, colleagues, I thank you for your attention, thank you, thank you, Madam Mushikiwabo, Dr. Ross, Madam Mushikiwabo, I would like to invite you now to sign the agreement. So thank you. Thank you, thank you very much. I would now like to invite His Excellency Ambassador M'Aqaïda Ahmad, Master Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, Permanent Representative of Chad, to give an address on behalf of the group of Francophonie Ambassadors in Geneva. But if the Ambassador, you have the floor, thank you very much, Madam, Madam, General Sector of the Francophonie, Mr. Director-General of the World Health Organization, Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, it is an honor, it is truly an honor to speak today on behalf of the group of Francophone Ambassadors in Geneva at this ceremony marking  The signing of the cooperation agreement between the World Health Organization and our joint organization, the International Organisation of the on behalf of GAFE, I would like to particularly thank Ms. Terry, Director General of the Francophonie, Her Excellency Ms. Louise Mushikiwabo, and the Director-General of the WHO, Dr. Doug Ross, for including us in this important ceremony. Indeed, as Ms. Lasteyrie reminded us, it was last April during the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the WHO and Louis F. It was clearly emphasized that this joint commitment between the two organizations would be strengthened through the establishment of a dedicated political and legal framework, and I believe that today this has been accomplished. The signing of this cooperation agreement gives substance to this commitment, which will thus allow the WHO and its constituent organizations to have a clear and precise basis for implementing the actions outlined in its memorandum. On behalf of GAFE, I would like to acknowledge this decisive step in the commitment to  Our two organizations will intensify their cooperation in support of developing social protection and universal access to public health services within the Francophone community. This shared objective is all the more relevant given the international context marked by the COVID-19 pandemic. It is therefore more crucial than ever for us and this type of cooperation to strengthen the partnerships necessary for a renewed multilateralism, which we wholeheartedly support. Indeed, the fight against the pandemic and its economic and social consequences requires strengthened, coordinated, and inclusive partnership action from the international community. Rest assured, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, that the group of Francophone ambassadors from Geneva and Vaud will play its part in this collective endeavor. It is in this spirit that the group is engaged and fully mobilized, in line with what the Secretary General said a moment ago. Of course, our organization may not be primarily dedicated to health issues, but since we cannot do anything without good health, diplomatic actions are obviously part of our work, but not in this particular sense.  I hope this will contribute to giving particular resonance to this document, which has just been assigned by Dr. Tadros and the General Sector of the OIF, Ms. Mushikiwabo. I am convinced that my colleagues who may speak after the signing of this agreement will further enrich this brief statement that I wished to share with you on behalf of the group of Francophone ambassadors in Geneva. Thank you. Now I would like to ask our moderator, Mr. Martin Co, to manage the requests to speak from member states on our virtual platform. Thank you. I invite the speaker, who will be followed by the Ambassador of Burkina Faso, to speak. We are trying to reconnect with the Ambassador of Armenia. Now I give the floor to Ms. Sader of Burkina Faso, who will be followed by, according to her, riots from Cameroon to Burkina Faso. You have the floor. A doctor, like the siren of the international organization, France, yes, but on the Director-General of the World Health Organization, dear colleagues, ladies.  Gentlemen, I would like to address the entire world in welcoming this important ceremony that brings us together and express my satisfaction that this cooperation, which has been in place since yesterday, is becoming formalized and concrete. The aim is to pool and coordinate efforts, promote health for all, and strengthen multilingualism for five new countries. The World Health Organization congratulates us on this initiative, which provides a formal framework for strengthening advocacy with Francophone countries on health issues, particularly regarding the maintenance of universal health coverage, primary healthcare, and the development of the Congo. These three areas are of interest to the country, which pays a heavy price for the loss of human lives. Initially, we did not have access to kitchens and essential fields, especially in rural areas. It is also important to remember that health is a driving force, along with other development issues, hence its importance. Madam, the ICCAT General, Mr. Director General, allow me to enable the entire country to have access to the working document for the meetings of the quarter, with interpretation in the languages. Official bonuses, particularly from France, have certainly improved the achievement of its objective as an organization and boosted the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals by leaving no one behind in order to fully participate in the safeguards and decisions on health issues, including those of the WHO and the film's leaders at the global level. My delegation welcomed the progress made by this cooperation agreement between Hermès and Grievances, or Gay, or full participation in the discussions on clothing. We are... it is not necessary to recall that not having documents in the language of Choutia or not having the deputation at the 17th meeting, even informal, Kiki Pottas Paniz, the decision-making process leads to a huge loss of efficiency and also the ring road, to qualify it as the World Health Organization. We hope that all training will be in French in order to allow greater participation from Francophone countries. I reiterated my congratulations to Ms. Gina of the International Organisation of the Francophonie and Mr. Director General of the World Health Organization for the signing of this cooperation agreement.  I would like to express my wishes. Dubois succeeded in the disorganization during the exposure. I thank you, and finally, thank you. I invite the Ambassador of Rwanda, who will be followed by the Ambassador of Tunisia, to the table. This is Dr. Tadros, Madam Secretary General of Liège, my sister Louise Mushikiwabo. Dear colleague, Madam and Gentlemen, I would like to add my message from the President of the Group of Francophone Ambassadors, our colleague His Excellency Makaila Ahmad, to the message of my colleague who just spoke before me. I congratulate you on the leadership of the WHO and the OIF, where the cooperation agreement that has just been signed has solidified the decision taken at the 74th session yesterday. It goes without saying that this agreement falls within the framework of a new networked multilateralism at the service of the health we need, since currently my country, Rwanda, as a member of the two signatory organizations of this agreement, will spare no effort to  Contributing to its implementation, once again we congratulate the head and the MS for this agreement and I wish you a good day and thank you for your kind attention. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I would like to invite the Ambassador of Tunisia, which will be followed by that of the air mass of phrases. Your Excellency, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, it is with immense pleasure and honor that I can take part today in this ceremony to celebrate together this union sealed between two ordinations to which Tunisia and the world are strongly attached. I wish, on this exceptional occasion, to express our joy at welcoming you here to Geneva, dear Madam Louise Mushikiwabo, and to thank you for the tireless efforts you are making to defend and promote the interests and values ​​of the Francophonie. Allow me also to pay tribute to the considerable efforts of the World Health Organization under the visionary leadership of Dr. Tedros to advance international cooperation and bring all the highest levels of access to health, a fundamental human right, as you well know.  Madam, we are delighted with the prospects for this project.  Active collaboration and cooperation activities cover this memorandum of understanding signed last April, as well as the action plan concluded today in various areas of common interest, particularly within the framework of the Euro Academy. But what universal health coverage and primary healthcare—this framework, which provides for the strengthening of cooperation based on regular consultations and the participation of both organizations in the actions and initiatives they undertake—will allow them to be at the forefront of the rich debates held within their walls, and which will undoubtedly add value for all members. I would like to emphasize that Tunisia is at the disposal of both organizations to advance this cooperation and to make its active contribution to other future projects and initiatives. I cannot conclude his referral. Tunisia will host the 50th Francophonie Summit in November 2022. In this case, I thank you, Madam Secretary General, for your constant collaboration and unwavering support for Tunisia. It is Tunisia which, in a context  The difficult economic situation is exceptional; it is strongly deployed to make the organization's fiftieth anniversary a memorable event and to allow its organization under optimal conditions. The postponement of this summit, decided by consensus, will be used to ensure greater participation and to deepen discussions between member states regarding the expected results, particularly concerning cooperation in the economic, cultural, and new technology fields, which have demonstrated, during the pandemic and lockdowns, a great contribution to advancing knowledge and exchanges between people. Thank you for coming, thank you for being among us, thank you Mr. G. Salary. I now give the floor to Albert Lam, salaries in France, who will be followed by the man who said that Switzerland, Mr. Director-General, Madam Secretary-General, dear friends, I would first like to express my congratulations to the Secretary- General of the WHO for the signing of this important agreement, which, as several of my colleagues have noted, marks significant progress in taking into account the Francophone dimension of the world through the action of the World Health Organization. This dimension is extremely important to  The WHO is certainly involved, but more generally, within the entire global health system, so that Francophone countries can fully participate in all the programs deployed to ensure health during this time of fighting the pandemic. I would also like to take this opportunity to reaffirm, if necessary, France's commitment to accelerating universal vaccination and improving the treatment of pandemics. The President of the Republic has said it and reiterated it: we are currently distributing 120 million doses free of charge throughout the world, and in particular to our Francophone friends and brothers, so that universal vaccination becomes a reality. Furthermore, we are committed, through the working group, to ensuring that the idea of ​​a treaty against pandemics moves forward quickly. And a treaty, of course, implies contractual obligations for all the states that decide on it. Finally, Mr. Director-General, Madam Secretary- General, I would like to express both our joy at being together and our regret at not being able to raise a glass of friendship together. We hope to be able to do so on another occasion, and I reiterate France's congratulations to all those who took the initiative for this agreement.  which marks the commitment of the Francophonie to health for all. Thank you, sir. I now give the floor to the Ambassador of Switzerland, who will be followed by the Ambassador of Cameroon. Dear colleagues, I would first like to thank you for including us in this ceremony. I would especially like to welcome the Director General of the OIF here in Geneva. It is always a great pleasure. We also have the world's capitals where diplomacy is still Francophone. Switzerland is very pleased with this close cooperation between Liège and the WHO, as well as with the seven agreements that you have just outlined. Regarding the role of the OIF in relation to the global pandemic, I can only emphasize what has already been said by my colleagues. It seems that water can play a particularly important role when it comes to the page and as an operational arm in the Francophone world. It is also part of the package, but it can also be a resource of 2.2 translators and explain to the population concerned the programs and initiatives such as those of the WHO. to strengthen the confidence of its populations, we have that one, and that's where I see a particular role. Thank you again. We will associate, thank you to our soldiers. I would now like to invite mystery guests from Canada, who was to be followed by the Vietnamese ambassador. I would sincerely like to greet, on behalf of my country, like its predecessors, the collective concert has just done so. Greetings to the synergy of action between Noyelles-lès-Metz, which, through this agreement signed by the SPPE, were generally Mushikiwabo, that we were going to, and Mr. Director General of Eidos, that we will never be, in effect, the site is vital. This agreement will also cover rents and the most important challenges, which is the challenge of universal health, the waiting lines, all. I would like in this regard to emphasize the firm commitment and consult my country for constant support for the full success of this commitment that has just been made. Through us, have it through the web, where all our states, where a tent and universal where it was necessary. Thank you, thank you, Mr. Lâm, his land. I now invite the ambassador of  Vietnam, calling for the floor, I am pleased. Vietnam congratulates the General Secretariat of the Francophonie and Regina de la Messe for the signing of this excellent cooperation agreement between the two organizations. Vietnam would like to thank the Metz Water Authority and the Dr. Ross Interregional Center for the support they have given to Vietnam so far, especially in their local area, in the fight against COVID- 19. Vietnam also thanks all members of the OCF for their support and technical assistance to Vietnam during the pandemic, as well as the cooperative links between Vietnam and other OCF members. We want to reiterate our very strong commitment to cooperation with the OCF and all other OIE members. This cooperation is aimed at promoting the very noble objective of the WHO, which is in particular equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines and other tools in the fight against COVID-19. As information, at the beginning of this month, our Prime Minister officially visited France.  and to visit and take this opportunity to visit the Secretary General of the Francophonie. Thank you so much for this opportunity to witness the signing of this very important agreement between the two organizations, whose members and we work to promote the objectives of this disinformation campaign. Thank you so much, Madam Ambassador. I would now like to invite the representative of the Embassy of Gabon. She adapts: Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, Gabon is honored to take part in this memorable event, which marks the signing of this cooperation agreement between the OIF and two organizations, each of which plays a key role in the promotion of human rights. As has been emphasized before me, the conclusion of this agreement follows a process launched in April 2021 with the signing of a memorandum of understanding aimed at providing a more formal structure for cooperation between the two organizations. My delegation, which welcomes the signing of this agreement, expects to see initiatives developed between the two organizations on the promotion of fundamental rights, such as the right to health and support. education and training, incentives for economic cooperation for sustainable development, and improved visibility of the French language within the framework of respect for multilingualism, to which both are very committed, such initiatives will undoubtedly have an impact on the lives of the 900 million people living in the OCF member territories, 274 million of whom are Francophone. We are indeed hopeful that this agreement will allow us to better define and strengthen cooperation between the two organizations on issues relating to the water academy, universal health coverage, primary healthcare, and malaria, but that these are of great interest to the populations of the OCF member territories. A large number of them live in countries where health facilities are under construction. I cannot conclude my remarks without this. I commend the interest that the Secretary-General gives to equitable access to the vaccine against COVID-19 worldwide and in Francophone countries in particular. Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I see no other requests to speak. I give you the floor. Our thanks to the Francophone countries for your support. We now move on to the final part of this ceremony. Madam Secretary-General, the floor is yours for your concluding remarks. Thank you very much. I don't have much more to say. I would like to sincerely thank the group of Francophone ambassadors for their words of encouragement, their observations, and their suggestions for initiatives undertaken jointly with the message. I thank the Ambassador of Burkina Faso, the Ambassador of Rwanda, the Ambassador of Tunisia, the Ambassador of France, the Ambassador of Switzerland, the Ambassador of Cameroon, the Ambassador of Vietnam, and the Ambassador of Gabon. You will have noticed, Mr. Director-General, that there is quite a number of female ambassadors within the group of Francophone ambassadors. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, let us bring this agreement to life. Let us get to work to support the actions and initiatives of the WHO. This is what ultimately benefits our countries and our people. We have spoken of the need to continue our advocacy efforts.  And regarding mobilization on the issue of vaccine equity, once again Mr. Director General, we have taken note, and I think we can do what we want today: to work very closely with the Ministry of Health, particularly on this issue of the treaty against the pandemic. I think the capacity for mobilization and the capacity to campaign for such important action by the Francophonie is real, and I therefore invite all our ambassadors to mobilize with us, the OIF, with our operators, with your states which already have a privileged relationship with the Ministry of Health, but collectively, as a bloc, we assure you of the collective action of the Francophonie in support of the urgent actions of the moment on the issue of the pandemic, under the issue of the fight against malaria, and of course on this treaty, which is a commitment from all of our states. Furthermore, allow me to commend the establishment within the group of Francophone ambassadors of the coordination mechanism on health and employment, which addresses actions and issues at the heart of current international affairs. I sincerely thank the Geneva Ambassadors. I am speaking to you.  For some time now, the digital application of the Francophone Ambassadors Group has been in development, and the good news is that we are just a few weeks away from its launch. Beyond the existence of this application, which will connect all Francophone Ambassadors worldwide, I promised the very mobilized and active members of the Geneva Francophone Ambassadors Group that I would return to Geneva in person to launch this application. You will be contacted soon by our External Representations Service to organize this, hopefully at the beginning of the year. This application will therefore be available by mid-December. So, Mr. Ambassador of France, enjoy your cup of Gardella coffee, or perhaps that bottle of Gardella, chilled. I will be back here to launch this application with you, hoping that the pandemic will cooperate. We will use this Francophone Ambassadors application, which is one of the objectives for these important campaigns, alongside our partner organization, the World Health Organization. Mr. Director-General Jeremy Tedros and all your colleagues, I thank you once again for this moment of unity.  And regarding communication, I thank once again the group of ambassadors of the Francophonie in Geneva. Thank you, see you soon. Thank you, Madam Secretary General Dr. Ross. It's up to you to discover the meeting. Thank you to Madam Secretary General, the Francophonie, Mr. Ambassador Makela Ahmad, Permanent Representative of Chad and President of the GAVE, as well as all the Francophone men who participated in this ceremony. And I would like to join my sister in thanking you for your kind words, not only that, but for all the support you have given us since the launch in April of the memorandum, through the decision of the World Health Assembly, the official relations that we had begun, and now the signing. Throughout this whole process, you have been with us, and we are infinitely grateful. Thank you very much. Regarding the agreement, as my sister has already said, we are focusing, of course, on the main aspects, such as comprehensive health coverage, primary healthcare, and malaria, which remains the major problem, as well as the Water Academy. But it is through the Academy of...  Water in Metz would truly be the center of multilingualism. We must promote multilingualism effectively, and that's why the use of the WHO Academy is expressly mentioned in our body. This signifies that, and I would also like to thank you, my sister, for your support in advocating for vaccine equity and for the treaty. I hope that all the Francophone ambassadors will help advance this program. Finally, I would like to say that, based on this agreement, we will develop an action plan. We will have dialogues on a regular basis to continue implementing the actions identified based on this agreement. This ongoing dialogue will, of course, concern monitoring what has been agreed upon, but it can also be a strategic dialogue. In my opinion, this partnership is a long-term partnership, and I would like to ask the supporters of Corte to continue to provide their support so that this agreement is successful. Once again, thank you so much, and I would like to wish us a successful partnership.  I believe this needs to change. Our French-speaking countries have the support you give, Alois Metz, to serve the people we are here to serve. Thank you very much.