What if we told you that change begins with unity and that unity can save lives? Unity isn't just a word, it's a lifeline. In a time marked by climate change, the relentless grip of the CO 19 pandemic, and a surge of global emergencies, the chronic neglect of mental health and psychosocial support services in emergency preparedness has never been more evident. In Estonia, the Ministry of Social Affairs is leading the way in strengthening MHPSS services nationally. In Estonia, the Ministry of Social Affairs is taking a proactive stance. Faced with unforeseen challenges posed by the CO9 pandemic and the arrival of Ukrainian refugees, we started strengthening MHPS services in collaboration with WH and other partners. Working with the Estonian Ministry of Social Affairs has been very pleasant. Their strong leadership and strategic vision, but also their openness has made it easy for the international organizations to support them. Our collaboration has been agile and very practical. Our approach is holistic involving capacity building for first responders, mapping MSPSS actors and hosting conferences, drafting government level work plans and Estonia is also one of the pioneers in forming an MHPSS coordination group as part of its emergency preparedness strategy. planning of the MH strategy. It has been a very fruitful and pleasant time of cooperation. Even though the circumstances and reasons why we started to work together were awful, but this suffering is very close to the hearts of Estonian people. It is our experience that every person in Estonia would benefit from a pastoral approach in MHPSS response as then the dignity of human being is held in the highest regard. I believe it was very important that the mapping of local NOS's who are offering MHPSS services to refugees was carried out and uh thanks to the network of MHPSS actors, we have been able to form cooperation projects with other NOS's to work towards the same aims. It definitely enables a more effective and more coordinated reaction to the current and future crisis. 33 organizations participated in the MHPSS mapping. This helped to get a better picture of who is doing what and where and to whom, but also where do we have gaps that need strengthening. That's not all. In June, together with WH and UN agencies, we organized a successful multis sectoral MHPSS conference followed by multiple workshops. It helped to create a network of experts from different sectors in Estonia. Gave them a platform to share their experiences, joys, challenges, and to learn from each other. But all this is just the beginning for us. There is lots more to do to be prepared as well as possible for real crisis situations. Estonia's story of change demonstrates the power of collaboration in strengthening MHPSS preparedness. Together they have created a resilient system ready to support their community in times of need. When the first crisis hit, Estonia did not have a strategic approach for supporting the psychosoccietal well-being as a whole. Yet now, Estonia has managed to map out the possible resources, bring all the counterparts together, create one of the first governmentally working crisis systems to support people in need of psychosocial support. Change is happening. Unity and preparation are the keys. This is Estonia's story of change. A testament to the power of unity and adaptation in strengthening mental health and psychosocial preparedness and support. Transforming lives and building resilience one step at a time.