Hello and welcome to another episode of Transforming WH, a series of video interviews where I talk to colleagues inside WHO and outside about the work we do and how we transform And uh when you see this, it's actually a pre-recorded interview that we are doing uh in the corridors of the World Health Assembly which is currently taking place here in Geneva. And so we've set up a temporary studio for the interviews here in Geneva. And today I'm very happy to be joined here in the studio by Katrina Marie Loft who's uh who's the chair of the program budget and administration committee uh of the WHO. It's the so-called Pback Committee, which is a subcommittee of the executive board and one of the most important governing bodies of WHO. We'll get get back to what the Peback is doing, but thank you very much, Katrina, for joining me here in the studio or for for taking the time in your very busy schedule to talk to me. Thank you. Really interesting to say something about my experience here from the WHO. Yeah, and we'll get to that, but first a little bit about yourself, Katrina. So, you are by background a medical doctor. You trained in endocrinology. I believe but then fairly early in your career you went into leadership. I think along the way you also did some management and administration uh degree. So you sort of have a double hat of medical and and management and then you became leader of course in endocrinology but early also CMO in Oslo University Hospital that was a merger of various big hospitals in in Oslo and then eventually the CEO of the big uh regional authority taking care of healthcare in southeastern uh Norway and then in 2021 you took up your current position of secretary general in the Ministry of Health and Social Services in Norway. Yeah, that's correct. Anything I forgot in your impressive career? That's quite impressive that you knew all those things about me because that's correct. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then you were elected to the executive board of WHO. Uh actually I used to serve on that uh executive board as well. So I kind of I followed you, you know. You did it. Yeah. From the Nordic countries. Exactly. And then you've been elected chair of the peback committee which I just just mentioned which is a committee of the EB where you s where basically looking at program budget and management stuff and that's an very important uh committee and as chair of the peback you have been basically leading the current process where we are in a the biggest crisis I think in our history in WHO the withdrawal of the United States also withdrawing a lot of funding so we lost our biggest donor So you had to lead the negotiations on downsizing our program budget and and that has been adopted by the health assembly now and the other day. Congratulations on that. Thank you. But that was I imagine a fairly difficult process because we came from a draft program budget of 5.3 billion US for 2 years and now it's down to 4.2 as a reduction of more than 20%. That's a huge reduction from also where we were. You had to negotiate between some member states who want an aspirational hopeful program budget and then others maybe your own who wants more realism in in the program budget that started already back in January when you had the peback meeting. Can you speak a little bit to how that process was? Yeah, that was a quite an interesting uh and process. But first of all, I will say that that the process and the consensus we achieved uh shows that uh it's possible to to work together uh and multilateral work uh is possible. uh and I think one of the biggest challenges um is the different expectations as you mentioned uh while Norway and my own perspective uh and my own experience by running the biggest hospitals in Norway is that you need realistic uh budget uh based on available funds whilst in WHO and and for that sake other uh UN organizations as well you have this aspirational budget. Yeah, based on the needs and I think we we need to find uh something in between there. Um and I think Peback had some good discussions on on finding that uh something in between. Uh and maybe we should explain to the people watching this that when we decide a program budget in WHO which was just decided by the health assembly for 26 and 27 for $4.2 billion US, it doesn't mean we have the money. No, it doesn't mean we have the money. It means we can spend the money if we get it right. So, it's not like a budget when you run a hospital. If you run a hospital in that way, it wouldn't work. But how does it work then in WHO? No, that's actually as you say, it's it's a budget. Uh if you if you get the funding then you can use it. Uh but of course, if you if you know that it's it's not possible to have all the fundings, you have to have some realism in the budget even though it's aspirational. uh and of course if you have more funding then it's much more easy to to to take the budget up than reducing the budget. So that's why this process was absolutely necessary to to adjust the uh the budget and to find find this uh consensus and and still like you were saying and and even I watched it when I watched the discussions in the PAC and the executive board in January and also now some member states like your own who are advocating for realism and and let's make a realistic budget and then other member states who are sort of saying well they still want an aspiration maybe the money will come maybe we will have it. So, so what's the balance? What are the interests here? Well, I think um when we uh experienced the US withdrawal uh and also the experience from a lot of countries that um uh no have a abrupt stop in uh the American financing. I think that um gave us a common understanding that no it's it's Christ and no we have to think different and we have to do something about the bird jets. So I think the process we had that we we adjusted the budget uh in January 1 and then even more now in February. And also the process I've been talking a lot to the to the secretariat and I must I must um commend the secretariat for their transparent and inclusive work. I think that was uh absolutely necessary so the member states could have trust in the process so they could give strategic uh input but not micromanage. uh so so I think uh all the discussions we had uh both during uh the committee meeting in in January and also now in February was necessary to to to find that consensus on a adjusted budget because by the end of the day there's 194 member states of WH so you're saying the process it it it takes time in who so it matures and and like you were saying since January and now up until May May there's been a lot of negotiations briefing of member days and then achieving the consensus. Yeah. Yeah. And congratulations because it was adopted by the health assembly. I think everybody was very very happy about that. We got the pandemic treaty adopted then the program budget and and that was hugely successful I think for us. Totally agree. It was even though the program budget is much less than what we had just a couple of years ago. Yeah. But I I think it's um it has been a good process and and shows that we can work together uh the 194 member states and that it's possible to find consensus uh and I think you know uh with um with the reorganization and the reform work of who I think we can do a lot uh also within the new bett and that's certainly also up to us who work in the secretariat to get that uh in place and there will be a difficult process after this. So now we start the next bienium, the next two years with a an approved program budget 4.2 billion. Sounds like a lot of money and but we still don't have all that money, right? There's still a funding gap of I think 1.6 billion. That's right. Uh that needs to come. Yeah. Are you optimistic? Will we fill that? Will we actually be able to achieve all of that in the next couple period? I'm quite optimistic. I I think it's uh it's um possible to fill um some of the gap uh I don't know how much but um quite a portion of the gap I think is is possible to to fill and I I think the process that we've been through is is really important for the donors they see that we now are more realistic in our budgeting and they see that we are uh able to prioritize and to reorganize and then I think it's it's more easy to talk to the donors even though it will be hard and it will be difficult we must realize that a lot of member states now are prioritizing defense more than health actually so basically that's happening for instance in in in Europe where where your own country is I mean there's certainly many many if not most governments they are as you say prioritizing very much military security uh over development aid so we have a sense that it's difficult to fill the gap app left after the US it is and that's why we are so um we are talking about this um that the donors must give flexible funding because we have we have some funding but the funding is earmarked and then it's not we are not able to to uh use the funding for for the areas where we have the the largest gaps in the funding and that's also a problem for the organization. Sure. And that's what we when we talk about sustainable financing, it's basically getting away from away from the very earmarked funding and getting more flexible uh predictable uh funding for WHO and that that was approved back in 2022 I believe in the health assembly and that also including increasing what we call the assess contributions which are the membership fees that the countries are paying and that was another congratulations on that also that was another success I would say here in the health assembly because is the countries basically approved uh the increase. Yeah, they did. Uh so um so um no, we have approved uh one step of the increase in the sex contributions. Uh but we have actually agreed upon that we are going to achieve 50% of the base budget uh that the AC increase or the excess contribution increase will be up to 50%. So we have some more steps to to take. It's like a ladder. So we take these steps and then we increase the assets contribution. But that also means that the member states even though they committed to it in 22 they still have every year when it's proposed in the house assembly they still have to agree once again on getting that assess contributions that might be difficult in some countries. I could imagine also having worked in a government because that's basically shifting the money you give to the organization away from your earmarked priorities and then to unearmarked flexible funding that you don't decide as much as a donating country. Do you think that governments parliaments in countries will stay committed to that going forward? I think it's possible and I think the step we achieve now is uh an important step on the way. Um and I think this must go hand inhand with the governance reform. Um uh because um the member states has to see that we have a a good governance so that their own priorities uh are shown in the program uh budget and the and the priorities. So what are the what are the program uh work we are going to to uh to achieve. So so if we if it's possible to have it hand inhand with the governance reform I I think it's it's possible but still in many countries including your own politics change come and go parliaments change uh and then priorities change. Yeah. So there might be political changes where suddenly say yeah maybe we committed to this but we want to prioritize this. So, so any concerns in that going forward? Yeah, but but of course uh um so so that's why it's important for the WHO to to uh work on transparency, efficiency and accountability. Uh and as I said so um that member states feel confident that that their funding uh will be used in an efficient uh way and the most useful way and in accord with the priorities of the member states. Yeah. And that's good that's good governance for that's a quit per crow. I mean we will the the member states and and other donors will commit to funding and flexible funding but they want to see efficiency reform from from the organization basically. Yeah. And that's why I think the reorganization and and and the reform work that WHO is going through now is actually uh extremely important. And it's important that WH becomes more one organization because it has actually now been as we say now several organizations within one organizations where you have different uh divisions um talking to the same donors. Yeah. uh so so the reform work is uh extremely important. So we have one organization, one prioritation process where the member states are in lead uh good governance and then I think the the increase in uh assess contribution is um possible. I see speaking of the member states of course going back to their priorities. I mean there's sometimes also a feeling again between realism and aspirations that when we come to the governing bodies EB and the the World Health Assembly member states will propose resolutions for new areas of work of WHO and then of course we try to see how that fits into the budget but but sometimes there's not that balance. uh one of your predecessors as chair of the peback committee, Bjon Kuml from Germany, he described this as going to a dinner and ordering a five course meal and then only wanted to pay for the salad and then expecting some others to pick up the tap. And what what Bon was addressing was of course the imbalance of some member states and other donors paying a huge proportion of the budget and others sort of having the aspirations. How do you see that going forward? Yeah, but adoption of a revised and reduced budget shows that member states are uh aware of the new realities and um uh I think that um that shows that it's possible but at the same time many member states they they feel that uh resolutions is a way of highlighting their priorities. Um so going forward I think we need to assure that the WH's work is financed in a democratic and sustainable way um so that member states priorities are covered and financed through the general program of work because when we agree on a general program of work that's actually our priorities and then it shouldn't be necessary to have all these resolutions so I think we as member states as well and even Norway uh have to consider consider very carefully when do we actually need to have these uh resolutions. uh and in that regard I'm I'm really pleased uh with the discussion we had in PBACK uh this May uh when we agreed upon some recommendations uh for the governing bodies how to how we can work with with the resolution as a institute to say it that way how to how the member states should put forward how we should handle resolution how we should look at the costing and everything so I'm I'm really looking forward that we can continue that discussion in the executive board uh how to work with resolutions for actually we we when we agree upon a general program of work that's over priorities. Yeah. And that should cover the items that member states are uh want to highlight. So you're basically wishing for a general program of work that is more realistic, more balanced also with the budget. Yeah. Do you also want a budget that is more realistic like a real budget for a hospital? Is that your wishful thinking for the future of who? I think as I said uh previously we have to find a balance a more realistic but not like uh running a hospital because then you have to have a budget that's funded. That's it. But a bit more realistic uh budget but it could be aspirational to some extent. But I think we have to show the donors that we are we are realistic. Yeah. So a balance between aspiration and realism and then finding that right balance. So this current crisis of WH is of course a crisis of funding. We talked a lot about funding here because we lost our biggest donor with the withdrawal of of the funding of the US etc. Uh but it's broader than that. It's also other UN agencies and multilateral. Some of our sister agencies are even harder hit than the WHO. And what is even more striking is many of the health programs in countries that are also losing funding. But some are also saying that it's a broader crisis of multilateralism. It's a challenge to the values and the principles of this rule-based international order etc. Do you see that as well as a broader crisis? Are you concerned? Yeah, I'm concerned and I I see it as a brother um uh crisis, but but also that we achieved a a consensus um when it comes to reduced bett that shows that multilateralism works and it's absolutely necessary. It's the way forward. uh and I think WHO now is uh showing way uh for other UN uh agency and organizations that you have to go through reforms but I think it's it's also important that um um that uh who now can collaborate with other uh health organizations uh the health uh architecture uh the architecture of global health uh institutions and also with other UN organization and be part of the UN80 reform work. Oh yeah. Uh because we have to avoid um duplication and it's a lot of duplication and it's a lot of organization and it's actually it's actually a bit challenging to have the the total overview over the architecture. So, so we we have to work together now to to find a a more sustainable way of of of working with global health. But you see a future for multilateralism. Yeah, I do. A future for WHO, but a more focused uh trimmer, a more effective WHO. Yeah. Norway sees WHO as the cornerstone in global health. Uh the the main normative and technical agency uh to promote health. We need WHO and but it's of course extremely important that WHO are focusing on the core functions the functions that only WHO do uh and that all other health organization global health organizations they are dependent on the normative and and standardization work that the WHO does. So I see um a role for WHO and I think they could also be a coordinator at uh at country level but we need to avoid duplication that's extremely important. Thank you very much for that commitment to global health and to thank you very much Katrina for taking the time to visit me here in the studio and thank you very much all of you for watching uh this episode of transforming WH and do stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes.