You know, my first stop was like with a no means no campaign. It was purely fueled by anger. Now finally, I can say a lot of my active citizenry, be it pushing to end sexual violence, pushing for women's rights across the board, pushing for panafricanism, is coming from a place of love. In today's episode, I speak to Adel Onyango, a Kenyan media personality. And during our conversation, we address topics of a sexual nature that may be disturbing or triggering to some listeners. Listener discretion is advised. Welcome to the World Health Organization's # no excuse podcast. I am your host, Gonidas. Adele, many of our listeners may be meeting you for the first time. So just for our listeners, Adele Onyango is a renowned Kenyan media personality, radio host, poet, film director, and activist. Uh you've been recognized globally by the BBC, OK Africa, and even as a jury member uh for the WHO's Health for All um film festival. I'm so delighted to have you on the the podcast. So, welcome to the hashtag Noiscus podcast, Adele. >> Thanks. I'm very excited to be here. Um, obviously my touch point with um the film film competition which is incredible and so to be back with you having such a a powerful conversation is like my pleasure my pleasure to be here. Something that has been consistent really uh along your career is that you've always used your voice and your platform to to speak up for what matters to you. Have you always been like that? >> Yeah. Yes, I have. I think it's very um what would I say? It's very normal from the family and and the environment I grew up in because if you meet all the women in my family, they're loud, they're outspoken, they have very strong opinions and you are groomed by what you see. So that becomes your normal. And I think even um away from all the women and like directly to my late mom, my late mom battled breast cancer for you know over 10 years and it was a time where like having cancer was like taboo. Don't talk about it. Um you could get fired and she would just like actively talk about it. She would push for change would help um other survivors in Kenya get access to to funding for their for their treatment. she would rock her bald head when like now I have a bald head and it's like 2025 and it's still a thing but you can imagine back in the day it was like what are you doing like if you're sick hide it um and so I guess like seeing that just made me have a less intimate relationship with shame and so the things that women are shamed into silence for I don't subscribe to that train of thoughts. So, I will just like speak. Honestly, there are times I've tried not to speak up. Like, I'm just like, "Okay, Adele, not now. Adele, you have so much on your plate. Just keep it moving." And I I'm like, "Nope, I have to speak up." So, I think it's just it's the normal for me. >> You also have been very open about being a survivor of sexual violence. That's not an easy thing to do and I think that also speaks again to your courage and from my research on your work it has also shaped some of your work that is be it in poetry or your the film at the time this incident had happened. How did you find the courage to turn something so painful into a source of strength? >> Honestly was just anger. I couldn't see conversations online. Like I think that's one thing I can see that has improved. Um I couldn't see conversations about sexual violence. I couldn't see other survivors. I yet I knew firsthand that this was was happening. And so I think the first couple of steps that I made even in like speaking up about you know my first stop was like with a no means no campaign. It was purely fueled by anger. Now finally I can say a lot of my active citizenry be it pushing to end sexual violence, pushing for women's rights across the board, pushing for panafricanism is coming from a place of love and this is like the first time. So it's kind of like weird. So even when I speak up I'm not really angry anymore. I'm just really coming from love. But at the beginning for a good number of years I was I was fueled by just pure anger. >> I mean that usually um a very common fuel to people who speak up and that that transformation into >> into love I think is also a process uh that takes time. Um is that something that triggered that transition from anger to to love? Oh, that's such a wonderful that's such a wonderful question. To be honest, I think it was a lot of um therapy work that I've done. So, both talk talk therapy and like alternative therapies that >> have handled where the trauma is stored in my mind or was stored in my mind and where the trauma was still stored in my physical body. So even when I sit in like circles with other women's rights activists and um a lot of the conversations people could phrase their words as it's doom and gloom and there is some terrible things happening to women. I'm just like you know that kind of sound of like there's hope. There's so much love. Look at us. We are here. we're having this conversation. We we're in in unison together. We're having real impact. Um and so I think once I did the selfwork and I just kind of went back inside, the anger just kind of like went away or was healed. You've got to feel it >> for it to like say, "Okay, it served its time and now it's on its way." >> Right? Because serving with love doesn't mean that the issue is not not there or that it's not important. It's just the way you go about it, right? >> Yes. Yes. >> So you you mentioned your campaign no means no and I think it's really raising awareness about consent and and even you linked survivors in this whole initiative. You linked them to um psychological support, psychosocial support. Is that correct? >> Yes. Yeah. So, how no means no started. So, the first stage was like taking all of these uh stories from survivors and translating them to visuals that people could see and like maybe it could spark just self-reflection or introspection rather. And when I started it, I think the only social media platform at the time was Facebook. I remember what happened after that is because um I'm Kenyan and I live in Kenya and I was doing this while in Kenya but I went to high school in Botswana and the school I went to we had like um very many students from different countries and cultures and when we shared no means no all of those people were now maybe in uni in the UK in the states etc. and they were showing like, "Hey, this is what I saw um happening in London. The the the nightclubs have this posters in the bathroom and this is a signal if you feel unsafe like maybe you guys could replicate." And it was people like sharing this is what we're doing in Botswana, this is what we're doing in South Africa. So, it was really so wonderful to have that discourse. But I remember at the time I was seeing a therapist and I just could see the tangible outcomes or like how that was helping me and I did it in a very in in in Kiswahili we say jakali in a very like not organized way. I just like called two psychologists I knew and I was like do you have a phone number? Great. And I would use my Facebook page to connect survivors to these phone numbers and kind of like say, "Okay, you call at this time and you can talk to her for an hour and you call at this time and you can call." Um, and it was obviously like it was great at the time, but when you look at it from like project management, when you go in wanting to fix something, I was trying to be superwoman and I was just like burning out. So I was like, "We need to fix the police. We need to fix healthcare. we need to fix um social cultural norms. We need to and it was just it just felt like this problem is so big. Um so then I said okay where do you want to focus and it was in psychosocial support and so throughout the pandemic under my initiative we we launched like a free group therapy program and we got um about three psychologists come in. We had one curriculum developer and we created this curriculum and we we run it for four cohorts actually for women in particular areas in Nairobi to come and go through a free group therapy program for a couple of weeks and to be honest it was impactful but what was very difficult and still is very difficult is to get access to funding but even with that we managed for four cohorts to take women through this. And we had a um a fundraiser that was purely on social media literally telling people if you can forgo having lunch and give today and give a 100 Kenya shillings to this like it's it doesn't matter if you have 100 shillings or a thousand shillings. we're all going to say as individuals, we're going to help survivors get to this. Imagine that. The power of individuals is what fueled four cohorts. And so it is something I'm still passionate to keep doing. Um but I think that just spoke to where systems fail, individuals still have that goodwill and want and want to want to help. Yeah. you are having an impact not only on individuals that want to contribute but indiv individuals who are going to receive that support who are going to receive and feel like that they're being seen >> but I think that there's this issue of sustainability that >> that is a big problem in this sector from your perspective what would it take for governments or even NOS's and international organization to ensure sure that these services for survivors are not just a one-off because this I it's amazing that just on your on your effort you managed to do four cohorts >> but we all I think know that this is not the responsibility of one individual it's a system that needs to support them and so looking at the system what do you think needs to be more sustainable how do we tackle this issue Yeah, that is such a good question especially for for governments and especially for governments in Africa and and specifically my my government, the Kenyan government because I feel like um because we go into conversations with international organizations and we go into those conversations looking for aid, right? Um and always being on the receiving end. That's one. Number two, I find it hard to believe that for example, my country Kenya does not have the capacity and the capability to run a program like safe 247 which is the program um the free group therapy program. I do not believe that we do not have the capacity or the capability to run that ourselves across our different counties and even look at tweaking the curriculum so that we start tackling social norms and adding that a chapter of that into our national school curriculum. I do not think for for such a thing we need to talk aid or we need to look for funding from the outside. The conversation that should be happening is technicalities. How do we adapt this into the national plan? How do we scale? How do we translate it into different languages? Um because we have like over 40 tribes. How do we make it accessible? So I I truly believe a lot of African governments are really stuck in the in the cycle of being so aid dependent. We've seen how risky that is because the global funding space is changing drastically and over a couple of hours change massive change happens that impacts millions and so it is not good business for us to be age dependent and African governments there is this they remember women's issues when it's election time because the numbers say you cannot ignore the youth, you cannot ignore women, right? But all of a sudden after election time they forget. So women are used as mobilizers. Women's issues sudden suddenly matter. Um conferences are had even around sexual violence, but when they're in power, it doesn't matter. One good example is now when we talk femicide, we we have to push for for national policy to even recognize it as as a crisis. We have to push for um and we being women, we have to push for justice for the cases of femicide. We have to use digital activism. We have to be reaching out to lawyers. We have to be reaching out to um community based organizations etc. So there has to be an attitude change. Women's rights and and women's issues around safety has to matter. And the last thing I'll say is when we look at the international landscape, global issues are trendy, which is terrible. So it's August 2025 as we record this. There's a global issue now that is trendy and another that is not trendy to invest in. I wish we could change how we approach funding for these issues and stop looking at what's trendy, what's hot, and start remembering, oh my goodness, they are actual lives behind these issues. Now, I'm sensing a shift. You went from strong activism to in your activism where you're going into prevention. How do we how do we shed lights on issues that could be taken ahead of time and your current work for example your short film that is I think shown also into schools so podcasts uh that is a hub for African stories. What do you think stories can do, especially when it comes to prevention and changing how people think about say consent or mental health or other topics that you think are going to help people not be in these situations? >> Yeah. I mean, I just love stories. I love stories because when I tell you a story of my experience, Gooni, there is a very little chance of you misunderstanding me. I'm explaining to you my lived experience. If I come though alternatively and tell you let's take the term feminism right the meaning of feminism has been corrupted has been changed and in those spaces using the term feminism could be seen as an insult. Is it right? Absolutely not. However, if I tell you a story of my lived experience as an African woman, be it a good experience or a challenging experience, you understand it. You don't even need any terminology. You don't need to know anything other than, "Oh, I hear you. I see you. What would I do if it were me?" Or, "Hang on, I've never thought of that experience." So, I'll give you an example. I once worked at a media house where and it's still the case today. Even as of this morning, I was I was reading an article of sexual harassment being so rampant in media houses. And because back in the day it was this was a couple of years ago that that the the the that data came out the media house decided to do sexual harassment um open conversations to sensitize the staff on what exactly is sexual harassment and during these open talks like as women we were talking about different things we do. So, for example, I was saying how even if I take a a a taxi from a a taxi app, I always share my ride. Like, it's automatic. I It's not even a choice. It's something I do automatically. And I check if the door is like will it open again? I check like the the you know, you're even trying to like scan how the driver looks, who is the driver, sharing things. And all the men when we were telling our stories as women of all of these things we do just to get to work safely and get home safely, they were in shock and they said, "Damn, I've never actually thought about that." They were like, "I don't even think twice when I get into a taxi. I don't I I didn't even know you could share your rides, you know." And >> that's the power of stories. That's the power of stories where all of a sudden the lived reality of someone else, good or bad, expands your perspective. And you don't have to have terminology to say, "Hey, I feel really bad that Gooni has to do all of these things." Or, "If Goon is doing this, that means all the other women I know are doing this. Something's wrong. Why Why do they have to do this?" you know, and and stories spark empathy. I think we don't have enough empathy and compassion. If you look at conversations around sexual violence now online, it's heartbreaking. Sometimes I'm like, did we make any impact here? What's happening? It's like we're at ground zero again. >> Yeah. We're still talking about the same things. >> Yes. And you still have to teach someone to see you as a dignified being as a woman, which is crazy. And I just feel like stories have the power to bring back empathy, to bring back compassion. Even for me, the process of recording stories for my flagship podcast, Legally Clueless, expanded me. I've sat across people who have a different belief system than me be it religious and I have been able to see how your truth gooni my truth as Adele don't have to fight they they can coexist you know and so it's really on a personal note even just expanded me and made me appreciate alternative views And I think that's the true power of stories. Because without stories, we get so caught up in our little world. And the more we are in that world, the more even harmful truths remain and get cemented as as truths, no matter how violent they are. >> Yeah. That's so powerful. And we've seen this be it in trainings, be it in conversation. And I think that's the the essence of this podcast as well. It's to be able to bring people who bring different perspective on the topic. >> And so, not only do we want to raise empathy, but also raise a shift in in behavior, shift of thinking, as you said, like, oh, if they're talking about this, it it means it resonates with a lot of other women or other survivors, be it men or or women. >> And so, I want to ask you, why focus on women? Um, is there most of your of your content or conversations, media, art forms have put women at the center? >> Why is that important and how do you see that focus helping communities um and societies as a whole? >> You are absolutely right. I think before I used to sometimes hide away from it and try and be more I was doing a poor job though and and and say okay like let me let me spread my wings let it not only be women etc. And there's something about hitting your 30s where you just you're not interested in performative anything. And I was like you know what I really love women and I just want us to live a good life. I'm gonna dive in, you know, and I think it's number one, the first answer is it's what I know. It's it's my lived experience and specifically as an African woman. And I know it in terms of sexual violence. I know it in terms of societal expectations that create limiting beliefs for women. I know it in terms of financial um independence and what that can do for women. You know, sometimes we we talk about especially in the NGO space when we talk about like ripple effect, we're like, oh, if you put money into the hands of a woman, there's going to be a whole community that gets it. That's great. But I'm also talking about the ripple effect of if you watch a woman living a true authentic life that is free of societal expectations, right? You as the woman watching, you start saying, "Hang on, so I don't have to be doing this thing. I can choose different like I have options. This is great." And I think for me having experienced that in my personal life and acknowledged that I am I have options right now that my mother didn't have that my grandmother didn't have. And the reason we are able to have those choices is they made sacrifices that are allowing us to do it. So my thing is like how can I make sure that they're all women and with a specific looking at African women, it's a culture I understand and there's an oppression in that culture. How do I make sure the women have enough examples of liberated African women around them across different ages? Right? How do they have access to expertise from other African women? Be it on health, be it on fitness, be it on the things that you're doing that can make your body feel better. And the end goal is how do we how do we raise a new generation of shamefree women? Because the shame is gifted to us. And this is across. It's not just an African women thing. Shame is gifted to to women violently when they are girls. And you carry it through your life. You have kids because you're ashamed not to. You get married because you're ashamed not to. You don't go for a certain job. How do we let go of that? Because even as we fix all of all of the issues that harm women, how do we make sure that on a social front, on a cultural front, women are aware that they have choices? How do we preserve those choices as well? You know, when you just know, like you start working on something and you just know this is actually what I'm here for. This is what I'm meant to be doing. >> I love that. And you know as part of our listeners most some of them and most of them are aid workers, managers and government representatives um who play a role in shaping a safe environment where the aid sector is there to to serve without doing harm. And these individuals who are listening are part of of making that mandate a reality. the essence of speaking up is part of your branding and is part of who you are. In in that perspective, what would you tell them so that not only do we create safer environment but an environment where survivors are supported? >> I think it's to number one there has to be a mindset the mind mindset shift. You have to see the communities you serve as stakeholders and partners, right? They are not incapable. they they know what's wrong. They probably even know the solutions. So once you change that mindset, you automatically will start listening more. And perhaps then your role has evolved to be more of creating an environment that enables the communities you serve to connect to innovate solutions and then you you help scale, right? I think a lot of times uh communities that are suffering whatever whatever different spectrum of issues, they're not seen as stakeholders. They're not seen as adding any value. They're not seen as knowing what's wrong and how to figure it out. And there are some organizations who have even gone a step further and changed the terminology. You don't say beneficiaries anymore. You say partners. This is very important so that your mind really starts to see value in the communities you serve. The other thing is I think we honestly have to audit the effects of colonization that are still alive in our funding structures and and and decolonize that space as well. We like to think of colonization as this event that was happened in a time period. Um, it's an event that has only physical violence, but that is not true. There is structural violence that started back then and still continues to date. Being from the continent, I can tell you that for sure. And there is a very colonized way we look at funding structures, a very very colonized way we look at community based organizations in different African countries. So we have to then say these structures that we have, who created them, who do they serve and why? And really be humble in that process because the structures are still very colonized. The other thing that also needs to happen is to also not um would I call it tokenism. So don't look at African change makers and and and grassroots um community based organizations and champions um do not look at them as tokens. So when you have forums and summits, these Africans are not there to just fulfill a quot right and to tick a box to say this forum was inclusive because we had 10 people from the global south. Even the term the global south I I hate those terminologies. So if you have the summits, yes of course make them inclusive, not just in attendance, but also in value, also in sustainability, also in how you see these people you're inviting. Are they partners? Are they stakeholders? How are you making the systems that provide value to them more accessible to them? Right? Do these summits have to happen overseas? perhaps not. So I think we really have to be honest. If we want to do good and if we're in this space, we we we tend to all play a little watchdog role while we're solving global issues. We first have to watchdog ourselves and be like this structure doesn't benefit who we claim to be serving. We need to radically shift that. And to be honest, there's not enough time left for that to be done because there is an awakening now. You see international organizations constantly being held accountable from different African countries. We need see each other as partners. The systems still hold very colonial structures. What do we need to change them? that honesty. I think sometimes we it's uncomfortable obviously because it's it's it's a painful truth, but like I don't think we can make any lasting impact if we don't, you know, call a spade a spade. Look at you ending the the conversation with a a massive mic drop and a call out and a watchdog uh statement. I I love that. I think it was necessary and I think that this is why we wanted you on the show is that not only are you able to bring also the voices of some African stories but also the the view of it and I think it's very timely. Thank you so much Adele for for speaking up for for inspiring us to to speak up and to to continue your work on this. We really appreciate you. Thanks, Gooni. And this was so wonderful. And I just think even having honest conversations like this is is is such an important step. And so you you're an ally. Thank you. Thank you for listening. If you have any feedback or questions, feel free to reach out to us to prs.int. Until the next time, goodbye.