H no, no. The WHO pandemic treaty will force vaccination, quarantine, lockdowns, and punish countries that don't obey. No. Welcome to plot twist. The pandemic agreement cannot force anything. It's countries that have come together and agreed to improve global cooperation during pandemics. You may ask, what's role in all of this? WHO only advises. It doesn't punish nor enforce anything on its member states. Who just signed a legally binding pandemic treaty giving them global control over vaccines, supply chains, and health products. No. No. False. No. Countries started, negotiated, and agreed to the text of the proposed pandemic agreement. Not who doesn't have the authority to legally enforce anything. When countries agree to international instruments, they report on it as per the compliance method they choose. Over 190 nations just surrender their sovereignty to an unelected body. No. No. Countries remain sovereign. They drive their health decisions at all times. The agreement is a global compact to help bring countries to work together with speed when future pandemics strike. The pandemic agreement is just a way to push a for-profit health model and corrupt public health. Let's unpack this, shall we? The agreement emphasizes equity, not profit. It's calling for fair access for vaccines, tests, and treatments, and more so for countries that often get left behind. Who is creating a global digital health certificate to truck you? No, no, no. That's false. Digital health certificates already exist for things like yellow fever. The goal is to make travel safer during an outbreak, not to track your grocery runs. Okay, bottom line, here's what you need to know. The agreement is about countries committing towards a better framework for managing pandemics. It will promote better sharing of evidence-based information, faster access to life-saving tools, and international support so that future generations can inherit a safer and healthier world. Stay informed, stay safe, and stick with science.