One of the biggest challenges we face as epidemiologists is rapid access to accurate information. Time is of the essence in the response; indeed, we must respond quickly to outbreaks because it's a matter of life or death, and outbreaks can spread to other regions. A disease spreads in a community almost like an image on social media; this creates a very complex transmission dynamic within the community and makes tracking extremely difficult. Information sources are numerous, but not everyone is trained in data collection. Therefore, when data doesn't come from the same source and isn't all in the same format, things become complicated. How can we obtain comprehensive information on all cases, contacts, patient hospitalizations, and laboratory tests? Each case is surrounded by a complex set of data. GoPointData was created to solve this problem. Epidemiologists have always worked in the field, armed with pen and paper, in isolated and unconnected environments where they face difficulties in understanding the data. These traditional tools are no longer sufficient; we need to work faster and manage large amounts of complex data. The speed at which epidemiologists collect and process data impacts how quickly the spread of disease can be stopped and the number of lives saved. GoData is a unique software tool for epidemiologists worldwide that aims to fundamentally transform outbreak data management. It is free, multilingual software usable online or offline. GoData can track how a disease spreads from person to person in real time. Information is available immediately. Visualizing transmission chains allows for rapid contact tracing and case tracking. GoData is easy to configure and adapts to the needs of all types of outbreak response by providing fully configurable data forms and variables. GoData has a clear system to ensure faster and smoother contact tracing of infected individuals to prevent new infections. There is always a risk of infectious disease outbreaks. The GoData system allows organizations to have access to Faster and more fluid means of intervention will save more lives, like that of Lucien Munga, a survivor of the mullahs who is raising awareness about the disease, or that of Asma, recovering after being infected by the outbreak of dif and rice raging in a refugee camp in Bangladesh. The use of GoData could have a considerable effect globally. This tool will empower epidemiologists and organizations fighting on the front lines against epidemic outbreaks, which will help contain transmission and save more lives. I am captivated by the concept of GoData, which seems straight out of an epidemiologist's dreams. It's the tool we've been waiting for, needed, and talking about for a long time. The whole world refers to the memory of information on epidemics. Yes, it is important that leadership in the East be strengthened to be able to analyze epidemiological data. This allows for informed decision-making with states.  members, but at the same time to inform the public about trends, including epidemics, whether we are controlling them or if they risk escaping. This tool will be made available to all those who wish to use it, and it can be used both online and offline. What I think is fantastic is the possibility of accessing this platform, which allows for linking different pieces of information. This tool can profoundly change things on the ground regarding how data is collected, managed, and used so that a high level of response is achieved. Ultimately, the real success will be to shorten the duration of outbreaks and reduce morbidity and mortality. That is what the response is for: to contain epidemics. If this tool contributes, it will be an undeniable success.