as we move well into the 21st century rapid urbanization continues to transform the way we live work and interact with one another by 2050 2thirds of the world's population are expected to live in urban areas so it's vital to create environments that are conducive to good health and wellbeing that are resilient to the challenges of climate change and that allow nature and people to live in harmony to help these cities reach their full potential good urban governance plays an essential role by ensuring that residents have equitable access to resources and commodities and that there are mechanisms in place to allow for the active engagement of many stakeholders including other local authorities NGOs the private sector and communities communities themselves have an active role in cosigning the solutions that can improve their everyday lives the healgan engtic parorks in decisions are determined engagement of and dialogue between local communities and decision makers Vernier is in the 20 largest cities in Switzerland and today we are almost at 40,000 very urbanized inhabitants and which has developed very very quickly today it is a city  which is very very diverse in its  A diverse population in terms of culture, age structure, and socio-economic status. Therefore, it's where the unemployment rate is highest, where the median income is lowest, where the rate of social housing is highest, and where the rate of welfare recipients is highest. So, in this socio-demographic and socio-economic context, it's clear that social cohesion—holding society together—is a major challenge for local authorities. When you take so many people with such diverse profiles, some with social vulnerability, and put them in very densely populated areas, well, inevitably, it creates, as we say in French, friction. And friction can lead to tensions, conflicts, and stigmatization and anonymity. And it's clear that in recent history, like that of Vernier, there are times when coexistence doesn't necessarily go well. In Vernier, the authorities quickly recognized their responsibility for the quality of life.  Life, living together, neighborhood contracts, it's a pretty simple idea, right? It still sounds good, though. Originally, there was an association, they had the idea of ​​creating " Happy Sunday," it was me who took the initiative, the town gave them the premises for free for "Happy Sundays," it welcomes lots of people who are alone all year on Sundays and who can come and eat for a very modest price, and we're a really good team because everyone is a volunteer, so we get a lot of pleasure from doing this. The objectives of the neighborhood contracts were, firstly, to bring together residents who perhaps didn't know each other or who were in conflict, to get them to work together, to get them to think together. Then the second objective was to create links between these residents and the local community, the administration. Well, we're going to receive the F-Quartier project leaders here. So the project objectives are to create a moment of exchange between young people and educators through a football tournament, and therefore also to interconnect our neighborhoods with each other and then bring the For a day during the holidays, young people from the neighborhoods of Vernier are involved in all stages of the process. They come up with the idea, they develop the project, and they approve the allocation of funds. That's the most important part of the evening: the financing. For a small municipality in Switzerland, it was truly a groundbreaking idea because it involves a real delegation of power, and that requires a strong relationship of trust between the public authority and the residents. Here you have the SII representatives who came, but it's still a significant sum. After almost 20 years of neighborhood contracts, we've counted approximately 500 projects that have been supported. This is the project file called " Respiridation Santé Mentale" (Mental Health Respiratory Support). There's a primary benefit, perhaps more symbolic, related to citizenship: it sends a strong message from the administration to the residents: we're giving you a voice, we're recognizing you, we're recognizing your skills, we're delegating to you.  You have a certain amount of power, but you're also given a share of responsibility in managing day-to-day life in a neighborhood. It's not just the police's job, it's not just the social workers' job; everyone has a share of responsibility in this neighborhood. So that's a very strong first plan. The second plan, I would say, is the practical plan, which is linked to the results of the projects, the impact of the projects on the neighborhood. And there, neighborhood contracts are a really effective tool. What I'm proposing for our community, just on a practical level, to eliminate stress, to find oneself in a safe and calm atmosphere, could be one or two hours a week. So, in a way, a culture of democracy that existed before allowed the neighborhood contract to develop, but the neighborhood contracts have, over time, reinforced this culture of democracy and participation in Vernier. And today, it's really in the DNA of the authorities, but also of the administration. Our goal together, our collective reason for being, is to work for the  The well-being of all and to be constantly open to others, just 15 minutes away in the city of Geneva, local residents representing over 190 different nationalities voiced the need to create a space of their own where they could find common resources and gather safely in one place. In the early 2000s, this neighborhood began to be built up. There was a strong densification, many buildings were constructed, and at that time the residents of the neighborhood mobilized, saying, "Don't build that floor! There should normally have been offices on that floor. Don't do that!" So there was what we call a participatory approach, meaning there were many meetings where we consulted the residents of this neighborhood to decide what to do. After all this consultation with the residents, the Department of Social Cohesion and Solidarity decided to create a neighborhood space. I would say that here we have a great diversity among the residents, and it's  It's true that the residents who frequent this building come from all over. The 99 community center is a municipal building, which means that several services are located there. In this building, there's a daycare, a school cafeteria, Villa Yoyo which offers drop-in childcare, and the Youth Services. So, in these community spaces, it's community social workers who manage them. They primarily have training from a university of applied sciences in social work. This presence allows for very regular contact with the residents. And our mission, within the framework of local social policy, is to respond to all residents, but more specifically to those who are vulnerable or even isolated. So, we're not currently taking room reservations, but what I can discuss with you is that we can make arrangements. Our main role is to...  To try and boost neighborhood dynamics, there are various ways to do that. People can simply come and see us if they want a project for the neighborhood. We 'll study the question, assess its feasibility, and see if it makes sense for the neighborhood, if it meets a need. That's kind of the main mission and objective. So, what have we come here to do today, kids? You know, lacto- fermentation, lacto-fermentation in particular. Today, I've decided to bring you what you need to make kimchi. Kimchi is roughly this, it's... well, we don't go very far because what we do is brush our teeth, shower, all the verbs, so everyday things. Space 9 is a microcosm here. There are lots of different associations doing different activities, and we run into each other, we know each other, and we share a lot. That's what makes the difference. Remember  It's always a great satisfaction to see the residents who come and are grateful for what's happening in this building, who are grateful for the work done by the social and community workers, and who also come without hesitation to seek help, whether for support or for a question they have about a family member. This space is essential; it continues to be open to everyone. And for us workers in these spaces, the greatest satisfaction is when they dare to open the [Music] door. community, but it's also important to see that there is huge potential for human beings, that the street is a social space, and that life can truly take place there, and activities between neighbors can really happen in the street. Pedestrian Mobility Switzerland is an NGO working in old Switzerland. We developed a project called beg B; it means exercise, living, and encounter. What we did was that we changed the low-speed zone in the neighborhood [Music]. We did it together with the residents. First, they told us the diagnosis... is today it and what wish ngilz so we are working in a transdisciplinary way and trying to bring social aspects in the way we consider streetscapes and mobility spaces our two NGOs proposed to the city of burn and Z to work with us and it was a very good opportunity to start the discussion about what's the function of the street we worked with a very broad group of city planner mobility planner people adn Wen wiröentum AR InSb auf Straße haben wirlich immer  wieder kulturelle Hintergründe und kulturelle wbvorstellungen was der öffentliche Raum ist und V allem auch was die ist und was diera leisten und was die was die da ist W gehört der Raum und was zu was dient derum dass ich flüssiger mit dem Verkehr fahren kann und auf der anderen Seite wachsen Kinder in der  Schweiz auf die sich auf der Straße treffen und Fußball games oder un spielen oder sich einfach nur mit Kreide zu malen treffen die Kunst liegt eigentlich darin den Leuten aufzuzeigen das das ein mehrwert also projektnenben bewen war ein pilotprojekt das allem auch geholfen The project was a BCT with little means the hope of this project is ofour to now  empow more citizens and more cities to try  to do the as part of healthy C program the world health organization has launchedti urban governance and wellbeing in 2020 which focuses on supporting local policies and programs around equitable health and wellbeing through innovation and multiectoral approaches at who we believe that health is created in everyday settings we are excited to promote best practices around the world to help empower urban leaders and enable local populations to theirtential encourage decisioners ort AC engagement of communi and to invest consultative process which can bring innova solutions this approach can drive positive healthy outcomes  and ensure that cities are more cohesive inclusive and healthier for all