 eid. Every day, around the world, health and care workers stand on the front lines of our health systems and emergency preparedness, readiness and response, protecting the lives of populations worldwide. There are no health systems without health and care workers. According to WHO estimates, there were 70 million health workers in 2023, but there will be a global shortfall of 11.1 million by 2030. Our health and care workers need to continuously learn new skills and adapt to evolving health care practices. The WHO Academy strives to enhance the lifelong learning capacity of the global health workforce and was established to respond to critical gaps in health worker education. Through our campus for lifelong learning in Lyon, France, and our online learning platform, and with the support of partners around the world, we provide health and care workers and policymakers with the knowledge and competencies they need to meet current and future health needs, which is especially crucial in low and middle income countries where the need is often the greatest. To ensure inequalities in access do not get in the way of lifelong learning for all, the WHO Academy combines the science of learning with the science of health. The Academy designs its courses with the learner at the centre, providing online, in-person, blended and simulation-based learning. All courses on the WHO Academy online learning platform are completely free for users and include features like offline mode and mobile optimization to address connectivity challenges. Users offer audio content, printable resources and screen reader compatibility to ensure all learners, including those with disabilities, can participate fully. The WHO Academy also ensures that learning solutions are inclusive, rights-based and gender responsive. A strong localization team within the WHO Academy collaborates with WHO technical units and partners to develop courses that are tailored to target audiences and adapted linguistically, culturally and contextually. This includes a careful scoping of learners' needs and local contexts, development of multilingual glossaries with WHO experts and putting together case studies to reflect local realities. By focusing on reaching learners in low and middle income countries, the WHO Academy drives equity in access to learning for health and care workers and ensures that learners gain skills and knowledge in ways most relevant for them.