Of course, we offer general clinic services, including treatment for children and adults, chronic disease services, heart conditions, seizures, and vaccinations. Dental services have also been restored. Among the challenges we face is the large number of war injuries, especially in terms of dressings. We will continue with the same treatment, God willing. You will come on time, God willing, and we will do your examination with the limited resources available. We are trying to serve the displaced and refugees in Rafah. We wish there was something more we could offer these poor displaced people who left their loved ones and lost everything, including their homes. Unfortunately, in 1991, I was informed that my house had been demolished. Now, thank God, I don't have a house. Of course, I leave my home and come to work. How are you? I haven't moved. There's a sense of humanity in this. My profession is a humanitarian one; in the end, I have to go out and serve people. Good job, Sand, you're doing great!  I could sit in a tent or even a house, but I couldn't stay home without going out to serve people. We were in Gaza when the war started, and we knew it was a war. Of course, when we saw people leaving the city, we believed it. We hadn't believed it before, but we believed it and left. We went to Khan Younis. We stayed in Khan Younis for about a month and a half. Of course, there was no electricity, no water, and we could barely get food. We thought a lot, and then we realized we had to leave. I didn't know where. I didn't know anyone in Rafah. Dr. Tariq took us in and secured this room for us temporarily, on the understanding that we would settle down in Rafah. But my love for the work and my love for serving people, and how many people came asking me to work even if it was an emergency and not part of the plan—the emergency plan—we receive cases every day from the shelter. Some cases are transferred from the shelter. We receive any pregnant woman who comes and says she is pregnant. We receive women, deliveries, and midwives.  The tents will be very, very good and very useful for the women and very comfortable for them. We finished today. There is a great demand for medications, especially psychiatric medications needed by patients with chronic diseases like diabetes, high blood pressure, and asthma. There is a significant shortage because there are about 1.5 million people in Rafah suffering from hypertension. We hope that the agency's services will continue to be provided to our people because there is nowhere else they can go except to the agency, which provides them with all the necessary treatments and services, from vaccinations to anything else they need. If this door closes, what door will they turn to after this? Thank you to all the colleagues. Everyone wants to contribute, everyone wants to work and serve the people. We want to work, we want to serve the refugees, we want to serve our people. They truly have hope that this war will end and that we will return to our homes in peace and that we will all truly live in peace in the region. Hoping that one day they will ask me, "When is the next appointment, Doctor?" I will tell them, "God willing, when we return to our country and..."  Our next appointment will be at our home and clinic.