My name is Christopher Black and as a communications officer for the World Health Organization. I joined our team in Gaza this year, where I was stationed in Rafah for about five and a half weeks. This was really a life changing mission, both eye opening and heartbreaking and one where I witnessed incredible amounts of destruction but was inspired by the dedication of health workers and humanitarians doing an incredibly brave job, despite overwhelming challenges. The atmosphere in Rafah when I was there was one of being at a crossroads, grappling with the fragile balance between hope for peace, faintly on the horizon and the harsh realities of conflict. It's a place where hope and despair often collide. On one hand, there's a yearning for peace and a ceasefire, a longing for stability and security. But on the other hand, there's a constant sense of uncertainty, of not knowing what the future holds. Many people I spoke with were torn between staying put despite incredible risks, or attempting to relocate in search of safety, an impossible situation compounded by the fact that most have already been displaced numerous times and simply don't have the resources, financial or mental, or the energy to start again. The impact on health and well-being can not be overstated. Constant stress and trauma of living in a conflict zone takes a heavy toll, both mental and physical. Access to essential services like healthcare Is often compromised, further exacerbating existing health challenges. And with limited resources and infrastructure, the ability to cope and recover from illness or injury is severely hampered. People are living in desperate conditions in either tents or overcrowded shelters. There's a lack of food, drinking water and sanitation. At the time, about 12 of Gaza's 36 hospitals were functioning. I visited about half of those, and each one health workers were really trying their best, but were most were overwhelmed. Overflowing emergency rooms, patients being treated on the ground. Health workers working around the clock for months, completely exhausted. Shortages of fuel, medical supplies and food. When I first visited the enormous Nasser Medical Complex, it was on a mission with WHO and UN colleagues to deliver much needed fuel and medical supplies. It was still partially functioning. They were still treating patients. There was displaced people and the health workers themselves living in the hospital. There was problems removing medical waste. There was cats roaming around everywhere. But there was a little bit of hope, like a bakery that was still functioning. They were able to bake their own bread for patients and doctors. But when we were to leave, our vehicle was surrounded by displaced people that were living there. A woman with her young child was saying to us: "Are we safe here, are we safe here?" I wanted to say to her: you're in the grounds of a hospital under International Humanitarian Law, this is a protected space. You should be safe here. But I knew full well that there was nowhere in Gaza that was safe that day. Hospitals are places where lives are saved and communities are supported. When hospitals are attacked, not only are lives put at risk, but the fabric of society is torn apart. People lose access to critical medical care and health systems are pushed to the brink. We've seen how depriving hospitals of resources and access halts lifesaving services. International Humanitarian Law is very clear. Healthcare workers and healthcare facilities are off limits. They must not be attacked, they must not be used for military purposes and they must be protected at all times. Two weeks later, I was back to Nasser Medical Complex to help refer patients who needed critical medical care to other health facilities. The area in and around the hospital had been under attack for weeks. The hospital had no electricity, no running water, garbage, medical waste and sewage were everywhere. And we were a small team, so I was helping to move the patients, carry them on stretchers to waiting ambulances of the Palestine Red Crescent Society. I'll never forget going up and down four flights of stairs into the ICU, in the dark, with explosions going on outside. Going up and down the hallways, I remember the faces of the patients looking out to me wherever I pointed my flashlight. They were just sitting there in the dark and they'd been there for weeks without food, without water, and sometimes without the medical attention they needed. But the health workers were really doing their best. There just wasn't enough of them. There's only a handful of doctors and a handful of nurses. No electricity, medical supplies were running out but they were so brave to stick it out and try to deliver medical services because they were saving lives. I think what's brave is the people have been doing this work since October, who go back every day to do it again and again and again, and who never give up. The World Health Organization, the UN family, the Emergency Medical Teams, international and local NGOs, doctors, nurses, paramedics and volunteers from the Palestine Red Crescent Society, every day, putting their lives on the line to help others. Under fire, under risk of detention. Navigating a volatile, constantly changing landscape. Doctors who are living in tents, trying to look after their families and still go to work. In a place where safety seems like a distant dream, hope finds a way to shine through. And I'm reminded of some scenes of resilience and yes, even smiles. At the UNRWA Health Center one day I stumbled across something extraordinary. Psychosocial activities for children run by a local NGO. For a moment, children were able to forget their troubles and for a moment, their parents too find respite from the chaos outside. On another day on the mission to the Palestine Red Crescent Al-Amal Hospital a doctor walking into the sunshine turns to me and says, this is the first time we've been in the sun for over a month. Doctors, nurses and patients were confined to the inside and lower floors of the hospital as it came under shelling and sniper fire for weeks, and unfortunately become accustomed to darkness and danger. Families of the patients took advantage to our presence, to venture to neighbouring buildings, to retrieve much needed food and supplies, for the first time in weeks. I'll also remember the patients that day that we managed to move for much needed medical care to other health facilities, And I'll remember the smiles on children flying kites in the Al-Mawasi area near Rafah. Children deprived of the right to education and play took matters in their own hands with nothing but scavenged, recycled material. they craft kites and let them soar high into the sky. On evenings when the wind is right, all across the sunset are kites flying in parallel Across the horizon, not bombs, not air drops, but kites dancing in the wind carrying with with them the smallest glimmer of hope for a brighter tomorrow.