 amid new health threats and enduring inequities, how do we ensure medicines, vaccines, and medical devices reach every community when they are needed most? The World Health Organization's Health Technology Access Program, or H-TAP for short, advances this mission. A handful of manufacturers, mostly in high-income countries, supply much of the world with health products. Many low and middle-income countries lack manufacturing capacity as killed workforce and infrastructure. For diseases that mainly affect poorer populations, incentives to develop technologies can be weak. This creates fragile supply chains and long waits, and when products finally are available, they're often too expensive. The result? Exposed communities and underprepared health systems. H-TAP advances equitable access to health technologies by strengthening regional manufacturing and building global resilience. It brings together technology holders, local manufacturers, international experts, and governments to share knowledge and build sustainable capacity. Sometimes that means securing licenses and know-how for authorized products so local partners can manufacture them. Other times, it means creating research and development consortia, networks across regions that collaboratively develop technologies to fight priority diseases such as mRNA influenza vaccines. What makes H-TAP distinctive is how it leverages WHO's unique role, combining convening power and technical expertise to coordinate across the entire value chain. Scanning for priority needs. Securing access to technologies. Matching partners. Supporting product development and technology transfer. And providing training, manufacturing, regulatory, and market access support. One example of H-TAP's collaborations supported by the Medicines Patent Pool is the partnership between SDBIOSensor, which is sharing diagnostic technology and know-how with CodexBio for producing malaria and HIV tests in Nigeria, enabling regional procurement. This same technology can also be adapted to future pandemics. H-TAP creates value for everyone involved. For governments, it sustainably strengthens health systems and health security. For technology holders, it builds their reputation and expands access to markets, accounting for intellectual property. For local manufacturers, it supports knowledge transfer, scalability, and long-term capacity. But at its core, H-TAP is about equity, reducing dependence on a few global suppliers so regions can meet their own health needs. Combining the best in global expertise with regional capacity, the Health Technology Access Program matches collaboration to build stronger systems, greater resilience, and a future where every region has faster, more reliable access to much needed health products.