It is not fair that people with the disabilities often do not live as long experience poorer health than others. The World Health Organization global report on equal health for the 1.3 billion people with disabilities in the world says that many people with disabilities die early or have poorer health than other people. My name is Pearl. I am 21 years old and I am one of those 1.3 billion. To change this, people with disabilities and their organizations need to be involved in making decisions within the health sector. These things are not difficult or expensive and can help everyone. This makes so much sense to me and hopefully to you too. Thank you. Thank you, Pearl. Um uh what a perfect framing um that Pearl has just provided for the two-day discussion we'll be having um with you. It's uh Pearl's voice is 1.3 billion strong. It's loud and clear. Health equity uh cannot be achieved without the expertise of lived experience guiding and co-creating the muchneeded equitable inclusive contextual relevant health policies, programs, and services we all need and deserve. Good morning to all online in the room. It's a pleasure pleasure and a real honor to welcome you to the inaugural milestone moment where we launched the WHO disability health equity network. My name is Guy Phones and I am unit head for crosscutting and integration at the NCDS and mental health department at WHO. It's a pleasure to guide you through uh specifically this first day. It's extremely also significant and uh and eloquent at the same time that we are having this meeting um in this very specific room in a historical moment when global health and health equity are under unprecedented strain. We launched this network in this landmark space, WHO's executive boardroom. This is the seat of global health, the demonstration of the power of multilateralism for health equity and where for decades countries who partners have delivered on who's constitutional mandate. The attainment by all peoples everywhere of the highest possible level of health and well-being. this room and the building which houses this room has been closed for the last three years for renovations. It is extremely significant that we will launch uh the use of this room and and and the meaning the significance of the power of this room with this meeting. So I I I I wanted to make that point because this is extremely important for our discussions not only within this building but globally how we elevate the needs of uh of persons with disability and health equity within that framing into the global discussion. Um without further ado I want to make a few uh housekeeping uh remarks so everyone's on the same page. Um this is a hybrid meeting and we do welcome those online and and and and we have provided opportunities for engagement uh among those in person and online. Um it this opening session w is live streamed on who YouTube um and for the wider public to access and languages. The session is conducted in English with English captioning and international sign language. But please uh visit the event page on who website for more details. And in case of very very on on um unexpected emergency issues, we do uh we will follow we will guide you through the evacuation um signs and exits. Um we move forward into the opening of the session and we will hear from the keynote speakers in a minute. But let's remember the objectives of this meeting. One is to officially inaugurate the WHO disability health equity network and establish a shared vision for its impact. also to align members on a strategic approach of the WHO disability health equity initiative and define the network's pivotal role within it and to analyze key priorities to inform uh future work streams. Without further ado, I give the floor to Dr. Deborah Castell. Deborah is acting director for the non-communicable diseases and mental health department here at WHO headquarters. Deborah, over to you. >> Thank you. Thank you, Guy. Uh please uh confirm that you can hear me well. Um can you >> we can it's at slightly low the volume but we can. >> Okay. Uh I will try to speak loud. Um so thank you very much for this uh opportunity and I'm really sorry for not being able to be in the room. I am uh about to go to the airport very soon but particularly noticing that you are in the executive board meeting room which we haven't seen for a long while. So uh really colleagues and and guests and members of the who disability health equity network warm welcome to you all um those in the room and those connected online from different countries different places. It is an honor for me to deliver this opening remarks for the inaugural meeting of the who disability health equity network and that is clearly a milestone moment in our collective journey toward health equity for persons with disabilities. Today we launch not just a network of partners but a global movement that will catalyze and sustain health equity. A movement guided in our mission to achieve health for all. When we say health for all, we have to be explicit. The benefits of health and well-being must be available for persons with disabilities too for all. The 1.3 billion persons with disabilities around the world continue to face striking challenges when navigating the health sector and experience poorer health outcomes than the rest of the population. Many are more likely to die up to 20 years earlier and have double risk double the risk of developing a range of health conditions like stroke or diabetes due to unjust unpreventable factors both within and beyond our health systems. This situation is unacceptable. By launching the disability health equity network, we will change this. WHO recognizes this its unique mandate to steward this network. But we also recognize that we cannot do it alone. That is why your commitment matters so deeply. At WHO, we are humbled and proud to launch this network that to date conveners including civil society organizations, academic institutions, multilateral entities, global health and partners as well as over 20 member states. It embodies the power of collaboration amidst a challenged global health architecture. Each of you brings expertise, passion, commitment and for some of us also lived experience. Together we are building a platform for action towards stronger, more equitable health systems that can finally live up to the promise of again health for all. Together we are shaping a future where persons with disabilities are actively leading the way. Let me take this moment and to thank each and everyone of you for your leadership and determination to embark on this journey with us. Your engagement is not symbolic. It is strategic. It is transformative. Let let us listen deeply, act boldly and commit fully to the work ahead. Thank you again for being part of this historic beginning and back to the room. Thank you very much Deborah. You've framed our discussions even further. Thank you so much. But now we will move into two champion countries that will guide us through what it looks like at national level. What are success stories? What are challenges and how do we demonstrate uh the power of collaborative work? We have with us from Kenya Martha Masi is head of disability mainstream unit and head of the physiootherapy service at the ministry of health. Thank you for being with us Martha and the floor is yours. >> Uh thank you. Thank you so much um uh Mr. Guy. Um I'm happy to be here. Good morning distinguished guests, partners and colleagues. Uh it's a great honor to join you for this important session and to share Kenya's experience in advancing health equity for persons with disability. I wish to sincerely thank the organizers for bringing us together to reflect on progress, share lessons and strengthen our collective efforts towards inclusive health systems for all in advancing health equity in Kenya. We are guided by the SDG3 which is about rehabilitation and UHC that universal health coverage cannot be achieved unless persons with disabilities are fully included. Advancing health equity for this population is therefore a core pillar of our national health agenda. And uh we know that uh through the main ministerial disability mainstreaming unit which is uh a new unit initiated uh after the enactment of uh persons with disability act number four of 2025 Kenya law that uh the ministry endeavors to actually include all persons in all programs including persons with disability And so the Ministry of Health has taken deliberate steps to integrate disability inclusive across all health policies, programs, and service delivery systems. One key area of progress in Kenya's is Kenya's commitment to the global disability summit which will be implemented through the recently enacted persons with disability act. This obligation is particularly uh under the uh the UN CRPD by promoting inclusive health policies, accessible services and in equitable health care for all persons with disabilities. In addition, we are strengthening inclusive health services by improving uh physical accessibility in health facilities, providing sign language interpreters and training healthcare workers on disability uh sensitive and responsive care. We are also advancing data and monitoring with disability indicators now integrated into the Kenya health information system enabling us to better capture the response to to respond to the health needs of persons with disability. Our approach is anchored in the partnership and collaboration working hand inhand with organizations of persons with ability, civil societies and development partners to ensure that interventions are participatory, rightsbased and responsive to to lived experiences. These efforts reflect our conviction that equity in health is not only about access. It's also about dignity and inclusion and justice. Why the global collaboration? While national commitment is essential. We recognize that the challenges faced by persons with disability are a global in nature and they require shared solutions. This is why it's strongly I strongly support we strongly support the world disability the world health organization disability health equity network den and and we are we commend the who for establishing this global platform to unite countries and partners in advancing disability inclusive health systems. Through this network we know we shall uh have uh uh shared and shared uh experiences, exchange knowledge, share innovations and strengthen collective advocacy for disability inclusive health policies and financing. uh we know very well that uh uh not many nations uh finance disability issues because it's usually taken as a a burden but in Kenya we we first developed a rehabilitative and assist technology strategic plan today where we enjoy the 80s scale project which is advancing health equity in in Kenya and this project has actually supported develop- systems and we have also developed disability mainstream policy and guidelines to support implementation of the new act that calls about rights in Kenya. We are truly committed in to actively participate in the networks work streams particularly in the building leadership on health equity elevating disability inclusive as a political priority developing robust indicators and evidence for monitoring progress. By working together we can accelerate action, bridge global health gaps and build momentum towards a truly inclusive global health movement. one that ensures every person regardless of ability can live a healthy, fulfilling and meaningful lives. In closing, as members uh state, we let us endeavor to mainstream and inclusive in all programs of health. We fully recommend this commitment, this work and uh in and Kenya, we are fully committed in mainstreaming across all programs in health sector and to working with partners to eliminate barriers that hinder access to health care for persons with disabilities. Let us continue working together as governments, organizations of persons with disabilities, international partners, and all communities to make health equity for person suitability a reality. Thank you so much. >> Thank you so much. Um and congratulations impressive championing of the agenda national level and we look forward to guiding us with the leadership. >> Thank you. generating that much neededed leadership. And our next speaker from United um Arab Emirates, welcome Dr. Sad Alawad, public health expert um at the Ministry of Health and Prevention. >> Good morning everybody. Thank you for this welcoming. Um, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it is a privilege to be with you today to reaffirm a commitment that lies at the heart of our national identity and values, advancing health equity for persons with disabilities. known in the United Arab Emirates as people of determinations. This terminology reflects our belief in their strength, resilience, and the invaluable contributions they bring to society. Ensuring equitable access to health care of people of determination is not only a public health imperative. It is a reflection of our humanity, dignity and vision for an inclusive and cohesive society. The UAE has taken deliberate spread steps to translate this vision into practice guided by the national policy of empowering people of determination. Our approach is grounded in rights, participation, and inclusion. We recognize that health equity is not achieved merely by offering services. It requires removing barriers that prevent individuals from accessing, navigating, and benefiting from care. This means ensuring that health services are physically accessible, clinically appropriate, socially supportive and delivered with respect. Allow me to highlight one of area of work, one area of work within the ministry of health and prevention that is directly advancing equity of people of determination. The ministry's inclusive service deliveries reforms through initiatives that's through initiatives such as the council of empowering people of determination and the zero bureaucracy re-engineering of services. The ministry is systematically listening to people of determination, simplifying procedures, strengthening workforce capacity, and improving physical and digital accessibility across health facilities. Examples include expanded home health services, streamline access pathways, and targeted training for clinical and support staff to provide disability inclusive care. These measures reduce practical and administrative barriers that too often prevent people of determination from receiving care when and where they need it. Another practical tool that we have it in UAE which supports inclusion across government is the people of determination card. a national mechanism that helps people of determination access priority services and entitlement across health, transport, and public services. Simple, interoperable tools like this make it easier for health systems and other sectors to identify needs and coordinate support. Through this inclusive approach, our national system becomes stronger, more responsive, and more just. However, we also recognize that no country can achieve health equity in isolation. The challenges faced by persons with disabilities whether in the service access, data gaps, workforce readiness or social inclusion are global in scale. They demand global collaboration. This is where the WH disability health equity network comes becomes so important. The network provides a platform for countries to learn from one another, align policies with evidence, elevate elevate the voices of person with disabilities and accelerate national action. It supports country in translating international commitments into practical improvements in the health system and service delivery. The United Arab Emirates is committed to actively supporting this global movement. We stand ready to share our experience to engage in joint research and capacity building to promote regional and international cooperation and amplify advocacy. Our shared goal is clear. To build health systems that recognize diversity, remove barriers and empower every person regardless of disability to achieve their highest attainable standard of health. As we move forward, let us remember that advancing equity is not simply a technical exercise. It is a commitment to dignity. It is a statement of values and it is a a promise to future generations. Together, through national leadership and global collaboration, we can build health systems that truly leave no one behind. Thank you very much. >> Thank you so much Dr. SWAD and also congratulations whole of systems and rights based approach as foundational building blocks for your your successful initiative. Um thank you for sharing that. Um and um as we move on as we've been shedding some spotlight on so many champions in this room across many constituencies the next speaker is certainly one of those are Daryl. or Darl um Daryl Barrett. He's the head of uh dis sorry I'm missing my notes here. Yes, here we are. Um well, Darl, you'll lead us through you've you've led this the the the the program, the disability program for years, who the success of what we see today and the network that's been putting together the initiative itself. Thank you so much for for for that global leadership. Over to you. >> Thanks, Ky. But I just I have to make a correction. Uh it's definitely a team effort. It's um and most of the team are not just the WHO team but a collective team. Many who are around this inner circle and some who are uh on the on the chairs around the side. But look, what I want to do now is just present very briefly for us all uh what the network is uh aimed at achieving. Some of you in this room have heard me say this many many times. So try and stay awake and stay with me. But for some of you and some of our uh colleagues online, this may be the first time. So I'm just going to take us through a very brief presentation. Now essentially we already know that people with disability compared to the general population are pretty much getting shortchanged when it comes to the health system. They're not achieving the same health outcomes as the general population. This we've known for quite a while, but we're not doing enough to take action. And this is this network and and the issues this network is aiming to tackle is not about doing something nice for a small proportion of the population. This is currently one in six uh people globally and is growing. So this is a significant population across any town, any village, any state, any country. It's not a It's not acceptable that people with disability are at up to double the risk of contracting or developing a range of health conditions. It's also not at risk of dying up to 20 years earlier than everybody else. For those of us in the health sector and those of us in government, that should be enough for us to take action. But we also know that there are significant systems challenges as has been outlined by our colleagues from the UAE and Kenya. There is a great deal of fragmentation. All of us in this room are taking some action to advance health equity for persons with disabilities. We need to harness that in a collective manner. We need to bring that together so we can really amplify the change that we need to see. We also see that investment around disability inclusion in the health sector is often as seen as something separate or special. Well, disability is not a priority, so we can't invest in it. People with disability are relevant to every single health program that governments or global partners deliver. It again, it's not about doing something separate or nice. It's about recognizing that the people that we need to support or we need to reach and influence are persons with disabilities as part of the programs that we are running. So there are significant systems challenges that we see. We also see very limited opportunities for leadership by organizations of persons with disabilities. Most of us, if not all of us, know that relevant, appropriate, real change needs to be driven by people who it affects the most. We need to ensure that persons with disabilities and their representative organizations are part of the solutions that we need to find. So this network is is essentially addressing the fact that unfortunately right now for persons with disabilities, health systems are not fit for purpose. So, we're on a journey. We've been on a journey for a while. Some of us have been on it longer than others, but uh all of us in this room, you're all coming with us now. Whether you like it or not, you've signed up. Uh we're very pleased to have you on board. And again, this is not a journey to do something special or nice. It's a journey to make sure that persons with disabilities get the same access to benefiting from the investments in health systems, the reform in health systems that we want to see across any population. So that's why we are focusing on health equity. We're not looking at any particular service or any particular underlying impairment. This is about fixing the system that is leaving people behind. So the network, you're all part of a network and many of our colleagues online are part of a network. But the network is really part of a broader initiative from WH and this is the WH disability health equity initiative. It has a very simple mission and that is health equity for persons with disabilities. Uh sorry that's our vision. Our mission is really to close the avoidable health gaps between persons with disabilities and the general population again so that we don't see the disparities that we currently experience. There are four focus areas or four strategic areas within the initiative that flow on to the network and I know all of you know what I'm talking about because you saw that in your application process to to join us here today. The first is around building leadership among organizations of persons with disabilities. The second is to elevate the political prioritization so that health equity for persons with disabilities is part of the political process uh around the health sector. The third is very straightforward. It's about making sure that health systems whether they're digital, whether they're physical services are inclusive and accessible. And the fourth is making sure that our evidence, our monitoring processes, that we have indicators that they are all in line. So those are the four focus areas of the broader initiative which flow on to the network. And this is where it starts to get a little bit interesting because the initiative has several ways or several components. Obviously the network why we're all here today is this gathering of stakeholders health disability government a range of stakeholders and we'll work together on those four areas to identify the priorities that we need to tackle and how we're going to do that. But we also as part of the broader WHO approach and the initiative will have engagement with the private sector. We will also continue our work on our technical normative work and this these components are all channeled into supporting better action at the country level. So I just want to position the network as part of this broader approach that WHO is taking. So getting to the network it has really three very uh straightforward objectives. The first is to bring people together under a common understanding and vision. Because right now, probably if we pulled everybody in the room, we would have a different understanding of what disability is, a different understanding of what disability inclusion is, a different understanding about how that works in the health sector. So, we as the network need to get on uh track with the same narrative so that when we try and influence and uh support partners to change, we're all speaking with the same uh same approach. The second is to look at how we raise the demand. A lot of that is through advocacy, evidencebased advocacy, but if we don't raise the demand, then we won't see change. And then the third area is again sharing all of our collective knowledge. We're all working uh in our own manner to advance health equity. We need to bring that together and see how we can learn from each other. As I said in the beginning, we have not done this alone. Many of our colleagues who are part of a foundational committee which we set up to really kick off the um the uh network uh are here with us today and some of them are online and it's just to say there's a breadth of civil society and academia and other stakeholders that are working with WH to see this reality. So we'll have more to say that over the next couple of days. I want to give you an example of what uh what the work streams might look like. So um in the third work stream or in the third focus area it's an it's about creating a disability inclusive health um sector. Now as a network the types of activities we might work on are selecting countries where we know that they might be on the on the edge of making some real substantial reform. Maybe there's an investment in primary health care so we can influence to make sure that investment is disability inclusive or maybe there's an opportunity to really um support civil society to engage and and uh advocate to the government to do more on disability inclusion or we might identify certain sectors. We know from the global disability summit that sexual and reproductive um health rights was the most popular or um uh noted commitment among all um uh member states and organizations that make commitment. So it may be a topic that we choose or we might look at how we can focus on particular examples in the health system. That's yet to be determined. But the network work streams will come together and we will identify what can be done and how we're going to do it. I want to also say that uh we kicked off the process of the the network membership in August. We had over a thousand expressions of interest. That's now eventuated into 152 member organizations from civil society, member states of course, organizations of persons with disabilities, academia, our UN partners, our global health partners, a very very broad selection which is exactly what we need because the challenges uh and the issues go right across the system. So it's fantastic to see 152. I'm sure when we open up again for membership next year that number will increase. Uh so we will have to see how we manage that but that's uh that's a positive challenge to manage. And look I'm just about to to be done but I I want to remind us all and particularly those who are online and maybe are seeing this for the first time that we are looking to influence uh health systems. We are looking to change the way health systems are delivering and ultimately we're doing that for for people. We're doing it for people like Kumba who had to go to four health clinics before she found a service that would help her deliver her baby. >> We're doing it for someone like Frank who was unable to access information during the co uh 19 pandemic. And we're doing it for mothers like Funha who were struggling to try and get support for their child with the disability. So just to remind ourselves that you know this room as it is auspicious is all about making sure that we are reaching people who need the services the most. So with that I'm going to finish up and uh thank you all again for joining us today in Geneva. You've come here on your own investment which is very very uh highly noted. And for those of you online I know many of you if not all wanted to join us. And for those on YouTube uh please check out the QR codes and follow us along. Back to you guy. Thanks so much uh Darl. Um I think it's very clear what what lies ahead of us and and welcome a warm welcome to all the 152. I hope they're in the room and online and many more to come. Uh we'll now move into a very brief sort of panel discussion. We we'll hear some additional insights from uh additional champions three additional champions from three additional constituencies. um civil society, academia and organizations of persons with disability. Now hand over to Kaloan Kamovan who will lead us through that panel discussion. >> Thank you guy and good morning everyone. It's really great to see uh all of you here today in the room and also all the people that have joined online. Uh I have the pleasure to moderate this next session uh with three excellent panelists that as guy said represent three of the biggest constituency groups in our network civil society organizations organizations of persons with disabilities and also academic institutions. Uh we will be speaking a little bit about uh some of the work that they do and also their views on the network and its future. So here with us we have uh Bonnie Swener who is the director of the Johns Hopkins Disability Health Research Center. We have Miriam Ten who is uh human rights adviser and the international disability alliance. And we also have John Collan who is the secretary general of the international server policy society. Welcome and thank you so much for being here and taking part of this panel. So the first thing that I would like to ask the three of you is if you can share a little bit about the work that you do and how your organizations are contributing to advancing health equity for persons with disabilities. Perhaps we can start with you Bonnie. The floor is yours. >> Sure. Thank you so much. Um it's really an honor to be here today and be a part of this global movement. one that I really hope does get us further towards health equity for people with disabilities. Um, so as Kellian indicated, I'm the founding director of the John's Hopkins Disability Health Research Center. Our mission is to advance disability health equity and to shift the paradigm from living with a disability to thriving with a disability. We do this through research, education and partnerships with people um with organizations and um advocacy groups for people with disabilities. We largely are um a research center of researchers, students and trainees with disabilities as well, including myself. Our goal is um one that is focused on not just identifying but addressing the barriers that people with disabilities face every day. Many of us know what these are. Inaccessible health care, provider bias in healthcare settings, and a lack of reliable data. Our research has consistently shown that for people with disabilities, where you live matters. These place-based disparities really illustrate that disability health inequities are not driven by our disabilities itself, but by the inequities that have been built into the systems and structures that are around us. In addition, alongside Dr. Scott Landis at Syracuse University, I also co-lead the Disability Health Equity Research Network. This network brings together over 1,300 academics, advocates and policy makers from around the world. Our research network um is focused on improving how we measure disability, how we are training the next generation around disability health equity and bringing people together to share and to uh establish a stronger foundation for change. We also are committed to making sure that people with disabilities are truly included in every step of the process. Thank you so much Bonnie for sharing uh some examples of the work that you do and I think both in terms of the disability uh center that you're leading and also the disability health equity research network. it will be a really great contribution especially for the work stream uh here part of the network that will specifically focus on uh on research and data. Uh moving now to you Miriam I think everyone here in the room knows a lot about the work of the international disability alliance but maybe for some it will be interesting to know more about what specifically you're doing in the health equity space. So if you can share some some of these examples. >> Thank you. Thank you Kalan. Um my name is Miriam Denke. I work at International Disability Alliance which is a global alliance of 14 regional and global organizations of persons with disabilities. And our role is to build OPD leadership um to ensure that persons with disabilities and organizations of persons with disabilities are equipped to advocate better for health equity. Allow me to start by stating that health equity for persons with disabilities is a right. It's a right that is guaranteed in the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities under article 25. And that is our basis of our advocacy towards health equity. And when we speak about health equity, we speak about access to vaccines for young children who are born with disabilities. We speak about access to contraceptives for women with disabilities who require them. When we speak about health equity, we speak about older persons who are disproportionately exposed to chronic diseases and who require services such as uh access to services related to diabetes, access to services related to hypertension. I think it's very important for us to understand what is health equity for persons with disabilities beyond rehabilitation and assistive devices. So what are we doing to ensure that persons with disabilities have access to health on equal basis with others? First, we're building OPD leadership through capacity strengthening. We have programs uh from Pacific to to Africa region where organizations of persons with disabilities and persons with disabilities are being trained on the different aspect of health equity and we are delighted to have this partnership with World Health Organization that is supporting us to unpack health equity so that organizations of persons with disabilities can better advocate for health equity at national level. Beyond that we are ensuring accountability and we're also advocating for strengthening of human rights standards but through our engagement with UN human rights mechanisms. Um we heard from Kenya uh Kenya just gave an example of the recently enacted persons with disabilities act of 2025. This is a process that enga uh included both national advocacy and global advocacy at the CRPD committee where organizations of persons with disabilities led by United Disabled Persons of Kenya and through support by the International Disability Alliance engaged with the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities getting concluding observations that called for uh amendment of the initial uh persons with disabilities act of 2004 to ensure that it aligns with CRPD and this includes now the new provisions around the right to health in the new act. We are also ensuring that the the human rights standards that are being developed by the committee by other committees other than the um the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities align with the CRPD committee. We are also advocating for resolutions at the human rights council. Beyond accountability and strengthening of human rights, we are also mobilizing global commitments around health equity for persons with disabilities. In the just concluded global disability summit, we had over 100 commitments uh from different uh actors including member state bilaterals and all these commitments are driving the change we want to see in terms of health equity for persons with disabilities. And finally, we are producing knowledge. Uh earlier this year we we did um we we conducted a health service. We conducted a survey that targeted organizations of women with disabilities and women with disabilities to see the extent to which uh they they included in health sector processes. And it is interesting um that only 5% of women with disabilities reported that they are regularly engaged in health sector processes. And by health sector we don't just mean the process of seeking services but the whole process of designing uh implementation of programs policies as well as in the process of capacity strengthening and creating awareness. So for us at IDA, we are using these strategies to ensure that OPDS are equally equipped to advocate for health equity and again we want also to acknowledge the partnership we have with World Health Organization to ensure there's better understanding of health equity. Thank you. >> Thank you so much Miriam for giving these examples and also clarifying what health equity is. Now last but not least uh to you John I know that your organization is working at different um um ends and also you are strongly advocating for a resolution on cerebrropy at the work health assembly but perhaps you can say a little bit more about the work of the international cerebopy society. >> Thank you Cologne. Um so the international cerebal pulsey society is is a network of um organizations of people with cerebal palsy um their caregivers and frontline professionals working with them in over 60 countries around the world. Um and you know you asked to give some examples of the kind of work that these these organizations are doing and and the first one I would say is simply providing health care. It's um it's a sad reality that in in in many countries of this world the um the public health system is not catering to the needs of people with disabilities. So what we see if we take Lebanon as as an example um the ministries of public health and social services they refer families of children with cerable palsy to our uh member organization CEO um or to other NOS's um and and this leads to a kind of a vicious circle because they they don't have the special special training within the public system to provide for these uh children and and of course they become adults with with with disabilities. um uh and and in that way uh there is no incentive for them then to to to train because there are um these civil society actors who are fortunately there to pick up the pieces but um but it is a vicious circle in terms of of provision in the long term. Um it's also for those families themselves, for those for those persons with disabilities themselves, uh it it leads to the fact that that the secondary uh conditions which which are often a part of of living with a disability are maybe not picked up in the right way are not addressed as as early as they could be. So that's also a way in which um uh while while it's important that that safety net is is is there that that this is not the way to go forward in in the long term. Another thing that the the organizations are doing then is um is you know providing uh uh comprehensive approaches outreach. Uh so if we look at Nepal for example um again it's about providing the rehabilitation that that that people need and um uh and and and the um the treatments and interventions that that they require over their their life course. But where the public health system is active and doing it its job there's this big challenge of awareness raising. So um I want to take the example here of Argentina where they have a week dedicated to awareness raising around cable palsy which they link to world cerebal palsy day um and they train health care professionals to make them more aware about how to deal with people with disabilities and their needs. Then um access to health care access to in fact life in general for a person with disabilities uh is really dependent on accessibility. Um, one of the keys for that is assisted technology and um, in fact that's one of the break points that we have in terms of access to health care because people are not able to actually access healthcare institutions um or because the healthcare institutions don't know how to deal with for example somebody who is in a wheelchair how to give them a proper dental or optical uh, examination in those circumstances. So um our member organization in Kenya for example offers um uh like access accessibility audits to local healthcare providers to help them to see the barriers that they're unaware of. um or in uh Ireland um the our organization is is working on a an assisted technology passport which will help providers in the healthcare sector but also in other sectors to know how to deal with an individual's assisted technology needs. Um co-design is really important. Um Pearl said it in the beginning about um code decision is really important but also being there from the start. So uh in the Netherlands for example our our member organization is developing the guidelines for cable palsy with the professional rehabilitation association. And then it's important to look for um neglected groups. So disability is not um uh monolithic. It is diverse. Um within disability we have uh different uh conditions, different uh needs and and and profiles. uh in cerebopaly for example proportionately there are more males than females with cerebopal palsy um what that leads to is uh oversight of the needs of particularly girls and women with um with with cerebopy and their specific needs because professionals who do who do deal with them are seeing more boys than they're seeing seeing girls more more men than adults uh so um our members in UK and Slovenia are working in particular on raising awareness of of the needs of women and girls with with CP And the final point I would say is is support to the to the grassroots. Um because health equity happens when one person with a disability encounters one healthare professional and that relationship works. So we really need to be making sure that this change is happening right at at the grassroots level. Um so our member in Ukraine for example is uh supporting local groups to advocate for health equity in their um in their con in their local context or our um member in South Africa provides training to um local groups in Uganda. Um so uh transferring the knowledge that they've developed and the expertise they've they've developed to advocate in in a different context. So those are just a few examples. Thank you. >> Thank you so much. Thank you. Um my second question to to the three of you is now that you have shared a bit about the work that you do looking at the network that we're launching today uh how do you see this network contributing to health equity advancing health equity for persons with disabilities and where do you think that it could have the biggest impact? Perhaps we can start with Miriam with you first. >> Um thank you Kalan. Um reflecting back um about OPD participation um in 2022 when IDA carried out the second global survey OPDS mentioned that one of the areas they really wanted to be included and they were not being included was the health sector and I believe this um believe this initiative is an answer to that 2022 finding. Uh this initiative uh draws it strength from its membership. It brings together 147 uh members including bilaterals uh member state civil society organizations of persons with disabilities academia and when we reflect back in the 2022 survey on OPD engagement in health sector this network puts together all these members ensuring that OPDs at the center of it are able to engage it enables OPDS to speak to the different actors who have been I would say is everywhere but now together and therefore the initiatives provides a platform that allows OPDS to continue engaging it. It also provides a platform for knowledge generation. It provides a platform that answers questions around how do we finance health equity for persons with disabilities? How do we ensure political leadership for uh for health equity for persons with disabilities? How do we equip organizations or persons with disabilities to engage uh with all the different uh members who are members of health equity but even the broader uh political um the all the political actors beyond the members of the health equity initiative. So for us at IDA we see that it is a unique movement that brings together all these different uh different actors to provide financial solutions to provide policy solutions to provide practice solution as well as to generate evidence uh and ensure that OPDS at the center of this and we are very delighted that the flag bearer of this uh of these initiatives is our initiative is a world health organization because that gives the credibility for leadership around health and we are delighted to be part of this membership. Thank you. >> Thank you so much Miriam. Thank you. Uh John perhaps I will go uh next to you. You are actually the the chair of the WHO civil society commission. So you are already familiar uh with the power of collaborative uh engagement and and work. So if you can share a little bit about your views on the network and its role. >> So just a correction I'm a member of the steering committee but not the chair. The chair's allow me to >> um so um yeah I think um in importance of the network I mean I'm here with my son who has cable pausy um and you know there are 50 million people in the world who have cable pausy. There are 1.3 billion people who have some kind of disability and um we all of us we face on a day-to-day basis the kind of challenges that we're talking about here and uh if we keep chipping away or all by ourselves in our corners it's we're never going to achieve this in a lifetime. So scale is really important but also um learning from one another is is really important. We don't need to reinvent the wheel. Um uh but we are as Daryl said in in his introduction, we're aiming for systems change here. So it's it's really um only by working through the system uh are we really going to achieve um what we're trying to do. And I think there what I can bring from from our experience with the civil society commission is is the importance of of of truly tapping into other initiatives that are going on at the same time. So um Dr. Dr. Massie in in your presentation you mentioned how um universal health coverage will only become a reality when it includes persons with disabilities. Um social participation is is another uh ongoing initiative that that is really important and and and last year um sorry even just last week um we had a meeting of the civil society commission together with the international alliance of patients organizations uh which is developing a patient charter on on social participation and what it was really interesting was that all of these representatives of of different groups patient groups from from from around the world in different sectors communicable diseases non-communicable diseases and so forth they actually looked to the disability community as an example to follow. So uh the slogan of uh nothing about us without us was something that the whole patient community wants to take on board uh as as you know a motto for greater social participation. Um, so, um, so I think if we can, if we can see that if we can get things right for people with disabilities, we're actually helping to improve the health care system for all, then this is no longer a niche matter. This is really for everybody. Um, then yes, why a network? You know, obviously mobilization is important and um one of the three figures that Darl put up there was was Funha from from Vietnam who's one of the founders of a of the cerebal palsy families association of Vietnam which is one of our members. Um but what they also set up was a group for adults with cerebopal palsy and that was really important. It's actually quite unusual um uh in in in the CP field. It's a childhood onset condition. So we're all used that it's parents who take the lead. Uh and then um uh but but having adults advocating for their needs as well is really important and that's an example of of that happening. So mobilization uh getting and that's obviously one of the work streams of the of the of of the network is going to really be focusing on um creating that demand for uh for change. And then finally, I would say um really if we think about health equity for people with disabilities, it's not just the health care sector that we need to be looking at. We need to be looking at a much broader holistic approach because even if we can get it right in the uh in the health care sector, there are still going to be obstacles. So there's still going to be transport issues, infrastructure issues, there's the social services um uh setup that needs to be um uh part of the package as well. Um and and Dr. Hawa from from UAE, you mentioned that in terms of the approach that you're taking and so that's really an example that we need to be looking at uh across the board. Thanks. >> Thank you very much, John. And last but not least, Bonnie, floor is yours. >> Yeah. So, as Darl and everyone else had has discussed, you know, across every health measure and social determinant of health, people with disabilities have worse outcomes. But that's not how it needs to be. That that's not inevitable. But getting that message out and getting that message to stick has been a challenge. And it's clear what has been done before isn't what we need to continue doing. It's not working. We need to do something else. We need a movement. We need collective action to pull all the levers that we possibly can. And so this network really has that opportunity to do just that, to take that collective action. Um, as someone representing academia, I think that academia has um some important roles to play here. Uh, we have lots of lessons to learn for sure, but uh, academia can help elevate disability health equity as a priority um, on agendas in political settings, in healthcare settings, in public health settings. When disability is not on those agendas, it sends a really clear message, a message that people with disabilities don't matter. And academia has the opportunity to change this because we educate the next generation. And we have the opportunity to educate the next generation in ways that they understand that there is no health equity unless there's health equity for people with disabilities. And then there's the issue of data and research which is something that has been discussed uh and will continue to be discussed. And we really can't close gaps that we don't measure. We know we have many gaps to close for people with disabilities. We need to build more inclusive and better disability measures and academic partners can help to do this by working with OPDS, policy makers, civil society to develop those indicators to identify disparities and most importantly to turn that evidence into action and that last step is essential. Additionally, aca academia has an opportunity to really help put people with disabilities in leadership roles and positions. As others have also discussed that disability health equity can only be achieved when efforts are led by disabled people. But universities and research centers um haven't always been part of that conversation. And moving forward through this network, I hope that can change. Um, we can help bridge science, policy, and practice and help put uh leaders with disabilities in those positions. We do need to break down the barriers in academia itself for people with disabilities. I'm hoping that through this network, we can we can do that as well. You know, it's hard to uh gloss over the fact that this is a challenging moment for global health, for public health, even for academia. Um but, you know, there's always an opportunity in crisis. And you could imagine that, you know, some might think this is a challenging time to launch such a network, but it it actually feels like the exact right time. Um there's continuing traction on conversations around um issues impacting people with disabilities and things are changing, things are shifting, people are starting to think about how to advance global health and public health in ways that we haven't before. And so this actually feels like the exact right time to start this kind of a movement. And uh thanks to all who have been working so hard to do just that. Thank you so much Bonnie, Miriam, and John. You've been really great. And a big round of applause for our panelists, please. Back to you, Guy. >> Thanks, Khan, for leading that really insightful discussion. Um, the wealth of experience, knowledge, expertise, and and solutions is impressive. I think that's this is operationalizing the network actually as of today as of this discussion really connecting these skill sets expertise and and and journeys um connecting sharing building off each other and really uh moving forward in a collaborative approach. I think I I very much align with your last comments, Bonnie, that uh it couldn't be a better moment, a more eloquent moment to launch a network and an initiative like this in the current geopolitical um environment. We need to demonstrate that the multilateralism, multistakeholder action, collaboration uh across global health agendas is possible and it will deliver impact. Thanks so much. We will move on and we will get to know more of those 152 members and we hope that each of you will have the opportunity to share what we've heard today from some of the champions. You will continue sharing that expertise and guiding us through this from your different entry points and and knowledge sets. Um and we will start by meeting each others and so Kian back to you. >> Thank you very much Guy and this moment is very exciting so I cannot be just sitting down. I will have to stand up because this is the moment when I will announce all the 152 members of this organization. We are really overwhelmed by uh by this huge response. Really, it's a record for I have to say you'll hear a little bit later about another network, the World Hearing Forum that beats us. It has 175, but our record is because this was the first really open call for applications and we got 152. So this is really great and to make it a little bit more exciting we want to uh create a bit of a Olympic game spirit. You might be wondering why you all have these flags in different colors. So we have divided all the members into four groups and for each of the groups you have a different color. Member states and governmental uh entities you have the the orange one. civil society organizations including organizations of persons with disabilities you have the purple flag then u academic institutions you have the dark pink and then there is a group of others which includes uh sister UN agencies other intergovernmental agencies private sector mainstream health actors and I know that others sounds really awful and terrible but we ran out of flag colors so we had to put everything into one group uh so what I will do now is I will go through the different groups. Uh we will first start with those of you that are here in the in the room. So when you hear your name when you see the your name on the slide uh just wave your flag so everyone can see you and you can get the proper recognition. And then after I finish with those in the room I will also name the uh the members that are online that have joined us online and then we will move to the next group. So let's start first with the group of member states. The first one that we have is Ghana Health Service from Ghana. Supposed to be in the room. Not but yeah big congratulations for Ghana Health Service. Then we have the Ministry of Health of Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. We have the Ministry of Health of Kenya. We have the Ministry of Health and Prevention, United Arab Emirates. We have the uh National Board of Health and Welfare Sweden. We have the Public Health Agency of Sweden. We have the ZET Authority for people of determination from UAE. We have the Department of Health, Disability and Aging, Australia. They're not in the room. Now we start with the ones online. Congratulations to Australia. We have the Director General for Social Action, Minister of Family, Social Action, and Solidarity, Republic of Sagal. the director at the vulnerable groups health services ministry of health republic of Indonesia the federal ministry of health and social welfare welfare in Nigeria uh don't make me read this in French so the English version is national fund for supporting accessibility and autonomy of persons living with disabilities in the democratic republic of Congo we have the Hamad Medical Corporation from Qatar. We have Health New Zealand. We have the Indian Council of Medical Research in India. We have the Ministry of Health, Public Hygiene and Universal Health Coverage of Cod Devoir. We have the Ministry of Health of Brunelam. We have the Ministry of Health of Chile. We have the Ministry of Health of El Salvador. Malawi, the Ministry of Health of Moldova, the Ministry of Health of Republic of Uganda, the Ministry of Health of Tanzania, the Ministry of Health and Population of Nepal, We also have the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection in Moldova. There will be a lot of clapping I can say. Ministry of Social Development and Family, Qatar, Ministry of Health of the Slovak Republic, the National Bank of Bahrain Rehabilitation Home for Disabled Children in Bahrain, National Rehabilitation Center in Republic of Korea, the National Reh Rehabilitation Center for Persons with Disabilities in Japan, the Republican Rehabilitation Center for Children in Moldova, and in total we have 31 member states or governmental entities. So, uh, everyone who is representing member states, you can wave your flags here and those online, you can put your camera on so we can take a photo of you. Now moving to the biggest group is the civil society organizations. We have first the Africa Organism Network Foundation from We have APF France Handicap from France. We have Autism Europe from Belgium. We have Catholic Relief Services from the United States of America. We have the CBM Christian Blind Mission from Germany. We have the CBM Global Disability Inclusion from the Netherlands. We have the center for health ethics law and development in Nigeria. We have Chandigar Spinal Rehab from India. We have Don Carlo Foundation from Italy. We have Down Syndrome International from the UK. We have uh Jerome Ljen Foundation from France. We have the cerebra foundation from We have the German Leprosy and Tuberculosis Relief Association from Germany. We have Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare from the United States. We have the Global Deaf Research Institute from the United States. We have uh Handicap International Federation or Humanity and Inclusion. We have the Hong Kong Society for Rehabilitation from China. We have inclusion Canada. We have International Celebrity Society in the UK. We have the International Disability Alliance. We have the International Federation for Spinabifida and Hydrophilis from Belgium. We have the international society of phys for for of physical and rehabilitation medicine. We have the medicines for malaria venture from Switzerland. We have the national dev children society from the UK. We have the Japanese Society of International Rehabilitation. This one I can read. or in English, the Latin American Network for Med Cultures, psychosocial diversity, justice, good living, and the right to to delirium. From Peru, we have Light for the World. We have Rehabilitation International. We have relief international. We have Rosemies from the United States. We have save the children Australia. We have sight savers from the UK. We have the International Federation of Fantepacy Associations from Switzerland. We have Third Sight from the United States of America. We have Understood from the United States. We have World Federation of Occupational Therapists. We have the African Organization for the Development of Centers for Persons with Disabilities from Sagal. We have the Australian Disability and Development Consortium from Australia. We have Cerebro Poly Alliance from Australia. We have the core group from the United States. We have Devblind International from the Netherlands. We have Dementia Alliance International from the United States. We have Disability Rights India Foundation. We have Disability HIV and AIDS Trust from Zimbabwe. We have Mfold Proactive Health Trust from India. We have Epilepsy South Africa. We have Ergasti Adikis Sagogis Margarita from Greece. We have the European Federation of Heart of Hearing People from the Netherlands. We have Health Equity Matters from Australia, Healthpage International from the UK, Step Social Enterprise from Thailand, the Fred Hollowos Foundation from the International Disability and Development Consortium from Belgium, Copanda for children from the United We have Lilian FS from the Netherlands. We have LVCT Health Organization from Kenya. Medical Aid for Palestinians from the UK. We have Mind Freedom Ghana. Multicids Africa from Ghana. Again, my right empowers of persons with disabilities Sweden. the National Center for Immunization uh Research and Surveillance, Sydney Children's Hospital Network from from the United States, Sangat from India, Shamea from Cameroon, Special Olympics, Uh, we're here. Spoon from the United States of America, the Missing Billion Initiative, the World Federation of the Dev Blind from Croatia, Therapists for Armenia from the United States, Women Enabled International from the United States, The World Blind Union from Canada, the World Federation of the Deaf from Finland. And we reached the end of our civil society organizations. 72 civil society organizations. Big applause. And you can wave the flags proudly. Okay. The third one, academic institutions. Center for Disability Studies, University of Leeds in the UK. Chair of Inclusive Healthcare, University Hospital, Augsburg, Germany. Charles Third University, Australia. Cochran from the UK. Geneva School of Health, University of Applied Sciences of Western Switzerland. Uh, Gira Indigenous Health Faculty of Health, University of Technology, Sydney, Australia. Inclusive Futures, Reimagining Disability in Griffith University, Australia. International Center for the Advancement of Community Based Rehabilitation, Queens University, Canada. The International Center for Evidence in Disability at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in the UK. The school of therapeutic sciences, faculty of health sciences, the university of witwater strength in South Africa, the Kite Research Institute, University Health Network Canada, Toronto Metropolitan University in Canada, Johns Hopkins Disability Health Research Center in the United States, Monos University, Malaysia, Aging Studies Institute, Syracuse University in the United States, the Center for Health Equity Studies, Department of Public Health Sciences, Stockholm University, Sweden. Center for Studies on Aging, Pontifico Catholic University of Chile. CHS Research Evaluation and Academic Center on Health Disparities, the University of Texas at El Paso in the United States. College of Medicine and Health Sciences University Ethiopia, the Glasgow Caledonian University in the UK, Global Disability Innovation Hub in the Health Policy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences in Iran, The Lur Institute for Disability Policy in the States, the Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, Australia, National Center of Excellence in Intellectual Disability Health in National Department of Public Health University San Sebastian in Chile, the National Disability Research Partnership in Australia, the UCL International Disability Research Center in the UK, University College of Medical Sciences, University of Delhi, India. University of Rwanda, WHO Collaborating Center for Ear and Hearing Care Research and Education, ENTN Head and Neck Research Center at the Iran University of Medical Sciences in Iran. and another collaborating center. This time for strengthening rehabilitation capacity in health systems, faculty of medicine and health, University of Sydney, Australia. Here we are 32 academic institutions. You can proudly wave proudly wave your flags. And last but not least, the others. So first at scale the global partnership for assistive technology in Switzerland. Clinton Health Access Initiative, Chai, United States, East Central and Southern Africa Health Community, Tanzania, International Labor Organization, just across the street, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria. United Nations Population Fund, the United Nations Research Institute for Social Development, Wakari from the UK, the World Organization for Animal Health, Impel Consultancy from the UK, the office of the special adviser to the secretary general on Cyprus, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, UN Women, UNICEF, the United Nations Environment Program, United Nations Global Disability Fund and the World Bank. So, I made it in half an hour. So that's that's amazing. So these are the 152. Big congratulations to all of you because we now officially launched the who disability health equity network. >> Back to you guy. Exmp impressive. Impressive. What a lineup. Um, and what a group. Looking forward to just starting our work. I think it already, as I said, already started today with the discussions we've had, but what an impressive group of partners and members um already sort of stamping the success of what this network will achieve. Thanks so much for joining and and please we also will be looking forward to more members as we move forward in the next call for submissions. Um, we move now to the stamping this moment with some photos. I think we'll first have a photo online with those online, Darl. And that's being coordinated within the team. So, those online please uh open your cameras, show your faces, ensure that you are on screen. You can also if you have any flag near you also you can wave it. Any sim anything similar to a flag >> handkerchief. We'll take the photo of those online. I think we are we're okay. Hi everybody. We see you. Welcome. Excellent. Uh I think we're done for the online photos. Great. Uh for this we close the uh the the the live streaming on YouTube. Thank you all for joining us on that channel and we encourage you to stay tuned to this amazing group of members and partners and the amazing work that will come out of of this network as we take forward. We'll continue with those that have joined the virtual participation. We'll have a break now and where we the ones in in house in the meeting room, we will take some photos also. So, we'll have a break outside tea break. Uh before you take your tea, please go towards the stairs where we will have a photo convene there um as quick as you can so we have time for that tea and that coffee and we'll take a photo there. Thanks so much. We we should be coming back at around 11 25 minutes. So, if everyone can just before you grab a coffee, just make your way to the stairs that most of you came down. We're just going to get you all on that. Take a quick photo and then you can have a break until 11. Thank you.