GRAND PRIX of the Health for All Film Festival by the World Health Organisation Grand Prix 2024 - Universal Health Category The Visionary Women of Indonesia by Nalin Narang of The Fred Hollows Foundation (Australia) Every minute, one person in Indonesia goes blind Eye health is a major issue in Indonesia. It has\hthe second highest rate of blindness in the world. There is a significant shortage of ophthalmologists in the country. When I first started here, eye health services was practically null. There were no services. Dr Siti Farida is the former chairperson of PERDAMI NTB, the ophthalmologists association in West Nusa Tenggara, also known as  the NTB province of Indonesia, one of the highly affected areas in the country. Over the years, a strong female workforce started to pave the way for change in the region. But it hasn't been easy. THE VISIONARY WOMEN OF INDONESIA The first few days here, I started working at the hospital. There was a senior male nurse and he didn’t look at me at all. He considered me... you know... there were some times people would consider: ‘you’re a female’, ‘you’re not important’. Most ophthalmologists in Indonesia are women. The majority are women. Women are playing a large role in helping to resolve the vision crisis in NTB. Since 12 years, I became the ophthalmologist, every year we perform charity, because I know that the blindness is the worst problem. There is many poor people blind that we must help. A collective effort from the government and NGOs has been supporting these local leaders. My hope is, with the existence of this Vision Center, that blindness rates will decrease so that there are no more cases of blindness. If blind people can see, their prayers will bless us and our families in the future. In 2022, free mass outreach cataract programs were held in NTB with the support of The Fred Hollows Foundation, where more than 1,600 patients had their sight restored over six weeks. The charitable work continued into 2023, bringing the total to more than 2,400 cataract surgeries performed across the nation. The barrier of the cataract is cost. They didn’t have money for the surgery. So I think it’s important to perform the cataract charity. While women like Dr Wulansari are taking the lead in eye health care, other women in the community are being largely affected by adverse eye conditions. 55% of the world’s blind and visually impaired are women and girls. The reward for me is the best visual acuity for the patient. Especially in both eyes. They can see, they can work, study and this make me very happy. “Women’s leadership in eye health is more than an issue of equity. It is the missing link that will help achieve better eye health outcomes for women.” ‘No Woman Left Behind’: Policy brief by UN Women and The Fred Hollows Foundation (2023)