Friends, we are going through difficult times in the face of this COVID-19 pandemic, but our old threats have not dissipated. As has happened for many years, communicable diseases are the leading cause of death, most occurring in people under 70 and in low- and middle-income countries. COVID-19 makes it especially important to prevent and manage non-communicable diseases (NCDs). People living with conditions such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, stroke, and cancer are particularly vulnerable to the virus. More than two-thirds (60 million) of deaths worldwide annually are due to NCDs, almost half of which are cardiovascular diseases. It is a preventable tragedy. NCDs can be prevented by adopting a healthy diet, engaging in physical activity, and eliminating tobacco and excessive alcohol consumption. Industrially produced trans fats cause coronary heart disease and death, yet they continue to be used in many countries in baked goods, fried foods, and spreads. These fats can be replaced with healthy fats and oils without changing the taste or cost of food. Eliminating these industrially produced fats and salts is key.  The awareness of these fats in food is a priority for them because of three reasons: first, it will save lives; second, it is feasible, so some industries will have to adapt, but others can gain new markets; and third, it will reduce the burden on healthcare facilities at a time when COVID-19 is placing a heavy strain on them. The MS launched the REPLACE action framework in 2018, which builds on the work we have been doing for years. This was followed in 2019 by detailed operational guidance and the first progress report to inspire and assist governments in eliminating trans fats from their food chains. Just as the MS has been at the forefront of eradicating smallpox and polio, we are also leading this movement to completely eliminate trans fats worldwide by 2023, through best practices and policies.  These measures now apply to approximately 600 million people worldwide. Furthermore, with the release of the second report today, I am pleased to announce that the MS plan to certify countries and their leadership in eliminating industrially produced trans fats is now a reality. I would now like to give the floor virtually to Dr. Tam Fry, President and CEO of Resort Save Lives, an initiative of Baida Strategies, which has been our partner in this global effort. Thank you very much for your leadership. You have the floor. Thank you very much, and thank you for this good news about the certification. Trans fats are non-toxic and kill thousands of people every year and cause unnecessary hospitalizations, and it doesn't have to be this way. Two years ago, the MS first called for the complete elimination of a risk factor for a non- communicable disease by eliminating artificial trans fats. Although there has been progress in these two years, too many lives are being lost unnecessarily because of them, and if we don't redouble our efforts, we will not meet the targets. Eliminating artificial trans fats from the food chain is feasible.  Economically, politically, and technically, it saves lives at almost no cost to governments and consumers. With Replace Action and our MS-Side package, we provide countries with an effective way to eliminate this toxin from the food chain through good practices. In two years, we have made great progress: the number of people protected by the trans fat regulation has increased from 2.8 billion in 2010 to more than 3.1 billion by the end of 2021. This momentum can be attributed in large part to regional initiatives, an agreement that Dr. Pedros emphasized when launching this program. You were right. Last year, the European Union approved the Good Practice Regulation, and all OPEC countries unanimously approved an action plan to eliminate trans fats in the Americas. Together, these two regional projects have the potential to protect an additional one billion people and more than 50 countries that are not already protected from trans fats. This regional initiative is based on the model established by the European Economic Union, ATI, and the Cooperation Council. Gulf and Gulf, the two regional bodies are the first to adopt these limits for the degrees of this progress towards elimination by 2030. We need more progress in other regions such as Africa and Asia. That is important in places where this protection is still lacking. The second report we are presenting today shows that there is great progress achieved, with case studies and effective strategies to accelerate progress. The MS has committed to publishing a report every year for countries to implement good practices and to establish accountability. We urge all countries to support this initiative in their countries and with neighboring countries. Next year we will have reached the halfway point of the deadline we have set. However, we are not on track to meet these objectives. It is necessary to act now. Countries want to be protected from these 'trans' fats. Some may think that we have slowed down our measures due to the pandemic, but in fact, prevention is now more important than ever. Eliminating artificial trans fats is a way to save lives and prevent heart attacks and at the same time free up time used by the healthcare system. Resolved 6Life has established an alliance  With the IOM, it is in this effort, and I am very excited about the announcement that Tortero just made about a certification not only for the elimination of trans fats, but it is also the first program of its kind by MS, and now it is seen that it has a parallel with other programs such as the eradication of polio and smallpox. This will serve to recognize the countries that have been able to meet the objectives. Together we can achieve a world without trans fats by 2023. Dr. Chizuru Nishida will now give a summary and the most important ideas of the report. Dr. Michigan will now present the key findings of this report. We are already receiving comments, which are virtual, and questions and answers. We have a question and answer box that you can use here. If you ask whether there will be separate guidelines for trans fats in dairy and meat products, and then another question regarding the strategy to collaborate with policymakers to develop legislation and regulations to eliminate trans fats, and how the industry can be made to eliminate them, since the industry has committed to developing  Regulations on the matter, presentation, Washington, identity, and then another question for the poorest countries: present the biggest challenge and how it supports these countries at the table to address these issues. And then a question about the guidelines regarding industrial trans fats, about the use of fried food and the oil used to fry these products. We will address all the questions together. Thank you very much, Francesco. We are waiting for the presentation to appear on the screen, but I will begin now. As the Director-General and Dr. Thomas Frieden have indicated, there are numerous benefits to eliminating trans fats. ENEE has called for a global elimination of these industrially produced trans fatty acids by 2023. We have monitored the progress of countries since then. To monitor the elimination and the elimination policies applied in the countries, we have developed a country scorecard or scoreboard. This is included in the report. You can access this report on the website that I am showing you to monitor good practices and encourage countries to achieve this 2023 target. We encourage you to develop and implement good policy practices.  Against trans fats, there are two options: one is to limit artificially produced trans fats to 2 percent of the total fat in a given food, and the second is to prohibit partially hydrogenated oils. We have developed maps for these scoring tables, which you can see in this report, as well as on the website and in the Chinese database. This year, there has been significant progress, especially in two countries: Brazil and Turkey. They will tell us what the results are. These are two countries that have adopted these best practice policies. Other countries have established policies that have already come into effect. I have these charts to show you, also included in the report, which show the upward trend in the number of countries introducing these best practices regarding trans fats. In 2020, new policies came into effect in more than 40 countries, covering 600 million people, as the Director-General mentioned. But in the next two years, we need 26 more countries to have adopted these policies, which will then be in effect, covering more than 800 million people. There have been some trends.  We can emphasize that the first trend is an increase in the number of regions that have developed regional or subregional actions, and here are some examples of the trends we have observed. The second trend is that many countries are moving from less effective policies they had in the past to improved policies transformed into policies of good practice. Here are some examples. We will be able to see that some of the limitations we face are that, unfortunately, these good practices have not been applied in low-income or lower- middle-income countries. That is why we encourage these countries to do everything possible to develop these policies of good practice in this area. We would also like to show you the annex with the data we have included. This data has been analyzed thanks to the generous data contribution shared by the HM team led by Dr. Ascar, and it establishes a ranking of countries in descending order according to their diseases attributable to specific agents. What you see in this table are the five most important examples, but there are 50 countries that represent two-thirds of the mortality burden, and of these, only four countries have applied policies of good practice.  Eleven countries have not yet done so, therefore we strongly recommend that countries develop good practice policies and strengthen national regulatory capacities to monitor all the progress made and the trans fat content in food, strengthening laboratory capacity and promoting regional and subregional regulations where possible to support this effort by each country. MS will provide or continue to provide technical support to strengthen regulatory capacities, including laboratory capacities, and we will also recognize countries' achievements in good practices, something we have already been doing through the publication of this annual report and will continue to do. We expect industries, especially the food industry, to implement these commitments they made in May 2019 to eliminate industrially produced trans fats. Large suppliers of fatty acids and oils are expected to eliminate partially hydrogenated oils from the food chain. And I want to conclude [Music] by acknowledging the work done by numerous people without whom all of this would not have been possible, first and foremost the various states  Members and national coordinators, various colleagues from the MS headquarters office, colleagues from regional offices, I also have here the names of the colleagues who made this launch possible, and I would also like to thank the Reason to Save Lives team, led by Thom, for their work, and also the colleagues from III H and HM, Dr. A. Fin and his team, thank you for the data you have compiled. I would also like to highlight two colleagues in particular from the Resort and Table teams: Dr. Ver Yamamoto, who is here, Dr. A. Help on the Moto, and Dr. Steel. These are two colleagues who have really made it possible for us to publish this report this year. Thank you very much, Dr. Nishida. Well, we see that this is a success story. We are receiving a lot of feedback from the more than 800 participants connected today. We want to celebrate this success, and we will address the questions during the meeting. We must celebrate this success, and for that, we have to count on two countries that have made a lot of progress. First, Turkey, which will be represented by Dr. Quique Kinky Lidge, a family medicine specialist who works as a deputy director general of the treatment and care service.  Primary, the Turkish Ministry of Health is the Deputy Director General of Public Health in his country and has been a member of the MS cultivation council since 2016 and 2019. I hope you are connected and can tell us about your experience. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm having some technical difficulties. I hope you can hear me. Yes, yes, yes, we can hear you, please. Well, I'm going to show a film, a photograph in which I look better than I think I am. Perhaps the impact of the pandemic has caused a different perception of health in our country. One in three people is overweight and suffers from various non- communicable diseases at alarming levels, and all of these are among the leading causes of death. 89 percent of deaths are due to [unclear - possibly "non-communicable diseases"], 26.6 percent are due to cardiovascular diseases, and this time too, premature deaths before the age of 70 are one of the biggest [ unclear - possibly "non-communicable diseases"]. In 2019, it was 16%. The economic burden on health is simply one of the signs, but there are numerous hidden and indirect costs.  All of this represents a cost to the Turkish economy of 70 billion Turkish lira in 2016, equivalent to 36 percent of GDP. Most of the production of these trans fats is unnecessary; they are found in bakery and fried products without policies restricting them, and this is directly associated with an increased risk of death from heart attack. Therefore, an intervention is needed that can save lives by inhibiting trans fats. Trans fats are one of our priorities since 2014 in nutritional health programs, and we have indeed discussed the issue with all stakeholders and on all relevant platforms. We have also conducted studies on the trans fat content in various foods thanks to the support of the Ministry of Health, and this has provided us with data that facilitates the elimination of trans fatty acids from the food chain. Furthermore, we take into account all the comments from stakeholders, including the food industry, and I believe that this, specifically on May 14th, led to regulations on limiting the amount of trans fatty acids.  It requires that there be a limited amount for the consumer, namely no more than 2 grams of trans fats per 100 grams of food. This is an essential element to eliminate trans fatty acids and thus save hundreds of lives a year. As we implement these good practices, both in the European Union and the European Economic Area, we have a series of measures to promote trans fat-free foods. We are the first region in the world to be trans fat-free. I would like to thank the MS and also the Risk to Save Lives Initiative, the special team, and the technical assistance that has been provided to us in developing and implementing this regulation. We collaborated closely with the WHO Country Office and Regional Office to develop and adopt good practices on trans fatty acids in Urki, Turkey. Thanks to the package of measures, we will continue to collaborate with the Bureau and other partners to implement the regulation, which will come into force in 2021. We hope to prevent deaths, and we are fully committed in Turkey to reducing exposure to trans fatty acids and increasing the availability of healthier alternatives, thus preventing deaths from cardiovascular diseases. Many thanks to Dr. Teneros.  Dr. Freedom, thank you for all your help in controlling and managing the CNT, and many thanks also to all the colleagues at the WHO for the report on the elimination of trans fatty acids. Thank you very much for your participation. Thank you, Dr. Bekir, for sharing the secret of your success: advocating for the need to eliminate trans fats and their imminent and evident impact on health; taking into account all stakeholders, considering WHO guidelines, and relying on clear and robust regulations to contribute to making the European region the first trans-fat-free region in the world. Now, I would like to invite our next speaker, Eduardo Nilson from Brazil. He is a highly experienced expert in the formulation, monitoring, and evaluation of nutrition policies and has over 20 years of experience in the Ministry of Health. He is the coordinator of the Food and Nutrition Division of the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Go ahead, Eduardo. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to all the colleagues listening. First of all, congratulations to the MS, the PAHO, the Regional Office, and everyone who has...  I participated in the preparation of the report. Thank you for all the help provided, especially in the Americas region. I don't know if I was able to transmit my slide. There it is. Policies on trans fats have been a priority for women for more than 10 years. Next slide, please. Thank you. Well, these have been the patterns of deaths from cardiovascular diseases and their impact. We have been successful, as we have progressively reduced the deaths attributed to the large number of trans fats. In Brazil, 70% of deaths are related to non- communicable diseases, and 20 % are cardiovascular diseases.  For cardiovascular health, it is therefore important to continue along these lines, ensuring that we reduce trans fats and, on the other hand, increase healthy diets with more legumes, fiber, etc. Considering the sources of trans fats, we have seen the amount of unprocessed or minimally processed foods compared to other types of food. It is important to evaluate these sources to see how they are formulated. I will try to elaborate on this in the next slide. What we see in Brasilia is that the traditional diet has been replaced by processed and ultra- processed foods. The aim is to promote healthy diets and reduce the burden of these new diets. We also align ourselves with various international milestones, such as the WHO's global strategy, to begin with, or the Rio de Janeiro Declaration on a Trans Fat-Free America launched by PAHO. We also have measures related to oils and other fats, as well as mandatory trans fat labeling in food, and many other points that have reinforced the importance of replacing trans fatty acids with other types of fats. We have this REPLACE strategy, which comprehensively addresses this approach and has provided significant assistance to many countries. Next, regarding what  We do this at a national level, so here's an idea: we're aligned with international milestones. In 2003, we had a mandatory declaration of trans fatty acids on food labels, valid for the entire region. Then we have Trans Fat Free America, a declaration that the Rio de Janeiro regulation emphasizes the importance of food chains and industries taking regulations into account, thus eliminating trans fatty acids from products. They are following the guidelines and trying to reintegrate traditional diets into healthy ones. In Brazil, there was a demand from 2016 to 2018 to eliminate these agents in industrially manufactured products, and since 2019, the elimination of trans fatty acids as well as partially hydrogenated oils. After the declaration of trans fatty acids, we had the Oil-Free America initiative. In Brazil, specifically, the Association of Food Industries committed to this agreement, and this opens the door for other nutrients like sugars, fats, and sodium. We have this harmonization for two years to reach a 5 percent limit for trans fatty acids in industrial foods and 2 percent for oils.  In 2010, we saw the impact of margarine on both domestic and international markets, as we export many of these foods. This represents a use of approximately 230 tons of trans fats per year, and you can see here how it is distributed. This breakdown by food is shown in the next slide. Another survey we conducted on the impact of trans fats on health revealed that many products are now trans fat-free. This encourages labeling and helps raise public awareness, spreading the message about the dangers of trans fat intake. This, in turn, promotes healthier food choices. The dietary guidelines send a clear message: we must base our diets on unprocessed foods, replacing them with healthier options, and above all, eliminating ultra-processed foods. We aim to have much healthier diets that do not contain trans fats. This is what we intend to convey in our food education. One of the most important turning points occurred in 2015, when clear data was obtained on the fact that...  that trans fatty acids have no nutritional benefit and then the US recognized that the agents are not safe and are not generally recommended internationally because there is an increase in demand for these products free of them. Sorry, there seems to be interference. Well, with this I conclude about our regulatory process, it is supported by the PAHO and the WHO. We have a series of technical meetings with experts and different stakeholders. I apologize, it seems there is interference with another channel. Technical meetings, as I say, with experts and with parts of the food industry as well. This has allowed us to gather international experience and scientific data and then a report on the impact of these measures, taking into account three regulatory proposals. One that is in progress is this 2% limit of trans fats in processed foods and replacing them with alternatives, as I say, a maximum content of 2 percent of oil and prohibiting partially hydrogenated oils. All this taking into account a whole range of criteria that are listed here, including the types of agents in the food, as well as health, social, economic aspects, etc., to take into account all stakeholders so that they can help us.  It's important to mention that there has been a consensus among civil society, the government, and food companies to move forward on this issue in Brazil. There, a consultation was held that approved a resolution on the elimination of trans fats and partially hydrogenated oils. Finally, we decided in Brazil to implement two strategies that will impact most trans fat resources in the country. That is, processed foods affected by this 2% trans fat content limit have an 18-month period to comply with this regulation. This is in the first phase. In the second phase, we are prohibiting the use of trans fats in pastries and other food products. As I said, the deadline is the same, 2023, as it is globally. Finally, I want to emphasize that it is important to continue acting not only in Brazil but in all regions to implement this regulation and prevent deaths, taking into account all the data on reducing all risks associated with these agents, promoting healthy diets and physical activity, and eliminating all risk factors. This is essential to achieving the regional and global goals we have set for ourselves.  Thank you very much, Eduardo. Congratulations. Yes, a roadmap to promote food labeling, then much more restrictive measures following these good practices. I have four speakers here so far. Dr. Faisal bin Suhail, let's see if we can give him the floor, and while Dr. Vinson AI speaks, perhaps I can answer some of the questions raised in Chart 1 about industrial versus natural fatty acids. Can they be distinguished? Well, it's not easy to distinguish them, and that's why we have policies aimed at industrial trans fatty acids because they are the main component of all trans fatty acids. Can these fatty acids be replaced in different countries? Well, replacing them is a challenge. We wouldn't want to increase saturated fats in our diets or replace the trans fatty acids. And for that, we have to take into account the fatty acids—I mean, liquid oils and solid and semi-solid products. Dr. Vinson Nate, please, from the Department of Healthy Food of Saudi Arabia, good morning, good afternoon, good evening. Thank you very much for inviting us to this meeting.  The WHO now has its second report on trans fatty acids. As you know, in our country we have been acting on several fronts to eliminate agents in the food industry. As you know, we began our journey in 2015 with the requirement for agent labeling in food products, and then we established an upper limit for agents. We have also been adopting good practices, namely the elimination of trans fatty acids and, I mean, the elimination of partially hydrogenated oil. The latter was adopted in January 2020, and I am pleased to announce that we have an evaluation to date of what we have done in Saudi Arabia. We have observed that 80 percent of food products in Saudi Arabia do not contain partially hydrogenated oils, and we thank all those who have made this goal possible. On the other hand, we have a large percentage that also complies with the labeling requirements regarding garlic. Of course, we still have much to do in terms of follow-up and evaluation, and we hope to achieve 100% compliance by approximately 2023. Thank you very much, and I would like to express my gratitude.  To the office here in the region, the office in Raw, and to the whole team, thank you very much, thank you very much, Dr. Vinson. And congratulations to Saudi Arabia for its progress. There are a number of questions in the chat to see how countries are making progress and what the role of civil society is. One of the questions is from someone who might be able to help us, Dr. Rose at Grandes Eadvocacy Incubator, another very important partner, Rosenkranz. Go ahead, good morning. I work with this initiative to prevent children from smoking and also support the elimination of trans fatty acids. As a result of this life-saving initiative, we have many years of experience supporting the promotion of various health measures. I would like to thank Dr. Pedros and Dr. Frieden for their leadership and commitment to eliminating trans fatty acids. I would also like to thank the entire MS team and all those around the world who have played a role in promoting policy changes, especially those related to industrial production. Civil society can and should participate in formulating nutrition policies. We suggest three key contributions from Civil society can raise awareness about the negative health repercussions of consuming and being exposed to trans fatty acids. Civil society can make this a priority and advocate for the elimination of these trans fatty acids from food. Second, civil society can build consensus around data-driven policies, mount a counter-opposition, and foster the political will for change. Civil society plays an essential role in filling research gaps. And third, in many countries, civil society has the opportunity to assist the government throughout the entire policymaking process: development, review, evolution, implementation, etc. In our initiative, we support activities that have no conflicts of interest and no negative effects, taking into account society in its context and its needs. So, we are very encouraged to continue collaborating with the WHO and continuing to save lives. Thank you very much, Dr. Rosenkranz, for sharing your experience with us. Now, I would like to call on another actor that also features in these debates: businesses and industry. Some participants tell us that businesses do not receive the necessary support in countries when establishing legislation, but we have...  Julian La Flor represents the International Food and Beverage Alliance, and perhaps we can discuss the role of the industry. Julian, thank you very much to Francesco. Congratulations to UNESR and Soft Save Lives, and to everyone who participated in achieving this milestone. I am very grateful for the leadership shown by Dr. Pedro Si and the entire WHO team. Thanks to this spirit of collaboration, we will encourage industry participation in this effort. I would like to emphasize our support for the WHO's Replace initiative, and we are now implementing the commitments made last year by the WHO regarding agent regulations worldwide. We are striving to meet this deadline by 2023 and continue to implement WHO regulations and recommendations as part of our commitment. I would like to mention that we are developing a technical knowledge repository to help replace agents, focusing on low- and middle-income countries. We are eager to continue working towards this important goal by 2023. Thank you very much, and I hope that...  It also implies more support for the application of national regulations. I understand, then, that this is the way to proceed. Yes, yes, and Francesco, if you'll allow me, I'll answer you. Indeed, we are trying to meet the goal that is already set out in the legislation and in the most developed markets, not only in terms of levels but also from a legislative point of view. So, of course, we agree with all the legislative efforts that will allow us to achieve the public health objectives we have set for ourselves. But, in any case, we are collaborating, and I think that from an industry point of view, this is what is most complex. Thank you very much for your efforts. We now have Ms. Mary Grace Rosales, who works in the country office supporting the Philippine government. Go ahead. Hello, good morning, good afternoon. Go ahead, go ahead. Can we hear you? Thank you very much. In the Philippines, we thank the MS for sharing this action package. We are pleased to tell you that we are already gaining some momentum in eliminating the agents in the Philippines thanks to the Department of Health and the work of our legislators, as well as the technical support provided by the MS and its country office.  In the Philippines, legislation to eliminate trans fats is still pending within the health committee. We also have a policy on the elimination of industrial agents in pre-made products, which is ongoing. We know that with the help of the WHO, thanks to the national and regional offices, we can gradually achieve a Philippines free of trans fats. We have a question about beverages like coffee and tea. I do n't know if you would like to comment on the consumption of these beverages in the Philippines. Thank you. Yes, coffee with milk in the Philippines contains a source of industrial trans fats (type 2), and it is something that is consumed a lot in the Philippines. We also know that these creamers are used in various tests with milk, which is also something that is consumed a lot in the Philippines. We hope, therefore, that with these policies, we will have legislation approved by Congress and a national policy led by the Ministry of Health. Thanks to this, we hope to be able to reduce the consumption of trans fats and eliminate those that are industrial, either with a ban on partially hydrogenated oils or by limiting the oil content in food. Philippines, thank you very much. We are receiving many messages from different countries, low- and middle-income countries, asking if they will receive special support from the WHO. We are also receiving messages from Nigeria and Morocco requesting assistance. This is what the WHO will be doing. Before giving the floor to our last speaker, the Assistant Director-General, I will perhaps answer some questions about the certification program. The work being done on this is focusing on existing certification schemes, such as those for polio and tuberculosis, or on establishing criteria. These are groups of experts who help us receive applications from countries that wish to obtain this certification for low fatty acid content. Regarding support for low- and middle-income countries, this can be achieved through regional bodies. You have already heard about the experience of the European Union and the Americas with the Transfer FIT initiative. There is also interest in Africa to make this possible. Well, without further ado, I will now introduce Dr. Yamamoto, Assistant Director- General of the Division of Universal Health Coverage and Healthier Populations at the WHO. Thank you very much.  Thank you, Francesco. We are now reaching the end of this launch, and I would like to express my sincere gratitude, especially to Dr. Thomas Frieden, representative of the governments of Turkey and Brazil, as well as, of course, our Director-General, Dr. Pedro Se, and our colleagues. Thank you to all the speakers who have contributed to this discussion. As Dr. Pedro Se emphasized, the Ministry of Health has committed to eliminating industrial trans fats from the food production chain by 2023. This is a priority objective of the Thirteenth General Programme of Work, which guides the work of the Ministry of Health. Significant progress has been made, and various measures and policies have been adopted by seven high- and middle- income countries and 33 high-income countries, but no low- or low- and middle-income countries have adopted these best practices. However, implementing these types of actions can also contribute to saving a great deal of healthcare resources and support low- and middle-income countries, including those in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. Applying best practices is fundamental to eliminating trans fats from the world. During the pandemic, the Director-General has... He emphasized his commitment to eliminating trans fats and preventing trans fats, which is more important than ever. Eliminating trans fats can be feasible, cost-effective, and save lives. Please join us in the countdown to 2023 to eliminate trans fats. This is a very encouraging launch and report. So let's work on consumption to end trans fats. Thank you very much for participating in this event. We will continue to collaborate in the future. Thank you very much.