Sigh. Original text: Mahidol University x Cambodia. A metaphor for comparing elephants. Only that part is truly valuable. Such wealth, if... This statement undermines the chances of winning; it's the wrong day to submit the form. Therefore, P'Pom, the boxer, will have someone kind-hearted. Toy's house, the owner of the training, the one who makes layered cakes and pound cakes.   The Jojiman leaf grabbed the speaker, the cheerful one, close to the cover.   The ruler of the plot told me to wait and see if I could win the penalty checkpoint, but... Nam thought there would be Khun Chan.   It was n't my brother Praw who got slaughtered.   The benefits are as follows: The people of Chanthaburi, Parasima, and Pasana bring them along.   The local dialect, but he returned to his hometown of Samrong.   My children, who are farmers, recommended this board to me.   The karma here is that everyone just breaks up with people. Warm up the whole bouquet for Auntie, she'll come along too. The person on the plate [song] then the dessert, met with sugarcane juice, suitable for sitting down. People close to the pole haven't been able to comment much because Boo has to travel. Go help the clever one in the bowl at the Nong Kat intersection.   He fell down with great force during the hair-cutting ceremony at Wat Ton Chan, of the Lanna type. Samoyo, the tax isn't on our umbrella, how many pounds of water will we use? [Song] leaf, the boxing match should come back, lots of bus, get in hand.   He snores so loudly you can hear him from afar; he's applying for seven royal titles. Plug in the house until your hand snores, the moon is twerking, ah, I got the honor, I got it, I surrender, one phone call, you bastard. So, when they eat, they come from seven different regions, shaking hands, a real group. But later, those who go out will probably talk like they're bumping into seven people at the hospital, using carpets and beating them until their levels go up and down, as is the modern era.   The pain from the injection is real, lots of explanations, according to the house in Ban Pong, the internet, Trubb, cookies from 7-Eleven, depending on the occasion.   It's just us, we have to like it, Prayut. The speech should lead us to the water, and then we have to push the water down.   The magic bottle is lifted and carried along, waiting for the bed. A week of Hmong hearts. Oh, that bastard Ji Hye erased the history of the device, interested in the younger sister's house.   It's cool and shady, but it's also brave enough to have a million water pipes, just look at it. Having money to tell jokes for free, crime in friend, the mouth of a durian seller, the one who borrowed money will be in your hand. That's still me, we're slowly becoming kind people [Song] [Song] I won't do anything with my hands, just listen to my younger sister, I have a lot of pride. Still learning Muay Thai for 7 days, it's cool and comfortable, isn't it? I saw Jung On riding a motorbike like crazy at some pond. Ah, Jan. Jan. Jan. Jan.