There's a very recent trend where we the last five years of extremely violent online offending for fun. Perpetrators are often children. They do it for entertainment. Victims can be animals. Um people in vulnerable situations. This is a trend that really um when we discuss it, it makes you feel quite unwell. But it really is linked to this this odd capacity of human beings to entertain themselves by causing harm to others or just having no empathy. This is I mean this is also a common a common stream among the offenders that we're looking at is a lack of empathy for the people that they're harming. In this episode I speak to Elizabeth Wright from Interol. Our conversation explores themes of a sexual nature and while we approach them with care, they may be triggering for some listeners. Listener discretion is advised. This is the # no excuse podcast discussing the challenges and complexities and potential solutions in preventing and responding to sexual exploitation, abuse and harassment in the aid sector through interviews with victims and survivors, experts, aid workers, artists and leaders. The podcast is produced by the World Health Organization's Department for the Prevention and Response to Sexual Misconduct. I am Goni Das, your host and global focal point for the department. The woman I'm sitting with today works for one of the most powerful policing networks in the world, Interpol. When we think of Interpol, we think fighting fugitives and terrorism. But what we don't think about is sexual misconduct in the aid sector. But you'll be surprised. Today's guest is Elizabeth Wright and she leads project Sotaria at Interpol. Welcome, Liz, to the hashtag no excuse podcast. >> Thank you, Guinea. It's really great to be here. Thank you for having me. >> So, Liz, how would you describe Interle to someone who has never heard of it? >> Uh, Interle is um is a network of 196 member countries at the moment. Uh that's a network that's growing all the time. Um and what we do is we uh connect police around the world. uh we collaborate with police all around the world for the prevention of crime uh and the response to crime. Uh so we get involved in all kinds of different crime domains. Um we also support crises um either humanitarian incidents or accidents like plane crashes and things like this. Um and the main part of our work, the main focus of our work is partnering with police agencies to try and make the world safer. And people might uh you know assume that you are a police u a cop uh a policeman a woman a police woman. Uh how would you describe your job and what is project Sautaria? >> Yeah I'm I'm not a cop. I'm a civvi. Um so Interol does have civilian as well as police staff. I'm working on a program called Sautaria. Uh I work with a really diverse team of experts in different areas. We have experts in protection, experts in corruption. Um, and we're really focused on the prevention of sexual exploitation, abuse, and harassment with a focus for now on the aid and development sector. Maybe that will change and expand at at one point. Um, but the the main goal right now is the prevention of SEAY in the specific sector and using the tools and the networks that Interol has uh to try and to try and address this issue. As much as Sautaria is quite new and we haven't worked with the aid sector in this particular way before, Intel has been collaborating with UN entities since 2004 in a very similar way. So in fact, there was a general assembly resolution uh in 2004 about working with international organizations to help keep them safer and keep uh harmful people out of uh international organizations. Um, so that's something that has been operating uh for 15 years and now we're trying to expand it uh to the NGO u private sector. Anyone that's working in close proximity to people in quite vulnerable uh situations bearing in mind that it's proximity and access that allows opportunity to offend. So it's um Saria is is new in many ways but it's also an expansion of work we've been conducting for 20 years. So let's take uh a step back and understand the the patterns of offenses when we talk about sexual exploitation, abuse, and harassment. You mentioned during our interview preparation that most sex offenders don't look like sex offenders and they are very often repeat offenders. What patterns do you notice and how can these insights help organizations um investigations to prevent or to better do their investigations? >> Um it's difficult to say you you can't really say what a sex offender looks like. They look like anything like anybody. Sex offending is actually quite wide. Uh it is very under reportported. Um I would say really we're still talking about especially in this particular sector predominantly men but there are women offenders too uh in different uh yeah they're playing different roles in different types of offending. In terms of patterns of behavior uh it's again they use very many different patterns of behavior but I would say once uh an offender finds a modus operandi that's successful that works for them then they will repeat that modus operandi over and over again um unless they're stopped by some kind of intervention. I mean, we've already talked about repeat offending and many many sex offenders are um so it's really convenient for them uh even just being dismissed. Um not the people the fact that people don't go to police very often and there's this whole lack of accountability. It works very well for them. The other part that's very very convenient is um and it's unfortunately it's a bias that many of us have is victim shaming. Uh many offenders are extremely manipulative um and maybe sometimes knowingly, sometimes unknowingly, but they will manipulate in many many cases their victims to believe that they initiated the whole process. Even when it's we're talking about a child, uh the child will believe that they came and they demanded the offended or they wanted a reward or they wanted something. So they they encouraged the whole thing the whole scenario to take place. And this works very well for offenders because also if if the victim be they adults or children are in any way shamed, they're not willing to talk about it or they talk about it to someone and it's brushed off. Uh this just allows the offending to continue. So there there are many many different different elements and again I I I speak about this not as a police investigator but just someone who works and is quite exposed to this domain. But yeah, it's all these different conveniences are part of what allows offending to go on and the harm to continue. In the aid sector, there is a history of international aid workers who have been who have caused harm or perpetrated sexual offenses and there's this history of them moving across borders and organizations they're being unnoticed by their past actions. what are some of the measures that organizations can take as well to you know uh tackle this? >> I think when when we talk about this issue I think it's still really important to state that this sector is obviously very very big. It's very very diverse and we are still talking about a few specific individuals. However, those individuals through their behavior can cause immense harm and the harm is at different levels. it's at the individual level, it's at the community level and of course it's the harm to the organizations themselves and the efforts that that they're engaged in and whatever it may be in the context of their work. Uh I think it's important to state also that this is not just international uh people causing offense although of course that does happen. uh people can cause can commit offenses in their own uh in their own jurisdictions uh in their own communities and Sutaria although interpol is traditionally very focused on on international crime uh we are looking within sitaria at local as well as international offending um and there's lots of reasons for that um while we do have tools to help identify people when they cross borders people who are known or of interest to interbol for whatever reason um we also have a we have a mandate to support police in the work that they do. So to help them deliver their own mandate to protect their own communities. So that's where we might step in when there's local offending either to work with police to help them deal with cases in a more uh victimcentric and traumainformed way but still staying perpetrator focused but also bearing in mind that just because an offense is committed locally there's nothing to prevent or often very little to prevent that person from traveling and committing an offense elsewhere. So could you give us an example how would this in practice look like uh in terms of prevention? >> In terms of prevention against an individual. So when an individual has committed an offense um and it is assessed by perhaps the local jurisdiction and also by interpol that this offense is likely to is that the person is very likely to reaffend. Um, a country may publish what they call a green notice or a green diffusion um tool so that if that person travels there could be a notification at immigration for example when they scan their passport at an immigration uh at an immigration desk or if there is a criminal record check or they come into some kind of interaction with the authorities um if they check them against interbal databases then this green notice or this green notification will will pop up. Uh the only difference between notices and diffusions uh notices are visible normally to all 196 countries and they're often published in multiple languages. A diffusion allows a country to address uh the alert is essentially it's an alert to a specific set of countries. So that might be because if you have an offender who is known to travel in c to certain countries then uh the country that's issuing the the notification may choose to alert only those countries so that it's more focused and more targeted. So that's one one mechanism we publish that it's in terms of prevention of offending because we warn countries that someone who poses a threat is entering their jurisdiction. >> Interesting. And some of the prevention initiatives in the aid sector that is more linked to a corporate uh prevention has adopted under you know new recruitments to put them under cleoch check which is basically a database that allows you to blacklist a perpetrator. How is interpol different from something like clear check and how these system complement each other? Yeah, that's that's the point is that we're trying to do exactly that is complement the other mechanisms that exist. Um, Interbol is definitely not trying to replace any of the very very valuable prevention mechanisms, our safeguarding mechanisms that already out there and have been tried and tested, but we're we're just trying to use the tools. We have quite large databases um criminal databases, forensic databases and we're trying to use our networks that's those 196 countries and put all of that at the disposal of the aid sector for the first time to address this issue. So in terms of difference to clear check of course I would say the first the first main difference is that uh interpol is much bigger. Our we have millions and millions of files um that are part of the security checks that we undertake. Um, of course, clear check to my knowledge anyway at the moment, it's limited to UN personnel. I understand it might be expanded to implementing partners, which is good in my view. Uh, Interle databases, we're not delineating who's on our database by who they work for or what they do. It's centered around the crime that they have either have alleg are alleged to have committed um or the criminal event that they've been involved in in one way or another. So, there's a different phase where you can uh ensure prevention, right? that's at the recruitment stage and we can we we spoke about Cleo check and and how Interipol uh can complement that and then when you have a perpetrator and you have a case is there something that interol can do there's several things that we can do so in terms of the the employment cycle um sort really comes into play in two main phases of the employment cycle we are I would say we're relevant for as you said recruitment and screening organizations have to sign a cooperation agreement with us to be able to share data that's standard within in any data sharing arrangement. But an organization that has signed a cooperation agreement may send us um the CV or we have a standard referral form um containing the details of the person that they're recruiting. We will conduct a search of all items that are searchable against interpol databases and if the organization wishes us to within the the networks of where that person has lived or resided perhaps their nationality to understand if there is any adverse information about that individual uh in any of these databases or within any of these networks. Now we have a focus on sexual crimes. That's what we're looking for. That's what sort is all about. We understand that within the process we may uncover something perhaps in another crime domain. Interol also has a mandate to share data on that. This is essentially the process. So at the in terms of the recruitment cycle at this the employment stage um it's the screening and this is something we call we call the threat identification scheme. It's a security check for look to look for something adverse in someone's history. There is a second stage where a sitaria has a part to play and that is in the disciplinary stage. So if for example an allegation has been made against an individual and it's been substantiated maybe through engaging with the police or perhaps through an internal investigation, the police don't have to have been involved. We would invite organizations to send us the details of that substantiated misconduct. We are focused on criminal misconduct. Um, so we're really looking for those those um sexual misconduct allegations that have crossed a criminal threshold where the incident took place and should that information be received at Interal, it will be stored in a very uh closed database that's not visible to any member country. It's visible only to a select uh a select few of our trained criminal intelligence analysts and we would use that data as part of the screening as part of the threat identifi identification scheme security check. So it's to strengthen the check um with that additional misconduct data. We also will use that data conduct to conduct criminal analysis because what we'd like to do is understand better how this kind of incident how this kind of offending manifests how it how it is allowed to be sustained uh and how it's how it spreads how it repeats. I know organizations find it a bit difficult. It's a bit tricky to share such sensitive data. Um but really we would encourage organizations to do this because we want to close the accountability gap. Um there is a lot of under reporting. There are of course the bulk of cases. Police aren't aware of them unfortunately. So we do need another resource um if we're going to make the check as effective as possible. >> As you mentioned there's um low levels of reporting. It's really an issue that most organizations know well. Uh how can aid organization take allegation more seriously? Um and also to preface this by by saying that organizations their mandate or what they can do is through their internal administrative bodies take administrative actions. They they they're not the police. What is the the the scope of actions that they could do to take this a bit more seriously? >> Um well taking it seriously is maybe the first step, but I mean it's a tricky one. How does how does that look like taking it seriously? >> Um I think in many ways, you know, it's I know it's not very popular to say it. Um and I know there are very good reasons for not involving the police in some of these incidents, but I would say uh in many in incidences um a police someone with police training is perhaps better placed to understand at least whether whether a crime has occurred. Um so I would personally like to see police more involved, but I know that's sensitive for a lot of people. Um but I think that's important if we're going to address full accountability and I think I mean yes you know responding probably being aware of poor behaviors responding to allegations. I think organizations do take this very very seriously of course um um but yes conducting thorough victimentric safe investigations. What should organizations do when an allegation comes out unsubstantiated which means like they they were not able to find enough proofs to say that this was the allegations were correct. So what could organization do it doesn't mean that this didn't happen. Right. >> Exactly. I think that's the key point is that yes just because something is sub unsubstantiated doesn't mean it didn't happen. We know of that sexual investigations this area is so sensitive. it is very difficult um to to conclude an investigation successfully. I mean there are a lot of there are a lot of scenarios where this happens where an incident happens behind closed doors with very very few witnesses. Um but Interipol is in fact working with aid organizations at the moment to look at internal investigations to see if we can assist um and providing training. We're doing that with partners who are who are also this is their expertise. So like the CHS alliance, organizations like momentum. Yes. Basically, we're working with aid organizations to see if we can help them improve um and build their own capabilities in terms of internal investigations. And really, I think it's also important to understand that as much as an allegation might talk about an incident that happened on a particular time, a particular date, there is very often leading uh things that take place. There are communications, there are behaviors, there are all kinds of things that can be identified. They're difficult to identify, but this is part of the wider story to to how offending occurs and how offending takes place. So, it's important maybe that organizations when they hear about an allegation don't focus in on that just one day. Um, but try to look at the broader picture. If you were to give one advice to an investigator in these type of organization, which is something that I maybe you've seen yourself repeat, what would that be? >> Well, again, maybe I should put this with the caveat of course I'm not a police officer. You know, I work with police uh every day and we work in this domain. I can't replace the kind of advice that a really seasoned, well-trained investigator um can provide. My main not really piece of advice or my my main wish, let's say, is I want people to give a damn. I see and hear many many times allegations made and brushed aside. So really give a damn. Take it seriously. Um and give a damn about all the individuals. That also means protecting the alleged perpetrator as well. That's just as important. Um you need to protect them even if they have offended maybe to prevent them from offending again. There's lots of things you can do. Um but yeah, that's probably my main my main wish anyway about this whole area. You must have seen things that the the average would not even be able to to absorb or even you know um understand or even compute. When we were on our preparation interview, you mentioned you've seen forums where people share abuse uh tactics like it was a recipe. Uh >> and you've been in rooms that I think most of us wouldn't even survive emotionally. What's one thing you've seen or learned in your work that still is hard to accept? >> Well, there's something that maybe I'd like to say. Um, just to backstep a little bit. Um, when I first joined Interle, my first boss uh said to me, he just said, "Look, let's he said, "In this job, you're going to see the worst of people." So, but you're also going to see the best of people because there are really really amazing uh police officers out there all over the world doing an amazing job often in the most difficult circumstances with very very limited resources and very very difficult environments. Uh and they're just trying to do their job which is about protecting people and keeping them safe and we're there trying to trying to help them do that. But then there's must be a very dark side of humanity and what is you know one thing you're thinking wow this this is what we could be doing as humans and it's hard to accept >> I think um yeah and we we definitely see that here people unfortunately uh can be incredibly inventive sometimes inventive to be cruel uh human beings seem to have a capacity for that um and to always push the boundaries when we're looking at criminals criminals are often also very manipulative, very clever at getting around the system, which is why police always try to stay one step ahead. They can be stupid as well. I mean, um they're the ones normally that we catch unfortunately. Uh it makes the work really fascinating to be part of that to part of that constant counter crime effort, let's say. But yeah, I mean maybe accepting understanding the capacity of humans for hurt is really quite quite incredible. And maybe worse than that is the capacity of humans to overlook that hurt and do nothing about it. So that's really uh then that's that's really quite hard to accept. >> Yeah, I can only imagine have without I mean by staying still confidential was there something that happened that shocked you to to your core? Yeah, there's I mean um I think there's a recent trend I mean whether without wanting to go into too many details, there's a very recent trend or maybe the last 5 years of extremely violent online offending for fun. Um the perpetrators are perpetrators are often children. They do it for entertainment. Um and uh victims can be animals, people in vulnerable situations. This is a trend that really when we discuss it, it makes me feel quite unwell. But it really is linked to this this odd capacity of human beings to entertain themselves by causing harm to others or just having no empathy. >> This is I mean this is also a common a common stream among the offenders that we're looking at is a lack of empathy for the people that they're harming. Uh and so there are all kinds of measures at the same time to try and address that with offenders. Some offenders do want to stop. Um there are some amazing uh programs uh rehabilitation programs um around the world too. Um but yeah the um that's the the online offending that you know this kind of offending also it it comes to very often because it's quite a recent trend a lot of people don't know where to put it. They don't know which kind of police entities should deal with it. >> Um so often it it falls in the lap of of police officers that deal with online child sexual exploitation. And I've seen officers who are used to dealing with quite horrific images videos day in day out. But this new trend really hurts them. their well-being is deeply affected by it as the investigators. So, that's also something police uh forces around the world have to take into consideration um is how they keep their people safe, not just the communities that they work in, but the officers doing the day job because it can be it can be quite hard to deal with at time from time to time. >> It must be really tough. How do you how do you keep going even you in this stream of work >> within the scope of Sataria? Let's say I'm personally very motivated. I've traveled quite a lot now with what different phases of work. I've seen some pretty poor behavior. Uh and I've seen pretty poor poor behavior accepted, ignored. Um so I'm personally very keen having witnessed quite a lot of that to see it addressed and to really address that accountability issue. And in the broader scheme of things, well, no, it's just there's still there's still great work and there's still the drive to try and find a new way to to solve if or support an age-old problem. So those kind of things. Other than that, I walk my dogs and, you know, chill out. So that's about it. >> Thank you, Liz. Um, and it has been fascinating to to hear you and your experience. Um, must be also hard to to see what you see. So thank you for your work. Thank you for taking the time to speak to us. >> You're very welcome. Thanks for the invitation, Goni. It was a pleasure. >> Thank you for listening. If you have any feedback or questions, feel free to reach out to us to pr.int. Until the next time, goodbye.