Ah, welcome to the awards ceremony of the third edition of the Health for All Film Festival. We have a great program to share with you all. We have several guests, including the jury, and I hope you will invite all your family and friends to enjoy this as much as it was announced. It's about important stories about your health or health systems, and also the artistic aspects of the creation of the spouses. Before we give the floor to Dr. M., the Director-General of the World Health Organization, for an official opening, at the official opening of the ceremony, it should be noted that we have interpretation in French and Spanish, so you can see the URL on the screen, which you can choose on YouTube, especially if English isn't exactly your strong suit. So, for the official opening, the group ends on Guri Plane. Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening. In its third year, the Health for All Film Festival has shown that short films can make a big difference, but increasingly, the WHO and its partners are using the films selected by the festival as part of their health promotion and education work. This year is no exception. This year's compelling films tell a powerful story with important public health messages, highlighting the enormous variety of health challenges people face around the world every day. Since our first festival in 2020, more than 3,500 films and shorts have been submitted. The festival is open to the aforementioned filmmakers as well as professionals. This year's winners are just the tip of the iceberg. I want to invite you all to watch some of the exceptional films and shorts that unfortunately were not awarded, but are available on our festival website. We are also very proud and grateful to have a very distinguished jury this year, including actresses Susan Illston and Emilia Clarke, as well as Sustainable Development Goals advocate E. Dinamo and German television presenter Carl von Hirschhausen. I am also grateful to the jury members who brought their expertise to bear on these films, and after watching them, their choice was surely not easy. Now, I have the great pleasure of handing the floor to the jury to announce the winners. Thank you, thank you. Inauguration, we have both of us ready here, and here we go to the [Music] stage. The rehabilitation specialists and also those in health innovation are present. We also have the special ceremony prices. We have the sound, let's say, this name in French, Grand Prix Universe Rede Cobre, which speaks of universal health coverage and discovering the main industry and also health emergencies, better health and well-being. Before discovering the special prices, let's watch a video from Hart, the acclaimed PRI member from the US, and she recorded this video for us. And as Pedrosa mentioned, she's going to be an extra guest today. Hello, I'm John Ashton, and I'm delighted to be participating in the World Radio Broadcasting Organization's Health for All Film Festival. But this is about creating greater awareness of the crucial sanctions with these and areas to achieve healthier living conditions around the world. The documentaries we've seen are all wonderful. The selected stories speak to us of the intrinsic value of good health and its access and advocate for universal health coverage. Health coverage is a very important right; it's a human right for everyone around the world. We have made  This is to draw attention to this need. Today I'm going to talk to you about a short film and others that I also really like, but I hope you'll come back to them and take a look. Thank you very much, and we're waiting for your next comment in the second part of the ceremony about this film made by a flyer from Soelden, which is an initiative for medicines for Argentine diseases, and also to my beloved Argentine account. She's waiting for her day to speak, and this was a winner of our first edition, and since we supported and started the festival, the spirit of the festival and the synergies between all the winners have made this festival a success. Greetings here, which you can visit on the website where you can see some of the support we 've received, which is growing every year. So let's start by giving the first special prize for the micro-short film category: Cádiz from Africa is online, a social media specialist on migration. In fact, we have two short films to announce. Next up, Tenues, and thank you. Before announcing the social award, we have a special mention from the jury: Fundir. It's for me.  The debut of Diego Pérez and Enrique Vila was also Sandwich Day. Every firm line is mentioned in the animated film for the preview for communication and prevention of non-communicable diseases. Living through this video we can see the life of this family and their lifestyle. They are styles of negative videos that have funny impacts and the information that is transmitted presents both individual health choices and Xuxa sequences and we focus on that this inspires and behavior change for everyone so that families make healthy health choices because prevention is better than cure. So congratulations to the creators of this story that we are going to see. It is very present on social networks and this year the selection of short films, so you can see it, as you can see the whole list of these short films on Twitter and on the website. They have a lot of information and also have information about each edition, previous editions of the festival, and as I mentioned before, their reports. We also have the part of institutional support, win in the fight, who is the winner in their category. Thank you, it is a pleasure for me that my special for health short film for a clam in my bones by Terry with a Kenyan cow Congratulations Terry! Here is the trophy presented by Jeans for this award. You will receive it soon. I was hoping to appear on the trophy that you will receive by mail. I feel bad that this festival is so important, and that we haven't been able to invite everyone in person. That's why we hope that one day we can do so and meet you all. So, congratulations! Do you have any comments to add? And congratulations again! And to explain a little about the short film: This short film shows the reality of gender violence, especially against women. This is a very well-made short film. It has a visual narrative that is complemented by an audio track, and here it shows us the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. In fact, gender violence increased a lot during the periods of confinement, and we see how MS has a long history and the fight against gender violence. This also shows how violence is aggravated by poverty and how the consequences are more serious in low-income contexts. So, great congratulations to the entire jury. Thank you very much. We regret that we were unable to connect with Terry because he didn't have a good connection or because he unfortunately works in extreme conditions.  Congratulations, thank you half quince for the comments, and now let's move on to the special award for rehabilitation. She is an expert, as I mentioned [Music]. The special microphone award because if you have this special award for rehabilitation, everyone, one in three people, doesn't feel they have a health condition and can be helped with rehabilitation so that people who come to improve always get the best out of their function and improve their brain functions and at the end of the day, will have a better life. However, we know that your point is for the people, or at least two point two million people who could benefit from rehabilitation, publicity received from the edition. 50 percent don't have this service they need, and one of the reasons is the lack of knowledge and fiction. Free to enable the benefits of rehabilitation, of course, and low. And this film festival has contributed a lot to awareness, to creating awareness about rehabilitation. They control the special mention of our jury, Journal Change, yesterday Emilia Clarke, and the Milan Saturday stands for the cost, so the United Kingdom, and that explains the commentary. It is a document that the processes of caring for people...  Cancer in this case you are not billion Trittin of Kansai Cels can sit with cancer treatment and as rehabilitation can tell you lights help title recovery from cancer help people who are recovering from cancer to Mick clarified since normally you enjoy great to have this short although thank you very much special mentions that very interesting we have a great program of this mention is that we have the pleasure of having to place this special mention because she is very well known obviously in the king for the united kingdom very well known for a game of thrones that is why she has been able to be with us she is very sorry because report knew that there were many people who were expecting to see her regrets ceremony so Alarcos I propose to give my French voice my French accent to the words of equality fruit and it will be a great pleasure so the words the word so-and-so impact Fulvio and dress beautiful and magnate experience profile waters almost milk our special mention is exact highlights the minimum account of the struggle so great receives Pablo and enough attention from the public of the president of Andrés I the numerical forms as the artistic and sporting approaches with which  Rehabilitation can therefore be addressed for those who are training as parallels to loved ones who have been affected. They are asking for a motion to sprint where they have left an emotional mark on me, both the pain and a possibility of light. Thank you very well. Very well, I think you have something else to say before moving on to the next thing. You haven't told me everything. Let's move on. First of all, I'll stay here with the trophy. So who is the winner? Matilla, by Carlos Gómez Miras, next to Spain, and Roxana is with the vicar, Carlos Rosas. Many congratulations. Here is your trophy from the health department. And if you have any other comments from me, we also have a comment from Emilia. This award conceived today and the special mention from our jury in this category are stories that I hold very dear in my heart. I value the approach of being empathetic because it counts that the animation, above all, begins in such a way. Here, it explains that it can allow, and they know that the occasional contact with the emotional part is so strong that people, like a child, have in their lives. I hold the testimony of this health story very dear. My foundation is dedicated to the problems of people affected by brain disorders. Very well, Dr. Alarcos, we need to move a little faster because there are people waiting. Do you have anything to say? Well, perhaps Carlos and Roxana, Carlos and Rosalía, go ahead. What is your reaction to this? We are all very excited. For us, we live to be, and it's fantastic, especially because the issue is being recognized and because it's the third project we 're trying to produce. Videos will emerge from their non-profit foundations. And well, we also greet the people who have collaborated with us, their families, and we also dedicate this to the son of the person who has collaborated with us. And also, thank you very much to the festival and the tour. We acknowledge that, thank you very much. Well, enough with the words. Thank you very much, San Carlos. This animated short is incredible, very impactful with its powerful message. It brings to the screen what is truly the essence of rehabilitation. It supports the person to rediscover themselves in all their potential. Carlos, Rossana, Rossanda, and Carlos, I have many thanks from you all. On Sunday, at the event we have in London, it's a non-profit event with the mission of getting everyone excited about healthcare and medicine. On the Isle of Perry in London this Sunday, they're going to celebrate, and we, this selection, will be yet another occasion to celebrate this meeting. Congratulations again, many thanks to Pectoral Arcos, thank you Rosa, Carlos, and congratulations again. Time is running out, we have to fly off to the award. Thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to screen many of these short films in many countries throughout this year. So, we're promoting innovation in healthcare, or rather, in the field of health. Do you also have something special that you'll be doing? Yes, and of course, a special mention. Well, first of all, I think you wanted to talk about how... by the way, yes, because we have a special mention, as you know, as you mentioned. We have a special mention because you proposed it. Yes, well, I proposed it because innovation is a way to accelerate...  The way we detect, prevent, and treat diseases so that there is much better health, faster and more affordable for people. Innovation can help us improve life and health. Despite its great potential and the positive impact it has shown, innovations are everywhere. However, it hasn't reached the scale we would like. Therefore, I propose a special award for innovation in health to hear stories from all over the world about innovation in technologies, technological tools, or other types of innovation, because innovation improves the way we work with each other and how we achieve health better and more effectively. It's perfect to specify why this category exists and what its criteria are in what we call innovation in health. A special mention, then. I would also like to reveal the mystery: if our jury's special mention is bad, the French film shot in Brazil, in French Guiana, about insulin, more about an intercom than ignored in the treatment of malaria in very remote areas. Congratulations to Melis, congratulations. Would you like to comment a little bit about this short film? Yes.  Of course, you're part of the jury too, and we loved it. It's not the singing that's in this short film because it talks about how solutions can be simple, they can be low-tech, and the information is very good for mining areas, other people who live in remote places, about fishing and treating malaria themselves, and it also reduces drug resistance in some parasites and provides access to healthcare in the places where it's needed, for the people themselves, on their own terms. Very good, fantastic! Well, congratulations to Melis Twin for this award, and let's move on to the special award, the special award for innovation in health. We've seen the special mention. Well, the special award for the short film goes to "For Every Forest," about gender equality, by Jose Gorbeia from Argentina. Bravo, Jose, for this special award! And here's your trophy from the Radiation. We've seen Jose's reaction, a nice reaction. And we can also admire our jury, and they're still online, and you can give your reaction before we hear the winner's reaction. Hello, hello, Jose! Congratulations from an Argentinian to an Argentinian!  The truth is, it's with me deep inside, very deep inside. These girls, these children in the trees, touched me very deeply, and I'd like to ask you a personal question. This beautiful story happened, and I'd like to know more. It's also good to know what you think about receiving this award. Well, Restrictor Bella says, first of all, thank you very much. What you do is dedicated to listening to stories. There are hundreds of thousands of such interesting stories all over the world because we're bombarded with negative stories. So, we've gone to these places where there are groups that support women because women are true forces of nature. They can do everything, and that's what we're looking for. We're looking for stories that need to be told. People need to know because society will be better if we know. So, in matters of health, we've gone everywhere, to every corner of the world. Sometimes we've found gems like this, true jewels, and we decided to illustrate the [Music]. We gave it our all to create this short film so that everyone knows the fantastic work the PP Plana is doing regarding equality. When things change in this sense, and when the healthcare system changes, there...  Those cables that could make it so, and well, you talk to, you say that we have, we who we are, and well, we are a small company in Virginia in the USA, we are a group of videographers and photographers and we work for Nation Aggregate Graphic and for other people and we want all these stories to be known throughout the world until, well, among friends, we agreed about 10 years ago and we said that this had to be told and well, now we have received this award. Can you give your comment as a member of the jury? And of course, we talked a lot about all the short films and it is, the truth is that it moves us very, very much with a strong message about the situation, about the appreciation of all human lives as the foundation of health. It is a guy, I say now, and it is very holistic in its innovative approach to people and the planet. People who worked on 111 trees that symbolize the births of the girls, the babies born, it is a social innovation that breaks the patterns and that will leave gender aspects and tries to fight against infanticide, against the problems of childhood and Women and against forced marriage and also, well, in a kind of return to the forest and Monica to the CDE filter, a thought of education and health for the future, and this is also scaled, it is scalable, it can be replicated without many musicians, what is needed is love and seeds, thank you very much, in the winning film, congratulations because a grace is Luis, thank you, my happiness, we are short on time so we are going to announce the next special prize, you can stay a little longer if you want, then let's go with the fourth special prize that we are going to do for students, it is an originality, the pre-selection because we wanted to include both amateurs and professionals and it substitutes students, public institutions, communities among others, the special student prize, I have to take the trophy to announce it and it is a tribute and apologies for this trophy on behalf of the O MS and this is the screen, tell us your reaction about this prize and another about having this prize, the rhythm threw it alone  A very good team is coming up with me that is carrying out projects with many employees and they are very proud, and this year we are very excited to show our work and we hope to learn how a prosthesis is made. Thank you very much. We have many students who worked on this project and of course there are people from our foundation who will help make it. Thank you very much, we are very honored and we hope it won't be the last year. Thank you very much, thank you, how do you say it, thank you for those beautiful modifications to the whole team because it is special among all the categories because this award is for students, because I think students and this is very special, so congratulations. Let's move on to the second part of the ceremony, which includes the three major rights, as I mentioned at the beginning. We have the main categories, the main objectives, health. We have universal health coverage, which is what we have. And we already have it. Thank you very much. They are stronger than ever. Thank you for this opportunity. This season is a very important audience to be here and to evaluate these short films. Can you play them? For me, there were many things that were very moving for us, and we actually have a special mention. Can you play it, please? I need a little assistance, please.  That's what happens with television. Well, I'm going to take this opportunity to talk about us. Fantastic! We had the opportunity, especially to announce a special mention at that moment called " Animated," which talks about the consequences. Congratulations, thank you for this. The diversity of our awards... I had to say something. The health program... I think here's the noise, and this last city in euros... there are categories, and this has allowed us to tell stories. What the national Vodafone program has done at the national, local, global, public level... a course to position ourselves to demonstrate what the goals are in terms of improving public health. What we saw as special in this is that it's very innovative. We see the complexity of dealing with climate change and also in a context of 19, how it is and why it 's so important to do with the core 2 case files. Change in climate change scenarios, testing this problem de facto with natural disasters, and from the point of view of 8 vision, it makes it more special. So, congratulations. Let's hope this narrative continues. We hope to see many short films like this. Now we're going to continue our future. Maybe I'll take the microphone, you take the award, and you resign. Who's next?  The grand prize in its category, goblin, is read in the grand prize in the health media category, it goes to end in division, it is an animated position, that is, almost to take revenge or serious Andean Oliver and still calm and of the rhythm in the name of happiness, we have a quick reaction, thank you very much, I would like to thank some people, I just want to thank my family to everyone who collaborated on this project excuse me, the voice is very low, thank you to everyone who collaborated on each part of the short film, or while my friends from university have also helped me and this festival has been very important to be able to say what we have to say, well, interesting process, excuse me, there are sound interruptions and they can't produce very smoothly, thank you very much, it's fantastic about this and the way you told the story was fantastic, so congratulations to the whole family, I got a little teary-eyed watching this, so please keep going for me too, on this team along with my teacher, the planet, we have from Germany to tell us about this special mention from the jury, thank you very much Enough because it was a great day, some of them were very emotional and especially for the other way around, where the name of happiness is, it's special for the family, thank you very much for the work here we have to leave feedback with dispersers, I want to talk about this special mention, your slip in your case that I heard, don't go out with children with autism spectrum disorder and this short film is something very personal, very moving in which the mother of the autistic child tries the best she can because football does n't take place in different contexts and it's a good example of how simple an intervention can be and autistic children are shown as special but in reality that is so true, so this special mention is very good and many congratulations before moving on to the main award in this category I also want to give my congratulations for having been the church of China 2 now let's go with the grand prize best, although this was a unanimous decision, this and the winner in the for information and come bad to solder and rhum bally after adding the congratulations also improves, saw this fantastic video hold back tears, shows the award to the camera, congratulations on behalf of the table, maestro in  This jury was very excited. Let's hear your comment. It's short. God, thank you so much. I would like you to share it. It's important, please. We came across this text that is so powerful today, and also, if you could share a little more about the protagonist in relation to the poem, well, we left home a bit. We went to look for stories of victims and personal testimonies of people who had experienced it, and well, I worked with them, let's say, with the affected people and with the women, and they are women, so we can also feel it very deeply. And the truth is that I wasn't thinking about writing it, let's say, from the outside for a film festival, but what I wanted was to hear stories, for them to speak. People listen to testimonies, and that is our main objective when making this, which is that this is happening everywhere in India and nobody wants to talk about it. We wanted the agency to know if you know this topic. That's what we say. Do you want to tell us a little more about the person in every field, like this? And when we were doing a little research, at the beginning, this person had just died, and that was in the summer of 2020, and well, we realized, we're tying it together. Little by little, almost no one knew us. This article is out there with a billion. So I was 21 years old, and you're doing many other very young women, so it really touched us. Thank you so much, thank you so much to our winners for this film. To the pre-selection, you've been very active in this sense. We're going to the end of the category, the last one, the most important one. We have the Nigerian production company winner, My Past, and a special award for the film, for what has returned this year as a jury member. We also have universities in the Netherlands [Music], and we also had their ministers on the jury, but you saw it at the beginning of the ceremony. She told us she had a film to turn on, and we're going to see it. And of course, Remen Güicho from MS, who is also part of the jury, who will present this part. Please, could you explain the goal? First of all, Aguascalientes, our fantastic special jury team of a documentary directed by [name missing], well, 5%, a documentary of miracle fiction directed by [name missing], achieved the good of Brazil. Well, they talk about this, and well, it's a disease that affects  Many people, but for whom very few have access to treatment in Spanish, and well, it's about a young man's life and about the treatment too, yes, well, here you have the transfer, that's right, and now you're going to announce the grand prize from Portugal. So, many subjects, or 70, there are 25 supposed ones, and for the grand prize in the universal coverage category, this prize goes to Preeclampsia Victoria in front of the world with the same on maternal health. It was part of the Indonesian Prenatal Institute 's World Health Trophy. Very well, thank you very much. We have the winner here. You can make your comment. We would like to hear it. Before we hear this, we would like you to address us from Indonesia. So, of course, thank you very much to the members of the jury from months ago. It's for us, and we, a color for the whole production team, and to take off my partner before our [Music]. We think that maternal health is very important for everyone and especially for women. Thank you very much. Let's see the message sent by video by Easy to Use Our Car. Let's see if the three colleagues can offer it to us. If this short film was made in a way  It's phenomenal, and it also contains elements that deeply moved me. It shows what preeclampsia is and what causes it. Preeclampsia is a disease that pregnant women can develop, and it's one of the four leading causes of death among women worldwide. It's not understood, it's not known, and it's not taken into account as seriously as it should be. This film is absolutely spectacular. It's very inclusive and very well filmed. It also includes the father's role, which I think is very important. It focuses on the pregnancy period, on how the woman is treated, and it considers women's rights. What happens if those rights are taken away? What happens if this woman can't care for her son, her daughter, her baby? And does a woman have the right to be pregnant? It's very important to remember that two people are needed for a person to become pregnant. I also like that this film includes the father. We see what happens and its consequences, and we see that if life, friendship, and death are managed correctly, they will be different. And it strongly encourages us to have better healthcare.  To everyone globally regarding this issue, thank you so much, Ashton, for this comment and this explanation for why you defended this film. Thank you so much. It was a great experience listening to your comments. Anything to add about the comments? And of course, this film not only tells us the story of health, it tells us what healthcare means for a family, for a generation, for everyone. And we have to invest in housing, in homes, we have to invest in the conditions we have in our homes. It's very important, especially in the face of problems like the pandemic. And I also want to give special recognition to the healthcare personnel who care for people in homes. By the way, out of curiosity, you are a non-profit organization. So what are the reasons why you work? Or rather, we try to work on the prevention of complications before and during pregnancy, especially cancer. What we do is promote education and information campaigns, especially. We have also made comments in the media about what we want to prevent and cure earlier in order to have new and better generations. Indonesia is a very populated country with 5 million births each year. Obviously, not all of them end up... I'm happy there  Thousands of people in Indonesia suffer from Klaus's keys every year. As the woman in our film, we try to contribute to improving the situation and ask for the support and collaboration of all the actors who have worked with us. Let's work together. Thank you very much, and congratulations again to our winner. This is the last announcement and the last comment. Dr. Pedro will be closing the ceremony very soon. Thank you very much. I also want to inform you that we are here with some jury members Brawn and the Maternal Health team for a possible report and session on the mission and other potential issues surrounding pregnancy. Let's stay tuned to see how things develop. We have some announcements before closing about very important health stories, very important topics, and rehabilitation, for example. It's very important. We want all our partners, all the people who can distribute these videos, to do so to try to improve health for everyone. Dr. Pedro closes this awards ceremony with his final comments. I ask for everyone's full attention. I hope you will support us in...  The next edition of the festival and I thank all the colleagues who have made this possible. Many thanks, especially to Lorena Bernal, colleague. I have worked side by side with her to make this happen. Doctor, you have the floor. Congratulations to all, that is, all our winners and to the people who have received a special mention from the jury. Again, my deep gratitude to each and every one of the jury members for their dedication. Many thanks to the partners and supporters of the health organization for promoting and supporting the short film festival. From October 30th, the deadline opens for submitting your applications for next year's festival. We are very much looking forward to seeing new films, new short films. Many thanks to the 500 colleagues who have contributed in different ways since 2020 to make the 9 ms Health for All Film Festival a true annual milestone. Many thanks, especially to Silvia Lorena Bernal, for the enormous work behind the scenes that they have carried out for months, and very especially, many thanks to more than 3500 filmmakers who have made this festival a success since 2000. The stories they tell us make us cry, but even more importantly, they inspire us to work every day for a fairer, safer, and healthier world. i yes and