Welcome to the awards ceremony of the 3rd Health for All Film Festival. We have a very full program to share with you today, with many guests from our jury, the winners of course. I hope you enjoy it, and while inviting your friends, family, and colleagues to join us, for ten years now, it's been about health stories and important health topics, in addition to people criticizing the creation of short films. Before giving the floor to Dr. T. Gross, Director-General of the World Health Organization, on the official opening of the ceremony, let me point out that we have an interpretation in French and Spanish, and you can see it appear on the screen via the URL on the desktop, or you can see it on Facebook or YouTube. If English isn't really your cup of tea, or even if my accent is too strong, and now Dr. Pedros, we are all with you for the official opening of the greenhouse and the monuments. Good morning, good afternoon, good evening. The film festival of  Health for All, the MS Card, is in its third edition, demonstrating that short films can make a big difference. Increasingly, the Metz Water Authority and its partners are using films selected by the festival as part of their health promotion and education activities. This year is no exception. The compelling films that have won awards this year combine powerful storytelling with important public health messages, highlighting the immense range of health challenges that people face every day around the world. Since our first festival in 2020, more than 3,500 films have been submitted. The festival is open to amateur and professional filmmakers. This year's winners are just the tip of the iceberg. I encourage everyone to watch some of the exceptional films that, unfortunately, were not selected but are available on our festival website. We are also proud and grateful to have such a distinguished jury this year, composed of actors Sharon Stone, Emilia Clarke, and Mia Maestro, and the Children's Rights Advocate, Dean Beauvau.  From the German television presenter and four men, I am also grateful to the members of the WHO jury who cast their expert eye on these films. Their choice was not easy. It is now a pleasure for me to give the floor to the jury to announce the winners. Thank you, and of course, the announcements are indeed coming. Dr. Tedros, thank you for this address. We have the trophies ready for this, and I have with me on stage, from the actor to the bow at headquarters, and Lula to journalists on rehabilitation, and Louise for the health innovation category. We have its very particular side. The first part of the ceremony will be devoted to the special awards. We have four to announce. In the second part, you have announced the three grand prizes, and we have included them with this French touch, and we preferred to keep the French touch by naming them the grand prizes. They concern universal health coverage, it is about staying afloat, and health emergencies, improving health before the intakes. Let's keep the cooker. This ceremony that Sharon Stone has sorted her American activists Health in Russia for us, since as doctors ready, it will have to be announced, it is numerous, invited from today as a juror for the grand prize. Hello, I am Chan Stone. I am so happy to participate in the Health for All Film Festival organized by the World Health Organization. It is about raising awareness of the crucial actions and actions taken to achieve healthier living conditions in the world. The documentaries we watched were all wonderful. The directors selected our rooms for their intrinsic value; good health is important, and they advocate for universal health coverage. Universal health coverage is an important right; it is a human right for everyone in the world, and we did this to draw attention to this need. And I am going to talk to you about a film that I supported and a number of other films that we loved watching, and I hope you will come back to see us. Thank you very much, Chan Stone. We have already gone to the next part of this ceremony, and we look forward to your next comments in the second part of this ceremony. Thank you for this film that you championed. In fact, the last one. The initiative on medicines for neglected diseases and the institution that introduced us to Sharon Stone, but also admitted to Yellow Corn, its Argentine actress who is online now awaiting the derby, was one of the winners of our first inspired show. Since then, the insulted our summer film hour has illustrated the spirit of our festival, which is to create synergies, and the TNP, which has supported us since their awards, and it continues this work with us. And in reality, all the same, you will see the page would have a little on the institutional parents, moreover, it grows every year, so by the first special prize in the very short film category, Kabila, from the halos of our WHO regional office in Africa, is online. Hello Khadija Ronnie, she is joined by the jury team of Alexandra Kuzmanovic and Javier Mulhouse, all three social media specialists. Khadija had actually announced two films today on behalf of this cut. Go ahead, we'll see you.  Listen, thank you very much. So, before announcing the special prize, we have a special mention from our jury for Mitch Hewer of "Aux IEM IV Goélette de Saint-Christophe Y" because it's an animated film about preventing non- communicable diseases through better nutrition and physical exercise. Our juror really enjoyed seeing the lifestyle of the bulls, which is typical of attitudes that have a negative impact on leg health. The information conveyed in the film highlights both individual health choices and their consequences. We are convinced that this film will inspire and encourage a strong change in behavior. It is created to protect our families and encourage healthy choices because prevention is better than cure. So, once again, congratulations to We May Vézeau for this health story. Thank you very much. I know that the film's producer has a lot going on social media. In the 18 years since it was part of the official selection, this year we had 70 short films selected, so I encourage you all to visit the Lurel Festival website. devices at the bottom of your enemy and agreements and the ceremony you will discover all the costs list what now this news you will also see it is the previous edition as well as the jury's proposal for each edition with scanner for your biography and the page on the lower Rhine institutional is now ready already a long time and the winner in your team's category thank you it is a pleasure for me to announce that the special prize for after short film on health is awarded to Glam in My Wings by Terry Ombaka from Kenya congratulations to the series and see this is the trophy presented by Gilles for this prize you will receive it soon a security guard I was waiting to appear precisely with this trophy you will receive we are sorry to have this celebration online and to be able to welcome you but this is due to the pandemic we unfortunately had to adapt congratulations Terry Joe Khadija do you have any comments to make lands something you would like to share absolutely we would like to congratulate Terry and we would like to explain a few words tell a few words about the film this film shows the reality of gender-based violence in particular  The film addressed workplace violence against women and families, finding it very moving. It's like a real-life documentary, very well filmed, and the soundtrack complements the visual storytelling. Domestic violence against women has been one of the most tragic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, and unfortunately, this violence increased in many homes during lockdowns. The OM (Olympique de Marseille) has long advocated for this, strongly against gender-based violence, and this issue needs to be brought into the public sphere to be better addressed. This film also shows how gender-based violence exacerbates poverty and its consequences, particularly in low-income communities. Once again, Thierry, thank you very much, Khadija. We can do what we want, and we must tell our audience that Terry unfortunately no longer has good internet connections to intervene. It's a shame, but thank you anyway, Terry, and congratulations once again. Thank you, Khadija, for sharing your impressions of this match. Now let's move on to the mention of rehabilitation.  Argos and the external on this subject, ask yourself, you have at home who proposed this special rehabilitation prize, do you wish to propose this city, listen, hello, you know what, one person out of three has a physical position which is very rightly one of rehabilitation to better, this devil behaves better, to be and have a better life, however we all know that of the two vehicles involved, billions of people could benefit from rehabilitation, but unfortunately less than 50% receive the necessary care, and one of the reasons for this is, in particular, the awareness and lack of knowledge of vaccination services, and this film festival has contributed to creating this awareness of rehabilitation, so conference, there is a mention, both feed Yal of our building, a juror, it's strong, neither to you, include, but the Damman plaque here is awarded to a film in the United Kingdom, and a film by M.L. Jenkins, it was me, tell you a little bit about what it's about, it was a comment on cancer and artistic dance, here especially among the  Women and how we can treat cancer is how rehabilitation can help all those people seeking to cure cancer. Congratulations on an extraordinary film, it's very special. Thank you very much. You have a special mention in the car jury and we are going to have some very special interventions this year. We really have a heavy program. I'm going to the living room to read some remarks. We are pleased to welcome Emilia Clarke, who is a very talented actress, especially in her role in Game of Thrones, among many others. I am deeply sorry to inform you that she has the flu today, so she sent her comment rather than being with us live. We are sorry for all those who would have liked to see her here at this ceremony. So, at the Archos, if you would be willing to present her, it would be a pleasure. It's Billy. We are thinking of everyone. So, the waters of billions. I had a magnificent and memorable viewing experience with a young girl. Another special mention. She highlights an aspect of the fight against cancer that is not sufficiently emphasized in public opinion. Has anyone already taken the necessary steps?  Non-medical methods, including artistic and sporting approaches, allow rehabilitation to be addressed both for loved ones who have been affected. Ten films. The film left an imprint on motion and showed that pain is a possibility of light. Gervais, evening, thank you very much, Emilia, for this message. We hope you recover very quickly. And thank you for this invitation. It is now up to the next generation of their flock to have gone through a crucial break. Did you have a few seconds with you? I think that and Milian, let's move on now to the presentation. Let me first acknowledge this award. The winner is awarded to you, Sympathy, by Carlos Gomes, thanks to the grade of Spain and Canada as elitist and Roxana. Congratulations once again. Here is your trophy on behalf of the World Health Organization. Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you. Before drawing a liar with skill, the award, yes, absolutely. So, the film adaptation award for services today and the special mention from our jury during these categories are stories that are close to my heart. I really appreciated the close of 6 worried because I believe that animation, especially when done artistically, allows viewers to see the emotional impact of living with a disability deeply affecting all aspects of our lives. I feel deeply confirmed by Sanchez's story because my foundation is dedicated to this issue for people affected by brain injuries. Laure and rehabilitation had to come back to rediscover that you are still the same. Thank you again, Emilia, for this intervention. Now I understand the name of your foundation, Amy. I think we need to move forward. We have winners waiting for us. Carlos, do you like your reactions? Listen to the president. Fantastic, simply exceptional to work today. It's united. He didn't take it particularly seriously, firstly because the subject is close to his heart, but also because it's the first free one. It was pulling very hard. Wayne, who led the project, is that they use funding from charitable organizations to develop a collaboration, and especially because we know the president from 6 to Pia and her family, to whom I  I was an incredible person, and this prize is dedicated to his son, of course, and I would go to sympathy for the organization of a session and to present to the nations the OM and thank the festival and swear to the task of gratitude, thank you infinitely I hope a few words also Gilles has thank you to Rossana, the animation is fabulous and the face of great power, she brings life, shocked, the rehabilitation truly, she supports the person, the dangers to rediscover, the potential to be Sunday for our conversation, especially at the event. Friendship in London is a non-profit organization that embraces everyone except many subjects in London at the British Library bookstore. We will celebrate with you the films that have been selected at this festival. We will have the opportunity to talk about them in more detail, how the thank you again and congratulations to all the future premises, thank you very much, thank you to Lacoste Carlos Rosa, only the breaststroke was already behind schedule on the program, having to move on to the next fashion winner, but we are very happy that but Many films have been selected, it's something we hope to replicate in many countries throughout the year. Welcome to our home! Please, Louise, do you have a special mention to announce? I'm absolutely delighted. First of all, I think you'd like to explain why we had seven special mentions. So yes, indeed, it was you who wanted us to have this special mention. Every year we focus on specific topics. Why did you propose this topic? Listen, innovation is important because it allows us to accelerate progress in addressing diseases and how well-being and health are improved. It's crucial to improve quality of life, save lives, and ensure everyone has hope for good health. Despite its potential and the impact demonstrated by numerous innovations worldwide, innovation is still not sufficiently understood or optimized. Therefore, I suggested we have this at a price. Not if you read about population health, gathering the...  Stories from friends around the world, for the record, this is what it's about regarding the health of its patients and the decisive advanced technology and social reintegration that improves, no, how we allow everyone to be healthy in an equitable way. It is indeed very important to explain why this category exists and what your selection criteria were. So, special mention, would you like to tell us who is part of this category? Who won the special mention? Our jury team for Malachite, a documentary. I'm allied with this villa in French Guiana, filmed in Brazil or French Guiana and Suriname, on an innovative approach to malaria treatment in remote areas. Congratulations to Maylis, absolutely congratulations! It was intended to do quite a bit. How not quite the prime and Siala film and I loved the film because it puts equal opportunities for all at the heart of the subject. The solution is simple but very rich because the time when we can no longer be the most vulnerable, in particular, I focused on evaluation, another evaluation of the treatment and everything to treat malaria. So, when allowing them effective treatment, they felt the need for it. Reduced  to develop resistance to treatments, trafficking parasites, the solution is developed with man at the center of the project, offering access to health when they need it, and yes, my congratulations to my eyes, and let's move on now to something social, please Louise, the special prize for a film on innovation in health is awarded to a documentary made upstream for gender equality, also covered in money, it's for those who wish to go, here is your teacher, the World Health Organization, we see added, react to everything, not redone, and quotes, I'm pleased to see you, we have put a lot of effort into our jury, are you with us or YouTube, I hope we have managed to keep you, that you will share it before we win, let us share our appreciation, hello, hello everyone, JN, yes, hello to Louise, that today art is, congratulations, Argentinian citizens, that really touched me, this connection between, to fade, trees, we are very excited that this film will be broadcast worldwide, that everyone I know your work and I wanted to ask you a personal question. What homework did you have to complete after this victory? And above all, how do you feel about this award? Listen, I'm a very grateful woman. That's exactly why I feel there are thousands, even extraordinary things in this world. I'm so proud to see it because we are ultimately bombarded with so many negative stories. What we do is highlight these exceptional things that have happened, and we support these groups that support women because we know that with just a little bit of effort, these women, these young girls, can ultimately conquer the world. That's what we want. We seek out these stories that have  needs to be told because it founds society a better place you have traveled the whole world and we found this gem and thanks to our donors we were able to develop this project and it is thanks to the whole team I will tell you that we succeeded in creating this and we succeeded in making this film so that everyone can enjoy it so that you can see the extraordinary work that we are gentle in focusing on health equality for all and environmental health and the changes needed to make for a better world thank you you tell us but whoever is worth it is gentle and Louisbourg we are happy for the holidays and gentlemen we are here in the United States and we are all a team of photographers and geographers from the National Geographic Society who come together, who decide to leave and want to seize an opportunity, who recognize an extraordinary story and who want to highlight the work of women to the whole world, so Alegre did it, the other colleagues got together and we said we have the opportunity to do it, we will do it, that's why We are here and we are very proud to be recognized for our work. Around Louise, how would you like to share your comments? And indeed, we have excellent conversations about all these films, and I think the film particularly touched me and you, by the way. It's very touching, with a very strong message about appreciating the value of every human life, which is the foundation of health. It's a holistic approach to man and climate, supporting the cathode assets of the agreement, cents for each new film from the village, and promising to support women from birth and development, having an impact in Damascus at the same time. And this, what a turbo all the schemes of gender equality and the degradation of the value of man, of the rights of nature, at a time when women risk violence and submission to child marriages. The hope that they revive heirs, and the days come from villages, and to savor, we offer phases of awareness about education and security for the future, but I am perhaps Replicated without big investments, it takes will, love, and a few raids. I congratulate the winners. We are in a wonderfully crisis; only women's health has the role of women, human rights, finally, that I feel there is only one solution. Congratulations, thank you Louise, thank you, but a malicious auction effect. We must not move forward. You can keep the microphone, Louise Bourgeois, no, an ex from our place. We will announce the next three-bus Louise. I invite you to stay with me a little longer if you wish. And now the fourth prize concerns the two years I developed by students from the table to mention it. It is yet another originality of our festival of Melandri in nolva Goodman, daughter. I select some films made by amateurs as carefully as students, workers, games, non-governmental organizations, and special press services. So the special prize added Jiang is awarded to M, a documentary, but Rennes Vannes Berges talk from happiness, these Netherlands, the image is put on Leone who made this film in Sierra Leone, mother, she  It is a pleasure for me to offer you, on behalf of the WHO, about you put to your... there will be... I see you on screen 10 2... what do you feel? Listen, I am very honored, and to be clear, I don't know... I work all alone. I have a fantastic team in Sierra Leone; they are the ones managing the project. The base is paid on site. We are all very proud. This year has been particularly fabulous. We hope to make these prostheses available to everyone, and the 3D printer will allow us access for all. I can... you will want it in Sierra Leone. They are able to write it... it's thin... thank you so much to everyone. I would like to thank the whole team of students in the Netherlands who are helping me with this project, and I hope that all the people participating in the installation, those who helped us make the film, see us here. Thank you all. Let's hope we will have the impact, that there will be other matches. Thank you very much, thank you very much. But Ray, the flu and the quotes... once again, that everyone listens to the jury.  Because I know I must tell you that the special student film selected from all categories was submitted by female students in different categories. This film is exceptional. Thank you very much. We must now move on to the second part of the ceremony, which concerns the story that began at the beginning. The category that looks at the main categories, victims of health, for all of you, you are here, Maria van de Kerkhove, amaze you. Waiting for live discussion throughout the pandemic. Cofidis doesn't usually have group exercises, so you are with us and writing about Ndindy's feet, a United Nations advocate for the Sustainable Development Goals who joined. What do you see? We are announcing these special mentions that you have absolutely thanked. Thank you very much for this opportunity to participate in two sides of this lawyer. It has been a fabulous experience for me, for us. I am very happy to be part of this jury to evaluate his different films, which was very touching, and we do indeed have a special mention. You just have at the moment, so well, so when we find a way to fix the technical problem at the break, the planes to his films, it was near  All of this we were able to evaluate a great deal and he told me something that I last Jeanne and it was very difficult for us during this period of 5 to be honest thank you for this part we actually have the opportunity Dany makes a special mention is on behalf of all of us of this team to the jurors I would like to announce that the special mention confers a film which is entitled made with a straw remains adored the consequences of natural disasters and made by congratulations thank you very much this announcement is an important point it is its special dimension it is that it is a son Joe from the Philippines it demonstrates the diversity of its differences and that we had this observation I am sorry I wanted who was supposed to media a few words concerning these awards passing spoon this concerns the fact that public safety affirms euro could happen on the general program Jacques Bravo and these three categories where we are all in a gentle way which illustrated through stories intended for cases there I tell you chandeliers and it is a situation the path so did you want to say something else of specialties really of it is the management of Climate change is in a period affected by the table, see for example to see it and no rivals, less complicated, and we lived in the criticism of 6.9, unfortunately our values ​​are all and that represented all this global crisis and the big change is Maticki, so I made quotes without that and continue the grand prize for the announcement, I will take the microphone, you will take the trophy so that we know who received the grand prize, thank you very much, the grand prize in the health emergency category is awarded to intc for an animated film about a calligrapher and Kobe 2009 and the narrator, so directed by, we don't give from the United Kingdom, I am delighted to offer you this trophy, a World Health Organization, congratulations, we see you on the screen, can't hear you, thank you very much, but I want to thank my family, I want to thank all the people who helped me make this film, I am one of the people who helped, and so the doctors, the nurses also who helped me, my colleagues from the university as well, so the festival, all the people who helped me  I also submitted my application Thank you very much, very good, it's fantastic, I'm happy with the way you were able to illustrate these points visually, and we're also happy that you were able to retrieve the package from 19 since you were personally affected, we were deeply touched by your work, thank you again We're going to move from one prize to another, but we'll also have the opportunity during the year to come back and get it in its true form. We're going to move now, non- prize, to the next four categories In fact, the main titles, these categories are based on the three global public health objectives that the MS has included in its work program. The summer film festival jumped for the evening; it's also a way to illustrate its objectives through stories at the local level. We're the national sloppy announcement. You were in the killing of this second category with my hands, said Strauss, who is still online with us, and break a television presenter who founded the Enthic Foundation, the very ancient hand, Jill Polyphony, towards which is the film that has  I received a special mention from your team. The special mention was awarded because there were many very touching films. So, the special mention we wish to award today is for the film " Autism in China: The Challenges Faced by Parents Trying to Raise Their Children to the Stars," a documentary from the Kung Ca series in China. Congratulations! I want to say that this special mention touches me personally because I have a family member affected by autism. It was very interesting to watch; I was deeply moved, and the other members of the jury were also moved. So, before we move on to the next part, we have a message from Eckhart who will comment on this special aspect of "Autism in China." I have worked with autistic children, and this film is very personal and very touching, especially regarding the relationship between the mother and her son. It shows how the parents do their best using sport, football, in different contexts. It's a very good example that shows the sometimes simple interventions with children.  Autistic people are often described as being very talented and gifted, but this isn't always the case for all children with autism. So, thank you very much for offering us this film about autism in China. Thank you very much, Anna. Now we're going to prepare for the grand prize in the Best Health and Wellbeing category. I congratulate the Chinese winner. I'm not sure I pronounced your name correctly. So, to whom should the grand prize in the Best Health and Wellbeing category be awarded? Well, unanimously, it was awarded to the film " Euphoria Qfabric" by Niamana Chaudhary and "Repas Les Ramages." Congratulations! It's a fantastic film that deeply moved us. I've seen it several times personally, and each time I shed tears. You've done a fantastic job, so congratulations from the WHO. Okay, on whose behalf I offer you this trophy. Zurich Blessed was very enthusiastic about this film. So, what would you like to react to? Then we'll listen to the reaction of our winner in India. Fantastic! So, it's not worth the  Congratulations, you've produced a poignant and touching film. You spoke of peace and calm, and at the same time, there's a beautiful movement in this film. I'm going to ask a question: how did you come up with such a powerful poem? Well, for the poem, we collected stories from victims, people who have suffered these mutilations, and I also had many personal contacts with some of these people, which helped me put this film together. Also, as women, we were particularly sensitive to these stories. So I didn't really want to write this as a spectator, outside of these situations. I really wanted to be a conduit for their voices and for them to be heard within the framework of what we were doing. So the objective was to ensure that this message was heard because it's something that still happens often in India, and people aren't very aware of it. It was important to raise awareness about this issue. Can you tell us more about your protagonist? When we were in The film was being conceived well before her death, so in 2021, the deceased and the people hadn't heard her story. We wanted her story to be known because at the time she was 21 years old, and if it happens to someone who is institutionalized, it can happen to anyone. Thank you very much for this announcement. We congratulate the winners again. Thank you billions for saying a few words, and we are happy that you were able to interact. We will continue with the program of this ceremony, and now we are with Rémy Louis. The next grand prize is certainly not the least important: it goes to Anita Bada, producers from Nigeria, who won our special prize last year for a film dedicated to youth health education. It is truly a pleasure for us at this festival to have a winner from last year serving on the jury for seven years. We also have Joris Brown, a research professor at Utrecht University in the Netherlands, who also leads the film festival.  on global health, Dutch and of course we always had Sharon Stone on this jury, as we heard at the beginning of this ceremony, and we're going to listen to what she has to say. And Renmin Guido Oms, who will present the award and is a member of the jury, are you going to announce the special mention? Well, I thank all my fellow jurors, and our special mention is awarded to a jury, and they found a film, "5%: The Prospect of the Holidays," about a family on the football club complex. So it's a documentary made by a Brazilian championship. It tells the story of a family, a story that happened, and shows how access to treatment can change a child's life. So this child, after going through all the treatments, all the suffering, plays football and has fun. So now we're going to announce the grand prize for universal health coverage. So the grand prize in the universal health coverage category is awarded to the film " Presents His," which is a documentary about maternal health by the Indonesian Prenatal Institute. And here is this trophy, may they have Committed on behalf of the WHO, thank you very much. So, ready to Clamecy to predict earlier and prevent earlier, then can we hear a quick reaction from the winner? Then we'll hear Sharon Stone's message explaining her choice. Yes, thank you very much to the WHO, but also to the jury, even though it's the committee. This is very good news for us, for the whole production team. It's especially important for the group that inspired us in this documentary, but we felt that telling their story was perhaps the best way to reach viewers and get our message across. Yes, thank you very much. So now I suggest we listen to Sharon Stone, and you can learn what she has to say. This film is so well done. There are things in this film that particularly moved me. This film shows very precisely what preeclampsia is, knows what it does. Preeclampsia is a disease that can affect pregnant women and is one of the four leading causes of death for women worldwide. It is neither known, nor understood, nor examined as it should be. This film is spectacular and inclusive. It's so well shot; it includes the father, which I found so important, especially because we consider pregnancy as a matter of treatment. Does the mother have rights? Are her rights taken away? How will the mother care for this child? Does the mother have the right to be pregnant? It's very important to remember that it takes two people to create a pregnancy, and I loved that this film included the father. We see the consequences of the illness as it occurs and we see the consequences when it is treated correctly, as well as the life-and-death moment that preeclampsia represents. I strongly encourage you to watch this magnificent, important, and informative film and to understand the very important need for healthcare for everyone globally. Thank you very much for these comments explaining your choice, and we are grateful that you took the time to consider another jury. Thank you very much, Sharon. We enjoyed working with you. Rennes has something to add to this strong statement by Sharon Stone. I completely agree with what she just said. Of course, it's a fantastic film and it tells us not only the story of a family, but also what family care means for the next generation in Venice and for the world, because these are essential structures, very important, especially in these times of peace. Rémy, I also want to take this opportunity to send a message of support to all healthcare professionals and workers, to commend their commitment. I have a question for our winner, simply out of curiosity, given that you are a non- profit organization. We are supported by a coalition that fights against complicated pregnancies, so it's a platform that supports us. There's also the digitalization of care, research, and also the media and social networks. We are dedicated to this cause and created this film for the well-being of the next generation. We have something like 5 million births every year in our country, and more than fifty thousand women are affected by this disease, the disease we show in our documentary. So it's a real challenge for us.  to improve the care of her pregnancies, so we thank them for their support and for the collaboration of all stakeholders. Let's work together; unity is strength. Thank you Rennes, thank you again, and congratulations to our winner. This was the last announcement we had for you. Dr. Technos will now close the ceremony very soon. Thank you very much, Sharon from Rennes, for this last powerful moment on this weak point in health. I take this opportunity to inform you that we are preparing, with Josh Brown, one of our judges, and the EMS team in charge of maternal health, a possible special session on pre- eclampsia and other pregnancy-related risks. Tremors on May 31st, so stay tuned. They would be more dissipated. We have a very rigorous series of announcements on so many great stories and important health topics. This is the objective of this festival, as for the exem  As mentioned regarding our Rehabilitation and Universal Public Health awards, we aim for all our partners and the widest possible audience to use these short films and their stories to raise awareness and help discussions take place on how we can improve health for all. Doctor, we will now close this ceremony with your final comments, and I thank you all for your attention and, I hope, for your future support. For the next edition, I would also like to thank all my colleagues who have enabled this festival to progress and grow over the years, in particular my colleague Bernard and now Dr. Tedros. The microphone is yours for the conclusion. Congratulations to all our winners and to those who received a special mention from the jury. Once again, my deep gratitude to each of our jury members for their dedication. Thank you also to the partners and supporters of the WHO for promoting our call for short films. Submissions for next year's Health for All Film Festival will open on October 30th. We look forward to seeing the films presented. I thank the 500 colleagues  From the WHO, who have contributed in various ways since 2020 to making an experimental film festival an annual highlight, and a special thank you to Agile RBO and L'aurait l'Impernal for their hard work behind the scenes for many months, and a special thank you to the 3,500 filmmakers who have made this film festival such a success since 2020. The stories you tell make us laugh, make us cry, but above all, they inspire us to work every day for a healthier, safer, and fairer world. and no oh