Sex is something you share after a few times you'll get used to it and it'll be fine. It's supposed to be painful. The first few times, time passes and it doesn't change. You're not happy, even unbearable. You're [ __ ] and asking to stop. Every time you have contractions like this, you always feel bad. Something's wrong with you. When you're tested, you spread your legs. When the doctor touches you to check, it hurts. You think there's no connection between this and sex. And the results are always positive. Everything's fine. A doctor once told you to try spreading your legs and dropping each leg to its side. Now it probably hurts less. Not great. So lie down like that during sex too. Wait. This is the position I should lie down in. When I told your mom this was the case, she said it was strange because she doesn't have such a problem. She's never felt that way. It's a shame you even said that. So you try to improvise. But every time you have to bring someone new into bed, there will always be one challenge. He'll come up and say that you don't trust him. You think they'll attack you. And that's why you cry. You choke on your throat and try to say that you just feel like a failure in bed. Because, yeah, I'm [ __ ] up too. Maybe even  Listen, but you told him that you think you're productive, maybe you are, because you don't do it like everyone else, so the worst thing that's ever happened to you is that you're not a worthy partner. You're looking for answers, even more confused. You keep going to the doctors, one, two, twelve, none of them think there's a problem at all, to the point of despair. And friends say, "Don't worry, it'll be fine, it's like that, with a size like that, say thank you, you're just sensitive." I tell you, suffering is part of being a woman. And then one day you meet a doctor and she understands you. And you hear the word "volvo" for the first time. Volva is the vagina. Vagina is pain. So you suffer from pain in your vagina. It's really something you've always known, but how come you didn't hear about it before? Like it's a rare problem. Why aren't they talking about it? They could have saved you years of feeling bad. There's a treatment, not a magic bullet, but at least it has there. All you can think about is some [ music] gimmick. [ music]