People need to know that Burell's ulcer is a common illness that has nothing to do with witchcraft, curses, or black magic. People need to know the symptoms and go to the hospital. Early detection is essential to avoid complications, especially disability. In 2000, when he was only 19, Emmanuel Agoua contracted a severe form of Burell's ulcer. Although he survived the infection, he was left with a severe disability. [ Music] I spent almost three years in this hospital being treated for this horrible disease, Burell's ulcer. It was in this bed that I recovered from several operations. [Music] At CHG, I saw a plastic surgeon, and he observed that the movements of my arm were limited and that my paronychia was in such bad condition that some ribs were even visible. So he...  To have reconstructive surgery, he took a large PE flap from my back to cover part of the torso, as you can see here. This has improved the mobility of my elbow and shoulder. Despite this ordeal, Emmanuel managed to obtain a postgraduate degree in accounting and created a foundation to help other patients. After enduring all this, I managed to go from despair to hope. We now know that by detecting it early, Buruli ulcer can be treated with an 8-week course of antibiotics. The World Health Organization ( WHO) and its partners provide the medication to endemic countries. This treatment has been completely free for the patient since 2005. The WHO's strategy, based on early detection and antibiotic treatment, is implemented in all endemic countries. It greatly reduces the need for surgery and prevents many disabilities. Community participation is crucial to improving early detection of the disease. Close collaboration between community health workers and  Health workers ensure timely treatment for patients and significantly increase the likelihood of a complete recovery. By going to the hospital early, one is treated very quickly, thus avoiding the disabilities and complications that many of us have had to overcome. The case of this young girl is one of the many successes achieved with antibiotics under the new strategy. This child had two very simple nodules treated with antibiotics, and there was no surgery. She has no scars because they healed quickly. We still recommend that she do exercises to avoid stiffness, but she doesn't really need them. Good for school. She recovered quickly and didn't fall behind. She spent almost all 56 days of antibiotics in the village. Here, for this therapeutic success to benefit as many people as possible, we must ensure that health education, early detection, and the prompt administration of antibiotic treatment become systematic in every community in endemic areas.