Here, during the drive, it was too much. The first case in Senegal, that's because we live in close quarters, all of that. It was just too much. In fact, regarding health, COVID-19 isn't just a health problem; the whole lives of the population are affected. The coordination of the different actors is very important when there's an acute crisis. From the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, the President of the Republic made a commitment and addressed his people several times, and all the other levels followed, right down to the community level. So you saw a little... If we choose you, it's because we saw in you values ​​that we cultivated around you. I could talk about the announcement by hitting the drum. I have the announcement; I can do it with that. But if I have my drum to prepare the ground, you have to announce who should speak, when they should speak, where, and know what messages are coming out. So it's not... Not just anyone should be able to speak, and if you don't want to, be careful, you risk breaking up the community. If you see what I mean, you risk breaking up the community. My mother, Mom. [ Music] Health emergencies are epidemics, so Africa's level of resilience is, by definition and historically, much higher than anywhere else in the world. If you even consider other continents, Europe, of course, Europe was affected by the plague back then, etc., but we lost that capacity to respond to epidemics. Here, we never lost it. And Today, there are many people talking about commitment. People need to understand that commitment—what is the definition of commitment? Community commitment, eternally, community participation. Often, people confuse community commitment with participation. If the community commits to fighting something, no one can stop it. But if we ask for participation, I can participate at some point, and I'll let you go. You see what I mean? Commitment. It's about putting an end to this, or it's about lifting, it's about pushing this mountain that allows me to say, okay, it's strength, it's my knowledge, it's my wealth, it's everything, with all the tools I'm going to use to contribute to making progress on this path. Today, when I say that the community has a lot of resources, how many tools have I presented here? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and I'm not finished. There are many. I have many tools to encourage community engagement. We say there's community involvement in community bodies, which is known, which the population has recognized for years, which is there doing prevention activities. If we don't involve them, that's already a problem. But involvement is one element. The other aspect is strengthening it. But being involved and you're not listened to, it's really, yes, come, you're at the meeting table, we're going to talk, you come, you give your words, even if you're not considered, it's around...  This table, is it really at the center of these meetings that you're going to commit? No, if they cut, we play the listening game. You come to the level of 80% of the population of Senegal, who find themselves in Dakar, and everything that now, if you want to ask me to respect these barrier measures in this alley, what are the guidelines that scientists should look at in times of crisis to say that this is how it should be done, you in relation to your community? The community intervenes at the grassroots level, the community is paramount, the community is central, things must start from the grassroots level, things must start from the bottom. If we succeed in sustainably motivating the community health worker, we will have extraordinary results because the technician is in the office, but it's the community health money that is in the community every minute, every second, and it's he who should be more motivated. You see, before, medicine, these were tools that were there, but apart from that, now we can scientifically help them, but how many people today resort to traditional medicine in the  In this neighborhood, not everyone has the money for healthcare. The elderly often seek traditional medicine; they consult a marabout, who plays an extremely important role. They are listened to attentively, and their opinions are fundamental. So what's often lacking is dialogue to explain the situation to them and gather their input. But if they aren't involved in what is being done and what will be done, they will be mere spectators, and people won't follow. Communication is crucial during a pandemic, especially with regard to the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning, journalists weren't involved; they weren't at the forefront because, like everyone else, we were surprised by this pandemic. Initially, there was a certain withholding of information; there were many rumors, and these rumors were dispelled thanks to communication. Managing rumors was more of a moral issue, a matter of strategy, because we must never forget that we are in a crisis, and a response is a matter of urgency.  Done in the crisis, well, what do we need to do? We need to call on the entire scientific community, the experts, the communities, the populations, every time. But if you mean, okay, we need to lock down, develop communication tools, print out information sheets, the techniques, the websites, and all that, it's going to take us time. We're in a crisis, an emergency. Develop materials, posters, how many billions to go and make a response? And then you're going to display it, where, while you don't have enough to eat, he doesn't have time to look at the information sheet, while you don't even have a TV in front of him, and you say you're going to communicate about the risks, but he won't. You want to talk to him about COVID through the rules? What are the channels we should be able to use to really help the community because once it understands, it has tools, it has resources, it has a wealth of information with which it could... The lesson we learn from the pandemic is that not all health systems have been  Resilient in the face of the pandemic, I fear that we will experience further social tragedies of dependency. We suggest that the Mass, which is the global leadership that Devos has been, can discuss with countries how to make all systems resilient in the case of health districts with the participation of the population, community participation. They are flying from the planning process, this planning for what?