The COVID-19 pandemic has intensified how societies value health. Never before have we been so fully aware of the measures taken by governments to protect our health and well-being. However, all too often, people's knowledge and experiences are not taken into account in government decisions. Governments must make specific efforts to change this. Amplifying people's voices in health policymaking by using participatory spaces in decision-making processes is the way forward. Appropriately designed and used systematically, these spaces can be potentially transformative and become powerful tools for more responsive and applicable policies. Governments can interact with the public in various ways to gather their needs. Mechanisms such as open forums, citizen consultative meetings, and district health committees with a fixed number of seats for civic and community groups are just some methods of participation. Often, government resources and capacities are lacking to effectively manage these spaces. The UMS Handbook on Social Participation for the CCU offers practical guidance to help policymakers engage with the public by creating, strengthening, and maintaining participatory spaces. Policymakers must learn to design spaces that empower people and allow them to express themselves openly. The manual presents several examples drawn from country experiences on how to do this, for example: defining clear criteria for selecting participants; being explicit about the roles and added value that each participant brings to policy analysis; communicating roles and mandates transparently to all participants. Transparent communication legitimizes each participant and values ​​contributions equally. This is especially important for community and civil society groups. The most influential actors, such as academia, doctors, and government officials, derive their legitimacy from their professional positions or their standing in society. Therefore, a specific effort is needed to legitimize those whose voices are generally less heard. The time has come to invest in social participation. The time has come to move towards the regular, systematic participation of civil society in health-related decision-making processes. The time has come to forge a health system that belongs to the people and serves the needs of the people, so that no one is left behind.