Every child deserves safe, quality health care from the very start. But for many newborns and young children, a hospital visit can carry risks that no child should face. We're looking at why and what we can all do to help. Children aren't small adults. They face unique health challenges, making them especially vulnerable to medical errors. Even small mistakes can have lifelong or devastating consequences. Meet Amya, a playful and curious six-year-old. When Amya seeks health care, we need to look beyond symptoms. We must consider her development. Her mind, body, and needs are changing fast. Even something as simple as her age and weight can affect what safe care looks like. Amya also experiences health differently. Children don't get sick like adults do. The science can be subtle and easy to miss. Amya depends on others, teachers, caregivers, and health workers to respond when something is wrong, to speak up, and to guide the way. And then there's the world around Amya. Living conditions like low income, language barriers, or limited access to services can make safe care harder to reach. To keep Amya safe, care must be tailored. Care that sees Amya as a whole person, adapts to her development, medical needs, ability to communicate, and living conditions. There are simple ways you can help. Let's say you're one of Amya's caregivers visiting a clinic or hospital. Your role is to be involved and informed. Share concerns, ask questions, and take part in care decisions. You know your child best, so take an active role in their care. Now, let's say you are Amya's doctor or nurse. Your role is to be alert for the main causes of harm such as incorrect medication doses or misdiagnosis. Start by building strong partnerships with colleagues and families. A collaborative approach identifies risks early and delivers child- centered care. Amya has a role to play too. Participate and speak up. We need children to feel safe and empowered to use their voice. It's essential for children to confidently share their name, describe how they're feeling, and ask questions. When everybody steps up, we can reduce risks and prevent harm. We can protect the next generation like Amya and work towards safe care for every newborn and every child right from the very start.