Kang y all human beings are free and equal in dignity and rights, right to health, health, ah, there it is, listen to this, I found the constitution of the World Health Organization which says, and I quote, that the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being. Health is therefore not reserved for the powerful and the rich, and if we don't have health, how can we enjoy all the other human rights like the right to work or the right to education? But what does that mean in practice? Health is a human right. In this book, it is written that governments have committed themselves, and I quote, to taking the necessary measures to ensure respect for this right, and such measures include, in particular, the prevention of diseases, so things like vaccination, clean air and clean water, good nutrition, which will serve as all the building blocks we eat, Clément, to build muscles and organs, and also to ensure that all those who have them have  Those in need of treatment and care, it is particularly important to pay attention to the rights of vulnerable or marginalized people, for example, inhabitants of rural areas. The right to health therefore consists of creating an environment in which everyone can realize their potential to be healthy. Sorry, but here I am again. I heard what you said. It's true, the right to health is an inclusive right. It includes access to healthcare as well as the determinants that contribute to health, such as adequate housing or healthy working conditions. This is really important for your studies. And remember, the right to health is an obligation of the government as a whole, not just the Ministry of Health, but also other sectors such as finance, planning, and trade. Yes, but it takes considerable authority and political force to move all the components of a government forward and do it together. And we can skip over the " right to health" just like that, but they are required to take concrete and targeted measures in this direction. The right to health certainly cannot become a reality overnight; it takes time and requires... International cooperation is truly important in human rights, that's true, and don't forget that governments are committed to guaranteeing the right to health without discrimination of any kind. This means women as well as men, rich or poor, whatever the color of your skin, your language, your religion, your political opinions, you have the right to... but it's not enough to pass laws against discrimination. Take the example of... it's not enough to prohibit discrimination against someone because of their zeal to change people's behavior. Look at how this woman was treated by her own neighbors. [Music] That's precisely why the rights to information and education are essential. Fear and discriminatory attitudes can give way to kindness and support. At least... how is HIV transmitted and how can they protect themselves from it? Hi, take it... do you know that individuals and groups have the right to participate in decisions that affect their development? Yes, it is said that this makes...  Part of any policy, program, or strategy to enable a government to fulfill its obligations, international, regional, and national systems ensure that governments are accountable, and accountability is the key principle of all human rights. Therefore, governments worldwide have committed to respecting, protecting, and ensuring the right to health. Health is my right.