The COVID-19 pandemic has led society to place greater importance on health. We have never been so aware of the measures taken by governments to protect our health and well-being. Yet, all too often, people's perceptions and lived experiences are not taken into account in government decisions. Governments must make a targeted effort to change this situation. To move forward, everyone's voice must be valued and given a significant place in the development of health policies by using participatory spaces within decision-making processes. If these spaces are well-designed and used regularly, they can be transformative and become an effective tool for implementing more responsive and applicable policies. There are many ways for governments to engage in dialogue with the population to better understand their needs. Mechanisms such as open forums, citizens' juries, consultative meetings, and district health committees with fixed seats for civil society and community groups are all methods of engagement. However, government resources and capacity are too often lacking to effectively manage these spaces. The WHO manual on social participation...  The CSU provides practical guidance to decision-makers who wish to collaborate with the public by establishing, strengthening, and sustaining participatory spaces. Decision-makers must learn to design spaces that allow people to express themselves freely. Several examples drawn from the experience of various countries are presented in the manual and illustrate how to proceed. For example, defining clear criteria for selecting participants; being explicit about the roles and added value that each participant brings to the policy issue; communicating roles and mandates transparently to all participants. Transparent communication confers legitimacy on each participant and values ​​contributions equally. This is particularly important for community groups and civil society organizations. The most influential parties— academics, doctors, and government actors— derive their legitimacy from their professional position or status in society. Consequently, a targeted effort is needed to legitimize those whose voices are generally less heard. It is time to invest in social participation; it is time to establish a regular and systematic commitment.  of the public and civil society for health decision-making; it is time to build a health system that belongs to the people and meets their needs, where no one is left behind.