Children deserve the opportunity to thrive and grow up in safe and nurturing environments and relationships. However, one billion children suffer violence every year. It is a terrifying and desperate situation for them, and also an urgent public health problem. But whatever the political or economic situation, violence against children can be prevented. The price of inaction is enormous. Failure to act against violence undermines many other investments in children, including their health and education. Often, this causes permanent harm to individuals, families, and communities in numerous ways, in addition to exacerbating mental health problems, school dropout, alcohol and drug abuse, and exposure to HIV and AIDS, among many other risks. The most tragic aspect is that it increases the risk of violence being perpetrated against the next generation of children in a vicious and destructive cycle. Who is responsible? It is clear that governments play a fundamental role in preventing violence and protecting children. One of the most important functions of any government is to make homes, communities, and schools positive and caring places and to ensure that families have the means to protect their children. However, it is  A challenge for governments, which are often pulled in many directions by a wide variety of stakeholders and concerned citizens, the INSPIRE framework can help. It is a set of seven strategies that governments can adopt to prevent and respond to violence against children. Data already shows that well-designed programs following the INSPIRE framework have reduced violence by between 20 and 50%. The 2020 Global Status Report on Ending Violence Against Children describes progress in implementing the INSPIRE framework in 155 countries and provides a basis to help governments monitor their progress towards ending violence. Although governments around the world support INSPIRE strategies, the report demonstrates that much more work is needed to end violence against children. For example, 83% of countries have the survey data they need to protect children, but only 21% use it to set appropriate baselines and prevention targets. 80% of countries have a national action plan to prevent violence against children, but only 21% use it to set appropriate baselines and prevention targets. 20 percent of them are fully funded. Furthermore, although laws protecting children from violence are enacted worldwide, they are poorly implemented globally. In Spain, it is urgent that governments adopt Inspire to undertake a series of simple actions: develop a national action plan to reduce violence against children and ensure it has precise targets for reducing violence; appoint an agency to coordinate multi-sectoral action and provide it with the necessary resources to do its job properly; increase funding for evidence-based approaches to ending violence against children; use the technical guidance in the Inspire package to scale up and increase the reach of programs; and finally, enact and enforce laws that guarantee the absolute prohibition of all forms of violence against children in all areas. To achieve the target of Sustainable Development Goal 16 of protecting children from abuse, exploitation, trafficking, and violence, we need to accelerate progress significantly. Inspire can help. This report can help.