Children deserve a fulfilling life; they must be able to grow up in a safe environment and maintain nurturing relationships. Yet, one billion children are affected by violence every year. This is a terrifying and desperate situation for all concerned, and it also constitutes an urgent public health problem. But regardless of the political or economic situation, violence against children can be prevented; the cost of inaction is too high. Failing to act against this violence undermines many other investments in children, including their health and education, often causing harm to individuals, families, and communities in multiple ways, exacerbating mental health problems, school dropout, alcohol and drug abuse, exposure to HIV and AIDS, and many other risks. Even more tragically, it increases the risk of further violence against the next generation of children in a vicious and destructive cycle. Who bears the responsibility to act? Governments play a key role in protecting children and preventing violence against them. One of the  One of the most important functions of any government is to ensure that homes, communities, and schools are places where a positive and caring atmosphere prevails, while also ensuring that families have the means to protect their children. However, this is a challenge for governments, which are often pulled in many different directions by a wide range of stakeholders and concerned citizens. The Inspired framework can help. It is a set of strategies that governments can implement to prevent and combat violence against children. Evidence already shows that well-designed programs using the Inspired framework have reduced violence rates by 20 to 50%. The 2020 Global Status Report on Preventing Violence Against Children maps progress in implementing the Inspired framework in 155 countries. It provides a baseline to help governments monitor their progress in combating violence. Although governments worldwide support Inspired strategies, the report shows that there is still work to be done. Much work remains to be done to end violence against children. Why, for example, do 83% of countries have the survey data they need to protect children, but only 21% use it to define the right baseline data and prevention targets? 80% of countries have a national action plan to prevent violence against children, but only 20% of these are fully funded? And although laws protecting children from violence are enacted worldwide, they are poorly enforced. Inspired can help. It is urgent that governments use Inspired elsewhere to implement a number of simple things: develop a national action plan to reduce violence against children and ensure it has specific targets to achieve this goal; appoint an agency to coordinate multi-sectoral action and give it the resources it needs to do its work; increase funding for evidence-based approaches to ending violence against children; and use the technical guidance from the Inspired package to expand and  To increase the reach of programs and finally enact and enforce laws ensuring the absolute prohibition of all forms of violence against children in all contexts whatsoever, in order to achieve target 16 of the Sustainable Development Goals, namely protecting children from abuse, exploitation, trafficking and violence, we must significantly accelerate our progress.