[Music] I'm just listening to you, so during the bathtub visit, mainly because of school, from Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., it's us, the prevention psychologists, who will answer the calls. However, from 6 p.m. to 8 a.m. on weekends and holidays, it's our nursing colleagues, the hospital care team, who handle the phones. It's not an emergency line, a little different, but it's really a listening line available to young people aged 13 to 25 who are at risk of suicide, in the sense that they say they want to die, that they've sometimes thought about a scenario, a way to end their lives, or at least that they are in a situation of great suffering, of great psychological distress. What's happening right now that you're having suicidal thoughts? What's happening to you, and what made it come about? Is it related to... Your mother, right now, these are young people who are often at a stage in their lives, so adolescence, young adulthood, where a whole set of things are changing, transforming physically, in relationships, on a second level, how to envision the future. And then when you tell me, "I cut my pubic hair, and I feel like it," what can you do? The world is a little bit more involved. What do you mean by that? Do you cut yourself in order to one day... what is it for? To relieve yourself? What happens in those moments? Has anyone in your circle seen anything like this? Have you ever been able to talk about it with a professional or perhaps a trusted adult? The Mahatta Vie crisis unit is based on a philosophy of care that is accessibility and continuity. The issue is suicide prevention, making care accessible to adolescents, and ultimately promoting continuity of care after a suicide attempt. In those moments, these are young people who...  They are very anxious, depressed, losing motivation, and can be sad without really knowing why. The idea is really to meet them where they are, to get them to talk about their current emotions, and then together we can reflect on this suffering, this unease, to move towards feeling better. It all depends on the calls, so it's true that each meeting is different. There are situations, for example, where some young people were more comfortable with the phone, and then there are what we call telephone follow-ups where we called them once, twice, three times. An elderly woman, a young man with whom we separated the eight phone calls, so days, several weeks before he agreed to a face-to-face interview, but there you have it, he needed that to feel confident. It's a preventative mandate of support and guidance. Now, if we sense that there is something really very depressive, we will certainly try to use it quite quickly as a potential therapeutic lever, saying, "But you see, the shame, they have a lot of sadness, I feel that you are very preoccupied with what you are doing to him."  At the moment, I understand that you're isolating yourself, that it's difficult to see your friends, that communication is no longer flowing, and it would be very important if we could meet in person to discuss this in more depth. Afterwards, the adolescent has a moment alone where they can address these difficulties. This is also a time when we assess the adolescent's psychological structure. We also evaluate whether there has been a history of acting out, any past suicide attempts, and whether there is such a fragile state, such as substance abuse or any other indication. We also thoroughly assess their support network, that is, whether they have good relationships with their peers, and whether there have been any factors in their social circle that could trigger a crisis, such as a breakup, bullying at school, or harassment on social media. All these things are discussed with the young person so that we can get an idea of ​​the risk of the adolescent being put in danger and respond accordingly. Most often, we identify depression behind these [issues]. So, suicidal thoughts, and then, fundamentally, it's often during adolescence, the work of adolescence, the crisis it can generate in relationships with family and fathers, that can lead to a suicidal crisis in young people who have an underlying depressive tendency, a young person who sinks into depression, who withdraws socially, who starts to shut down, to talk less, to isolate themselves, to lose pleasure even in things they usually enjoy. Well, in that case, we're talking more about depression, but there are depressive aspects at that level that become quite evident. There's also everything related to the more somatic aspects. We assess the quality of sleep— ah, that's very important, especially regarding insomnia, difficulty falling asleep, sleep disruptions during the night— and then, well, the fatigue that it causes, and since it also affects morale, etc., diet—is there weight loss or significant weight gain?  On the contrary, what kind of year-long reading test is it, or do they not really have any problems? So these are things we also evaluate. In any case, in the first interview, there are several ways to hurt oneself. Was it more about self-harm? Was it more about self-harm? There were other things. It was like me, it was more about self-harm, just that. The act of hurting oneself at that moment, what did it mean for you? It was ultimately low. It was when I wasn't feeling well in the evening, when I was alone in my bed, when I thought about everything. I needed to let go, so I did it. It was the only way to forget everything, to say it and release some of the pressure. But ultimately, what was the most helpful thing for you? The most helpful thing, in fact, to get better? It was talking about it, talking to someone, because I needed to tell someone everything because I couldn't explain everything to you. Well, I could tell you everything, but you'll repeat it to me.  My mother, so what's going to happen is that she's going to be sick, and I'm going to be able to tell you everything. There's no taboo about depression; we resist relational treatments. It's true that when we put relational treatment in place and the symptoms persist, we should be able to put antidepressant treatment in place, while also indicating to parents and young people the stakes of this prescription, this increased monitoring. It's true that my daughter is withdrawn, a very withdrawn type, but sometimes she spends quite a bit of time in her room. But we thought, it's okay, the teenagers around her, everything was fine, with her friends, at school, very good understanding, always very good, no, frankly, a very good student. And then he confessed to me that she wasn't feeling well at all. First, she didn't want to tell me what happened, so at his place, a little bit forced the situation, and Germany, a moment at his place that I don't want to live, sorry, and how did you manage this situation when you have children alone, these remember the message, it's still very cute, it happened, it was very close, I agree, so everything  I immediately found a letter saying you want to seek help from other human beings, and I remembered, I don't know what the worst illness is like. Sometimes hospitalization is necessary. If you implement relational therapy, it's not as straightforward as it seems. It's a unit with beds to accommodate adolescents. In fact, the idea behind welcoming them is that there's an agreement from them and their parents. There's care with an individual program, but which nevertheless includes group sessions, medical and nursing interviews, and regular interviews with the parents. A young person who arrives here, we release 14- to 18-year-olds for an average stay of two to three weeks. Some of them have already attempted suicide, and others express suicidal thoughts. There are young people who perhaps exhibit what might seem like depression. There are other people who exhibit what might resemble a psychiatrist's cause, or where she  Schizophrenia also exists, and some people with it sometimes manifest as eating disorders. We don't allow them to become fixated on anything; we take care of young people who come to us experiencing a temporary difficulty and also see how to work on the resources they have. And it's true that generally these symptoms disappear after a certain point, depending on each situation. In this program, a number of objectives are proposed, agreed upon with the young person, which the young person even states themselves, yes, even with the help of the caregiver. The idea is really to work with them on what is happening that leads them to be experiencing suicidal thoughts, or to have acted on them, to say that there was this temptation to suicide. The goal is to try to understand this in order not only to prevent it from happening again but also to be able to do something creative with it. It's foolish to think that if the young person has attempted suicide...  It's that he can't bring himself to try anything else, and there's something holding him back from wanting to live. In fact, were there other adults who were resources for you, people you trusted, people you could talk to about all those things you were going through that were difficult? Yes, and my social worker at school, whom I saw regularly, about every week, they checked in on me to see how I was doing. And he saw your distress, he realized you weren't doing very well. Thanks to him, one day he came to get me from class, asked me to show him my arms, and they were infected. So he took me to the infirmary, disinfected me, put on bandages, and he saw that I was unhappy. At one point, he decided to call my mother because she could leave me like that. Your life involves 45 people working within the network around you, meaning not being an isolated island, being able to stay connected to everyone.  Partners in child psychiatry and social and educational services—it's really important not to move towards something isolated or to think they've found the solution once they're contacted by the adolescent or their social network, the healthcare network, or the school. We ask that the parents be informed, that they know the reasons for the request, what's worrying the network. We ask to have contact with the parents, so we start with a phone call, and then we offer them an initial meeting with their teenager. If we see that, leaving her in the same situation as my daughter, I would tell her to trust the person who is closest to both of them—maybe her, maybe the parents, maybe Claude, a friend, a teacher, anyone. Sometimes things don't go very well with the parents; that wasn't the case with my daughter, but sometimes it's like that. So, talk, express yourself, don't be afraid to speak up, and what's happening there.