Hello and welcome to another episode of Transforming WH, a series of video interviews where I talk to colleagues in and outside of WHO about the work we do and how we transform. And today I'm very happy to be joined here in this temporary studio that we have in set up in the corridors of the World Health Assembly going on here in Geneva. I'm joined by my very good friend, the regional director for WHO Europe, Hans Kluga. And welcome, Hans, and thank you for joining me here in the studio. Welcome to you, Hans. Thank you, sir. Thank you so much. And happy for taking the time to do this. I know everybody's busy during the health assembly. First, a little bit about yourself, Hans. I mean you have more than three decades working in public health and global health. Originally you started working as a family doctor in your native country of Belgium for a couple of years but then you were posted uh the first couple of years by MSF several African countries Liberia, Somalia working very much on tuberculosis TB then also Russian Federation, Siberia working with TBN prisons and then you shifted I believe some 25 years ago to WHO right worked in a number of country offices including including Russian Federation, Myanmar again TB, communicable diseases and then I believe roughly 15 years ago you joined the regional office for Europe to health systems and then it was health systems and that's where I met you uh working uh working on that and then you dropped European region and then you were elected regional director in your first term you started January 2020 I remember that you were of course elected by the EP in January 2020 and then you had a few weeks to settle in and then the pandemic hit. Yes. And that's sort of been now you just started your second term as regional director. You were reelected here in January and now there's another crisis of uh funding to WHO. It seems like there's been many crisis during your term in office. There's also an ongoing war in Europe that you've been quite involved in the humanitarian. My wife says sir, each time I start a mandate, a crisis breaks out. Whether it's a cause or relation, I don't know. But we we have to be careful optimist to tackle those. Yeah. I think it reflects the world we live in, don't you think? Absolutely. Absolutely. Any lessons learned from leading now for 5 years uh through the European region through crisis? Any lessons learned from from leadership and crisis? Yes, it's a very complicated job uh sirin, but it's also a magnificent uh job. Of course, as a WHO, our counterparts are the countries, the ministries of health. So, you don't do, let's say, hands on job. But what they got to know is that good policy save lives. For example, if you can convince a country to have a law that bans indoor smoking, I mean, you can save thousands of lives. You can prevent so many children with secondary asthma. So policy is very important but what I learned is we have to explain to the people what WH is doing. Yeah. You know if you're UNICEF for WFP and you save a child or you give a a food you know it it's very easy to understand but policy work you know is very important but we need to communicate a little bit better. I think that's a big lesson I learned but when we have no I agree and it's of course it's complex I mean being the normative technical leading body I mean because we basically have everything uh in health but the coid9 pandemic is a good example because that was a health crisis I think everybody realized the important role of who absolutely and in 2020 after of course the outbreak in in Asia the epicenter of the pandemic shifted very quickly to Europe yes and of course then there was uh everybody looked at who you have 53 countries in your region. Yes. You serve the 53 countries but you also support them. What can you speak a little bit about the leadership the complexity of doing that in the pandemic? I remember very well sir. I think actually we were sitting together you were the chair of our governing body board when you were called also by prime minister right and some quick actions had to be done. So uh we were standing uh side by side right and learned a lot of lessons. So I would say that what's important is hope for the best but prepare for the worst. And I never thought that my experience with MSF would be so helpful. Yeah. To weather that crisis. So very quickly we reprofiled the whole office on this crisis because remember what happened in Italy but also in Spain in the UK. So we had to be very very fast and with a pandemic particularly if it's a virus of a unknown origin speed matters. Yeah. But what we also learned is that we had to work on dual track which we did not have. It may means manage the crisis but not to forget about screening for cancer giving routine immunization and I think that's a lesson something maybe we could have done better to put more attention to the mental health. I saw it from my own daughters that this really had a huge impact this lockdowns on the youth. Then also you know one of my priorities now of a second mandate is to address violence against women and girls. Can you imagine that you are locked down in your home with your perpetrator because the social protective mechanisms like the schools or the social service were shut out. Yeah. So this is something that we're working on because we're going to have more crisis. It's sure and that is also some of the things we saw I mean all countries around the world but certainly also in the European region in the pandemic we saw how the pandemic shone light on the social fractures the economical fractures in all of our societies. So also the countries in responding I mean they did that from a stronger position if they had strong economies and social coherence. And you initiated the so-called Monty mission which was chaired by the former prime minister of Italy Mario Monty. Exactly. To sort of look at the lessons learned and they came out the with a report I believe in 2021. True. Yes. With some recommendations on how we could use the lessons learned from the pandemic in strengthening the social and economic cohesion of our societies. That's still valid, I guess. Yes. I'm very happy you you go back to the Monty Commission because Mario Monty was uh I always remember I called him on a Sunday to ask if he could chair the commission and he was telling Dr. Kuger U I'm very honored you call me but probably you dialed the wrong number because I have no clue about health. He told because he's a very famous economist and prime minister but this was the innovation that we needed especially authorities outside of the health sector. Yeah, because we saw that the countries which did best were those where there was a involvement of the whole of society, the whole of the government because interesting they're certain that the the people were actually less concerned about the disease or whether they going to to fall sick or or even die. They were concerned whether their children would continue to go to the school. Yeah. Whether the caretaker would still have a job. Yeah. And I think that's what we saw that where the press conferences were done like actually in in Denmark not only by the health sector but with the police with the social sphere that people felt taken care of all their needs that were the countries which did best. So I think that that's a big lesson. Health yes but not only health. And how would you say that the countries of the European region are they in a better place now if there's a new health crisis or do you still see that the recommendations of the Montene every journalist is asking me this question and you know I'm a born optimist so I think that the glass honestly is half full for example I think the mentality of the people changed previously you were in the airport you saw people with a mask you you'll be very surprised no it's really different people are cuffing okay maybe I have to protect the other one so the people mentality The other one I think very important one is that in the European Union there is a new body which is called Hera. It's a body looking at joint procurement. Yeah. And I just had a meeting with the new director general to ask that Hera is going to look also to its neighbors because the EU cannot be safe without its neighbors. So there are number of big things which happened. I think mental health is taken out of the dark corner. Yeah, people talk more about burnouts. It's nothing. I always say it's okay not to be okay. So that was one of the priorities. I mean, I remember when you started your first term of office, you had these flagship initiatives and mental health was one of your flagship initiatives. Exactly. I mean, getting rid of the stigma, getting priorities for mental health services. I think we we do a good job there in all modesty to to have it. I mean, you see it every EU presidency also in the eastern part of the region. It's at the top of the political agenda. Yeah, I mean 28% of the girls 15 year old are telling that they feel lonely most of the time or the whole time and we saw that actually before the pandemic but then it was exacerbated by COVID 19 and it's still there. It's like we haven't recovered and we see it in all regions. Absolutely. It's not a European thing. No. And we need to really watch this, work on this. We're doing now a regional survey on the impact of social media and screen time on the mental health of the youth. I mean it's not an exception that you go somewhere and you see two youngsters talking to each other through their phone instead of face to face. So this is a phenomenal shift in society on how do we live together. We need to study this. At the other uh side again positive you see in many countries to take one Kazakhstan where mental health is being integrated into the primary healthcare but in many countries including my my own in Belgium I mean this waiting times to see a psychiatrist too long speaking to health systems I know that from my own country I mean you had priority to cancer NCDs many uh different areas but mental health was always second priority in many societies. Well, remember we launched together the 10-year plan in in Denmark with again with three ministers, not only health and congratulations and now I understand the budget is there is a big one. So, we need this in more countries to get down to I mean to the people basically to the communities. Yeah. And now you're in your second term and now you're working of course with your team in the regional office on on the second European program of work, the so-called EPWS. you will convene the regional committee later this year in October and of course you expect them to adopt the EPW2. Uh can you speak to some of the priorities that you propose in the new EPW? Yes indeed. So this is kind of the next 5-year European health policy and then the program of work I advocated 80% continuity 20% of innovation. Yeah. Because we have to consolidate postcoid. So in the innovation again this is not Hanslug's priorities but you you know this right certainly the very thorough consultations through artificial intelligence four priorities number one is health security because it's amazing you were talking about the 19 s we see that health is already dropping from the political agenda money goes to defense I mean for Pete's sake we just came out of the 19 economies were shut down no people died but still health is a little bit forgotten like the human race is like that. It used to be climate, then it was the pandemic and now it's security. Right. When I talk to a president or a prime minister and I say, "Mr. or Madame President, how can your country be safe without having a stockpile of vaccines and medicines without doing simulation exercise of your trauma care capacity of your hospitals in case of mass casualty event then they understand? So health security is our goal. Number two is climate change and health. 11 June in Raika week I'm going to launch the pan European Commission on climate change and health with previous prime minister Kathine Yakobs do and 10 very strong commissioners to elevate the health sector leadership in the climate change debate. Number three is what they call the silent pandemic of chronic diseases and mental health because ultimately nine out of 10 in the world is going to pass away from a stroke, a heart attack. I mean everyone has something in the family with cancer. I mean we really need to focus on those issues and we know what are the risk factors to alcohol lack of physical activity nutrition and then the fourth one is a big one which actually I just came from China is the same it's aging declining fertility for the first time in history we have in the European region more people older than 65 than less than 15 years the only way but it's actually a success story of health systems which is then flip flipping to becoming a potential actually aging this is a good point I always say aging is not a disease you know no aging is a privilege it's a gift if I look to my own parents I mean I'm so happy that there does challenge our health and care services because we are aging not healthy sir and the only way to age in good health is to start at the first five years in health and even prenatal because that determines how we are going to do the four priorities and then the fifth one is in NCTS or the the fifth one is a special initiative. Actually I have two special initiatives. One is the primary healthcare. Oh yeah has to be connected primary healthcare sur is the magic bullet and this is the bread and butter of WH to bring care and prevention close to where people are living. Second initiative for which I have I mean I'm overwhelmed by the support of every minister is to address violence against women and girls. I'm the father of two daughters. You know this right? You know them. I mean, it scares the hell out of me. One out of four girls in our region before they turn 20 is going to have at least one event of intimate partner violence or nonpartner sexual vi unacceptable and health sector is the weakest link in the multis sectoral response because our healthcare workers are either not aware, don't recognize or they think it's a police issue and not a health issue. So these are the priorities of the EPW or the proposal of course you expect the member states to agree I mean that is perfectly aligned with the GPW which is the global program of work that was adopted in the health assembly last year. So a critical voice Hans might say why do you need a EPW when we have the TPW? Yes there were a number of questions like this. No my minister don't ask this question anymore. Number one because the global problem of worker by definition is generic because has to apply to 194 countries. I mean every region has specificities right? I mean Georgia was just declared malaria free. Malaria is not a big issue in our region. So we have specifics. So it's translating the generic global program to the panuropean context. And number two, because we have to admit it, we are in a existential crisis. WHO the United States of America left the organization. So we have to I wouldn't say prioritize, we have to de prioritize. So it's a very helpful exercise to know what do the ministers really want. So you basically using the EPW also for the prioritization in the region. I was watching you had these member state consultations on already on the first draft of the EPW positive uh comments. Congratulations. But some of things I noticed was the one a stronger focus on sort of social involvement, civil society, cross- sectoral social participation and also trust in science, trust in WHO. So how will that be reflected in the next draft of the EPW. Yes, spot on CERN. So actually I'm quite proud of this that the first mandate we established as WO U the first ones behavioral and cultural insights team I know we have a specific stream of work on trust because this is so important very interesting even at the height of the pandemic when trust in public institutions really dropped people always kept the trust in the primary healthcare providers their family doctor, the nurse, the midwife, the social worker. So that's very important. So we have to empower the trusted community messengers and do much more work. But basically, I mean, do what you did, sirin, when there were some issues with the HPV vaccination in Denmark to study. Don't point the finger at the antivaxes or whatever. We have to talk to them, engage them. I mean so much fake news on the pandemic treaty which is a big success right all who is taking away national sovereignity this is not true but we have to explain in people language what it means exactly yeah so we're facing a crisis you already addressed that with with the intention of the United States government to leave WHO withdrawing funding but it's bigger than that I mean it's it's also a reduction of developmental assistance from many other countries we also see that affecting not only WHO but many of our sister agencies in the multilateral sphere and and also in bilateral funding for global health programs. So it's it's a broad crisis but it's about more than funding. It's also a challenge challenge to values principles gender equality equity uh principles of science. Yes. Sexual reproductive health and rights. Yes. So is there cause for optimism or cause for concern? Do you see a future of multilateralism? Yes, I think both both concern. I mean we cannot deny this. We are in an existential crisis. Absolutely true. Every crisis is also an opportunity s. So my approach is back to the basics. Who 77 years old has to go back to its fundamentals. Really this is number one. Number two I will give a very concrete. By fundamental you mean our normative technical role, our health security, health promotion, primary healthcare, and very important something very cheap but very powerful the convening power. I'm always amazed our core mandate exactly that we can with our brand certain convene the best minds in the world and if you put them around the table you come up with some amazing innovative solutions to the most complex problems because we are trusted and that's why it's very important sir that who never chooses sight in wars and conflicts I'm a medical doctor you're a medical doctor a patient has to be helped everywhere in Gaza, in Israel, in Ukraine, in Russia. But we have to stand strong. No attacks on healthcare workers and healthcare facilities. A red line. I will give a very concrete example how I still managed to rally all 53 member states on sensitive issues. It's on my special initiative to address violence against women and girls. Every country agrees. And then if we get them around the table, let's little by little after we built rebuild trust speak about the more sensitive issues, the gender issues, the LGBQ plus, you know, I'm a great champion on that uh that one. I mean, every individual should be allowed to live to care with dignity, respect, and to access healthcare without fear. So if we focus on that core mandate and prioritize our things, you you are optimist in this crisis. I am optimist. We're going to face two difficult years sir. Absolutely. So in that sense we will have to cut the 20% of the budget of the workforce but through the prioritization exercise we know what to do. I learned a lot of lessons from UNESCO who went through this process 15 years ago and I'm convinced that we will get out stronger. But what is also very important sir and I discussed it with Dr. uh Tedros as well is the necessity to talk to the United States of America to explain and and other countries not only America no to uh other countries that WHO is not about bureaucracy it's about boots on the ground in 150 countries it's about early warning of threats that a strong WHO means that we help countries including the United States to prevent shutting down borders economies to collapse and jobs to be killed that the best way to protect National sovereignity is international collaborations through global health security. So we basically have to stick to our core mandate, prioritize and show the added value of who and be strong on our values, never giving on our values of universality and leaving no one behind and the principles of science I might add as well. Absolutely strong science. Thank you very much Hans for for joining me here in this temporary studio and thank you very much all of you for watching yet another episode of Transforming WHO. And do stay tuned on this channel for upcoming episodes.